DRN-3350297
The complaint
Ms B complains that Burfield Financial Planning Limited (BFP) gave her poor and 
incomplete advice regarding a possible pension transfer.
What happened
Ms B has a defined benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme from a period of previous 
employment. And she was interested in looking into her options in respect of this pension. 
Ms B had previously received advice from another business, which Ill call A, in relation to 
other retirement arrangements. And A obtained a transfer value quotation from the DB 
scheme on Ms Bs behalf in January 2018.
The transfer value quotation explained that the DB scheme would provide a guaranteed 
escalating pension from age 60, that would be payable for the whole of Ms Bs life. Ms B was 
58 at the time. The quotation set out that the cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) that 
Ms B could take in the event she wanted to transfer away from the DB scheme was 
£220,435.24. It noted though that, due to the funding position of the scheme, at the 
instruction of the trustees, this CETV had been reduced and only represented 53% of the 
pension value.
A was not authorised to provide advice in respect of DB scheme transfers. So, they 
introduced Ms B to BFP.
BFP gathered some information from Ms B in February 2018. And it contacted the DB 
scheme to get confirmation of some of the aspects of the benefits payable. 
BFP also instructed a pension transfer report  the purpose of which being to give an 
indication of the likelihood of Ms B being able to match or exceed the benefits she was due 
under the DB scheme by transferring to an alternative. The report determined that, to 
purchase equivalent benefits at age 60 to those due under the DB scheme, Ms B would 
need a pension fund of over £497,000. And that her CETV, would need to be invested and 
achieve growth of almost 50% per year (the critical yield or CY).
In April 2018, BFP told Ms B over the phone it wouldnt be proceeding or recommending a 
transfer. It sent a letter following this conversation which explained that the existing DB 
scheme was underfunded, so the CETV shed been offered was only 53% of what she 
should be entitled to. And because of the valuable guaranteed benefits and the high CY, it 
thought leaving her DB scheme in place and not facilitating the transfer was in her best 
interests at that point. So, it said itd be closing its file.
Ms B complained to BFP in October 2020. She said the advice given to her in 2018 had 
been unclear. She said shed understood that BFP was suggesting that shed be penalised 
for transferring before her retirement date. But even though she was willing to accept this 
BFP had not fully explained why it wasnt appropriate or given her any other option. She said 
shed received another transfer value quotation in early 2019, but A had said as this was 
lower than the figure shed received when discussing a possible transfer with BFP in 2018, it 
was probably best waiting until after her retirement age to review things further. Which shed 
believed to be based on BFPs advice. But shed now found, having reached age 60, the DB 
scheme would no longer provide a CETV or allow a transfer out. And she was unhappy BFP 
didnt make her aware of this restriction, or the short time period she had to transfer, when it 
gave her advice.
BFP said it didnt think it had done anything wrong as it had concluded that transferring was 
not in Ms Bs best interests in 2018 and it hadnt had any contact with her since so wasnt 
responsible for any conversations since that time.
Unhappy with this response, Ms B referred her complaint to our service. One of our 
Investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He said BFP had 
shown it had carried out an initial assessment to see if it believed the transfer was viable 
based on the information it gathered in 2018, before deciding whether to provide full advice. 
It hadnt charged Ms B for this service. And BFP concluded the transfer wasnt viable so 
hadnt taken the matter beyond an initial assessment  which our Investigator didnt think 
was unreasonable based on the information available. And he didnt think BFP was obliged 
to provide any further information about the DB scheme restrictions or Ms Bs other potential 
options.
Ms B disagreed and said shed asked about her options so thinks more information 
shouldve been provided. She also said the information provided was difficult to understand 
as it included a lot of jargon. And she thought it was misleading as it had indicated BFP 
wasnt recommending a transfer at that time  so she was under the impression a transfer 
may be possible or appropriate later. But BFP hadnt explained there was limited time to do 
this, which she thinks it shouldve done as it was a well-known fact within the industry that a 
transfer would usually not be possible after the standard retirement date of a DB scheme.
Our Investigator wasnt persuaded to reach a different conclusion. They said BFPs role was 
to look at the circumstances at the time and comment on the transfer then, not advise on 
what mayve been possible or appropriate in the future. So, he didnt think it was obliged to 
do more than it had.
As agreement could not be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the conclusion drawn by BFP, that transferring the DB scheme was likely not in 
Ms Bs best interests from a financial viability perspective, was reasonable. The DB scheme 
provided a guaranteed escalating pension from age 60. And the information BFP recorded at 
the time and relied on does support that it was highly unlikely that Ms B would be better off 
financially in retirement as a result of transferring. Specifically, the cost of purchasing 
equivalent benefits was over double the CETV being offered by the DB scheme and the CY 
needed being unrealistic based on returns at the time and how long Ms B had until reaching 
her normal retirement age under the existing scheme. 
After reaching that conclusion, BFP decided it wasnt appropriate to take the matter further 
by completing a full fact find and advice process and it was better just to terminate the 
process at that stage. Again, I think this was reasonable and ultimately was a decision BFP 
was entitled to take. BFP was not paid a fee for reviewing the matter and has explained it 
would only receive a fee in the event it recommended a transfer, and this went ahead. As 
BFP had already concluded a transfer was unlikely to be in Ms Bs best interests, taking further time assessing this and gathering information wouldve resulted in wasted time for 
Ms B and in further costs for BFP which it wouldnt have recouped. So, I think it acted fairly 
by informing Ms B in April 2018 that it wasnt taking matters further.
Ms B has said BFP gave unclear reasons for this, its advice was incomplete and she wasnt 
made aware of other options available to her.
BFP explained to our service that it didnt provide full advice here. Rather it elected not to 
proceed after an initial assessment. For the reasons Ive already explained I think this was 
reasonable. I understand that this was initially explained by phone, and Ms B has said that 
this in particular left the reasons for not proceeding unclear. A recording of the telephone call 
in which this was discussed unfortunately isnt available. But I have seen the letter that 
followed this call in April 2018. It said BFP was unable to proceed further with your pension 
review  which I think was clear that this was the end of the service it would be providing. It 
went on to say that the CETV was only 53% of what Ms B should be entitled to  indicating 
this was poor value. The letter then briefly set out the benefits that would be available under 
the DB scheme at age 60, what a critical yield was, how high this was in Ms Bs case and 
that this suggested transferring was not in her best interest financially. And it went on to 
explain BFP had come to the conclusion that it is in your best interest to keep your [DB] 
pension fund where it is and not facilitate a pension transfer at this point, therefore, please 
accept this letter as confirmation that we will be now closing your file
Ive taken on board what Ms B has said about not understanding all of the reasons for the 
advice, but I think the information provided is clear that BFP didnt think a transfer was in her 
interests and that the reason for that was it was poor value. And I think it is likely this broadly 
reflected the discussion that took place over the phone. Given what BFP has said about this 
being decided after an initial assessment rather than a full advice process, I think this 
explanation was sufficient in the circumstances and BFP didnt need to provide any 
additional reasoning.
Ms B has said that BFP saying it didnt think a transfer was in her interests at the time was 
misleading and led her to believe it may be appropriate or recommended later. She has also 
said BFP didnt explain to her what other options she had once it had decided it was unable 
to proceed. And it didnt make it clear that shed lose the right to transfer at all once she 
turned 60, which was approximately eighteen months away. And she didnt find this out until 
it was too late to transfer.
BFP was asked to give advice on potentially transferring Ms Bs DB scheme at a fixed point 
in time. It could only base its assessment on the information available at that point. And 
having considered the circumstances as they stood, it decided that transferring wasnt in 
Ms Bs best interests then. Ive taken on board what Ms B has said about why she felt the 
statement at that time was misleading. But I dont think BFP was wrong to say this. By 
saying this it was, in my view, simply confirming that its advice was based on the 
circumstances as they stood at that point in time  which is all it was and could reasonably 
assess. I also think the statement made by BFP that it was closing Ms Bs file was clear that 
it considered that to be the end of the matter. It made no reference to revisiting its advice in 
the future. So, I dont agree that BFP misled Ms B.
I also dont think BFP was required to give advice on what other options were available to 
Ms B  in particular how she might still go about transferring. It had concluded that 
transferring wasnt in Ms Bs best interests. And I think to suggest how Ms B may still go 
ahead or ignore this conclusion, wouldve been irresponsible on BFPs part.
And I dont think BFP was obliged to explain the limitations the trustees of the scheme might 
or did set. This wasnt its role. Again, it was advising on whether a transfer of the DB scheme at the time was appropriate. It wasnt providing ongoing advice in relation to all of Ms Bs 
retirement provisions. I think it was reasonable for BFP to expect that the scheme itself 
wouldve made any conditions or limitations clear to Ms B. Ms B has said that she now 
understands it is common in the industry that transfers are not allowed after normal scheme 
retirement dates and BFP shouldve warned her. But that still doesnt mean Id have 
expected BFP to comment on this  particularly given it didnt think transferring was in 
Ms Bs best interests.
Ive taken on board what Ms B has said about her not now being able to transfer and that 
this has impacted her retirement planning as shed been keen to do so. And I have a great 
deal of sympathy for the position Ms B now finds herself in. But my role is to look at what 
BFP has done and, on a fair and reasonable basis, decide if I think it has made an error. And 
taking everything into account I dont think it has. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman