DRN-4018760
The complaint
Mrs P complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited changed the way it calculates the 
premium for her private medical insurance policy.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mrs P has had private medical insurance with AXA for some 
years. The policy renews annually in November each year. For some years, AXA have 
paid claims in relation to Mrs Ps continuing treatment which takes place every three 
weeks. 
In 2021, Mrs P discovered that in 2018, AXA had changed its terms in relation to how it 
calculates the no claims discount (NCD). Before 2018, claims paid within 180 days of 
one another for the same medical condition were treated as one single claim, even if the 
claims spanned policy years. That was known as the 180 rule. In 2018, AXA changed 
the terms of the policy so that claims paid after the point that the NCD is calculated are 
treated as a separate claim for the purposes of calculating the following years NCD.  
As a result of an error by AXA, the new change wasnt applied to Mrs Ps policy. That 
meant that Mrs Ps NCD continued to increase, whereas it should have decreased. So, 
the premium she paid was lower than it should have been. 
In 2021, when Mrs P says that she became aware of the change, she complained to 
AXA. In response to Mrs Ps complaint, AXA said that Mrs P could buy back a recent 
claim for a separate condition which would restore her NCD for that year. AXA also said 
that it would allow the 180 rule to continue for the 2021/2022 policy year. Mrs P didnt 
think that was fair.
Mrs P says that the change AXA made impacts policy holders with long term health 
conditions and makes it financially unviable for them to continue to have cover when 
they need it most, which she thinks is unfair. She says that she refrained from making 
other claims against her policy in order to preserve her NCD. Mrs P wants cover to 
continue at a price she can afford.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She said that AXA was entitled 
to change the policy terms. The investigator said that AXA had made an error in failing to 
apply the change to Mrs Ps policy in 2018 but that Mrs P had benefited from reduced 
premiums by maintaining her NCD for a further three years. She said that AXA had 
acted fairly in agreeing to delay the new term for Mrs P until the 2022 renewal. 
Mrs P didnt agree with the investigator. She said that AXA hadnt provided her with the 
policy, so she was unaware of the change to the policy terms until she made her 
complaint. Mrs P said that changes to policy terms should be for new customers, not 
customers with long term health issues. She said that as she was unaware of the 
change, she avoided making claims on her policy in order to maintain her NCD, which 
was to AXAs benefit. Mrs P provided details of the treatment she had in the NHS when 
she was avoiding making claims on her policy. There was further correspondence 
between Mrs P and the investigator, which I wont set out here.
Mrs P asked that an ombudsman consider the matter, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear and quite understandable that Mrs P has very strong feelings about this matter. She 
has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which I have read and 
considered. Im conscious that Ive condensed what I dont doubt is a very worrying time into 
a short narrative. That reflects our service that, wherever possible, aims to be informal. Im 
satisfied that Ive captured the essence of what happened. I trust that Mrs P wont take as a 
discourtesy the fact that I focus on what I consider to be the central issue, that is whether 
AXA acted fairly and reasonably in relation to Mrs Ps NCD. 
the relevant terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which set out 
how AXA calculates NCDs. The policy terms say that where theres no claim, the NCD is 
increased by one level at the following policy renewal until level seven is reached  50% 
NCD. But where theres one claim or more, the NCD is reduced by three levels at the 
following policy renewal until level zero is reached  0% NCD. 
There are certain exceptions for claims under particular benefits or within the policy excess, 
which arent applicable here. Before the change in 2018, one of the exceptions was for 
claims for the same medical condition paid within 180 days of one another. That exception 
was removed from policies from 2018 onwards. 
has AXA acted unfairly or unreasonably?
Im not upholding Mrs Ps complaint because I dont think that AXA treated her unfairly or 
unreasonably. I say that because:   
Mrs Ps policy renews annually and each policy year is a new contract. At each 
renewal, its for AXA to decide whether and on what terms it wishes to offer Mrs P 
a new policy. In general terms, an insurer can decide what risks its willing to cover 
and on what terms. The policy terms, including the term about how the NCD is 
calculated, dont need to stay the same as in previous years. AXA can change the 
terms of the policy and the premium when providing a policy.  AXA says that when it sent Mrs P renewal documentation in 2018, it included a 
leaflet explaining the change it had made to calculating the NCD. The leaflet said: 
Your guide to important changes
[]
We have made a change to how the NCD works
We have made a change to align how the NCD works across all our products. 
Previously on your particular plan there were certain circumstances where we 
wouldnt regard a claim paid for the same medical condition in two separate plan 
yeas as separate claims. In future when we pay another claim after the point that the 
NCD is calculated we will treat that payment as a separate claim for the purposes of 
calculating the following years NCD level. Please see section 12 of your handbook 
for full details of how your NCD works.
Mrs P says she didnt receive notification of the change. 
Where things are not clear, and evidence is contradictory  as some of it is here  I 
make my findings on what I think is most likely to be the case based on the evidence 
available to me and the surrounding circumstances. 
On balance, Im satisfied that AXA sent Mrs P notification of the change in its 
calculation of the NCD when it sent her the renewal documentation in 2018. AXA has 
provided a copy of the renewal letter sent to Mrs P in September 2018 which refers 
to renewal documentation. Whilst that letter doesnt refer specifically to the leaflet, it 
suggests that it enclosed two documents, one of which was the membership 
schedule. I think its more likely than not that the other document was the leaflet 
explaining the changes to the calculation of the NCD. 
Its common ground that AXA made an error in that the software it used to calculate 
Mrs Ps premium didnt take into account the changes it had made to the NCD 
calculation in 2018. That meant that Mrs Ps premiums were lower than they would 
have been if AXA had calculated her premiums in accordance with the policy terms. 
Mrs P says that she didnt make claims against her policy which she could have 
made as she wasnt aware of the change and wanted to preserve her NCD. I dont 
think that alters the outcome here. Thats because Ive found that AXA told Mrs P 
about the change, so it was a matter for Mrs P whether she made claims or not. I 
dont think that AXA needs to take any steps in relation to claims Mrs P didnt make. 
I dont doubt that Mrs P was disappointed to discover the true position. I think that the 
offers AXA made to Mrs P in response to her complaint  an offer for Mrs P to buy 
back a claim, not to impose the change in calculating the NCD on the 2021 renewal 
and to allow the 180 day rule to continue for the 2021/2022 policy year  are fair. I 
understand that since then, AXA has continued the 180 day rule for a further policy 
year as a gesture of goodwill. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs P and I understand the importance of this matter to her 
but, considering everything, I dont think that AXA acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
changing the way it calculates the NCD. There are no grounds on which I could 
fairly direct AXA to reinstate the 180 day rule in calculating Mrs Ps NCD.  My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman