DRN-2722781
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Amtrust Europe Limited wont fund her Legal Expenses Insurance 
(LEI) claim.
Where I refer to Amtrust this includes their agents and claims handlers. 
Mrs P has been helped with her complaint by a representative. But for ease of reading, Ill 
refer to all submissions as having come from Mrs P herself.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events here. 
Mrs P was in dispute with a neighbour. She says the neighbour had built part of a block 
paved driveway on her land. Ultimately, she was seeking the assistance of her LEI which is 
provided by Amtrust to progress her claim. 
In response to the complaint, Amtrust said that cover would only be available to pursue a 
claim for damages rather than injunctive relief (which they say the policy doesnt cover). 
Mrs P doesnt think this is fair. She says that Amtrust are being deliberately obstructive and 
she disagrees with their interpretation of her policy.
Amtrust also had concerns about the proportionality of progressing a claim for damages. 
They did however offer to pay £500 as a gesture of goodwill towards a barristers opinion 
that Mrs P obtained in the course of trying to progress her claim. They also said that if Mrs P 
provided a professional report to assess the damages she might be able to claim from her 
neighbour, then they would give further consideration to the claim. 
Mrs P remained unhappy, she incurred legal costs which she thinks should be covered by 
her policy. The matter was referred to our service and one of our investigators looked into it. 
He didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Overall, he concluded that Amtrust had acted 
within the policy terms and fairly. 
As Mrs P still disagrees, shes asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by reiterating what our investigator has already explained, Mrs P has made 
reference to a previous complaint to Amtrust which doesnt form part of my consideration 
here. This decision is about Amtrusts response to Mrs Ps complaint from December 2020. 
If there are other matters that predate this that Mrs P would like to complain about, then 
these should either be referred to Amtrust or our service as appropriate and (subject to 
consideration of our jurisdiction) may be something we could assist with.
Having carefully considered the matter, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator 
and for essentially the same reasons. I know that Mrs P is particularly unwell and understand 
that my decision will be disappointing, so Ill explain why. Our investigator has already 
covered this in some detail, so rather than repeat everything again, Ill focus on the core 
reasons for my decision.
Mrs Ps policy with Amtrust provides cover for certain legal expenses. But no policy will 
cover every conceivable situation. And like all policies, there will always be terms, conditions 
and exclusions to be considered. 
Mrs Ps policy says she is covered for: Professional Costs and Expenses Incurred in pursuit 
of civil claims brought within the Geographical Limits by You for damages, arising from or out 
of:Any infringement of your legal rights arising from and relating to your ownership or 
occupation of your principal place of residence
Mrs P is seeking a declaration from the court as to the exact boundary between the 
properties, injunctive relief, damages, costs and interest. Im satisfied the above policy term 
is clear and I dont think it is inherently unfair. Amtrust are setting out the risks that they are 
providing cover for. The term makes clear that there is only cover to pursue damages not 
for injunctive relief. So I dont think Amtrust were being unreasonable or unfair when saying 
that they would only consider a claim made for damages. 
Mrs P says that only pursuing damages in cases of property disputes is absurd and 
highlights that there is no mention of other remedies not being covered. Ive considered this, 
but Amtrust are entitled to set the terms of the cover they are offering. And I dont think its 
reasonable to expect them to list all the types of other potential remedy that arent covered. 
Or that this means their decision to decline Mrs Ps claim was unfair. 
Of particular relevance to this complaint is a barristers opinion that was obtained in 
November 2020. The barrister concluded that Mrs Ps claim had reasonable prospects of 
success which is another requirement for cover under the policy. But the barrister also 
commented that any claim for damages is likely to be extremely modest, if not nominal, as 
she has suffered no loss from the trespass 
Amtrust arent legal experts and I think its fair for them to rely on suitably qualified legal 
advice such as the barristers opinion. Given his comments on the likely amount of damages, 
I dont think it was unreasonable or unfair for Amtrust to ask Mrs P to provide further 
evidence (in the form of a Chartered Valuers Report) of the likely damages she could 
potentially achieve. The policy allows for this where it says that not only must a claim have a 
greater than 51% chance of succeeding but there is only cover if the costs of achieving that 
outcome are not disproportionate to the costs incurred in achieving the intended successful 
outcome.
And whilst there is indemnity available under the policy for up to £50,000  this is subject to 
the remaining terms and conditions which includes the requirement for legal action to be 
proportionate. A privately paying client wouldnt generally spend more on legal costs then 
they stood to win if successful, so I dont think an insurer should have to either. I dont think 
the requirement for proportionality or the way in which Amtrust have applied it in the 
circumstances of this complaint is unfair. It is for Mrs P to evidence that her claim meets the 
requirements of the policy, and I dont think Amtrust asking for evidence of this is unfair or 
unreasonable. I understand Mrs Ps strength of feeling on the matter, and for clarity, Im not commenting on 
the merits or otherwise of her intended legal action. The issue here is Amtrusts application 
of the terms of the policy when declining the claim. And in the circumstances of this 
complaint, I dont think Amtrust have acted outside the policy terms or unfairly, so I cant 
reasonably ask them to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
Throughout the handling of the matter Amtrust offered to pay £500 as a gesture of goodwill 
towards the costs of the barristers opinion (which was instructed and paid for by Mrs P). I 
think this is fair and if this hasnt already been paid Mrs P should take this up with Amtrust in 
the first instance. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman