DRN-3786176
The complaint
Mr M complains that Transunion International UK Limited (TU) displayed information relating 
to a third party on his credit file and this stopped him from being able to progress with a 
mortgage application.
What happened
Mr M and his wife held a joint mortgage account, with a bank that for the purposes of this 
decision Ill call N. The mortgage was redeemed in November 2021. This incurred an early 
repayment charge (ERC) of around £3,300. Mr M had six months in which to take out a new 
mortgage with N to be eligible for a refund of the ERC. 
In January 2022 Mr M applied to N, through a broker, to port the previous mortgage along 
with extra borrowing to a new property. Unfortunately, the application was declined. N 
explained to the broker that there was adverse information showing on Mr Ms credit file, and 
this was the reason for the decline. N said Mr M should check his file is correct and if its not 
have it corrected. Mr Ms broker relayed this information to him.
Mr M checked his TU credit file and found that they had merged his information with that of 
his brother, and it was his brother that the adverse information related to. At the beginning of 
February Mr M complained to TU, they corrected the mistake and updated Mr Ms credit file 
on 17 March 2022. 
While this was ongoing, Mr Ms broker advised him he could complete a mortgage 
application with another lender (L) so he could get an agreement in principle in place and 
then lodge an appeal with N on his original application. Mr Ms application with L was 
successful and so he didnt pursue the appeal with N. As the new mortgage was with L, Mr 
M was no longer eligible for a refund of the ERC from N.
Mr M thought TU should pay the ERC as, he says, the application with N was only declined 
because of his brothers information incorrectly showing on his credit file. TU said they would 
consider financial losses if Mr M could show evidence they were as a direct result of their 
mistake. Mr M didnt provide this to them but brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the complaint and thought that TU should pay Mr M £300 
compensation for the frustration their error had caused but didnt agree that they needed to 
reimburse him for the ERC he had paid to N. In summary he said TU had corrected the error 
within three weeks and so Mr M had time to go through the appeals process with N and 
potentially mitigate the loss. 
Mr M disagreed, he said the house he was trying to buy was his dream home and he hadnt 
wanted to waste time waiting to see if TU would resolve the issue, and potentially lose out on 
the house, so he felt he had to go ahead with his mortgage with L.
TU agreed with the investigators findings and agreed to pay Mr M £300 to resolve the 
complaint.
The matter has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean that Ive not considered
everything that both parties have given to me.
There is no dispute here, from either party, that the third-party information showing on Mr 
Ms credit file was there as a result of TUs system error. And I think its more likely than not 
that the third-party information resulted in his mortgage application being declined. So, I 
dont see any benefit in laying out more details of this. What I need to decide is if TU are 
responsible for Mr M taking his mortgage with another L instead of N, resulting in him not 
being refunded the ERC he paid to N. And I dont think they are, Ill explain.
When Mr M redeemed his original mortgage in November 2021, he had six-months from that 
date to take a new mortgage with N and have the ERC refunded to him, giving him until May 
2022. 
When N declined his mortgage application in January 2022, he still had around four months 
of the six months to go. Mr M complained to TU at the beginning of February and by the 17 
February his file had been corrected, this still allowed him three months to be able to place 
an appeal with N. But by this time, he had completed his application with L and chose not to 
appeal the application with N. 
I understand Mr M had his reasons for this, not wanting to lose his dream home being one of 
them. But given he chose not to appeal, I cant fairly say that TU stopped him from being 
able to obtain a mortgage with N, as he still had time to do so. It follows I dont think TU need 
to reimburse him the cost of the ERC.
However, I do think TUs mistake caused Mr M unnecessary inconvenience and frustration 
and so I do believe they should pay Mr M compensation for the distress they caused. I think 
£300 is a fair reflection for this and in line with what Id expect.
Putting things right
TU should pay Mr M £300 for the distress and inconvenient caused to him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint about 
Transunion International UK Limited, and now require to put things right as described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman