DRN-4294197
The complaint
Mr D and Ms P complain about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance, trading as More Than 
(RSA) unfairly declined their buildings insurance claim.
All references to RSA also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
My Provisional Decision
I issued a provisional decision on 25 July 2023. In my provisional findings, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr D and Ms P have strong views about what has happened. Theyve provided
numerous detailed submissions to support their complaint, and I assure them Ive read and
considered them all very carefully.
However, my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not all the points
raised. This isnt meant as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every
single point the parties have raised or to answer every question asked. My role is to consider
the evidence presented by Mr D and Ms P, and by RSA, to reach what I think is a fair and
reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
Having done so, Im not intending to uphold this complaint. I understand this will be
disappointing to Mr D and Ms P. But Ill explain why
.
Alongside all the information provided by both parties. Ive considered the following
questions our service considers regarding issues relating to potential storm damage:
Has it been proven, on balance, there were storm conditions on or around the date
the problem occurred?
Is the nature of the damage consistent with storm damage?
Were the prevailing storm conditions the main or dominant case of the damage?
If the answer to any of these questions is no. Then its likely a claim for storm damage will
not succeed.
Has it been proven, on balance, there were storm conditions on or around the date the
problem occurred?
Ive considered all the information Mr D and Ms P provided regarding weather conditions
around the time of the damage. Including social media forums and news articles.
I can see there has indeed been wet and adverse weather from information theyve
provided. But the question here is whether weather conditions were a storm. The information
from news articles and social media relate to incidents in their home county or in areas near
to where they live but this isnt in itself an indication of the weather conditions where they
live.
Ive reviewed weather data in Mr D and Ms Ps postcode across September and October
2022, which our service considers to be the most accurate representation of the weather
conditions.
Although I can see there was a heavy day of rainfall in October 2022, the wind speeds
recorded across the two months didnt exceed around 35 mph, which is not close to what
would be considered storm conditions. And wouldnt be strong enough to cause the damage
reported.
So, because of this Im not persuaded a storm was present. Therefore, I dont think RSA
acted unreasonably in saying a storm hadnt occurred.
Internal damage to the property has been reported, caused by water ingress into the
property. I can see RSA considered whether Mr D and Ms P would be covered for accidental
damage. However, it has declined this as damage by water other than by storm or flood is
excluded from cover.
Ive reviewed the policy documents and I can see under what is not covered relating to
accidental damage it does say damage by water other than by storm or flood.
As Ive set out above, Im not persuaded a storm has occurred, so I dont think RSA have
acted unreasonably in applying the exclusion to decline the claim.
I understand Mr D and Ms P have raised further concerns and provided further arguments
regarding other aspects of the claim, such as whether RSA were correct to say the roof was
suffering from wear and tear. However, as I think the claim has been reasonably declined
due the point set out above, I dont intend to comment further.
Home emergency
Ive listened to the initial call Mr D and Ms P made to RSA to initiate a claim. Mr D and Ms P
said at the beginning of the call they were unsure of whether to make a claim under their
home emergency policy. The agent for RSA said it couldnt advise regarding home
emergency claims but offered to provide number for the relevant department to enquire
about a home emergency claim.
However, at this point Mr D and Ms P chose to pursue a buildings insurance claim as the
agent begun to relay the contact number to them, so the number was never taken. Ive not
seen further information to persuade me Mr D and Ms P enquired about this with RSA. So,
Im not persuaded RSA can be held at fault for any subsequent damage.
Responses to my provisional decision
No further comments or evidence were provided for me to consider by Mr D and Ms P or 
RSA.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reconsidered everything, but as there are no further comments or evidence, I see no 
reason to depart from my intended decision  or my reasoning. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr D and Ms Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Ms P to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 September 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman