DRN-4072133
Complaint
Mr B is unhappy that TSB Bank plc (TSB) closed his account.
Background
In January 2023, TSB took the decision to close Mr Bs account and it sent Mr B a letter 
confirming that it would be doing so in two months. Mr B complained about TSBs actions. 
TSB didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. As Mr B remained dissatisfied, Mr B referred the matter 
to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Bs concerns. She didnt think that TSB had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr B unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr B disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I dont think that TSB acted unfairly towards Mr B 
and so Im not upholding his complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
As our adjudicator explained to Mr B, a bank is generally under no obligation to continue 
offering an account to a consumer if it doesnt wish to do so. I know that Mr B is unhappy 
that TSB closed his account and that this is causing issues with him making a student 
support application. 
However, each bank has its own criteria and risk assessment for deciding whether to close 
an account and providing a customer with an account is a commercial decision that a bank is 
entitled to take. And typically, as long as it provides reasonable notice it has no obligation to 
share its reasons for that decision.
In this case Mr B was provided with reasonable notice. So Im satisfied that TSB had 
sufficient grounds to close Mr Bs account and as such its decision wasnt unfair in the 
circumstances. I realise that TSBs decision will have been very disappointing to Mr B and I 
can appreciate why the closure of his account will have caused him inconvenience. But 
despite this, Im simply not in a position to be able to tell TSB it has to continue offering Mr B 
an account in circumstances which it has legitimately decided it no longer wishes to provide 
him with one. 
Finally, Ive seen that Mr B has said that he has been unable to access the funds that 
remained in his account at the time it was closed. But Mr B has been told what he needs to 
do to obtain these funds. And Im satisfied that TSB was entitled to take the steps that it did 
in relation to this matter.
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that TSB has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr B and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr B  especially as he says he is waiting for a bursary. But I hope 
hell understand the reasons for my decision, hell appreciate why TSB was entitled to close 
his account and why he will have to try another bank for an account to complete his support 
applications. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman