DRN-3753668
The complaint
Mr L complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) have failed to refund over 
£176,000 he lost as part of an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. In brief summary, Mr L made 13 faster payments from his NatWest account 
between March and September 2021, which he says has been lost to an investment scam 
orchestrated by Crown Brokers. The payments were made to either Mr Ls accounts held 
with Kraken or TransferWise, or they were transferred to his brother (P) who then 
transferred it into a crypto wallet. 
Mr L realised he had been scammed when he was unable to withdraw his money, and 
NatWest refused to provide a refund. It said he had authorised the transactions, and that 
they also wouldnt be covered by the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think the payments were unusual 
enough to have triggered an intervention by NatWest, and also didnt think they would be 
covered under the CRM Code either. Mr L disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to 
me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr L has fallen victim to a scam here. It also isnt in dispute that he 
authorised the payments he made to the cryptocurrency exchange platforms and his 
brother (P) from his NatWest account (where his funds were subsequently transferred on 
to the scammers via his crypto wallets). The payments were requested by him using his 
legitimate security credentials provided by NatWest, and the starting position is that 
banks ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate 
payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether NatWest should have done more to prevent Mr L from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. 
For example, if it was particularly out of character.
I appreciate that overall, Mr L has lost over £176,000 which is a significant amount of 
money. But this amount wasnt paid in one single large or out of character transaction. It 
was spread over 13 separate increments which, in my judgment, would not have 
appeared particularly unusual or out of character when compared with Mr Ls spending 
history, such that they ought to have been regarded as suspicious or indicating that he 
might have been at risk of falling victim to a scam. 
The payments were not of such an amount, for example, that they would represent a 
significant deviation from the way Mr Ls account was normally run. The largest payment 
he made as part of the scam was for £25,000. Yet I can see that he had made several 
larger payments than this in the 12 months prior to the scam. So, Im not persuaded 
there was anything that ought reasonably to have triggered NatWests fraud monitoring 
systems, or that would have indicated he was in the process of being scammed. 
Ive also thought about whether NatWest could have done more to recover the funds 
after Mr L reported the fraud, as in some circumstances the money can be recovered via 
the bank raising an indemnity with the receiving bank. However, in these circumstances, 
we know that no funds wouldve remained in the accounts Mr L transferred his money to, 
as it was paid into his crypto wallets and then subsequently transferred on to the 
scammer. So, I dont think NatWest couldve done anything more to try and recover the 
funds after the fraud was reported. 
NatWest are also under no obligation to refund the money to Mr L under the CRM Code 
either, as the Code only applies to transfers made to another person, and between GBP-
denominated UK-domiciled accounts. In this instance, the majority of the payments Mr L 
made were to his own cryptocurrency or e-money accounts. So, given they were not paid 
to another person, the Code would not apply to these transactions. 
In terms of the payments Mr L made directly to P, the CRM Code would not apply to 
these payments either given the money was paid into a crypto wallet by his brother 
before being sent to the scammer. The purchase of cryptocurrency and subsequent 
sending of that cryptocurrency to the fraudster are not Faster Payments between GBP 
accounts.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr L, and Im sorry to hear he has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that NatWest can fairly or 
reasonably be held liable for his loss in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman