DRN-4001933
The complaint
Miss M complains that a payment she tried to make for a flight wasnt approved by Lloyds 
Bank PLC. Miss M also complains about the service provided by Lloyds when she called 
about the declined payment. 
What happened
Mss M has a credit card with Lloyds. Last year, she tried to purchase a flight online but 
Miss Ms told us there was a problem using her credit card with the merchants website so 
she tried to use her mobile wallet (which is linked to her Lloyds credit card) instead. But the 
payment was declined without giving a reason. Miss Ms explained she used a debit card 
with another bank via her mobile wallet to complete the payment but the price of the flight 
had increased by £10. 
Miss M contacted Lloyds and spoke with several agents in different departments. Miss M 
wanted to know why her payment had been declined. At one point Miss Ms call was cut off 
and different departments transferred her call without answering her enquiries. Ultimately, 
Lloyds said the mobile wallet payment was correctly declined as it was over a security limit it 
uses. When Miss M asked, Lloyds refused to disclose the specific limit. 
When Miss M called Lloyds to complain she had to wait on the line while it was looked at. 
Miss Ms told us she was unhappy with Lloyds complaint handling and lack of final 
response. Lloyds sent a final response to Miss M but didnt agree it had made a mistake by 
declining the mobile wallet payment or refusing to give a specific transaction limit. Lloyds 
also said the original card payment Miss M attempted didnt go through because of issues 
with the merchants website, not an error it made. Lloyds apologised that Miss M had been 
kept on the line when she called about the issue and said she shouldve been told to 
reattempt the transaction online at an earlier stage. Lloyds agreed the service provided 
shouldve been better. Lloyds apologised and paid Miss M £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
An investigator at this service looked at Miss Ms complaint and said they thought Lloyds had 
dealt with it fairly. Miss M asked to appeal and said she hadnt received Lloyds final 
response letter (a copy was then sent to her by the investigator). Miss M also said her 
primary concern was about the payment she tried to make via the mobile wallet. Miss M said 
she thought Lloyds decision not to disclose transaction limits was unreasonable and 
impacted how she could use the card. Miss M also told us about her concerns over the way 
her complaint had been handled by Lloyds. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
Miss Ms told us she feels Lloyds acted unfairly when declining her payment via the mobile 
wallet without giving the transaction limit it uses. But Lloyds has confirmed the limit is 
reviewed and can change over time. And Lloyds has told us the payment limit is considered 
private information that it doesnt share with customers for security purposes. Lloyds has 
shared the transaction limit for digital wallets with us and I can see the payment Miss M tried 
to make was over the set amount. Whilst I cant share the specific figure, Id like to assure 
Miss M that, as an impartial party, Im satisfied Lloyds acted in line with the transaction limits. 
I understand why Miss M wants to know, but I have to balance that against the security 
processes Lloyds follows. I havent been persuaded that Lloyds acted unfairly by deciding 
not to disclose the transaction limit it uses for mobile wallet payments. Im satisfied the 
information is something Lloyds is entitled to keep confidential. 
I appreciate my decision will disappoint Miss M, but I havent been persuaded that Lloyds 
acted unfairly when it declined the mobile wallet payment she attempted as it was over the 
transaction limit it uses. 
Miss Ms explained that when she spoke with Lloyds about the issues with her payment she 
found her comments and concerns were not taken seriously. Ive listened to Miss Ms calls. 
And I understand that Lloyds agents advised that it wasnt looking to change its approach to 
how payments are authorised. But Lloyds agent did say Miss Ms comments would be noted 
and recorded as feedback. I appreciate Lloyds declined to make changes in line with Miss 
Ms feedback, but its free to decide how it operates. And setting transaction limits is 
ultimately up to Lloyds commercial discretion. 
Miss Ms told us she found the service provided by Lloyds when she called to be poor. Our 
investigator recently obtained copies of the calls Miss M had with Lloyds. I agree with Miss M 
and can see she was kept on the line, passed between teams and not initially given the right 
information when she called. Its clear Miss M was frustrated with the way her payment had 
been declined and I agree it ought to have been a simpler matter to get an answer. 
When Miss M tried to complain, she was kept on hold. And I understand Miss M found the 
agent she spoke with dismissive and insulting. Complaint handling in itself isnt a regulated 
activity so isnt something that generally falls within the scope of this service. But I 
understand Miss M was discussing the declined payment. And I can see that being kept on 
the phone to complain, having already spent a significant amount of time, wouldve been 
frustrating for Miss M. I listened to the complaint call and whilst I agree the complaint handler 
confirmed Lloyds was unwilling to make changes to the way its payment systems work, I 
didnt think they were rude or dismissive. I thought the agent remained professional during 
their call, although I appreciate they didnt agree with everything Miss M said. 
Lloyds went on to uphold Miss Ms complaint about the service issues she raised and paid 
her £150 to apologise. Ive considered everything Miss Ms told us about how the issues 
raised impacted her and the service provided by Lloyds. Having done so, Im satisfied £150 
reflects the impact of what happened on Miss M and is a fair way to resolve her complaint. 
Im sorry to disappoint Miss M but as Im satisfied Lloyds has already agreed a settlement 
that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, Im not telling it to do anything else. My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint because Lloyds Bank PLC has already 
agreed a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman