DRN-3212111
The complaint
Mr R complains about the actions of National Westminster Bank Plc when he was the victim 
of a scam in which he sent money to one of their customers. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events here.
In early 2019 Mr R was sadly the victim of an investment scam. Mr R sent around £5,000 to 
a scammers account in February and March 2019, spread across two payments. This 
account was held with Natwest. Mr R believes that Natwest should reimburse his loss as 
they allowed a scammer to open and operate an account. 
Ultimately Natwest declined to reimburse the loss and a complaint was referred to our 
service. One of our investigators didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr R disagrees 
and has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
In November 2021 I issued a jurisdiction decision in which I said our service could only look 
at any alleged acts or omissions that took place on or after 31 January 2019. This is 
because that was the date from which a change to our jurisdiction rules applied. Specifically, 
this meant I couldnt consider the opening of the account, as it took place prior to that date. 
Now the jurisdiction matter has been decided, Ive gone on to consider the merits of the 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr R and I recognise that he made the payments as the result of a 
scam. But it would only be fair for me to tell Natwest to reimburse this loss if I think (within 
my jurisdiction to consider this complaint) that they are responsible for it. I dont think they 
are, and Ill explain why. 
I appreciate in his submissions Mr R has referenced linked complaints which set out the 
wider context of the scam and he has detailed the checks hed carried out prior to sending 
the payments. But as Im satisfied Mr Rs payments were made as a result of a scam I dont 
need to comment on the scam in detail to decide this complaint. And Id only need to 
consider if Mr R could have done more to prevent his own loss or if there had been 
contributory negligence if I were upholding his complaint -which for the reasons detailed 
below Im not.   
The primary duty of a bank is to follow their customers instructions and make payments as 
directed in line with the mandate  which is usually set out in the terms and conditions of the 
account. But it also has regulatory and legal obligations to monitor its business relationships 
and to be alert to other risks - such as fraud, which would include giving consideration to 
unusual and out of character transactions. 
Ive looked at the account history and I cant say there was any account activity that I think 
would reasonably have stood out to Natwest as suspicious or significantly outside of what 
might be expected for an account of that type. Im also satisfied there was no notification of 
fraud (before Mr Rs funds had all already been removed) and no other red flags where it 
could reasonably be argued that Natwest might have had sufficient grounds to suspect fraud 
and refuse execution of their customers payment instructions. Because I dont think Natwest 
ought reasonably to have had concerns where I would have expected them to have 
intervened, I cant fairly say that they could have prevented Mr Rs loss in that way.
Ive carefully reviewed the account statements and the events which followed receipt of 
Mr Rs payments. Im satisfied upon receipt of notification from Mr Rs bank, Natwest 
correctly informed them that no funds remained to be returned. The last of Mr Rs payments 
had arrived in the beneficiary account on 4 March 2019 and all his funds were spent by the 
end of the same day. Natwest were made aware that Mr Rs payments into their customers 
account had been made as the result of a scam on 29 June 2019. As such, I dont think I can 
fairly say that Natwest didnt respond appropriately to the alleged fraud or that they could 
have done more to recover Mr Rs money. 
I also note in Mr Rs submissions he has stated that he believes the account into which he 
paid his money was opened using identification belonging to someone who was deceased. I 
recognise how strongly Mr R feels about this point but as Ive covered in the jurisdiction 
decision that Ive already issued, my considerations are limited as to whether Natwest did 
anything on or after 31 January 2019 that reasonably could have prevented his loss or that 
resulted in him not recovering money that he otherwise would have. I simply cant comment 
on the account opening as that took place prior to that date. 
And to the extent that Im able to consider this complaint, I dont think Natwest are 
responsible for anything that could have prevented Mr Rs loss. Because of this I cant fairly 
tell them to do more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman