DRN-3997189
The Complaint
Ms A says that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as Barclays Partner Finance) 
(BPF) didnt fairly or reasonably deal with a claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the 
CCA) in relation to a holiday product purchased in 2008 using a loan from BPF. Ms A is
 also unhappy about the fact that she still has to repay what she owes under the relevant 
credit agreement  which she says she wasnt told about.
Background to the Complaint
Ms A purchased a holiday product from a third party (the Supplier) in August 2008 for what 
appears to have been the cash price of £15,000. And to pay for the purchase, she entered 
into a 15-year Fixed Sum Loan Agreement with BPF (the Credit Agreement).
Unhappy with the purchase, Ms A looks like she made a claim for misrepresentation under 
Section 75 of the CCA in 2018. BPF treated the claim as a complaint and issued her with its 
final response letter (FRL 2) on 26 November that year saying that her claim was out of 
time under the Limitation Act 1980 (the LA).
BPF also told Ms A in FRL 2 that it had already dealt with a complaint about the fact that she 
still had to repay what she owed under the Credit Agreement despite the fact that she no 
longer had the holiday product  which it did in a final response letter (FRL 1) on 24 May 
2017.
Having referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service on 5 April 2019, it was 
looked at by an investigator who, having considered the information available, concluded 
that Ms As Section 75 claim for misrepresentation was likely to have been made out of time 
under the LA.
Ms A disagreed with the investigators assessment and drew her attention to the fact that 
she wasnt aware that she still owed some money under the Credit Agreement.1 But on 
further investigation, the investigator went on to reiterate what she had said in her initial 
assessment about the Section 75 claim for misrepresentation before also pointing out that 
Ms A was too late to complain to the Financial Ombudsman Service about having to repay 
the outstanding balance under the Credit Agreement as she had missed the six-month 
deadline to do so following FRL 1.
However, as an informal resolution couldnt be reached, this complaint was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision  which is why it was passed to me.
I issued a Jurisdiction Decision in December 2022. I made it clear that there are two parts to 
this complaint (which I called Part A and Part B), the first of which (Part A) had been referred 
to the Financial Ombudsman Service too late. 
1 Ms A also raised concerns about BPFs decision to lend to her. But as those are the subject of a separate complaint that BPF 
was given the chance to consider first, they arent the subject of this Final Decision.
However, I said that Id come back to the complaint in another decision in order to consider 
Ms As concerns about BPFs handling of her Section 75 claim for misrepresentation (Part B) 
 which is what this Final Decision addresses.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a consumer uses certain types of credit to pay for goods or services, and they want to 
make a claim for misrepresentation against the supplier of those goods or services, they can 
 in certain circumstances  make a like claim against the creditor under section 75 of the 
CCA. The claim against the creditor essentially mirrors the claim the consumer could make 
against the supplier provided it satisfies certain conditions, which includes being made inside 
the relevant limitation period. 
A claim under Section 75 is an action to recover any sum by virtue of any enactment under 
Section 9 of the LA. And the limitation period under that provision is six years from the date 
on which the cause of action accrued. 
The date on which the cause of action accrued is the point at which Ms A entered into the
Purchase Agreement or, if later, the Credit Agreement. I say this because she entered into 
the Purchase Agreement based on alleged misrepresentations of the Supplier. And as the 
finance from BPF was used to help pay for the purchase, it was when she entered into the 
Credit Agreement that she suffered a loss.
It follows, therefore, that she had six years from when she entered into the Purchase 
Agreement or, if later, the Credit Agreement to make this claim. But as she didnt complain to 
BPF until 2018, her claim is likely to have been late even if it had been submitted to court. 
To be clear, only a court can decide whether Ms As claim was made out of time under the 
LA. But as its relevant law, I have to take it into account when deciding a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint. With that being the case, I think BPF had and has a 
defence to Ms As claim under the LA given its timing. And for that reason, I dont think 
theres anything BPF needs to do to put things right here.My Final Decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint insofar as the merits of it relate 
to BPFs handling of Ms As Section 75 claim for misrepresentation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Morgan Rees
Ombudsman