DRN-3099505
The complaint
Mr C complains Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc trading as M&S Bank (M&S) 
didnt treat him fairly when he disputed a payment he made towards a contract to release 
him from a timeshare.
What happened
All parties to the complaint are aware of the background, so I will summarise events only 
briefly:
Mr C and a Ms H entered into a contract with a company I will call R on 3 May 
2017. The purpose of the contract was to release them from a timeshare, and claim 
compensation. Mr C paid £2,446 to a company Ill call MRL on the same day, using 
his M&S credit card. Ms H used her own, separate, M&S credit card account to pay a 
further sum of £5,708 to a company Ill call MRLL on 5 May 2017.1 The purpose of 
both payments was to discharge Mr C and Ms Hs obligations under the contract with 
R.
The contract with R contained a guarantee that a full refund would be provided if 
Mr C and Ms H were not released from their timeshare within 12 months of 3 May 
2017. They were not released from their timeshare within this timeframe, nor did they 
receive a refund. R then went into liquidation.
Mr C wrote, via a claims management company (CMC), to M&S in November 2018 to 
raise a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. M&S didnt agree 
Mr C had a valid claim. It said this was because his credit card payment had been 
made to MRL instead of R. There was some back and forth between the CMC and 
M&S, but ultimately the bank refused to change its position. A complaint was made 
about the banks decision, but this was rejected.
Mr C was dissatisfied with the response he received from M&S, so his representatives 
referred the matter to this service for an independent assessment. The most recent of our 
investigators to look into the matter concluded that the fact Mr Cs payment had been made 
to MRL broke the necessary debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement which needed to be 
in place for him to be able to make a claim against M&S under section 75. They also 
concluded it had been too late, by the time the bank was made aware of the dispute, for the 
credit card payment to be reclaimed via the chargeback process.
Mr Cs representatives disagreed and asked for the matter to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so the case has been passed to me to decide.
1 This complaint deals solely with Mr Cs credit card. Because the credit cards were linked to separate 
accounts in sole names, a separate complaint would need to be raised with M&S by Ms H in relation 
to her own credit card account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have seen a significant number of cases involving R and consumers who have, 
unfortunately, lost large sums of money to a scheme which bears many signs of having been 
a scam. Some consumers have had valid claims against their credit card issuers under 
section 75 of the CCA, but others have not usually due to technicalities which mean it was 
not wrong for their claims to have been declined by their banks. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to him, but Mr Cs case falls into this second 
category. His representatives are familiar by now with the approach of this service to 
complaints involving R, MRL and MRLL, so I will not explain my findings in great detail.
Section 75 of the CCA allows consumers a degree of protection when they purchase goods 
or services on a credit card, so long as certain technical conditions are met. If these 
technical conditions are met then they can make a claim against their credit card provider in 
respect of any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of the goods or 
services. In this case M&S has said one of the technical conditions, the need for there to be 
a valid DCS agreement, has not been met.
What having a valid DCS agreement in place generally means is that the person making a 
claim needs to have used their credit card to pay the same company they say has breached 
its contract with them, or misrepresented something to them. This is a basic explanation but 
it is sufficient for the purposes of this decision.
If the payment has been made to a third party then this will often cause the chain of 
connections to be broken, and for there to be no valid claim against the credit card 
provider.
In Mr Cs case, his credit card payment has not been made to R. His payment instead went 
to MRL. So it would appear the necessary criteria for him to be able to make a claim 
against M&S under section 75 of the CCA, are not in place.
There are some exceptions however, to this general rule. If two companies are associates 
as defined in section 184 of the CCA, then for the purposes of a claim under section 75 of 
the CCA, a payment to one can be treated as being the same as a payment to the other.
Having considered very carefully the relationships between R and MRL, I conclude they 
were not associates as defined in section 184 of the CCA at the time Mr C made his credit 
card payment. The companies had previously been associates but this had ended after 
1 December 2016 with the departure of a Mr K from R, according to Companies House 
records. Mr Cs representatives have suggested the Companies House records have been 
forged but this is, in my view, purely speculative without further evidence to support it. They 
have also pointed to other links between Mr K and R, such as a debenture in Mr Ks favour, 
but this isnt enough to say the companies remained associates. It just shows R may have 
owed Mr K some money.
Ive also thought carefully about whether, notwithstanding the fact R and MRL were not 
associates at the relevant time, there was anything else about their relationship which 
means it could be argued the DCS agreement was intact in this case.
Ive thought particularly about a court case our investigator referred to: Bank of Scotland v. 
Alfred Truman [2005] EWHC 583 (QB), in which the court found the DCS agreement was intact in a scenario where a firm of solicitors had taken credit card payments for one of its 
clients, a company importing cars. The judge observed in the course of his conclusions, that 
other scenarios would need to be resolved on a case by case basis and the liability of the 
creditor would depend on the precise contractual arrangements between the parties. The 
judge contemplated that there would be scenarios where the relationship between the 
parties would be too tenuous for a valid DCS agreement to exist. In the Alfred Truman 
case, the court had a great deal of information about exactly what the business relationship 
was between the solicitors and the car importer.
Bearing in mind the fact the judge highlighted the importance of the precise contractual 
arrangements in cases like this, this service has attempted to obtain more information about 
the relationship, and any agreement, between R and MRL.
The information which we have been able to obtain has been inconclusive, despite attempts 
to contact the liquidators and individuals connected to MRL. Its clear enough that there was 
a relationship between the companies, as otherwise I would not have expected MRL to take 
payments for Rs customers. But I do not have enough information to establish what the 
precise contractual arrangements were between them, and so I dont think I can reach a 
conclusion that these arrangements were analogous to those in the Alfred Truman case. It 
follows that I am unable to conclude there is a valid DCS agreement in place which would 
allow Mr C to hold M&S liable for what has happened under section 75. The bank was 
therefore not wrong to decline his claim.
Chargeback
Our investigator briefly examined whether M&S should have attempted a chargeback, which 
is a way of claiming back money which has been paid using a plastic card. He considered 
the bank had known about the dispute too late to have been able to attempt this. I agree with 
him. Chargebacks are subject to rules set by the card schemes (in this case, Mastercard). 
The rules say theres a limited window of time in which a chargeback can be attempted, after 
a card transaction has been made. In case like Mr Cs, a chargeback would need to have 
been attempted within 120 days of the last date the service was meant to have been 
provided by R (subject to a maximum of 540 days from the date of the transaction. Mr Cs 
contract with R said he would be released from his timeshare within 12 months, so by 3 May 
2018, meaning hed have had until 3 August 2018 at the latest to enquire with M&S about a 
chargeback. It appears no contact was made with the bank until November 2018, which was 
too late. 
Ms Hs card payment
Ive not looked into Ms Hs card payment, which was made to MRLL instead of MRL. She 
can dispute this with M&S if she wishes. However I would note here that my research 
indicates MRLL and R were not associates after 20 April 2017, and her card payment was 
made in May 2017. So its quite likely that such a dispute would be unsuccessful for the 
same reasons as Mr Cs.
Other potential avenues
I dont think Mr Cs complaint about M&S should succeed, but he and Ms H may have some 
chance of recovering some money by making a claim in Rs liquidation, assuming they are 
not too late to do so. The liquidators of R reported in 2021 that theyd recovered £240,000 
from one of Rs previous directors, so its possible there could be money in the pot to be 
distributed to creditors of the company. Mr C may wish to contact the liquidators to enquire 
further.My final decision
For the reasons above, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman