DRN-4254980
The complaint
Mr A complains Fortegra Europe Insurance Company Ltd unfairly declined his motor 
warranty claim. 
What happened
In late December 2022 Mr A took out a Fortegra motor warranty. Around 22 days later he 
made a claim for a repair estimated at around £3,500. Fortegra sent an engineer to inspect 
the vehicle. Having done so it declined the claim. It referred to a term in the warranty 
denying liability for defects that likely existed before its inception. It considered the defect, 
subject of the repair claimed for, to have been present at the start of the policy. 
Mr A complained about the decline. In response Fortegra maintained its position that the 
defect had likely existed before the start of the warranty. So it continued to decline the claim. 
Mr A wasnt satisfied so came to this service. To resolve his complaint he would like 
Fortegra to reimburse him what he paid for the repair. He also wants it to compensate him 
for loss of use during repair and for inconvenience hes been caused. 
Our Investigator considered the complaint. She wasnt persuaded by the evidence that the 
damage had happened after the cover had begun. She felt Fortegras decision to decline the 
claim was made in line with the terms of Mr As cover. So she didnt recommend it settle the 
claim or do anything differently. Mr A didnt accept that outcome, so the complaint was 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of
evidence Mr A and Fortegra have provided. Instead Ive focused on those I consider to be 
key or central to the issue. But I would like to reassure both that I have considered 
everything provided.
When declining Mr As claim Fortegra referred to a term in his warranty: We will not accept 
liability for: A defect which is likely to have existed before the start of this warranty. Ive 
considered if its reasonable for Fortegra to rely on this to decline the claim. To do so Ive 
considered, amongst other factors, the technical reports on the vehicle and Mr As and 
Fortegras comments.  Having done, so Im persuaded the defect did likely exist before the 
start of the warranty. So the decision to decline the claim is fair and reasonable  and in line 
with the policy terms. 
Mr A said the defect occurred around 22 days after the policy incepted and after about 1,400 
miles. Hes provided a report from his garage. It inspected the car a few days after the claim 
was made. It explains the transfer box output shaft is leaking oil and has movement. It says 
it would be impossible to determine when the defect occurred. It adds when the garage 
carried out the inspection the oil leak looked to be fresh. 
Fortegras engineer has also provided a report. He inspected the car a week or so after Cs 
garage  but at the same mileage. He also states the transfer box output shaft was leaking 
oil. However, notes the oil residue was heavily contaminated with road grime. The engineer 
was of the opinion this confirms the defect had been ongoing for thousands of miles. He also 
felt a reported noise will have been caused by internal damage and was taking place due to 
the leakage of oil. He concludes that as there was only 22 days since inception the defect 
was present at that time. 
Ive considered Mr As points about his garage finding the oil to be fresh. Ive considered the 
available photos and oil colour examples as he requested. Ive also taken into account the 
possible impact of the time between the two inspections. But I find Fortegras report and 
conclusion to be more persuasive  considering its detail, explanation and the listed 
qualifications and experience of its author. Mr As report doesnt directly support the defect 
happening after the policy started  it simply says its impossible to know when. Ultimately, 
considering the time and mileage between inception and the claim Fortegra has reasonably 
concluded that the defect existed before Mr As cover began.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont require Fortegra Europe Insurance Company Ltd to pay 
Mr As claim or to do anything differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman