DRN-4118559
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Avon Insurance Plc mis-sold him an accidental death policy.
What happened
Mr G took the policy out in 1998. He thought it was life assurance and only in 2021 
discovered that it was an accidental death policy.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld  she didnt find that Avon 
had done anything wrong.
Mr G appealed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusion of the investigator for these reasons:
The policy was sold on a non-advised basis  this means Avon didnt recommend 
that Mr G purchased the policy. But Avon did need to provide information so that Mr 
G could make an informed decision as to whether to proceed with the purchase. The 
information needed to be clear, fair and not misleading. On the evidence before me I 
cant conclude there was any failing on the part of Avon.
Mr G signed the application form which said I wish to apply for £20,000 of accidental 
death insurance. The insurance provided is called Accidental Death Plan  this is 
clearly stated on the policy document. Accordingly I have some difficulty in accepting 
that he wasnt aware he was purchasing accidental death insurance. I do accept he 
may have not noticed what he was signing, but I cant hold Avon responsible if this is 
so.
There is no evidence that Mr G wasnt sent the policy documents when he took out 
the policy in 1998, but I note he says he didnt receive them. However in 1999 Mr G 
agreed to take out additional cover  his benefit increased and did his premium. It is 
therefore reasonable to assume he was aware of the additional cover he was 
purchasing. I can also see that Mr G requested details of his cover in 2012, which 
Avon sent to him. And Ive seen he has been updated with changes about the policy 
over the years.
I recognise that Mr G will be disappointed by my decision, but there is nothing before 
me to suggest that there was any error or omission on the part of Avon Insurance 
Plc. As the policy has been in force, and Avon has therefore been on risk, there is no 
basis on which I could require it to return the premiums that Mr G has paid.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman