DRN-1817254
The complaint
Mr H1 and Mr H2, as Directors of Company S, complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc has treated 
the Company unfairly in relation to the changing of interest rates on the loan agreements it 
has with it.
What happened
Company S entered into three loan agreements (each linked to base rate) with HSBC. One 
in March 2007 and two in February 2008. In February 2017 HSBC contacted Company S to 
renegotiate the loan taken in March 2007 in line with clause five of the loan terms and 
conditions.
Mr H1 and Mr H2 complained on behalf of Company S. They felt that they had no choice but 
to agree to paying increased interest and that there wasnt a renegotiation in good faith. 
They feel HSBC was profiteering and forcing them into paying more under threat of 
termination of the lending. They also felt that the implied terms hadnt been met and hence 
the renegotiation was unfair. They want the interest rates to be returned to the previous 
levels and a refund made.
HSBC considered the matter and said it hadnt done anything wrong. It said the terms of the 
lending are clear and fair. Mr H1 and Mr H2 didnt agree. So they brought the Companys 
complaint to this service. 
The investigator did not agree with Mr H1 and Mr H2 and said HSBC position was fair and 
reasonable. As Mr H1 and Mr H2 remain unhappy this complaint has been passed to me for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the entirety of the matter I do not think this complaint should be upheld. I 
say this for the following reasons which I see as key to this complaint.
HSBC have pointed to the terms regarding when renegotiations can take place being in the 
terms agreed before the loan amounts were advanced. I can see copies of these 
agreements being signed on behalf of Company S. HSBC has explained to Company S 
representatives in detail why it feels the terms are clear. I can also see the renegotiation 
element of the agreement being referred to clearly on the first page of documentation sent to 
Company S when arranging the credit facility under the heading of Interest Rates. HSBC 
also point to Company S going through the renegotiation process successfully previously.
I see Company S representatives have laboured to make arguments about what it suggests 
to be the unfairness of the terms HSBC have used to renegotiate the interest rate payable 
on the borrowing. But these arguments are somewhat short of being persuasive and I shall 
explain why.
Firstly I consider the terms around clause five (relating to renegotiation of the interest) to be 
clear. I think this part of the interest rate cost is also flagged clearly to Company S at the 
beginning of the letter containing the agreement. And it had already gone through this 
process some years earlier. So if it was unhappy with this part of the agreement Im not clear 
why it didnt refinance this debt in the intervening years seeing as it knew when the 
renegotiation windows were scheduled.
Company S argues that it can refuse to renegotiate and or not accept a change in the 
interest rate. I dont agree. The terms make clear that if on request to renegotiate new terms 
are not agreed then that constitutes a termination event of the contract. I think this was fairly 
agreed.
Company S refers to being threatened with the termination of the contract. Im not 
persuaded HSBC threatened Company S. I think it likely HSBC made clear that if agreement 
wasnt reached that would lead to that part of the agreement (re the Termination Event) 
coming into play. But considering Company S unwillingness to renegotiate at first, then 
HSBC explaining to it the likely consequences of such actions seems fair to me. I dont 
consider this to be threatening. I consider it to be an explanation of how HSBC saw the 
position at the time, in light of the terms agreed by both parties and what Company S was 
saying at that time.
Company Ss representatives argue that Clause Five should have further terms implied 
within it. HSBC has said that had it been Intended that there should be a term "that the 
Bank should only seek to renegotiate in the event of a good reason such as a significant and 
detrimental change to the risk profile of (y)our Clients companies", such a significant term 
would have been expressly drafted into the contract. 
It is not for this service to ponder on how a Court would consider this matter. And if 
Company S want a Court to decide on the matter it can issue legal proceedings. I suggest it 
should take independent legal advice before doing so.
It is for me to consider what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances for this dispute. It is 
clear that both parties agreed to the terms which include Clause Five. I do not consider 
these terms to be unclear or ambiguous as I have explained. There is no reference in the 
terms to prerequisites for either party requesting renegotiation other than such requests 
need to be made around the nominated anniversaries of the agreement (which are set out). I 
think if there was meant to be further prerequisites to the renegotiation terms they would 
have been set out there. But there arent.
I think these are the terms that were agreed, and I do not think that it would be fair to amend 
them substantially as Company S suggests, particularly considering the lack of persuasive 
evidence supporting the position that the term should be implied (or was mistakenly omitted). 
If the parties had wanted a different agreement at the time of making the agreement I think it 
likely that they would have made such an agreement and made it explicitly. As such I agree 
with HSBCs position on this facet of this complaint.
Furthermore considering that Company S had renegotiated previously without reference or 
reliance to this implied term, I see no persuasive reason to decide it is fair now to imply such 
a term which clearly isnt present or suggested in the wording of the agreement which both 
parties agreed. I am far from persuaded by Company S that it would be fair to imply such a 
term into this agreement. If Company S didnt consider this properly at the time of making 
this agreement, then that consideration (or lack thereof) doesnt sit with HSBC. I think the 
agreements terms in this clause are clear.Company S also argue that HSBC didnt act in good faith. It essentially argues that it didnt 
have a choice but to agree terms and was under economic duress. But Im not persuaded by 
this. Firstly it agreed to the terms of the deal (and repeatedly so when considering other 
loans it entered into with HSBC). Secondly it had already been through a renegotiation round 
before-so was experienced in the matter. Thirdly the previous renegotiation round was 
sufficiently far in the past that had it wished to move to another lender it had ample 
opportunity to organise this. And lastly and importantly, as HSBC has pointed out when 
HSBC had opened with renegotiations Company S had put counter proposals to HSBC and 
HSBC had accepted these counter proposals. So clearly a negotiation took place here. As 
HSBC accepted proposals different to those it had originally put forward. I am not persuaded 
that HSBC acted outside of good faith or placed Company S under any economic duress. 
Just because Company S appears not to like the deal (it fairly entered) now, doesnt mean it 
is unfair or that HSBC didnt act with good faith. And bearing in mind HSBC accepted 
Company S counter proposal, and considering the rates agreed Im not persuaded that 
HSBC have been profiteering.
Company S make the point that HSBC didnt wish to keep the interest rate the same at the 
time of negotiation. But HSBC are a commercial enterprise and would look at many factors 
when entering such renegotiations. As would Company S, as it has demonstrated by wishing 
to have what it sees as a commercially beneficial rate remain. Just because two commercial 
parties enter a negotiation from different commercial positions doesnt mean the process or 
either parties position is unfair. 
Company S argues that HSBC have breached the contract. I am not persuaded of such a 
breach nor of any other significant failings on HSBCs part. Company S representatives 
arguments on these matters fall significantly short of being persuasive to me. I can see 
HSBC gave its views on the viability of the representatives arguments in writing in May 
2019. It is unclear to me why Company S representatives continue with their position 
considering this considered response by HSBC. 
So all in all I think HSBCs position on the matter is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
So I wont be asking it to do anything further on this matter. And this complaint does not 
succeed.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc by 
Mr H1 and Mr H2 as Directors of Company S. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2020.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman