DRN-3794353
The complaint
Mrs and Mr W complained about Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd. 
They werent happy that it turned down a claim under their pet insurance policy. 
For ease of reading any reference to Casualty & General includes its agents.
What happened
Mrs and Mr Ws made a claim under their pet insurance policy in relation to a 
gastroenteritis/obstruction. But when Casualty & General looked into the claim it declined 
the treatment costs for their pet and added an exclusion in relation to the digestive system. 
Casualty & General referred to the veterinary history and highlighted that Mrs and Mr Ws 
pet had suffered a previous similar episode around the time the policy was taken out so it 
thought the claim should be turned down. And thought it was entitled to add the exclusion to 
the policy. Mrs and Mr W werent happy about the decline of the claim and so they 
complained to Casualty & General and then this Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs and Mr W and upheld their complaint. She didnt 
think Casualty & General had acted fairly in declining the claim or adding the exclusion to the 
policy. She thought there wasnt sufficient evidence to say the previous issue, in relation to 
their pet eating a slug and being sick, was linked to the present claim. So she asked 
Casualty & General to pay the claim plus 8% simple interest. And she asked it to remove the 
exclusion in respect of the digestive system. 
As Casualty & General maintained its position and didnt agree the matter has been passed 
to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with our investigator that the complaint should be upheld, Ill explain 
why.
Casualty & General have declined the claim and added the exclusion in relation to the 
digestive system as it feels the problem Mrs and Mr Ws pet had around the time the policy 
was taken out is linked to the subsequent claim a few months later. But I dont think there is 
sufficient evidence to support its position. Ill explain why.
Mrs and Mr W took their pet to the vet around the beginning of December 2021 as their pet 
had been vomiting and the problem cleared up after that. There is nothing to suggest this 
issue continued in any form and they subsequently made a claim in February 2022 in 
relation to gastroenteritis/obstruction. Casualty & General have said that these issues are 
linked. 
But the vet notes from the time of the first vet attendance suggests, on balance, that the 
vomiting was caused by the pet eating a slug  indeed the treating vets notes say there was 
evidence of the slug within the pets vomit. So, it is difficult to say that Mrs and Mr Ws 
subsequent claim for gastroenteritis/obstruction was linked to the pet eating a slug a few 
months earlier. 
The clear suggestion is that the first instance was caused by eating the slug around the time 
they attended the vets. Whereas the second claim talked about the possibility of an 
obstruction alongside other changes (including dietary) that may have caused the second 
attendance in relation to a possible blockage or gastroenteritis.
So, although Mrs and Mr Ws pet had a similar episode of v+ a few months before I dont 
think there is sufficient evidence to say the two issues are linked. There is no evidence that 
their pet was ill and vomiting regularly or constantly between claims and it seems likely, on 
balance, that their pet eating a slug caused the first vomiting episode and the second is 
unrelated. And as our investigator outlined pets such as Mrs and Mr Ws are often going to 
be sick throughout their lifetimes but that doesnt mean every episode is linked. 
Given this, I think the fair and reasonable thing to do in the particular circumstances of this 
case is for Casualty & General to pay the claim, subject to the policy excess, in line with the 
remaining policy terms and conditions. 
Finally, I agree that the exclusion in relation to the the digestive system should be removed. 
The relevant law here relating to misrepresentation is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure 
and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This sets out remedies an insurer has where a 
qualifying misrepresentation has been made at the point of application. 
As Casualty & General is aware to apply this clause retrospectively it would have to show 
that, at the point of application, Mrs and Mr W were asked a clear question that led them to 
make a qualifying misrepresentation i.e. one which led to the insurer taking different action 
regarding the terms on which it would provide cover. And the question Mrs and Mr W was 
asked was a factual one about whether they wanted cover for pre-existing medical 
conditions  and they didnt. So, they answered this question correctly and the question 
didnt ask them to detail any veterinary history or provide any further information about this. 
So, Mrs and Mr W didnt make a misrepresentation and so Casualty & General isnt entitled 
to add a backdated exclusion to the policy or to decline the claim in line with this.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I think Casualty & General Insurance Company 
(Europe) Ltd should pay the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions adding 8% 
simple interest from the date of claim until the date of settlement. And remove the exclusion 
in respect of the digestive system.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman