DRN-4270253
The complaint
Mr R complains that Virgin Money Unit Trust Managers Ltd (VMUTM) switched his pension 
investment without his consent. As a result, he says hes suffered financial loss.
What happened
Mr R had a pension plan with VMUTM. At the time of opening the plan in 2010, Mr R was in 
his mid-thirties. He completed an application form which asked him to pick the investment 
strategy he wanted to follow, either self-selection or the automatic fund selector. Ill refer to 
this as AFS. VMUTM say Mr R opted for AFS from the outset and this did not change.
VMUTM explained in the application form Mr R signed that if AFS was selected, Mr Rs 
money would be invested in its Pension Growth Fund, until 10 years before retirement. From 
then it would gradually switch his savings into the Pension Income Protection Fund to protect 
it from stock market fluctuations and interest rate falls as Mr R neared retirement.
VMUTM said that at no point did Mr R self-select any funds between 2010, when the plan 
was set up, and it was switched.
In 2018, Mr R gave VMUTM authority to provide information about his plan to another 
business.
In 2020, VMUTM took a commercial decision to move away from its established AFS to a 
new automatic fund selector, referred to as Glidepath. VMUTM described Glidepath as its 
new form of AFS, the key differences being that VMUTM would move investments from 
growth investments to more stable investments over a longer period of 15 years and much 
more gradually. It said it would be using two new funds: the Pension Growth Fund 3 and the 
Virgin Money Pension Defensive Fund for stability. 
VMUTM said that it wrote to Mr R on two separate occasions in August and September 
2020, telling him about the change and giving him the option of opting out of being switched 
into Glidepath.  VMUTM told this service it wasnt able to provide copies of the actual letters 
sent to Mr R because they were sent via a bulk mailing exercise. VMTUM provided a 
template of the letters it said were sent to Mr R and other customers.
The template letters gave optional content, depending on whether the customer was self-
selecting or using AFS. The template showed that staff had to pull in the correct content from 
its data F63 steam number. VMUTM did not supply the F63 stream information to 
demonstrate what would have been included in Mr Rs letter. 
Mr R said he did not receive these letters from VMUTM about Glidepath
This service asked VMUTM to provide a redacted copy of its mailing list showing that Mr R 
was included in this bulk mailing exercise. This had not been provided by the time I issued 
my first or second provisional decisions.
 
A spreadsheet showing one entry only, referring to Mr R was provided by VMUTM after my 
second provisional decision was issued.
Mr R is unhappy that VMUTM treated him as having provided assumed consent to switch, 
because he did not respond to its letters. He considers that unfair. He also says he has lost 
out financially as a result as he would have taken action, if advised of the change.
Our investigator looked into Mr Rs complaint and did not uphold it. They took the view that 
Mr R:
Opted into AFS from the outset and did not change that selection;
Was sent copies of the letters by VMTUM giving him the option to opt out of the 
switch to Glidepath and did not exercise that option; and
Therefore, it was reasonable for VMTUM to assume that Mr R had provided consent
to the switch as it was part of a commercial decision taken by VMTUM and was
overseen by the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority.
Mr R didnt accept our investigators view and asked for his case to be referred to an 
ombudsman. Mr R said, in summary:
He didnt receive the letters that VMTUM said it sent;
He believes he opted out of AFS around 2018 and was self-selecting funds. He later
confirmed that we could disregard this. He realised this applied to a separate
stakeholder pension plan, not this plan;
It is not clear to him on what basis VMTUM was able to make a unilateral decision to 
change the terms and conditions of a customers policy to the customers detriment;
As Glidepath did not offer a mirror arrangement the losses he suffered following the 
switch were locked in at the point of transfer; and
He was under the impression that the ombudsmans role was to assess whether a 
business actions were fair and reasonable and therefore he does not understand 
why the investigator has concluded that this service cannot go behind the 
commercial decision taken and overseen by the regulator.
1st Provisional Decision
 I issued a provisional decision on Mr Rs complaint in March 2023. Ill refer to this as my first 
provisional decision. I provisionally found that there was insufficient evidence to show that 
Mr R had received the letters, but I considered it unlikely that he would have opted out of the 
new AFS even had he been provided with information about the change. I was not satisfied 
therefore that he had suffered any financial loss, but I did think VMTUM should pay him £200 
for the inconvenience caused.
In response to my first provisional decision VMUTM said it had no wish to delay matters 
further and accepted my decision.
Mr R accepted some parts of my first provisional decision, but not others, in particular the 
conclusions I had reached about what he would have done if he had been informed of the 
change. 
Mr R and his financial adviser provided further information about how all his pension 
arrangements were being overseen by his financial adviser and that he would likely have 
acted differently had he been informed of the change.2nd Provisional Decision
Mr Rs complaint came back to me to reconsider In June 2023, I issued a second provisional 
decision, still upholding the complaint, but making a different award for redress. I 
provisionally concluded that likely Mr R would have taken action and invested differently had 
he been informed of the change to Glidepath.
Following my second provisional decision VMUTM sent in further information and said it did 
not consider it had done anything wrong. It provided a spreadsheet containing information it 
said was relevant to show that Mr R was sent letters about the change to Glidepath in 
August and September 2020.
Mr R also responded to my second provisional decision. He took the view that redress 
should be calculated differently and to keep things simple I should compare what his pension 
fund would have been worth now if it remained invested in the original fund, compared to 
what his fund is worth now invested in Glidepath. 
Mr R also considers it unfair that a notional deduction is made for tax if any shortfall cannot 
be paid into his pension scheme. He also thinks that it is not fair to speculate on how he may 
or may not take his pension assets in 15 years time, at retirement, or what tax rules may be 
in place at that time.
Mr R also asks that his financial adviser is given the opportunity to validate any loss 
calculation prior to a final decision being made.
Mr Rs complaint comes back to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my final decision is largely the same as my second provisional decision. I 
shall explain why.
Glidepath letters
Businesses often dont keep copies of individual letters sent out as part of a bulk mailing 
exercise. So, I am not surprised that VMTUM cant provide copies of the actual letters sent 
to Mr R. However, businesses can often produce records showing when and how the 
correspondence was sent,  what it said and what it told the customer to do, if anything.  
VMUTM did not challenge the view I set out in my 1st provisional decision, which was that I 
didnt have enough information to be satisfied that more likely than not the Glidepath letters 
were sent to Mr R by VMUTM in August and September 2020
In response to my 2nd provisional decision VMTUM said that the spreadsheet it has now 
produced shows these letters were sent as part of a bulk mailing exercise. I previously asked 
VMUTM for this evidence, It told me it was not available.
The spreadsheet Ive now been shown provides reference headings, such as name, 
address, scheme type and so forth and then a one-line entry relating only to Mr R. What I cant see from the spreadsheet is that this information relates to Glidepath 
correspondence being sent out in August and September 2020. I cant see any reference to 
the F63 stream information to see what was included in Mr Rs letter.  I can see a box that 
says AFS was ON, but I cant see any read across to the content of the template letters. 
VMUTM also tells me that Mr Rs template correspondence was sent as part of Segment 8. 
The table refers only to Cohort 1-5 and where it says Mailing Stream it says leave blank.
So, based on what VMUTM has now provided, and having already been provided with the 
opportunity to provide information about the bulk mailing exercise, I remain of the view that I 
still have insufficient information to be satisfied that Mr R was sent letters from Glidepath in 
August 2020 and September 2020 about the change.
I am also not satisfied that based on what I have seen so far, that, without more information, 
I can fairly and reasonably conclude that Mr R was told clearly what he needed to do even if 
he did get these letters. Thats because I cant know whether VMUTM selected the correct 
wording to go into Mr Rs letter. For example, I have not seen anything to show the data it 
pulled across to populate Mr Rs letter was the right content to match his circumstances (ie 
the F63 stream information). This is relevant because different instructions about what to do 
were provided based on the customers circumstances.
Was VMUTM authorised to make this change?
Mr R also challenges the basis upon which VMUTM was authorised to make this change, 
without his consent.
VMUTM made a commercial decision, which it appears that the Financial Conduct Authority, 
did not take issue with, to change its AFS to the Glidepath arrangement. Mr R thinks it unfair 
that VMTUM was unilaterally allowed to impose this change. As I mentioned in my 
provisional decisions, this service is not a regulator, we cannot go behind commercial 
decisions made which the regulator does not take issue with. In these circumstances, I cant 
fairly conclude that it was unfair or unreasonable for VMTUM to withdraw the existing AFS 
option and replace it with Glidepath, even at a time of market volatility.
VMTUM did need to communicate with the customer clearly, fairly and transparently about 
the change however, and given what I have said above, I cant see that it did this.
What would Mr R have done differently, if anything, had he received VMTUMs letters and 
been aware of his options?
Because VMUTM has done something wrong in my view, I have gone on to consider 
whether Mr R has lost out because of that.
The options available to Mr R had he received these letters would have been to do nothing 
and allow the switch across to Glidepath, or to do something, and begin self-selecting his 
funds. The option to continue with the established AFS was not available.
I think it likely that, feasibly, Mr R could have chosen to replicate the AFS arrangement 
through self-selection. I provisionally concluded in my 2nd provisional decision that Mr R was 
receiving advice annually from his financial adviser on his pensions investments and he 
deliberately remained invested in the Pension Growth Fund predominantly in UK equities 
based on this advice.
Mr Rs financial adviser contacted this service and said that he had been his financial 
adviser for around ten years and found Mr R to be timely and responsive in his dealings with 
him. The adviser said that Mr Rs pension assets were considered in the round each year and that his investment strategy and exposure to risk in relation to his other funds took into 
account that Mr Rs VMTUM plan was invested in UK equities. The adviser said that had it 
been known that the level of exposure to investment risk was being reduced in his VMUTM 
fund, Mr R would likely have selected to dial up the risk across his investments. So, in the 
opinion of Mr Rs financial adviser, it now seems to me that Mr R would have invested 
differently if made aware of the change from AFS to Glidepath.
Having accepted what Mr R and his long-standing adviser have told me about Mr Rs 
pension investment strategy at that time and been told Mr R was pro-actively engaged in 
managing his pension investments each year, my view is that Mr R would have taken action 
if told about the change to Glidepath and so overall, he has lost out financially.
I dont know exactly what action Mr R would have taken, but think it likely that he would have 
looked to mirror the old AFS investment model through self-selection, as this was the 
strategy he had consciously been adopting, with the assistance of his financial adviser, for 
quite some years. That being the case, I now consider that compensation should be 
calculated on that basis to identify whether Mr R has suffered any financial loss as a result of 
the change which was inadequately communicated to him, and which he would have done 
something about upfront, if he had known about it.
Putting things right
My aim in awarding compensation for financial loss is to put Mr R back in the position hes 
likely to have been in, but for VMUTMs errors when dealing with the switch of his pension 
benefits to Glidepath.
Mr R is right, none of us can know what his circumstances will be at retirement, or what the 
tax rules will be then. But I need to determine this complaint now to bring this to an end, and 
so I must consider based on what I know already, what his circumstances more likely than 
not will be at the time in question. Of course, in any event, long term Investment decisions 
generally bring with them risk and uncertainty and circumstances can change over time. 
 
The notional tax deduction being made is to represent the tax deduction that would be made 
at retirement (if current tax rules remained) at the time of payment. It only applies if the 
money cannot be paid into the scheme. So, to fairly put Mr R back in the same position as 
if this error was not made, it is appropriate to make a deduction in these terms.
Mr R will be provided with a copy of the calculation by VMTUM. He can show this to his 
financial adviser to check the figures involved. 
VMUM did not dispute that Mr R has been caused some trouble and upset by this. He is 
understandably upset as he feels he wasnt given the option of deciding whether to switch 
across to Glidepath or to self-select. He is disappointed that, as he sees it, he has to live 
with the consequences of being moved across to Glidepath without being aware of the 
options.
Taking both Mr R and VMTUMs representations into account, to compensate Mr R fairly 
VMUTM must:
Compare the performance of Mr R's investment in the Glidepath arrangement with 
what it would have been worth had it remained in the AFS arrangement from the date 
of switch. If the value of his investment would have been greater in the AFS 
arrangement, then there is a loss and compensation is payable.If there is a loss, VMUTM should pay an amount into Mr R's pension plan to increase 
its value by the total amount of the compensation. The amount paid should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance.
 If VMUTM is unable to pay the total amount into Mr R's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore, the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr R's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax in retirement. I think Mr R is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer in 
retirement. The reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax. However, Mr R 
would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum. Therefore the reduction should be 
applied to 75% of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If VMUTM deducts income tax from 
the interest it should tell Mr R how much has been taken off. VMUTM should give   
Mr R a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Provide details of the calculation to Mr R in a clear and simple format.
Pay Mr R £200 compensation direct for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Rs complaint and order Virgin Money Unit Trust Managers Ltd to put things right 
as set out above..
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman