DRN-1191315
The complaint
Mr H complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance ("PPI") policy.  
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1997. The policy was added to 
Mr H's Mint credit card account when he applied for the card by post.
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicator's view, so 
the complaint's been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
I've seen a copy of Mr H's application for the credit card. It includes a section headed 
'Payment Protection'. It briefly explains the purpose of the cover, and says that 
RBS strongly recommends that the applicant take out the cover. There's a box to tick 
if the applicant wishes to take out PPI. And there's a tick in the box. I think 
RBS made Mr H aware that the PPI was optional, and I think he chose to take it - 
although I can understand why he may no longer remember this, so many years 
later.
 
Mr H applied for the credit card and PPI by post. So I think it's unlikely that he had 
any direct contact with RBS's staff during the application process, or that RBS made 
any personal recommendation to Mr H that he take out the PPI. This means 
RBS didn't have to check if the PPI was suitable for him. It was for Mr H to decide 
whether to take the PPI, knowing what other means he'd have had of making his 
monthly credit card repayments if he was off sick, or if he lost his job. But Bank of 
Scotland did have a responsibility to give Mr H clear enough information to enable 
him to decide whether the PPI was right for him.
I've borne in mind that Mr H has told us that he'd have been entitled to six months' 
full pay, followed by six months' half pay from his employer if he'd been off sick. But 
if Mr H had made a successful claim on the policy for accident or sickness, it would 
have paid out for up to 12 months. That's longer than Mr H has told us he'd have 
been entitled to full sick pay for. And it would have paid the same benefit if he'd made 
a successful claim for unemployment. What's more, the PPI would have paid out in addition to any payments Mr H received from his employer. So he could have used 
those to meet other day-to-day expenses.
 
Taking everything into account, I think the PPI policy could have been useful for Mr 
H, especially as he's told us that aside from payments from his employer, he didn't 
have any other means he could have used to make his credit card payments if he'd 
been off sick, or if he'd lost his job.
 
Its possible the information RBS gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Mr H chose to take out the policy. So he appears to have 
wanted this type of cover, even if hes understandably forgotten that now. Based on 
what he's told us about his circumstances at the time, he wasnt affected by any of 
the main things the policy didn't cover. And it was competitively priced and 
apparently affordable. 
So taking everything into account, Ive seen nothing to make me think that Mr H 
wouldnt have been able to benefit fully from the policy. And I think it unlikely that 
hed have made a different decision even if better information had been provided. On 
balance, I think hed still have taken out the policy.
This means RBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H. But RBS has 
paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because:
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because RBS didnt tell Mr H, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mr H any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2020.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman