DRN-4446315
The complaint
Mr F and Miss P complain that Nationwide Building Society made errors which delayed their 
purchase completing. They ask for compensation for having to pay rent for an extra month.
What happened
Mr F and Miss P applied to Nationwide for a mortgage. Nationwide accepts it made an error 
when it didnt review documents promptly. It paid £250 for poor service.
Mr F and Miss P say this isnt enough. They say Nationwides error delayed completion by 
one month and they had to extend their rental agreement, costing them £750. They also say 
Nationwide gave them incorrect information about how long it would take to make changes 
to the application. As a result, they gave incorrect information to other parties involved in the 
sale and purchase chain.
I sent a provisional decision to the parties setting out why I didnt intend to uphold this 
complaint. My reasons were substantially as set out below. Nationwide said it had nothing to 
add and Mr F and Miss P didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Nationwide accepts it made an error which caused a delay of about a month in processing 
Mr F and Miss Ps application. However, it also pointed out that it issued a mortgage offer 
about nine weeks after the application (it says it usually takes about six to eight weeks). And 
that it issued a mortgage offer in July 2022 and the purchase didnt complete until November 
2022. It says this suggests there were other reasons why the purchase didnt complete until 
November 2022.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr F and Miss P, but I agree with Nationwide. The delay in reviewing 
their bank statements happened before the mortgage offer was issued. This might well have 
delayed the mortgage offer. However, the application was approved and the mortgage offer 
issued by mid-July 2022. If this was the only matter holding up their purchase Id have 
expected completion to have happened before November 2022.
The mortgage offer was issued in mid-July 2022. Theres no further contact from Mr F and 
Miss P in Nationwides records until 17 October 2022 when they asked that the application 
was amended to reduce the purchase price and the loan amount (by about £5,000).
Mr F and Miss P say they were told this would take a few working days. They chased 
Nationwide in late October 2022. They told Nationwide completion was scheduled for 
4 November 2022 and they were worried about being homeless.
Nationwide issued an amended mortgage offer on 2 November 2022. It sent a further 
amended offer on 9 November 2022 due to the solicitors details being incorrect. It sent 
funds to Mr F and Miss Ps solicitor on 11 November 2022.
Ive looked at Nationwides notes and it took more than two weeks to issue the amended 
mortgage offer. I think this was longer than it needed to be. This must have been stressful 
for Mr F and Miss P. And it might have contributed to their completion being delayed from 4 
November 2022 to 11 November 2022 (one week). I would note here that, without further 
evidence, I cant be certain that completion would certainly have happened on 4 November 
2022 if Nationwide had issued the amended mortgage offer a week earlier.
I dont think its fair to say that Nationwide caused a delay of a month. There isnt a fixed time 
period between a mortgage offer being issued and the purchase completing. It doesnt 
necessarily follow that Mr F and Miss Ps purchase would have completed a month earlier if 
the mortgage offer had been issued in June 2022 rather than July 2022.
Mr F and Miss P havent said what happened between Nationwide issuing a mortgage offer 
in July 2022 and them contacting it again in October 2022, or why the purchase didnt 
complete in that three-month period. But I havent seen anything to suggest that this was 
due to an error by Nationwide.
Putting things right
Nationwide did make errors. There was a delay it in reviewing documents provided by Mr F 
and Miss P to support their application. While this caused inconvenience, I dont think it 
delayed the purchase completing. I think Nationwide took longer than necessary to issue an 
amended mortgage offer after Mr F and Miss P asked for changes in October 2022, and it 
didnt give them clear information about its timescales. This will have caused them 
unnecessary additional worry and might have contributed their purchase completing a few 
days or a week later than theyd hoped. Looking at Mr F and Miss Ps bank statements, they 
paid additional rent of about £75 which could have been for these extra days.
I think its right that Nationwide offered compensation. Taking all of the above into account, I 
think the £250 paid by Nationwide is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Thats because I think the compensation 
paid by Nationwide Building Society is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Miss P to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman