DRN-2175661
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with how Santander UK Plc handled a chargeback request.
What happened
In May 2018 Mr B paid £720 for a data retrieval company to retrieve lost data from his laptop 
and mobile phone. But in July 2018 he was told by this company that they were only able to 
retrieve the data from his laptop not his phone. Mr B therefore felt he should be partially 
refunded as the firm had advertised as no data no fee. 
On 17 October 2018 Mr B contacted Santander to make a chargeback claim. The advisor 
told Mr B that he couldnt make a claim as the timescales for submitting a claim is 120 days. 
As the transaction was in May, the advisor thought the timescale had passed. However, Mr 
B thought the timescale should run from when he knew there was a problem, which was July 
2018, and therefore he felt he was within time. Mr B raised a complaint.
A couple of days later Santander called Mr B to explain that the information he had been 
given previously was incorrect and it explained the chargeback process to him. Clearly 
stating that there was no guarantee of success. It told Mr B that it will send the disclaimer 
form for him to complete and return within 14 days and he needed to provide all the 
evidence required to make a claim i.e. emails between Mr B and the retrieval company, 
terms and conditions, copies of phone calls etc. It apologised to Mr B for giving the incorrect 
information on the previous call and compensated him £25.
On 26 November 2018 Mr B contacted Santander as he said he had only just received a 
letter dated 9 November 2018 and that it also implied that a letter had been sent previously 
and he had only received this one. He asked the agent if this would affect his claim, the 
agent said he would email the back-office staff to let them know Mr B had only just received 
it. 
Mr B called Santander on 25 January 2019 to see if it had received his disclaimer form. He 
was told no, and the dispute had been cancelled. Santander told Mr B it will raise a query 
with the dispute team to see if it can be re-opened and advised Mr B to contact it back in two 
working days to see if it can be done. The dispute team did re-open the claim and sent Mr B 
the form again.
On 13 March 2019 Mr B contacted Santander again to see if it had received his form and in 
error he was told no when in fact it had received it on 15 February 2019.
In April 2019 Mr B makes a complaint to Santander, saying hed sent the disclaimer form 
several times, and he had now received a letter to tell him he was out of time. He says he 
was told the timescale was waived. 
Santander says it received only one of the disclaimer forms Mr B says he sent and that was 
received on 15 February which was already outside of the timeframe. It accepts that 
advisors shouldnt have re-issued the form as Mr B was already out of time and it therefore 
gave Mr B a further £25 compensation for these errors.  
Santander also says there is no evidence that Mr B was told the timescales were waived and 
this isnt something it can do as it must abide by the regulations set by the card scheme. It 
has also looked at the information Mr B sent and says the form was not fully completed and 
there was no supporting evidence, it says the claim was unlikely to succeed. And finally, it 
said Mr B had already pursued the matter through the small claims court and received a 
refund so he wouldnt have had anything to claim back via a chargeback process as Mr B 
had already been refunded.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. He said although it was clear there had been 
mistakes made by Santander, he felt the £50 it had already offered in compensation was fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
Mr B didnt agree with the investigator and asked for his complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman. So, the complaint has been come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint, for largely the same reasons as our investigator. Ill 
explain why. 
I think it might be useful to set out a brief summary of how the chargeback scheme works. 
The chargeback process provides, in certain limited circumstances, a way for a cardholder to 
ask for the assistance of their bank in recovering money theyve paid to a third party. The 
rules are set by the card scheme, not the bank. One of the rules thats relevant here is that 
for disputes over defective merchandise or services, the chargeback claim must be 
processed within the 120 days of either the payment date, or the point at which the 
cardholder received the merchandise or service.
Ultimately, its the card schemes decision on the rules banks and merchants must follow in 
processing a chargeback. And its not within my power to challenge how the scheme is run. 
Im only considering the complaint about Santanders actions, based on what I thinks fair 
and reasonable.
Its important to note that theres no automatic right to a chargeback and no guarantee it will 
lead to a refund. Having said that, we would generally expect a bank to attempt a 
chargeback  if it looks like it would have a reasonable chance of success.
In this case, Mr B received his merchandise back from the data retrieval company on 24 July 
2018, so, the 120 days should be counted from that point. The claim would therefore need to 
have been processed by the 21 November 2018.  I understand Mr B was initially given 
wrong information regarding when the 120 days started, and Santander acknowledged this 
and compensated Mr B £25. I think this is fair and reasonable as this mistake was rectified 
within a couple of days.
  
Mr B then appears to have had issues receiving the disclaimer form and there also appears 
to be issues with the bank receiving it back from Mr B. Santander has shown it received a 
form on 15 February 2019 that Mr B had signed on 13 February 2019. Ive not seen 
evidence to show the form was sent to Santander any earlier and within the relevant time 
frame. And as our investigator said I cant rule out that there mayve been a problem with the 
postal service, but that isnt something I can hold the Santander responsible for. However, after the 21 November 2018, Santander shouldve picked up that Mr B was out of 
time and it shouldnt have re-issued the disclaimer forms to him as this mis-managed his 
expectations. And when Mr B called in March to see if it had received his form, he was given 
incorrect information. Santander has issued Mr B a further £25 compensation for these 
errors. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ultimately the form that was received was well beyond the 21 November 2018 deadline. And 
as I said above Santander cant overturn the rules set by the card scheme, so there is no 
leeway to extend the timeframe. The form also did not provide enough information to 
Santander to put the claim forward, so it was unlikely to succeed.
  
I also note Mr B had chosen to pursue the data retrieval company for a refund through the 
small claim court. Through mediation he received a partial refund in March 2019. So even if 
the card scheme rules did allow Mr B to do a chargeback out of time  which it doesnt, he 
would not have a successful claim as he has now received a settlement.
So, in summary it is clear Santander did make errors and provided a poor level of service. 
Ive listened to the calls Mr B had with Santander and I can find no evidence that Mr B was 
told the timescales were waived  but even if it had, it wouldnt change anything. I say this as 
although I think it couldve been clearer with Mr B when the time limit was up, Im satisfied 
the compensation Santander has already paid is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint. I will therefore not be asking Santander to do anything different.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman