DRN-2873999
The complaint
This is a complaint that Santander UK Plc mis-sold Mrs E and Mr E payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2004. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs E and Mr E disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
The sale of the PPI took place about 17 years ago and, not surprisingly, none of the original 
documents from the time are now available. Also I wouldnt expect someone to recall in 
detail everything that happened so long ago, so it can be difficult to know whether its fair to 
rely fully on everything they remember.
Mrs E and Mr E have said they were not aware that they had PPI. So Ive taken this to mean 
that the PPI was added without their knowledge or consent.  
The overall problem is that I dont have strong enough evidence to uphold Mrs E and Mr Es 
complaint on this point. It wouldnt be fair to make Santander prove it didnt do something 
wrong  instead, fairly, I would need reasonable evidence to show that it probably did do 
something wrong. And I cant say that there is that kind of evidence. 
There is also some evidence to support a view that, at least at some point, Mrs E and Mr E 
are likely to have been aware of the PPI:
I can see that Mrs E and Mr Es PPI policy only covered them for accident and 
sickness and didnt include the usual unemployment cover too. This suggests that 
there was some discussion with Santander about the type of PPI that suited their 
needs. 
It wouldnt have been possible to start the policy without Mrs E and Mr E signing a 
direct debit mandate so that the insurer could take the monthly premiums  though I 
can see it would still be possible that they signed that without it being explained what 
it was for. 
There is evidence from the insurers records that, over the years, Mr E and Mrs E 
contacted the insurer about the PPI. So it does seem they were aware of the PPI at 
some point, even if so many years later they dont now remember it. 
As I explain below, Ive looked to see whether there are other reasons the PPI might have 
been mis-sold  but having done so, I dont think they apply. 
I think Santander recommended the PPI to Mrs E and Mr E, and this means we would judge 
its sales process by a higher standard  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for Mrs E 
and Mr Es particular circumstances. However, it looks to me as though a recommendation 
would have been a suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Mrs E and Mr Es situation at 
the time: 
Its true that PPI was of questionable value for many people with certain types of 
borrowing. But finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant 
difficulties, and it was often sensible to consider covering yourself with PPI for this.
Its likely Mrs E and Mr E were eligible for the policy, so would have been entitled to 
make a claim if needed. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mrs E and Mr E received any 
employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. And it would have put off the time when 
Mrs E and Mr E would need to fall back on any savings or other means they may 
have had for paying the mortgage and other living costs. This all would have put 
Mrs E and Mr E in a more secure position, if theyd eventually lost income due to long 
term sickness. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest Mrs E and Mr E couldnt afford the PPI when 
they took it out. And they could have cancelled the policy if this changed later on. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mrs E and 
Mr E would have been affected by any of these.
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. It would then be up to Mrs E and Mr E to decide whether they wanted to accept the 
recommendation and agree to buy the PPI.
Its hard to know how well Santander explained the costs and benefits of the policy. But I 
dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have made a 
difference to whether or not Mrs E and Mr E took the PPI. I say this because, in their 
circumstances, its unlikely this would have made the PPI seem less useful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 August 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman