DRN-3890587
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Yorkshire Building Society (Yorkshire) wont refund the money that 
was lost as a result of an investment scam. Shes being supported by a representative. To 
keep things simple, Ill refer to Mrs T throughout this decision.
What happened
The background to this complaint is known to both parties, so I wont repeat all the details 
here. 
In summary, Mrs T says that following her husbands retirement they made a lump sum 
payment into her Yorkshire savings account and decided to invest in fixed-rate bonds. Two 
transfers, one for £20,000 on 29 June 2020 and one for £30,000 on 1 July 2020, were then 
sent from her Yorkshire account to what they genuinely thought was her husbands newly 
opened investment with a company called Aberdeen Standard Investments.
 
An application process had been completed, emails were exchanged, and product literature 
was provided at the time. But they later discovered, in July 2022, that Aberdeen Standard 
Investments was in fact a scam company acting as a clone of a legitimate firm authorised 
by the Financial Conduct Authority. The scam was also reported to Yorkshire in July 2022. 
A complaint was raised and referred to the Financial Ombudsman in August 2022. Our 
Investigator reviewed Mrs Ts complaint and didnt uphold it. In his view, the payments 
wouldnt have appeared as unusual and, because there had been no interaction between 
Mrs T and Yorkshire, he couldnt find that it had missed an opportunity to prevent the scam. 
He was also satisfied that Yorkshire had taken steps to recover the money once it was made 
aware of what had happened and that, by that time, there were no funds to be recovered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the Investigator for the reasons set 
out below:
Its common ground that Mrs T was the victim of a scam and Im sorry to hear about 
the money thats been lost. I realise this whole experience has been upsetting for 
both her and her husband. Theres also no dispute that Mrs T authorised the 
payments she made from her account and, in general, the starting position is that 
shes presumed liable for those losses in the first instance. That is the case even 
though I fully appreciate Mrs T had no intention of sending money to a scammer. 
There are, however, some situations where I consider that a business, taking into 
account relevant rules, codes and best practice, should reasonably have taken a 
closer look at the circumstances of a payment if, for example, its particularly out of 
character. In this respect, Ive thought carefully about Mrs Ts overall account activity, 
but I dont think either of the disputed transfers should have stood out as unusual or 
suspicious to the extent I can fairly conclude that Yorkshire should have intervened. 
Like the Investigator, I can see several transfers were made in the months preceding 
the scam (including external ones for £30,000, £40,000, and £50,000 in June, May 
and March 2020) and I dont find there were any other significant factors about the 
disputed payments that would have signalled a heightened risk of a scam.
Im not persuaded by the suggestion that a lack of intervention by Yorkshire on any 
payments (genuine or otherwise) necessarily shows a degree of negligence here. Its 
important to note that Yorkshire cant reasonably be expected to intercept and 
question every transaction, particularly if it wouldnt seem unusual when compared to 
the account history. Its also important to note that, in the absence of an intervention, 
I dont think that Yorkshire would have reasonably known anything about the payee 
that should have alerted it to a scam. 
In terms of Yorkshires responsibility to recover the money, Ive seen confirmation 
that the recipient account was closed in August 2020 with no funds remaining. The 
scam was only discovered, albeit understandably, about two years later. There was 
therefore little more Yorkshire could have done at the point.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs T and Im mindful of how much this scam 
has impacted her and her husband both financially and emotionally. However, I dont 
consider itd be fair or reasonable to hold Yorkshire liable for the loss in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Thomas Cardia
Ombudsman