DRN-4447197
The complaint
Mrs M was unhappy that part of her claim for water damage was unfairly declined by 
Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd (AI) under her home insurance policy. Mrs M had some 
representation during the claim but for ease and simplicity Ill only refer to Mrs M.
What happened
Following a claim by Mrs M for water damage, AI said it wouldnt cover the damage 
externally caused to the property. But AI did consider the internal damage under the 
accidental cover included in the policy.
AI has offered a cash settlement to cover the internal cosmetic repairs that were required, 
but Mrs M hasnt indicated whether she accepts this. She was unhappy that AI wouldnt 
reimburse her the costs shed incurred for getting her electrics re-wired. 
AI said it would pay Mrs M the costs shed incurred when an electrician was called out 
initially to make safe the electrics and review what work was required (the electrician 
attended twice). However, Mrs M had the re-wiring work carried out before AI had been 
given the opportunity to review the quote and to assess whether it agreed the work required 
was a consequence of the water damage. So, it decided to decline this part of the claim.
Mrs M remains unhappy her re-wiring costs havent been covered by AI, along with the costs 
to repair her roof.
Our investigator decided to partially uphold the complaint. She didnt think AI had been 
unreasonable in declining to cover the cost of the re-wire considering Mrs M had the works 
completed without the insurers authorisation. But she did think there had been a lack of 
communication from the insurer and delays in issuing payments, so she decided AI should 
issue £100 compensation to recognise the inconvenience this caused Mrs M. Mrs M 
disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mrs M complained to our service, she said she was unhappy with both the damage to 
her roof not been covered and the internal electrical work. I can only consider any 
complaints that Mrs M has made with AI, and it has had the opportunity to comment on. As 
Mrs M didnt raise a complaint with AI in relation to the external damage to the roof (which 
cost her around £200 to be repaired), Im not able to consider this. Mrs M can still raise this 
issue first with AI if she chooses to.
Ive considered why AI declined to cover the electrical re-wiring costs. AI said [Its] reviewed 
the calls in the claim and can confirm that you were told to get quotes for us to review and 
approve but were not told to get the works completed.
AI has shared with Mrs M part of the terms and conditions which reads you may carry out 
any temporary repairs that are necessary to reduce any further loss or damage but do not 
carry out any permanent repairs without first getting our written permission.
So, I think the terms and conditions are clear that the electrical work would need to be 
authorised by AI before it is carried out.
However, Mrs M said this wasnt what was discussed. She said there was no such 
discussion about waiting for their authorisation. They only suggested that they will review the 
cost. They had already agreed to do the internal repair including rewire after the first 
surveyor visit.
Ive checked the surveyors report for the visit that Mrs M refers to. It sets out the scope of 
the damage in the surveyors opinion. It reads lights not currently working as the fuse board 
keeps tripping out, which affects the other downstairs lights. Ive read a further surveyors 
report where the scope of the repairs is set out  there is no mention of electrical repairs 
required.
I dont think the surveyors reports provides evidence that supports the house required a re-
wire. It just says the electrics were tripping. There are many reasons electrics can trip, its 
very possible the damp conditions were causing this  it doesnt necessarily mean the house 
needed re-wiring. However, when Mrs M suggested a re-wire was required as recommended 
by her electrician, I think it was reasonable for AI to review the report provided and the quote 
before authorising the work. As this information was contrary to what its surveyors had 
reported.
Ive listened to the call when AI spoke to Mrs M in relation to the general settlement. The 
electrical works were discussed. I can hear the call agent stressing twice to Mrs M that the 
electrical work had to be authorised before it could take place. The agent said this could be 
done once the quote was received. Its clear Mrs M understood this, as her frustration could 
be heard on the phone as she realised the claim would take slightly longer.
I think the terms and conditions of the policy are clear and I think AI made Mrs M aware of 
these when discussing the claim. The surveyors reports suggest the water hadnt damaged 
the electrics, which suggest the tripping was a temporary issue rather than the water had 
caused widespread damage. I think AI were reasonable to request details of the work before 
it authorised it. As AI couldnt do this, I think it has been fair in declining this part of the claim. 
I do think the claim took longer than it shouldve done, so for these delays I award £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience this wouldve caused Mrs M. So, I partially 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. I require Accredited Insurance 
(Europe) Ltd to pay Mrs M:
£100 compensation  for distress and inconvenience (AI should also pay Mrs M, for 
the internal works it agreed and the electricians call out invoices if it hasnt already 
done so).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 Pete Averill
Ombudsman