DRN-3886909
The complaint
Mr C complains that he was given unsuitable investment advice by The Financial Planning 
Centre Limited, referred to as FPC, or the business.  
In short, hes unhappy that:
Despite economic changes over the past year, the adviser didnt have his best 
interests in mind when dealing with his investments. 
The adviser failed to react to changes in the market  causing a significant impact on 
his investments  resulting in financial loss. 
Since the beginning of 2022, the adviser failed to take the necessary action to 
mitigate the losses to his portfolio. 
The adviser informed him that he was taking advice from a third-party analyst  an 
accomplished risk-rating and investment research analysist  but this wasnt true.  
Following his complaint, the adviser gave him a seven-day notice that the adviser 
was ending the relationship with him. He believes this is unreasonable. 
Hes unhappy about the way the complaint has been handled. 
To put things right, hed like the business to repay his losses since January 2022.  
What happened
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Mr C has been a client of FPC and has generally been happy with the advice 
provided. However, since the beginning of 2022, hes raised concerns about the 
performance of his investments and was advised to remain invested which he is 
unhappy about.  
Mr Cs concerned that the adviser failed to take adequate action by suggesting 
alternative investments. Instead, he was advised to remain invested. In other words, 
the adviser failed to react to the wider economic changes resulting in financial loss. 
In terms of performance, our service is unable to uphold a complaint based on 
performance alone. 
Based on Mr Cs answers to the risk-based questionnaire, he was prepared to take a 
moderate to high risk approach to investment, over the long term. Its therefore likely 
that Mr C agreed to and/or was aware of an economic downturn in the short term and 
understood that he needed to take a risk to generate growth. 
Despite what Mr C says about the advisers failure to take action, the adviser isnt 
responsible for any losses sustained by the Mr C. Although Mr C was paying for 
ongoing advice, the adviser explained what was going on each time he was 
contacted by Mr C between January and May 2022 about concerns regarding a drop 
in the investment. 
There was no requirement to accept the advice given, but Mr C did. Instead, he 
couldve provided instructions asking FPC to lower his risk. 
In the circumstances, and on balance, FPC isnt responsible for any losses sustained 
by Mr C. It wasnt providing a discretionary service, so wasnt required (or able) to 
provide changes to the portfolio that a fund manager could make.  
Given the historic trend of the stock market, and without the benefit of hindsight it 
wasnt unreasonable to remain invested. This service has seen situations where 
knee jerk reactions have resulted in losses crystalizing when investments have 
bounced back. So, on balance, there was a good case for Mr C remaining invested 
despite times being challenging. 
In the past few years a number of challenges have affected the global financial 
economy, including the war in Ukraine. FPC provided the best advice it could with the 
resources available so she cant say the advice was unsuitable. On balance, the 
business hasnt done anything wrong by not advising Mr C to crystalise his losses. 
Past performance isnt a guarantee of future performance. Whilst Mr Cs portfolio has 
previously shown positive performance  (potentially) better than other portfolios with 
similar objectives  this didnt mean that it would continue to do so in the future. 
Despite what Mr C says, theres no evidence that it was obliged to seek advice from 
a third-party business. In any case, theres nothing wrong with a business utilizing 
research from a third-party analyst, which specialises in investment research 
analysis. FPC said it did use the third-party business for fund research only and 
based on information provided, it suggests that it did use this information.  
FPC explained that it has a number of model portfolios, and these are constructed by 
their investment committee, and its research is backed by the third-party investment 
research analyst. 
FPC also made clear that its portfolio proposition consists of ten investment portfolios 
aligned to ten different risk levels. These are constructed using top-down strategic 
asset allocation methods where it selected asset classes, geographic locations, and 
specific allocation weightings to create diversified portfolios based on the level of risk 
a client wishes to take. FPC then rebalance every six months (if necessary) to ensure 
the portfolio weightings have not drifted.  
FPC models portfolios invest across four main asst classes  cash, property, bonds, 
and equities  which it says increases diversification, spreading the risk within the 
portfolio and can help reduced losses in poor market condition. The practice is 
common within the industry and considered prudent.
Mr C is unhappy about the way hes complaint has been handled. But complaint 
handling isnt a regulated activity and therefore not a complaint our service can 
consider. Thats said FPC provided referral right in case Mr C was unhappy with the 
outcome of his complaint. 
Hes unhappy that whilst he was away, FPC gave him a seven-day notice, to 
terminate the relationship. However, the notice was in keeping with the terms and 
conditions. Whilst the timing couldve been better, FPC wasnt required to provide a 
reason as to why it was terminating its relationship with Mr C. 
On 6 May 2022, FPC turned off its charges, and offered to carry out any instructions 
until 16 May 2022 such as de-risking by converting Mr Cs investments to cash but 
no instructions were provided. On 9 May 2022, FPC provided a seven-day notice to 
cease services.  
Mr C appointed a new adviser by 26 May. As the original meeting with FPC wasnt 
booked until 25 May, it wouldnt have made a difference.   Mr C disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. I 
summary, he said:
The crux of his complaint is that he doesnt believe that the adviser conducted a 
review of his investments when he was clearly showing concern about the fall in 
value. 
He, along with his husband who has a separate complaint against the business, 
repeatedly asked if the asset mix in his portfolio was suitable, to help him make an 
informed decision about de-risking. But all he received in return was generalities 
about the broad reasons attached to these losses  the impact of inflation and the fall 
away in the value of Gilts or assurances and that he was in regular dialogue with the 
third-party analyst. 
Whilst FPC wasnt providing a discretionary service, the terms of his Premier Service 
agreement stated that he could request a review of his investments. 
He asked the adviser repeatedly the basis upon which the adviser believed the 
portfolio was appropriate for his investment needs and/or risk appetite, bearing in 
mind the changes to the market conditions. In other words, he asked the adviser to 
review the make-up of his portfolio, in order to ensure that it was right for him, but the 
adviser never answered him beyond advising him that he was having meetings with 
the third-party analyst.  
Despite agreeing to a meeting on 25 May, the adviser chose to end the relationship, 
before this date. This reluctance suggests that he was keen avoid having to explain 
his actions. 
Its unfair that hes unable to challenge the adviser not responding to his complaint 
fully. Instead, the adviser chose to end the relationship whilst he was out of the 
country which caused him additional stress, leaving him with no recourse.
FPC was duty bound to treat him fairly but failed to do so. The adviser treated him 
most unfairly.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr C says, I cant safely 
say that the advice to remain invested  not to crystalise his losses  in the circumstances 
was unsuitable. 
But before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr Cs strength of feeling, about this matter. He has provided detailed 
submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I 
hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, 
and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. In 
other words, I dont have to comment upon every single point made. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr C and FPC, and reach what I think is an independent, fair and 
reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In the circumstances, I dont need any 
further evidence to make my decision.I dont uphold this complaint, in brief, for the following reasons:
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr C says, I cant safely 
say that the advice to remain invested in early 2022 was unsuitable. Despite his 
concerns, on balance I cant say that the advice wasnt prudent given the volatile 
state of the markets and there being no reason to think things wouldnt improve in the 
future. 
Despite what Mr C says, in the circumstances, and on balance, I cant safely say that 
the recommendation didnt consider the wider economic environment. I appreciate 
that investing in an alternative investment, and crystalising losses was an option, but 
this wasnt without risk given the circumstances. Without the benefit of hindsight its 
difficult to know which option wouldve produced the better result financially. 
Whilst other portfolios with a similar risk profile (with other IFAs) mightve done better, 
this doesnt mean that the advice given by the adviser was unsuitable. 
FPC gave Mr C the advice to sit tight, it did so in good faith. Each time he contacted 
the business (between January and May 2022) regarding his concerns, he was duly 
notified of what was going on. Mr C wasnt obliged to accept the advice and was free 
to do something different. 
Even though he wasnt comfortable making his own financial decisions, in order 
address his own concerns Mr C couldve chosen, of his own volition, to instruct the 
business to de-risk his investments by lowering the risk or by converting all or some 
of his assets to cash. But he chose to follow the advice and remain invested instead.  
The above notwithstanding, even if the business had actively answered Mr Cs 
questions and queries in the way that he wanted, on balance I cant safely say that 
he wouldve done things differently. Without the benefit of hindsight, on balance, Im 
unable to say that Mr C wouldnt have remained invested, because thats what he did 
ultimately despite having concerns.
I appreciate Mr C is unhappy with the performance of his investment, but 
performance alone isnt something that our service can consider a complaint about. 
In other words, the business is unable to control or predict how the investment is 
likely to perform as thats dependent on the financial markets and something FPC 
has no control over. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im persuaded that Mr C probably had 
a moderate to high-risk attitude and was willing to take a greater risk for better 
returns. In other words, to achieve his aim, Im satisfied that he was willing to take a 
risk, and some higher risk in exchange for increased potential returns.  
On balance, Im satisfied that Mr C had a diversified portfolio. And that it didnt carry 
any more risk than he was willing to take. 
Based on the investigators submissions, I note the stock market has performed in an 
upward trend with some notable dips, therefore it isnt unusual for an adviser to 
recommend staying invested during this period. In any case, its not unusual for 
investments to recover after some volatility, whereas encashing/de-investing can 
lead to losses being crystalised without no recourse or chance of recovery. 
Of course, past performance isnt a guarantee for future performance, however, there 
was nothing to say that Mr Cs portfolio wouldnt perform better in the future, similar 
to the way other portfolios he described did. So, in the circumstance, and on balance, 
I cant say that the business did anything wrong by not advising Mr C to crystalise his 
losses. In other words, and on balance, I cant say that it was wrong for him to remain 
where he was and try and ride out any volatility. 
That aside, Im aware that several extraneous factors have affected the financial 
markets which in turn has affected Mr Cs investment, but this isnt something that I 
can blame FPC for. 
Mr C says he was informed that FPC was seeking advice from another company but that this wasnt the case, and he was misled. But despite what Mr C says, theres no 
evidence that there was an advisory relationship between the relevant parties and 
therefore no obligation on FPC to seek advice from this third-party on his behalf. 
Despite what Mr C says, complaint handling isnt a regulated activity and therefore 
generally not something that we can consider a complaint about in isolation. 
Despite what Mr C says, a business is entitled  in the reasonable exercise of its 
legitimate commercial judgement  to end a relationship with a consumer. So, in the 
circumstances and on balance, FPC hasnt done anything wrong by ending the 
relationship with Mr C with notice. 
A business isnt obliged to provide a service if it doesnt want to. In this instance, its 
unfortunate that Mr C was abroad when the notice was given, but Im aware that he 
was able to find an adviser a day before the original meeting was due, thereby 
minimizing any disruption this may have caused. 
Overall, and on balance, I cant safely say that Mr C was treated unfairly such that 
this complaint should be upheld, and compensation paid.  
I appreciate that Mr C will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as 
the investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I 
appreciate his frustration, I cant safely say that FPC behaved unreasonably such that this 
complaint should be upheld. 
In other words, on the face of the available evidence, and on balance, I cant uphold this 
complaint and give him what he wants.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman