DRN-1400361
 
The complaint
Miss R is unhappy that she was provided with unclear information when opening a Lifetime 
Individual Savings Account (LISA) with Newcastle Building Society (NBS). Because of this 
she no longer meets HRMCs qualifying criteria to open this type of account.
What happened
Miss R applied for a LISA online with NBS in November 2018. Miss Rs application was 
accepted and NBS product literature told Miss R she needed to fund the LISA within 30 
days, or it would close.
NBS says it sent two chaser emails to Miss R to remind her to make a deposit within 30 
days. Miss R phoned NBS in December 2018 for details to make her initial deposit. Miss R 
then called later that day to check if the deposit had been received. She was told the LISA 
needed to be both opened and funded before the account holders 40th birthday. NBS said 
that as Miss R had turned 40 between the application and initial funding, she no longer met 
the qualifying criteria for the LISA. NBS closed the account and sent back Miss Rs payment.
Miss R complained to NBS about the account closure. NBS responded and said the 
information and account terms it gave to Miss R werent clear - they didnt state the account 
needed to be both opened and funded before her 40th birthday. NBS contacted HMRC to 
see if the LISA could be opened but HMRC didnt agree to this.
NBS apologised to Miss R for providing unclear information and offered £200 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused. Miss R didnt accept NBS response and referred the complaint 
to our service. Miss R said she had followed NBS instructions in opening the account before 
her 40th birthday and funding it within 30 days. She said that because of NBS error, she will 
suffer a financial loss of £10,000, which is total of the government top up she would have 
received over the 10 years.
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. She found NBS 
offer of compensation to be reasonable for the lack of clear information. And she said NBS 
had told Miss R she needed to fund her account before her 40th birthday in the chaser emails 
it sent.
Miss R disagreed with our investigator. She responded with a number of points. In summary, 
she said the emails NBS referred to were sent on different dates than stated and didnt 
contain information about funding the account before her 40th birthday. Miss R added the 
investigator hadnt taken into account her financial history which showed her intent to fund 
the LISA over a 10-year period. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint again and recommended it be upheld. She referred 
to the information available on the Governments website and said it wasnt clear the LISA 
needed to be funded before the account holders 40th birthday. She concluded that together 
with NBS admission that its own literature wasnt clear, it should work with HMRC to offer 
Miss R an account that would give Miss R the same benefits as the LISA.
Miss R accepted our investigators findings on the condition the account would give her 
exactly the same benefits as a LISA, in particular the government bonus payments.
NBS disagreed with our investigators findings. It said it had contacted HMRC again to see if 
it could open a LISA for Miss R but was told it wasnt possible. NBS provided two further 
links to the Government website which referred to funding a LISA before the account holders 
40th birthday. NBS said its offer of £200 was still fair in resolution of the complaint.
As the complaint remains unresolved it has now been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and for these 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that NBS should have provided clearer information during the 
application process for Miss R and explained the account needed to be funded 
before her 40th birthday. So I have considered the impact and what Miss R would 
have most likely done had she been provided with that information at the point of 
application.
The rules surrounding LISAs and NBS own terms and conditions state the account 
can be opened with a deposit of £1. Miss Rs initial deposit was £1,000. So it is clear 
she intended to invest significantly more than the minimum deposit value. Miss R has 
told us her intentions were to make a payment of £4,000 each year over the next 10 
years, up to her 50th birthday, so she could benefit from the Governments 25% bonus 
top up. This would have added a further £10,000 to her savings, which she says she 
intended to use towards her retirement. Based on the evidence Ive seen, I am on 
balance persuaded that Miss R intended to use the account as shes said, given her 
testimony and recollection of events has been consistent throughout the complaint.
Miss R followed the account terms and conditions presented to her by making a 
deposit within 30 days of opening the account. Miss R has also provided a letter from 
NBS dated November 2018 which say the account is now open. So it was 
reasonable for her to assume the application had been completed before her 40th 
birthday.
Based on this, I am also persuaded that if Miss R had been told up front she needed 
to make a deposit (of at least £1) before her 40th birthday in order to keep the LISA, it 
is more likely than not she would have done so in order to benefit from the account 
features.
Ive considered NBS comments about the guidance on the government website. Ive not 
seen anything to indicate Miss R needed to read the website prior to her application. In any 
event, NBS had a responsibility to provide this key information to Miss R when she applied 
for the LISA and didnt. So it now needs to put things right.
Miss R now doesnt meet the criteria to open a LISA, so she does not have an alternative 
method available to make a similar investment and has been denied this opportunity to 
invest by NBS. So NBS must arrange an account which exactly matches the terms and 
conditions Miss R agreed to in November 2018 and manage it as if it were opened in 
November 2018.
Miss R has also lost out on the opportunity of two tax-years worth of investment at £4,000 
per year. This means she could have potentially invested £8,000 in the LISA to date. So 
NBS should give Miss R the opportunity to make this investment. If Miss R chooses to make an investment for either of the previous two tax years she should tell NBS so it can calculate 
the appropriate level of bonus and interest to apply.
NBS should see if HMRC is willing to make an exception in light of this decision and 
contribute to the bonus payments for this account, but if it is unable to, then NBS needs to 
cover this cost for Miss R as she would have been entitled to it under the terms of the LISA. 
Ive considered the amount of compensation NBS has offered for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. Having done so, I find its offer of £200 reasonable for the distress 
caused to Miss R during this time.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Newcastle Building Society to:
Open an account for Miss R which mirrors the terms and conditions of the LISA she 
opened in November 2018; 
If Newcastle Building Society is unable to claim the 25% bonus government top up 
from HMRC each year, it must cover this payment in line with the terms and 
conditions of the LISA;
Allow Miss R the opportunity to pay the maximum allowance into this account of 
£4,000 per year for each of the tax years 2018-19, and 2019-20;
Pay interest on the amounts Miss R allocates to each of the tax years 2018-19 and 
2019-20 at a rate she would have received under the terms and conditions of the 
account had the LISA been opened in November 2018;
Pay Miss R £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 July 2020.
 

Dan Prevett
Ombudsman