DRN-3683486
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, provided her with
credit which wasnt affordable for her at that time. Mrs C is also unhappy with the service
that shes received from Barclays surrounding the subsequent defaulting of her account.
What happened
In April 2016, Mrs C successfully applied for a Barclays credit account. Her application was
approved, and Mrs C was issued with a credit card account with an initial credit limit of
£6,400. In August 2016, Barclays increased the credit limit on the account to £7,000.
In early 2017, Mrs C began to struggle to maintain the balance of the account within the
agreed credit limit and incurred a number of fees and charges as a result. Over the next two
and a half years the account spent several periods where the balance was over the credit
limit, and in mid-2019 the account was defaulted by Barclays after being in a position of
arrears for seven consecutive months.
In 2021, Mrs C raised a complaint with Barclays because she felt that she hadnt been able
to afford the new or further credit Barclays had provided her, and that this should have been
apparent to Barclays, had they undertaken checks into her financial position before
approving her for that credit. Mrs C also wasnt happy with the service shed received from
Barclays surrounding the defaulting of her account.
Barclays looked at Mrs Cs complaint. They confirmed that they had undertaken checks into
Mrs Cs financial position before approving her for credit, and they felt thered been nothing
resulting from those checks that shouldve given them any reasonable cause to suspect that
Mrs C might not have been able to afford the credit she was offered.
Barclays also felt that theyd administered Mrs Cs account fairly, including in regard to how
and when the account was defaulted. However, as a gesture of goodwill, Barclays did agree
to backdate the date of default to February 2017  when Mrs C first began struggling to
maintain the account within he credit limit  so that the six year period when the default
would be visible on Mrs Cs credit file would end sooner than would be the case if the default
date was maintained as being mid-2019.
Mrs C felt that because Barclays had backdated the date of default to February 2017, that
they should also reimburse all interest and charges incurred on the account back to the date
also. Barclays didnt agree, and so Mrs C referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They didnt feel that Barclays had acted
unfairly towards Mrs C by providing the credit to her that they had. But they did feel that,
having backdated the default date, Barclays should reimburse the interest and charges from
that date back to Mrs C, and they recommended that this complaint be upheld in Mrs Cs
favour on that basis.
Mrs C didnt feel that our investigators recommendations went far enough and felt that
Barclays should pay her additional compensation for the trouble and upset that shed
incurred. So, the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 8 August 2022 as follows:
Its for a business to decide whether it will offer credit to a customer, and if so, how 
much and on what terms. What this service would expect would be, that before 
approving a customer for a new line of credit, or before increasing the amount of 
credit available to a customer on an existing line of credit, the business would 
undertake reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure that any credit being 
offered to a customer is affordable for that customer at that time.
I think that Barclays did that here, and I note that at the time of the application 
Barclays took information from Mrs C about her employment status and annual 
income, and also obtained information about Mrs C from a credit reference agency 
so as to get a better understanding of her wider financial position. These checks 
seem reasonable and proportionate to me, given the amount of credit under 
consideration, and I dont feel any further checks should have been undertaken by 
Barclays when assessing Mrs Cs creditworthiness  unless there was something 
arising from the checks that Barclays did undertake that reasonably should
have prompted further checking, which wasnt the case in this instance.
When Mrs C applied for the credit account, she told Barclays she had an annual 
income of £35,000, which equated to a new monthly income of about £2,250. 
Barclays also assessed Mrs C as having combined monthly costs (comprised of rent 
payments, living costs, and existing credit repayments) of £1,350 per month. This 
meant that Barclays assessed Mrs C as having disposable income of about £800 per 
month.
Additionally, Mrs Cs credit file at that time showed that she had existing unsecured 
debt totalling approximately £5,000, which wouldnt generally be considered as being 
a prohibitive amount when considered against Mrs Cs declared annual income. And 
Mrs Cs credit file also showed that she wasnt in arrears on any of her existing credit 
commitments and appeared to be managing those commitments without incident.
This all appears to show that Mrs C would in all likelihood be able to afford the credit 
she was applying for, and so Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Barclays to have 
approved Mrs Cs application and provided her with a credit card account with a 
£6,400 credit limit.
Barclays undertook another review of Mrs Cs credit file before offering the credit limit
increase to £7,000 to her in August 2016, at which time it was evident that Mrs C had
cleared her existing credit card and overdraft balances and didnt have any new 
credit commitments. Barclays also reviewed how Mrs C had managed and 
maintained her credit account with them up to that time, and this showed that Mrs C 
had transferred existing debt to her Barclays account totalling roughly £5,675, and 
also showed that Mrs C hadnt exceeded the credit limit on her Barclays credit 
account up to that time.
As such, Im satisfied it was reasonable for Barclays to have concluded that Mrs C 
would in all likelihood be able to afford the further £600 credit she was subsequently provided with by Barclays, and that it wasnt unfair for Barclays to have provided that 
credit.
In early 2017, Mrs C began to struggle to maintain the balance of her account within 
the credit limit, and these struggles continued until Mrs Cs account was eventually 
defaulted by Barclays in August 2019, after being in a position of arrears for seven 
consecutive months.
While Barclays dont feel that they administered Mrs Cs account unfairly during this 
period, they did agree, as a gesture of goodwill, to backdate the date of default from 
August 2019 to February 2017  which was when Mrs C first began having difficulty 
maintaining the balance of her account within the credit limit. This was because 
Barclays felt that while Mrs C had made efforts to avoid the defaulting of her account, 
given that the account had ultimately defaulted, it would be to Mrs Cs benefit to 
backdate that default to when she first exceeded the credit limit, so that the reported 
default would drop off her credit file sooner.
Barclays gesture here seems commendable to me. But Mrs C feels that because 
Barclays have backdated the default date to February 2017, they should also 
reimburse all interest and charges incurred on the account from that date also.
I find it difficult to reach a similar conclusion to Mrs C here. Instead I feel that 
following Mrs C first exceeding the credit limit on the account in February 2017, she 
had the opportunity to avoid the defaulting of the account by making the payments 
necessary to clear the arrears on the account and to bring the balance back within 
the credit limit. And its notable that Mrs C did make such payments and did bring the 
balance of the account back under the credit limit on several occasions, including for 
several months from October 2017 onwards during which time she made payments 
to bring the balance of the account down to £6,500  which is £500 within the agreed 
credit limit.
The balance of the account then exceeded the credit limit again in March 2018 but 
was brought back within the limit a few months later, in May 2018. The balance then 
remained within the credit limit until August 2018 but was then brought back within 
the credit limit in October 2018. Finally, the account balance exceeded the credit limit 
in November 2018, and remained overlimit up to the point that the account was 
defaulted in mid-2019 (its notable from the account statements that the credit limit 
reduces from £7,000 to £0 in May 2019).
As such, while Mrs C did begin to struggle to maintain the balance of the account 
within the credit limit from early 2017, she was given the opportunity by Barclays to 
make payments to bring her account back within the credit limit and thereby avoid the 
defaulting of her account. And Mrs C made such payments on several occasions, 
avoiding the defaulting the account until mid-2019 at which time she couldnt make 
the payments necessary to do so.
Additionally, given that Mrs C has asked this service to instruct Barclays to remove 
the default from her account, I feel that the making of the payments during the period 
in question to avoid the account defaulting was something that Mrs C wanted to do.
But the account did eventually default in mid-2019. And while Barclays did then make 
the gesture of goodwill to backdate the date of default to February 2017, I dont feel 
that it follows from this that they should also reimburse to Mrs Cs account all interest 
and fees that were incurred on the account during the backdated period. One reason 
for this is because had Mrs C been able to have made payments so that the account didnt ever default, the legitimacy of the interest and fees during this period wouldnt 
be in question.
Additionally, an assessment of the account statements shows that Mrs C continued 
to use the account in regular intervals, and that while a number of the transactions 
were for food or other essential spend, many transactions were also for leisure or 
non-essential spending. This makes it increasing difficult for me to consider it fair that 
Barclays should reimburse the fees and interest as Mrs C would like here.
Ultimately, I dont feel that the fact that Mrs C wasnt able to successfully take the
opportunity to avoid her account being defaulted means that the interest and fees 
that accrued on her account while she was being reasonably afforded that 
opportunity should fairly be reimbursed back to her. And it follows from this that my 
provisional decision here will be that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing 
or expecting Barclays to take any further action at this time.
In response to my provisional decision, Mrs C provided a detailed explanation of why she 
disagreed with that decision. Id like to thank Mrs C for providing this response, and I hope 
she doesnt consider it a discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. 
Instead, Ill focus on what I feel are the key aspects of Mrs Cs position, in line with this 
services role as an informal dispute resolution service. 
This means that if Mrs C notices that I havent responded directly to a point that shes raised 
in her response to my provisional decision, it shouldnt be taken that I didnt read and 
consider that point. Instead, it should be taken that I did read and consider that point, but 
that I didnt feel it necessary to address that point directly here to arrive at what Im satisfied 
is a fair outcome.
The key point of Mrs Cs position is that she feels that her account should reasonably have 
been defaulted by Barclays while the account was in a position of sustained arrears in 2017 
or 2018, and that therefore the interest and charges that have accrued on the account since 
the time that it should first have reasonably been defaulted arent fair.
I can appreciate Mrs Cs position here. But there was a key difference in how she was 
managing her account in 2017 and 2018 to how she later managed the account in 2019, and 
this is that in 2017 and 2018, Mrs C made regular payments to reduce the amount of 
outstanding arrears that were present on the account, whereas in 2019 she did not.
For instance, when the direct debit payment of £187.57 that was due on 30 January 2017 
was retuned unpaid, meaning that Mrs Cs account was one month in arrears and that the 
minimum payment required for the end of February 2017 was £386.32, Mrs C made several 
larger than usual payments over the next few months to reduce the amount of the arrears 
outstanding on her account. These included manually made payments of £220 in February 
2017 and £305 in March 2017.
Similarly, when Mrs Cs account fell into arrears again over the next few months, she again 
made payments to reduce and then clear those arrears by the end of 2017. And a similar 
pattern of Mrs C making payments to reduce and clear any arrears that accrued on her 
account was also present in 2018.
Notably, because Mrs C was making payments to reduce the arrears on her account during 
2017 and 2018, her account was never in a position where the monetary amount of arrears 
on the account was more than three months of the usual minimum monthly payment at that 
time. Indeed, throughout 2018, Mrs Cs account never had an amount of arrears that was more that one month of the usual minimum monthly payment. And this was because Mrs C 
was making payments throughout that time to reduce and clear any arrears that accrued.
Given that Mrs C was making these payments during 2017 and 2018, and given that the 
amount of arrears present on Mrs Cs account wasnt increasing to an unrecoverable 
position, it wouldnt generally be expected that Barclays would have defaulted the account, 
but instead that Barclays would have given Mrs C the opportunity to recover the position of 
her account and avoid a default. This is what Barclays did, and Mrs C did recover the 
position of her account so that at the end of 2018 there were no arrears on the account.
But in 2019, when Mrs C fell into arrears, she no longer made payments to reduce the 
accrued arrears. This meant that with each passing month where no payment was made, the 
amount of arrears grew. And as such, Barclays eventually felt that the arrears on the 
account werent reasonably recoverable by Mrs C, and so they defaulted the account. And 
again, given the circumstances of how Mrs C maintained her account during 2019, I feel that 
the defaulting of the account at that time by Barclays was fair and reasonable.
But, for the reasons explained above, it remains my position that it was fair for Barclays to 
not have defaulted Mrs Cs account in 2017 or 2018, but instead to have given her the 
opportunity to recover the position of her account and avoid a default  which Mrs C 
successfully did at those times.
All of which means that upon consideration of Mrs Cs objections to my provisional decision, 
it remains my position that I dont feel that the fact that Mrs C wasnt able to successfully 
avoid her account being defaulted in 2019 means that the interest and fees that accrued on 
her account in 2017, 2018, and 2019, during times that she was being reasonably afforded 
the opportunity to avoid a default by Barclays, should fairly be reimbursed back to her. And 
this is regardless of the fact that Barclays have agreed to backdate the default date back to 
2017, which theyve done as a gesture of goodwill to Mrs C and so to enable six year period 
for which the default is reported on her credit file to end sooner.
For these reasons, and for the further reasons already outlined in my provisional decision 
above, my final decision here is that I will not be upholding this complaint.
I realise this wont be the outcome that Mrs C was wanting, but I hope shell understand, 
given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman