DRN-3075247
The complaint
Mrs Hs representative, her son Mr B, complains on her behalf about the service she 
received from Interactive Investor Services Limited, referred to as the business.  
Mr B says that the business didnt recognise his mothers bank account/card and so she 
couldnt exercise her rights to buy shares using it. As a result, shes suffered a financial loss. 
What happened
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
International Consolidated Airlines Group (IAG) announced corporate action with a 
deadline to respond by 22 September 2020. Out of the three options available, Mrs 
H, through her son, chose to buy additional shares. But due to an issue with her bank 
account/card, she couldnt. 
Despite Mr B contacting the business on his mothers behalf, and it undertaking to 
resolve the issue, the problem persisted. Mr B feels that the business is at fault for 
not being able to resolve the issue with the bank account. 
The business supplied information that showed:
oThe IAG corporate action was sent on 16 September 2020. 
oMrs H, through her son, attempted to add funds to her account on 21 
September 2020, but was unable to do so. 
oMr B contacted the business on his mothers behalf on 22 September 2020 to 
resolve the issue, but the call to the business was on or after the deadline. 
Even if Mr B was given conflicting information, it wouldnt have made a difference to 
Mrs H not being able to invest, because the funds on the account had to be cleared 
before 23 September 2020, which was unlikely to happen.  
In other words, even if Mrs H was successful in adding the funds on 21 September 
2020, its unlikely they wouldve cleared in time, so she wouldnt have been able to 
buy the shares in any event. 
The terms and conditions make clear that the funds  which can take up to three 
days to clear  must have cleared on the account before any rights could be 
exercised arising from the corporate event.  
In the circumstances he cant say the business has done anything wrong by not 
being able to buy shares in accordance with Mrs Hs wishes.     
Mr B disagreed with the investigators view. In summary, he said:
The issue at the heart of the complaint hasnt been considered. The weekend before 
22 September 2020, he attempted to register Mrs Hs bank card but couldnt. He 
recalls being frustrated at having to wait until the Monday 21 September 2020, before 
he could discuss the issue again - the day before the deadline. This might explain 
why the investigator thought hed left it too late. 
Put simply, the business failure to register the bank account/card beforehand is the 
sole reason why this issue has arisen. 
Historically, Mrs H has been able to have a card registered and has been able to add 
funds to her account accordingly. He suspects the issue may be due to the change in 
platform provider.
Hes unhappy that hes been sent on a wild goose chase, only to be told the business 
doesnt know what caused the issue. 
If the business had initiated the payment the weekend before the deadline, the funds 
wouldve cleared in time. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. In summary, he said:
The business provided evidence to show that attempts to add a new card were made 
on 21 September 2020 and 22 September 2020. Prior to this the last login was made 
on 11 August 2020. 
Theres insufficient evidence to say that the fault encountered by Mrs H was as a 
result of something done by the business. 
Having listened to the call dated 22 September 2020 hes unable to say that Mrs H 
was given incorrect information. 
The business tried to action the instructions but unfortunately it was left too late. He 
cant ask the business to do any more. 
Mr B disagreed with the investigators response and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
Hes asked for the investigator to explain what steps the business took to resolve the issue 
and complete the action. He maintains that the business is at fault by not being able to fix 
the issue and because its their system. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, on balance I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same 
reasons. Im not going to uphold the complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr B says, Im unable to safely 
say that the business behaved unreasonably. In other words, notwithstanding the issues 
experienced by Mrs H  namely not being able to register her bank account/card, and 
thereafter not being able to purchase shares at a discounted price  I cant safely say this 
was as a result of some wrongdoing by the business.  
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mrs Hs strength of feeling about this matter. Mr B has provided detailed 
submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I 
hope Mrs H and Mr B wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the 
central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr B and the business, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats fair and 
reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best industry practice. But its 
for me to decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to 
have happened.I understand theres no dispute that the business couldnt buy shares on behalf of Mrs H 
because she didnt have funds in her account. I dont think I can reasonably blame the 
business for that, despite her clear intention to exercise her rights as part of the IAG 
corporate action. 
Im aware that the reason why Mrs H didnt have enough funds was because she couldnt 
register her bank account/card with the business in order to do so. But despite what Mr B 
says, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, I cant safely say that this was as a result 
of some wrong doing by the business. 
In other words, despite what Mr B says, given the numerous other reasons  outside of the 
businesss control  as to why this issue may have arisen and the lack of any evidence to 
show that the business was at fault, I am unable to hold it responsible.
I appreciate Mr B feels like hes been sent on a wild goose chase, but I think the business 
was just trying to assist him  probably by trying to eliminate possible causes  in order to 
get to the root of the issue  hence calls to various people within the business including 
payment and a referral to IT. Thats why the business suggested Mr B contact his mothers 
bank when there seemed to be a potential issue with her current contact details and those 
held on record. 
I note the business also asked Mr B to try and remove all cache and cookies on their 
browser  once the world pay token was removed  in case that was causing an issue. Im 
aware the business thought this might be to do with the internet connection/service provider 
which is usually the cause. In any case, I note it was unable to identify the cause. 
Despite the business efforts, its not clear why Mrs H couldnt register her bank 
account/card. The business, like Mr B, still doesnt know whats caused the issue. I note Mr 
B says it might be to do with the new platform, but I cant safely say that it is, such that the 
business is at fault. In my opinion, not being able to identify the root-cause doesnt mean the 
business is then to blame for the account/card not being registered. 
Despite what Mr B says, I cant rule out that the problem wasnt with or caused by a third-
party business or service provider. I note in a phone call with the business Mr B says hes 
not sure if the problem is with the bank or the business. 
 
On balance Im satisfied that the business tried to take reasonable steps to try and identify 
the problem as well as give Mr B suggestions about what he could do to put things right, so 
that Mrs H could still buy the shares as intended. In circumstances, and on balance, I dont 
think it couldve reasonably done more. 
Whilst I dont doubt that Mr B did his best to try and resolve the issue for his mother, 
including offering to pay from his account, time was still of the essence. So, even if the bank 
account/card had been registered the weekend before the 22 September, there was no 
guarantee that the funds wouldve cleared in time, and therefore no guarantee that Mrs H 
wouldve been able to purchase the shares in time.  
I note that based on what the business says, it seems the process still takes time to clear the 
funds through the banking process  between two/three and five days  which is outside of 
the businesss control.  
Im mindful that theres a dispute about the information provided and when Mr B last 
contacted the business. According to the businesss records, the password was reset on 11 
August 2020, and the next time the account was accessed was 21 September 2020 (and again on 22 September 2020) when an attempt was made to add a card to the account. 
Despite what Mr B says, Ive no reason to doubt this record. 
I note that during a call with the business Mr B talks about his frustration about doing 
something that he cant, and the operative says that the corporate action relating to the IAG 
rights was sent about a week and a half ago. I note Mr B replies that it might be the case, but 
hes got the flexibility to do it whenever he wants to up until the last day. However, leaving it 
until close to the deadline does mean that should any issues arise, theres much less time to 
resolve these and ensure that the funds are cleared in time.  
In this instance, I cant blame the business for its system not recognising Mrs Hs bank 
account/card, and thereafter for not being able to take funds from the (unrecognised) 
account to purchase shares. In other words, I dont have the evidence to say that the 
business is at fault.  
Im aware that Mr B is considering taking the matter to the small claims court. Thats entirely 
a matter for him and its not a reason for me to uphold this complaint.  
I appreciate Mrs H will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Whilst I appreciate her frustration, Im not going to ask the business to do 
anything. 
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint 
and give Mrs H what she wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman