DRN-3208462
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with how Lloyds Bank PLC managed the closing of his UK current account 
and the transferal of the money within it to an overseas account.
What happened
Mr T moved overseas which meant that Lloyds were unable to continue to provide banking 
services to him as they didnt operate in the country to which Mr T had moved to. Lloyds sent 
Mr T a letter explaining what options he had in regard to the closing of the account and what 
steps needed to be taken to move forwards.
Mr T sent several documents to Lloyds in response to this letter and to enable the closing of 
his UK current account and the transferral of the money held within it to an overseas 
account. But Lloyds didnt close his UK account and transfer the money until two months 
later, by which time a change in currency exchange rate meant that Mr T received less into 
his overseas account that he felt he should have done, had the transfer been effected more 
quickly. Mr T wasnt happy about this, or that hed been charged by Lloyds and incurred 
margin on the currency exchange, so he raised a complaint.
Lloyds looked at Mr Ts complaint. They accepted that they could have processed the 
closure of the account sooner and they agreed to reimburse to Mr T the difference in the 
exchange rates, which amounted to £868.13. Lloyds also reimbursed £50 to Mr T to cover 
the costs of telephone calls hed had to make, and £9 to reimburse the transfer charge that 
had been wrongly applied. Finally, Lloyds also made a payment of a further £212 to 
compensate Mr T for the inconvenience surrounding the delay and for losing some of the 
documents that Mr T had sent to them.
Mr T wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response, and felt that Lloyds should have transferred the 
money to his overseas account without the transfer being subject to currency exchange 
margin. So, he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that it had been fair and 
reasonable for the transfer to be subject to currency exchange margin, and they felt that 
Lloyds response to Mr Ts complaint  including the reimbursements and payment of 
compensation  already represented a fair resolution to what had happened. So, they didnt 
uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Mr T remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds have accepted they should have processed the closure of Mr Ts UK current account 
and the transferral of the money to Mr Ts nominated overseas account quicker than they 
did. Having acknowledged this, what this service would expect of Lloyds would be that they 
would undertake any corrective action necessary to return Mr T to the financial position that 
he would have been in had the closure and transfer been effected in a more timely manner.
Lloyds appear to have done that here. I say this because theyve calculated what Mr T 
should have received into his overseas account had the transfer been processed more 
quickly and have made a reimbursement to Mr Ts overseas account to ensure that he has 
received the correct total amount. This feels fair to me, and while it isnt in dispute that Mr T 
did receive a lower amount than he reasonably should have done, because of the delay in 
the processing of the account closure, Im satisfied that by making this reimbursement to Mr 
T, Lloyds have fairly corrected this point.
Additionally, Lloyds have also reimbursed a transfer charge which they had previously 
explained wouldnt be applied, and also a further £50 to reimburse Mr T for the costs of 
telephone calls hed had to make to Lloyds to try to resolve this matter. Again, this feels fair 
to me, and Im satisfied that the reimbursement of these amounts completes the corrective 
action that I would have instructed Lloyds to undertake here, had they not already done so.
Im aware that Mr T feels that Lloyds should have transferred the money from his UK 
account to his overseas account without the transfer being subject to currency exchange 
margin. And I note the letter from Lloyds that Mr T refers to in regard to this point which gave 
Mr T the option of transferring the money from the closing UK current account to either a 
nominated UK account or a nominated overseas account and which states that Lloyds wont 
charge Mr T for either option.
Mr T feels that, having chosen to transfer the money to an overseas account, the subjecting 
of the transfer to currency exchange margin constitutes a charge, which Lloyds had stated 
he wouldnt incur. I can appreciate Mr Ts position here, to a degree. But I dont feel that 
currency exchange margin does constitute a charge in the manner which Mr T alludes to. 
One reason I say this is because overseas currency exchanges are almost always subject to 
currency exchange margin. I also note that had Mr T chosen to transfer the money to 
another UK account  rather than directly to an overseas account  if he did subsequently 
want to transfer the money from that other UK account to an overseas account, that transfer 
would almost certainly be subject to currency exchange margin. 
Given that Mr T wasnt compelled to transfer this money to an overseas account but had the 
option of transferring the money to another UK account  where currency exchange margin 
wouldnt have been applicable  and given that transfers to overseas accounts generally 
incur currency exchange margin, I dont feel that Lloyds have acted unfairly towards Mr T by 
applying such margin in this instance. And I dont feel that Lloyds were stating that the 
transfer wouldnt be subject to such margin in the letter to which Mr T refers.
Instead, I feel that Lloyds reference to charges does refer to the charges that Lloyds apply to 
such transfers. In this instance Lloyds did apply such a transfer charge of £9, despite the 
letter advising that this wouldnt be the case. But Lloyds have already reimbursed that 
charge to Mr T, as explained above, and I dont feel that any further corrective action is 
required by Lloyds in this regard.
Finally, Lloyds made a payment of £212 to Mr T to compensate him for Lloyds losing some 
of the documents that Mr T sent to them and for the inconvenience and upset this matter 
may have caused. Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an amount thats 
considered as being fair and reasonable by one party not being considered as being such by 
someone else. However, while I appreciate that Mr T may not agree, the total compensation amount of 
£212 that Lloyds have already paid here does feel reasonable to me, and I can confirm that 
its commensurate with what I would have instructed Lloyds to pay, had they not already 
done so.
All of which means that I feel that the response that Lloyds have already issued to Mr Ts 
complaint, including the corrective reimbursements and the compensation payment, already 
represents a fair and reasonable resolution to what has occurred here. And it follows from 
this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Lloyds to take any further action at 
this time.
I realise this wont be the outcome that Mr T was wanting, but I hope that hell understand, 
given all that Ive explained above, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman