DRN-3245738
The complaint
Mrs M complains because AWP P&C SA (AWP) hasnt paid a claim for cutting short her 
holiday under her travel insurance policy. 
All references to AWP include the agents it has appointed to handle claims on its behalf. 
What happened
Mrs M held a travel insurance policy, provided by AWP. The policy was purchased in 
October 2019.
Mrs M was travelling abroad when, unfortunately, on 23 March 2020, the UKs Foreign, 
Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO)  formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth 
Office (FCO)) advised all British travellers to return to the UK due to the circumstances 
surrounding Covid-19. 
Mrs M followed this advice and cut short her trip, returning to the UK on 26 March 2020. She 
made a claim under her policy with AWP for both her unused and additional costs, but AWP 
said Mrs Ms policy didnt provide cover for the reason why her holiday had been cut short. 
Unhappy, Mrs M complained to AWP before bringing the matter to the attention of our 
service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and said she thought it would be 
fair and reasonable for AWP to treat Mrs Ms claim as being covered under her policy. AWP 
didnt reply to our investigators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that our investigator identified, and set out, the relevant industry rules and 
guidance which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. Ive considered these,
alongside the key documents which I think are relevant to this complaint.
The policy documentation
The terms and conditions of Mrs Ms contract with AWP are outlined in a policy
document referenced 7268TVL 01/19.
At page 18, under the heading Cancellation or curtailment, these term and conditions say
AWP will pay for certain unused (not additional) costs if a policyholder has to cut a journey 
short for one of the following reasons:
1. The death, accidental bodily injury, illness, compulsory quarantine on the orders of
a treating doctor, redundancy that qualifies for payment under current redundancy
legislation, cancellation of leave for British Forces, police or government security
staff, summoning to jury service or witness attendance in a court of you or your
travelling companion.
2. The death, serious injury or illness of,
a a close relative, or
b the person with whom you intend to reside at the holiday or journey destination, or
c a dependent business partner;
of you or your travelling companion which necessitates the presence of the person
concerned.
3 Hijack.
4 Adverse weather conditions making it impossible for you to travel to initial point of
departure at commencement of outward journey.
5 Major damage or burglary at your home or place of business which at the request
of an emergency service requires your presence.
I dont think Mrs Ms trip was cut short for any of these listed, insured reasons. Mrs Ms trip 
was cut short because the FCDO advised all British travellers to return to the UK and cutting 
short a trip for this reason isnt something thats covered under this, or any other, section of 
Mrs Ms insurance policy with AWP. 
Whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances
However, I have an overriding remit to make a decision based on what I think is fair and
reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. Having taken into account the relevant law
and industry guidelines, I dont think a strict interpretation of the policy terms and conditions
leads to a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this case.
The policy terms and conditions referenced 7268TVL 01/19, at page 13 and 14, say:
General exclusions 
The insurer shall not pay (unless agreed in writing by or on behalf of the insurer) for
any claim directly or indirectly caused by, arising or resulting from, or in connection
with: 
9.  where you have travelled and/or you remain contrary to Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office travel advice.
Rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) require an insurer to give
customers appropriate information about a policy in good time and in a way that is easy to
understand. This is so the customer can make an informed decision about the arrangements
proposed. Appropriate information includes the information which must be set out in an
Insurance Product Information Document (IPID), which gives customers an at a glance
summary of their cover. This includes a summary of the insurance cover including the main
risks insured, the insured sum and, where applicable, the geographical scope and summary
of excluded risks.
AWP has sent us a copy of an IPID that it says was provided in connection with Mrs Ms 
insurance policy, although Mrs M says she didnt receive this. The IPID has the reference 
7268TVL 01/19 (which is the same reference as Mrs Ms terms and conditions). The IPID 
says, at page 2:Where am I covered? 
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region where the Travel Advice
Unit of the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office or the World Health 
Organisation has advised against travel, unless agreed otherwise with the insurer.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant be satisfied that an IPID was provided to Mrs M. 
But, even if I accept that the IPID referenced above was provided to her, Id still
be upholding this complaint on a fair and reasonable basis.
This is because, when Mrs M cut short her holiday, the FCDO was advising British travellers 
to return to the UK. Policy exclusion 9, which Ive outlined above, says the insurer wont pay 
any claims if a policyholder remains abroad contrary to FCDO advice. This means, if Mrs M 
had continued with her travels, as planned (if it was possible to do so), she wouldnt have 
been covered by the policy terms and conditions at all.
But, under the terms and conditions of Mrs Ms policy, curtailment of a trip due to changes in 
FCDO guidance also isnt covered. This means Mrs M was left in a situation where she had 
no cover if she continued to travel, but she also had no cover if she cut short her trip. I dont 
think this was made sufficiently clear to Mrs M in the policy documentation.
The Cancellation or curtailment section of cover doesnt list changes in FCDO advice as an
exclusion, so Mrs M would need to have read the full policy terms and conditions in order to 
understand that this set of circumstances wasnt covered. And, I dont think this information 
was brought to her attention in a prominent and transparent way. So, I dont think the 
combined effect of the policy terms was made sufficiently clear to her.
I think this created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of Mrs M and AWP. I 
think its unlikely Mrs M would have purchased this policy if shed realised there was no 
cover if FCDO guidance changed after she bought the policy and/or commenced her 
journey. And, Im satisfied that travel insurance policies which did cover curtailment claims 
arising from changes in FCDO advice were available on the market at the time Mrs M took 
out this policy in October 2019. So, I think its likely Mrs M would have been able to buy 
alternative insurance which did cover the circumstances she ultimately found herself in.
Overall, for these reasons, I think it would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances for
AWP to treat Mrs Ms claim as covered under the curtailment section of her policy.
I understand Mrs M is seeking a detailed breakdown of the price she paid for her trip. This is 
something shed need to obtain herself from the travel agent she booked with, and its not 
something which I have any power to direct the travel agent to provide. My role is limited to 
considering AWPs actions. However, I would point out that the Cancellation or curtailment 
section of Mrs Ms policy specifically states that AWP will pay any curtailment costs as a pro-
rata proportion of the non-refundable, unused inclusive tour costs. 
Putting things right
I direct AWP P&C SA to treat Mrs Ms claim as covered under the Cancellation or 
curtailment section of her policy. AWP P&C SA should therefore assess the claim under the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
My final decision
Im upholding Mrs Ms complaint against AWP P&C SA and I direct it to put things right in the 
way Ive outlined above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman