DRN-4226102
The complaint
Miss D complains about the advice given by Grove Pension Solutions Ltd (Grove) to transfer 
the benefits from her defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP). She says the advice was unsuitable for her and thinks this has 
caused a financial loss.
What happened
Miss D approached Grove in February 2018, by completing an enquiry form. She wanted to 
discuss her pension and retirement needs. I understand she was given information about 
Grove from a colleague who suggested she contact it in relation to taking some money from 
her pension fund. 
Grove completed a fact-find to gather information about Miss Ds circumstances and 
objectives. This showed that she:
Was aged 55, in good health with one older, but still dependent, child. 
Was employed full time and living within her means.
Wanted to purchase a property with a family member. And she was looking to raise 
money to secure a deposit for a mortgage to do this. 
Didnt want to borrow money for the deposit due to the pending mortgage.
In respect of her pension arrangements Miss D had a DB scheme which had a transfer value 
of around £14,000. As far as I can see she didnt have any other pension provisions. The DB 
scheme would provide an annual pension of £1,151 or a tax-free lump sum of £4,933 with a 
reduced annual pension of £740 from her age 65. 
Grove also carried out an assessment of Miss Ds attitude to risk, which it said was 
intermediate. 
Following this initial contact Grove sent Miss D an email dated 4 April 2018. This advised 
her not to transfer her DB pension, Grove explained why it thought she should not do this. 
Miss D responded straight away and said that she would like to proceed anyway. Grove then 
said it would arrange this. Ill look at the correspondence about this in more detail later on. 
On 19 April 2018, Grove sent Miss D a suitability letter about the transfer of her DB scheme 
to a SIPP. This again advised Miss D not to transfer. 
The suitability report said that Miss D wanted to transfer to purchase a property with her 
family member and to possibly rent this out in the future. It outlined some of the alternative 
options that it said had been discussed with Miss D and summarised the contact it had with 
her so far. 
The suitability letter said that as Miss D had confirmed that she would be going ahead with 
the pension in any event, then she would need advice about a destination for the funds. And 
it advised her to start the SIPP for this. The transfer value was £14,067.40 and I understand 
Miss D took the pension fund as cash as soon as she could. 
Miss D complained in 2022 to Grove about the suitability of the transfer advice. She said 
that:
Her attitude and capacity for risk were low and so the DB transfer was unsuitable for 
her. 
She was not able to purchase a property with her family member as intended as the 
funds raised were not enough. 
Any alternatives she may have had were not explored. 
She has lost out on future retirement benefits. 
She will also receive lower death benefits.  
Grove didnt uphold Miss Ds complaint. It said that it gave her advice not to transfer her DB 
scheme benefits but that she had insisted on doing this in any event against its advice. So, it 
was not responsible for the suitability of the advice. 
Miss D referred her complaint to our service. An Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He 
said that it wasnt suitable to recommend that Miss D transfer the pension benefits. This is 
because she was likely to receive lower benefits than the DB scheme. But Grove had not 
recommended that she transfer. And the transfer did meet her requirement for releasing 
some cash. Added to this he was persuaded that, whilst there were shortcomings in the 
insistent customer process, Miss D was an insistent customer as she had strongly indicated 
that she would have proceeded with the transfer in any event. 
Miss D, via her representative, disagreed saying that she wasnt provided with enough 
information to have allowed her to make an informed choice. And she couldnt recall the 
telephone conversation where she insisted that the transfer go ahead. It thought that Miss D 
would not have proceeded with the transfer if Grove had properly highlighted the 
disadvantages of it. 
And Grove didnt entirely agree with what the Investigator said. It reiterated that the 
information Miss D received clearly explained that the transfer was not in her best interests, 
and why this was. This was communicated to her reasonably. The process Grove followed to 
treat Miss D as an insistent customer was robust and met, or exceeded, the FCAs 
guidelines of the time. She was aware of the consequences of the transfer. 
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirementsThe below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Grove's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided not to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Grove should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Miss Ds best interests or that she was an insistent customer. 
There isnt any disagreement that certain aspects of the DB transfer were not in Miss Ds 
best interests. So, Ive briefly looked at the suitability of the DB transfer and then considered 
if it was right to say that Miss D was an insistent customer. 
Financial viability 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The critical yield required to match Miss Ds benefits at age 65 was 15% if she took a full 
pension and 12.24% if she took tax-free cash and a reduced pension. 
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 3.8% per year for ten years to retirement. For further comparison, the regulator's upper 
projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection 
rate 2% per year.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, 
Miss Ds intermediate attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little 
point, from a pension planning point of view, in Miss D giving up the guarantees available to 
her through her DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the 
scheme. But here, given the lowest critical yield was over 12%, I think Miss D was likely to 
receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a 
result of investing in line with that attitude to risk. For this reason alone a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Miss Ds best interests. And 
this was established, and well documented, at the time of sale. Both the initial emails and the 
suitability report clearly document that transferring the DB scheme was likely to leave Miss D 
financially worse off, due to the reduction in pension benefits. 
Miss D proceeded despite this as she wanted to access the funds and she thought the DB 
pension benefits were modest and so would not affect her overall retirement planning. Ive 
considered this aspect of the sale.
Enhanced Tax-Free cash
Miss D wanted to use the funds she had in the pension early, at her age 55, and she needed 
access to the lump sum of £14,000 to use as a deposit to obtain a mortgage. This was to 
purchase property with a family member. I dont think she could have achieved this by 
staying in the DB scheme. 
This is because she was only entitled to take tax-free cash of around £5,000 from the DB 
scheme and this was at her age 65. She would have been entitled to a lower amount, if 
anything, if she took the DB scheme benefits at age 55. She didnt have savings, other 
pensions, or assets that she couldve used to meet this need. She couldnt borrow this 
money as it was being used to obtain borrowing itself. So, I think transferring out of the DB 
scheme met this objective.
Death benefits
Miss D was single and she had one older but still dependent child. And whilst the death 
benefits of the DB scheme were outlined, I dont think they formed a material part of the 
advice. Possibly because Miss D didnt have a definite need for the dependents benefits, 
and the DB scheme benefits were modest in any event. So, I dont think losing these 
benefits disadvantaged Miss D. 
Was Miss D an insistent customer
Since 2018, COBS 9.5A includes additional guidance on insistent clients. It sets out three 
key steps for advisers to take.
1) Where a firm proceeds to execute a transaction for an insistent client which is not in 
accordance with the personal recommendation given by the firm, the firm should 
communicate to the insistent client, in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading, 
and having regard to the information needs of the insistent client so that the client is 
able to understand, the information set out in (2).
2) The information which the firm should communicate to the insistent client is:
a) that the firm has not recommended the transaction and that it will not be in 
accordance with the firms personal recommendation;
b) the reasons why the transaction will not be in accordance with the firms 
personal recommendation;
c) the risks of the transaction proposed by the insistent client; and
d) the reasons why the firm did not recommend that transaction to the client.
Acknowledgement from the insistent client - COBS 9.5A.4
(1) The firm should obtain from the insistent client an acknowledgement that:
(i) the transaction is not in accordance with the firms personal recommendation; and(ii) the transaction is being carried out at the request of the client.
(2) Where possible, the acknowledgment should be in the clients own words.
Like the investigator, I think there were shortcomings in Groves process and how it treated 
Miss D as an insistent client  that is, one who wanted to act contrary to the advice given. I 
do have concerns that agreement was reached before Miss D had received all of the 
information that she should have, such as a detailed suitability report. 
On the face of it, Grove and Miss D agreed to proceed with this transaction after some 
telephone calls and a brief email exchange. Grove has telephone notes, but not call 
recordings, and the telephone notes are very brief. So, I dont think all this adequately shows 
that Mrs D was properly informed about all of the detail of her preferred course of action. 
That said, the point of an insistent customer process is to ensure that, essentially, a 
customer proceeds with the knowledge that the transaction was not in their financial 
interests. And it is clear that, despite this, they clearly do want to proceed. And I think this is 
the case here. I agree that, even if Grove had altered this process, Miss D would still have 
gone ahead with the transfer of her DB pension to the SIPP. 
It was Miss D who contacted Grove with a view to releasing money from her pension. And 
she did have a firm plan in respect of the funds she wanted to release. 
It was documented that Miss D wanted to access the funds from her pension to use as a 
deposit towards a property that she wanted to buy with a family member. And they were 
planning to (if possible) rent this property out to gain an income or enable them to make 
further property related investments. There isnt any dispute that Miss D wanted to use her 
DB scheme value in this way. 
Grove sent Miss D an email on 4 April 2018.  It acknowledged a transfer wouldnt be 
financially viable following its analysis and said it didnt recommend Miss D transfer her DB 
scheme benefits. The email outlined the amount of pension Miss D was giving up, and said 
that the critical yield was very high and so she would lose a significant amount of money. It 
said this was an expensive way to raise funds. The email concluded by saying In view of 
these risks as I said my recommendation has to be to leave the pension to age 65
I think its reasonable to say here that Miss D was aware at an early point of the main 
benefits she was giving up. And that she wanted to go ahead with the transfer she would be 
acting against Groves advice. 
The following day, Miss D called Grove to discuss the information and advice she had been 
given. The call note says:
Client called in as has had corres from [Grove] saying that he recommends against 
releasing her pension. Client was cross as she said that she doesnt care what we say  if 
she wants us to release her pension, that is what she believes she will be paying us to do. 
Wants a call back from [Grove] asap. Have emailed [Grove].
I think Miss D had made up her mind and was willing to take extra steps to enact the transfer 
at this point. Despite the information she had been provided so far that said this wasnt in her 
best interests. I think its reasonable to say that she was driving this transfer here. 
Miss D also had clear plans for the tax-free cash she was able to withdraw by transferring 
her pension, as Ive outlined above. I think its reasonable to say that Miss D had clearly thought about the benefits to her of transferring at that point. And Miss D had confirmed she 
had no savings or other means to finance this. 
Miss D spoke with Grove again later that day and sent an email asking for the transfer to go 
ahead despite the advice. She said: 
thank you for your recommendation I have noted this but wish to release the full amount 
of my pension Please action this as soon as possible into a personal pension for release.
Grove responded on the same day and said: 
Thanks for your e-mail and for taking the time to speak with me a moment ago, I 
acknowledge your decision to proceed with the release of your pension against my advice. I 
will now drop you a line in the post with all of the paperwork.
On 19 April 2018, Grove sent its Pension Report, detailing how Miss D would access the 
funds as an insistent client. This reiterated its advice not to transfer and outlined some of the 
conversations the adviser had with Miss D. Miss D completed the relevant paperwork and 
the transfer proceeded after this time. So even though Miss D didnt have all of the 
information that I think she should have when she decided to go ahead, she did have full 
information before she completed the transfer. 
Miss D has raised concerns surrounding the insistent client process because she
says the benefits of the DB scheme werent fully explained and the relevant warnings 
werent made clear. Miss D believes if it wasnt for these failings, she wouldnt have
transferred the pension. But I dont think this is the case, as Ive outlined above, I think she 
was committed to the transfer despite the information she was given, and this was unlikely to 
change. 
Miss D has recently said that she was unhappy with the process Grove was following and 
this is why she may have called Grove and said she was unhappy. She says she was 
speaking to a lot of different people, but she was happy with the substance of the advice. But 
I think the communication notes, and emails that surround them clearly show that Miss D 
disagreed with Groves advice not to transfer. 
And, I think Miss D knew she was giving up something that was guaranteed and beneficial 
and that proceeding potentially wasnt in her best interests. And Ive borne in mind that the 
transfer and DB pension were relatively modest, and she had a definite plan for the money. 
Overall, even though I think Groves insistent client process could have been fairer, I dont 
think that would have changed the outcome in Miss Ds particular case. I say that because 
on balance, I think even if Grove had made their insistent client process fairer, Miss D would 
have pursued the transfer and insisted on Grove transferring her pension.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman