DRN-2170178
The complaint
Mr W complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc cancelled his bank card in error. 
What happened
On 13 February 2020 Mr W called Clydesdale after he unsuccessfully tried to make a 
contactless card payment. Mr W was told he needed to complete a chip and PIN transaction 
to continue using the contactless feature after a new security measure was introduced. 
Clydesdale says that the call handler then mistakenly cancelled Mr Ws bank card. 
On 14 February 2020 a chip and PIN payment Mr W tried to make was declined. When Mr 
W called Clydesdale, he was told his card had been cancelled. Mr W complained and 
Clydesdale said he could use his mobile banking app to transfer funds to someone else who 
could withdraw money for him. Clydesdale apologised and offered Mr W £75 to recognise 
the inconvenience caused.
On 24 February 2020 Clydesdale sent Mr W its final response, apologising for what 
happened and offering £75. Mr W has explained that he doesnt feel that £75 is fair given he 
spent a weekend with limited access to funds.
Mr W referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. Another 
case handler at Clydesdale relooked at Mr Ws complaint and said they wanted to increase 
the settlement offered to a total of £150. Our investigator thought Clydesdales increased 
offer was a fair way to resolve the complaint and recommended Mr W accept. Mr W asked to 
appeal and said he didnt think the level of compensation offered was fair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr W has some concerns that the changes to Clydesdales contactless 
payment card approvals was caused to get him to call the bank and discuss his mortgage. 
But Im not persuaded thats what happened. Like most businesses, Clydesdale will update 
the way it operates and security measures it has in place over time. Here, Im satisfied that 
Clydesdale introduced a new security process for card payments that requires customers to 
use a chip and PIN approval sometimes.
Clydesdale accepts that the call handler incorrectly cancelled Mr Ws card. I agree it was a 
very unfortunate and led to Mr W not having access to his account via his debit card while a 
new one was sent out to him. Mr W says the impact was significant as his wife was away 
and his credit card was close to the limit. Mr W has explained he had intended to do his food 
shop over the weekend. I agree it was clearly a stressful weekend, but Clydesdale has 
offered to increase the settlement to £150 to reflect the difficulty Mr W experienced. 
Ive thought about the £150 Clydesdale has offered Mr W and Im satisfied the increased 
settlement does fairly reflect the impact of its mistake. I appreciate Mr W was looking forward 
to a weekend with family and that he had to make some additional banking arrangements to 
ensure payments were covered. But the issue was resolved reasonably quickly and from the 
following Monday Mr W had further options to access his account and obtain cash. Whilst I 
understand Mr Ws concerns about using his credit card, Im satisfied that the £150 total 
settlement Clydesdale has offered takes that into account. 
I agree that Mr W received poor service and that his card shouldnt have been cancelled 
after his call on 13 February 2020. Clydesdale has offered Mr W a total a £150 which is very 
much in line with what I would have told it to pay, had no offer been made. As Im satisfied 
the £150 total award offered is fair in all the circumstances, Im not telling Clydesdale to 
increase it or take any further action.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Clydesdale Bank Plc to pay Mr W a 
total of £150 (less any compensation already paid). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman