DRN-2925762
The complaint
Mrs B complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling and decline of a claim she made 
on her home emergency policy.
What happened
Mrs B contacted Aviva in October 2020 to report a blocked drain. The company arranged for 
an engineer to attend and the blockage was cleared. In the following months several more 
issues with blocked drains occurred. Aviva sent engineers on each occasion, again clearing 
the blockage. The last call out took place in March 2021. 
Mrs B says she contacted her water company on advice from the engineer who attended in 
March. She says the water company told her there might be a problem with the back part of 
the drain having fallen. Mrs B says she did not want to have to rely on monthly visits to 
have the drain cleared. She wanted a permanent fix that Aviva did not agree to. 
As a result, Mrs B decided to pay a contractor to repair the drain, which involved replacing a 
section of it. 
Mrs B has also complained of damage to her bathroom flooring, where the toilet has 
overflowed due to the drain blockage. She believes the cost of this damage should be 
covered by Aviva. She also says she contacted the company on several occasions to pursue 
her complaint without response. 
Aviva says it attempted to contact Mrs B when she made a complaint in March 2021, but it 
was unsuccessful. It understands this is when she referred the matter to our service. 
In its response Aviva said Mrs B has a home emergency policy that provides for unblocking 
the drain and alleviating the immediate emergency. It explained that as it was able to clear 
the blockage, and resolve the emergency on each occasion, it was not required to 
investigate further. 
Our investigator looked into this. He didnt uphold the complaint. He felt that Aviva had fairly 
relied on the terms of the policy in carrying out work to unblock the drain, on each occasion 
Mrs B had made contact. He found the company had also behaved reasonably in dealing 
with a pervious complaint about poor service, which she made in October 2020. Aviva had 
paid Mrs B £110 in relation to this complaint to apologise for the poor service she received.
Mrs B did not agree with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsman review her 
complaint. 
This has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Let me explain.
Mrs B has a home emergency policy. These are typically designed to address immediate 
problems, not to serve as long term fixes. It is clear in Mrs Bs case that the emergency 
issue was the toilet couldnt be used due to a blockage. The policy does provide cover for 
issues with plumbing and drains. This means Aviva would be expected to arrange for an 
engineer to attend and restore the use of the affected services.  
I have read the policy documents to establish whether Aviva behaved fairly and in 
accordance with the terms. The terms say:
What is Covered? Plumbing and Drainage: You are covered for problems relating to your 
plumbing and drainage. The engineer will resolve the immediate problem by repairing or 
replacing leaking pipes; clearing blocked drains; restoring toilet facilities, repairs to leaking 
overflows and investigating the causes of noisy pipes and quietening these where they can 
be accessed. 
The terms also explain that:
The engineer will leave a blocked drain running clear or repair a damaged section of drain 
which is leaking or causing a permanent blockage. This will include the temporary 
reinstatement of any excavations carried out as part of the claim.
The system records provided by Aviva show the engineers, on the four occasions they 
attended, carried out the same work, which was to jet-wash the drain that was blocked. This 
resolved the issue on each occasion, clearing the drain and allowing the toilet to be used.  
As above, the terms say the engineer will leave a blocked drain running clear. This was 
achieved following each of the engineers visits. There was a period of around a month in-
between each attendance where the drain was working as it should. As the emergency had 
been resolved, and services restored for a period, I think Avivas stance that it didnt need to 
investigate further is reasonable and in line with the policy terms. 
I dont think the damage to the bathroom flooring, resulting from the overflowing toilet, is 
something that is covered by the home emergency policy. If I felt Aviva had failed to act in 
line with the terms of the policy and this had resulted in this damage, an award might be 
appropriate. But I have already established the company responded appropriately, according 
to the policy terms. 
This means it isnt responsible for the cost of repairs to the damaged flooring.   
To summarise, Avivas role was to deal with the immediate emergency, which was to clear 
the blocked drain. From looking at the available information I am satisfied that it did this. I 
sympathise with Mrs Bs predicament and the need to employ a drainage contractor to carry 
out repair works. But for the reasons I have set out, I do not think Aviva acted unfairly in 
relying on the terms of the policy in the work it carried out. 
Finally, handling complaints is not a regulated activity in itself. While Im sorry to hear about 
the difficulty Mrs B had in obtaining a response through Avivas complaints process, I cant 
consider this point in my decision. My focus has been on whether the company was fair in 
dealing with Mrs Bs claim under her home emergency policy.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman