DRN-2648002
The complaint
This complaint has been brought by the Executors of the estate of the late Ms B against 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited and is in relation to an equity release mortgage. The 
complaint is that, because of errors by Avivas solicitors in 2003, after Ms Bs death in 2019, 
the Executors were unable to sell her property for several months, and when they did so, 
theyd had to lower the price. The Executors are asking Aviva to pay the £30,000 difference 
in price and to compensate them for distress and inconvenience. 
The complaint has been dealt with throughout by one of the Executors, Ms W, on behalf of 
the estate.
What happened
Aviva has already acknowledged that a mistake was made in 2003, so I dont need to go into 
detail here about what happened or who is at fault.
Briefly, in 2003 Ms B took out an equity release mortgage with Aviva, secured on her 
property. The property had both freehold and leasehold titles and Aviva accepts that its 
solicitors should, at the time the mortgage was taken out, have merged the two titles, but 
overlooked this. 
Ms B passed away in November 2019. The property was placed on the market for sale in 
early 2020, before a Grant of Probate had been obtained. In February 2020, an offer of 
£485,000 was made for the property.  
By this time Aviva had been made aware of the issues with the title. On 21 February 2020 
Aviva instructed its solicitors to rectify the matter. Probate was granted on 23 June 2020. 
Rectification of the title was completed by Avivas solicitors on 30 June 2020.
In May 2020 the buyer reduced their offer to £455,000, and the sale completed in October 
2020.
Ms W complained to Aviva, saying that, but for the errors with the title, the sale agreed in 
February 2020 would have completed in the spring of 2020 at the higher price of £485,000. 
But, because of the errors with the title (which were Avivas fault), a reduced offer of 
£455,000 was made in May 2020. The Executors wanted Aviva to compensate the estate for 
this loss. Aviva agreed it had made an error, but that it had taken steps, at its own expense, 
to put this right. Aviva offered compensation to the estate of £350.  
Dissatisfied with Avivas response, the complaint was brought to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, where an investigator looked at it. Initially the investigator thought the complaint 
should be upheld and that Aviva should pay the estate the £30,000 it had lost because the 
earlier sale hadnt completed. 
But after Aviva explained that the sale couldnt have gone ahead without the Grant of 
Probate  and that this had only been issued a week before the title was rectified  the 
investigator reviewed the complaint again. Ultimately he didnt think Aviva needed to do 
anything further, other than pay the £350 it had already offered.
Ms W disagreed with the investigators findings. She argued that it was the problems with 
the title to the property that had resulted in the delay in obtaining a Grant of Probate, and so 
Aviva should be responsible for the sale not going ahead in February 2020. But Ms W later 
clarified that the delay in the Grant of Probate being issued was due to other issues 
unrelated to Aviva, as well as the pandemic. But Ms W was still unhappy that completion of 
the sale still didnt take place until October 2020. Ms W said that the £350 offered by Aviva 
was an absolute insult.
As the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Avivas admitted it made an error, all I need to determine is what it needs to do to 
put things right. Having looked at the timeline of events, Im satisfied that the offer Aviva has 
already made  to bear the solicitors costs of rectifying the error and to pay compensation of 
£350  is fair and reasonable. Ill explain why.
If, at the time the mortgage was taken out in 2003, Avivas solicitors had merged the freehold 
and leasehold titles, the cost of this would have been paid by Ms B, as it was a necessary 
expense of putting the mortgage in place. But the title merge wasnt done in 2003, and it 
seems nobody knew about this until shortly after Ms B had died, when the property was put 
on the market. As soon as Aviva was made aware of the problem in February 2020 its 
solicitors were instructed.
Aviva has borne the legal costs of putting right this mistake, paying the solicitors fees of 
£2,170 itself. I think this is fair, as it probably wouldnt have cost Ms B more than £500 back 
in 2003 if it had been done then. 
Ms W says that, because of Avivas error, a sale of the property at £485,000 was lost in early 
2020. But Probate wasnt granted until 23 June 2020. Given this, Im satisfied that the estate 
wasnt in a position to sell the property until the Grant had been issued. The title rectification 
was completed a week after that, on 30 June 2020. 
Im satisfied, from what Ms W has said, that the delay in obtaining Probate wasnt as a result 
of anything for which I can hold Aviva responsible, as it was due to confusion over the 
names of Ms B and one of the Executors. I acknowledge the beneficiaries of Ms Bs estate 
are disappointed that the sale at £485,000 didnt go ahead in early 2020. But, as Ive 
explained, the sale of the property couldnt have gone ahead until after the end of June 2020 
in any event.
This means that theres no basis on which I can find that Aviva is responsible for any 
perceived loss to the estate of £30,000, when the sale couldnt have gone ahead until, at the 
earliest, the end of June 2020. I note the sale completed in October 2020, but I dont think 
that Aviva is responsible for any delay after the end of June 2020.
Aviva offered the beneficiaries of the estate £350 compensation, which Im satisfied is fair 
and reasonable.  It reflects the upset that the error caused, but, as Ive explained, Im not 
persuaded the estate has lost £30,000 as a result of this error. I note Aviva has also itself paid the legal costs of rectifying the title to the property, which I understand came to £2,170. 
As I said above, ordinarily, this is something Ms B would have had to pay for herself, if it had 
been done in 2003. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint insofar as Im satisfied that the 
compensation already offered by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to the beneficiaries of 
£350 is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. I simply leave it to the Executors, on 
behalf of the estate, to decide if they want to accept it in full and final settlement of the 
complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the Executors of 
the estate of Ms B to accept or reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman