DRN-4085414
Complaint
Mr M has complained about personal loans Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday 
Loans) provided to him. 
He says the loans were unaffordable and were therefore irresponsibly lent to him.
Background
Everyday Loans initially provided Mr M with a first loan for £1,500.00 in January 2012. This 
loan had an APR of 134.2% and a term of 12 months. This meant that the total amount to be 
repaid of £2,602.80, including interest, fees and insurance charges of £1,102.80, was due to 
be repaid in 12 monthly instalments of £216.90. 
Everyday Loans provided Mr M with loan 2 for £1,100.00 in December 2013. This loan had 
an APR of 81.1% and a term of 13 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£1,988.87, including interest, fees and insurance charges of £888.87, was due to be repaid 
in 13 monthly instalments of £152.99. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Ms complaint and he thought Everyday Loans ought to 
have realised that it shouldnt have provided Mr M with either of his loans. So he thought that 
Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. 
Everyday Loans disagreed. So the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ms complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain 
why in a little more detail.
Everyday Loans needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Everyday Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr M could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information Everyday Loans has provided suggested that it carried out credit checks 
before these loans were provided. The results of which showed that Mr M already had a 
significant amount of existing debt at the time of loan 1 and his position wasnt that much 
better at the time of loan 2 either. Im also concerned that Everyday Loans own income and 
expenditure calculation for these loans showed that they would be taking Mr M right to the 
margin of his disposal income.  
All of this leaves me persuaded by what Mr M has said about already being in a difficult 
financial position at the time. And while its possible Mr Ms financial position reflected his 
choices rather than financial difficulty, Id add that my experience of these types of cases 
suggest this is unlikely, in the absence of any reasonable or plausible arguments from 
Everyday Loans, Ive been persuaded to accept Mr Ms version of events here. 
As this is the case, I do think that Mr Ms existing financial position meant that he was 
unlikely to be able to afford the payments to these loans, without undue difficulty or 
borrowing further. And Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more 
like than not have shown Everyday Loans that it shouldnt have provided these loans to            
Mr M. As Everyday Loans provided Mr M with these loans, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied 
it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards him. 
Mr M ended up paying interest, fees and insurance charges on loans he shouldnt have been 
provided with. So Im satisfied that Mr M lost out because of what Everyday Loans did wrong 
and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Everyday Loans needs to do to put things right for Mr M
Having thought about everything, Everyday Loans should put things right for Mr M by:
refunding all interest, fees and insurance charges (which havent already been 
refunded) Mr M paid on his loans;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Mr M to the date of settlement;
removing all adverse information it recorded on Mr Ms credit file as a result of these 
loans. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman