DRN-1641258
 
The complaint
Mr S complains about the time it took Wirecard Card Solutions Limited to process a refund 
via his electronic money account. 
What happened 
Mr S uses an electronic money service with another business, for which Wirecard provide 
the service and associated card. Ill refer to Wirecard throughout this decision as Wirecard is 
responsible for complaints. 
Mr S requested a refund of £8 from a retailer, M, on 13 September 2019. The refund was 
processed that day in one of Ms stores. But he still hadnt received the funds back into his 
bank account on 18 September. So he used Wirecard's online chat function to chase it up. 
Mr S didn't receive a response, so sent another message on 20 September. 
Wirecard apologised for the delay in its response and said it had received the refund from M 
on 16 September, but it hadnt been applied to Mr S account yet because of some internal 
delays. It apologised for the delay, processed the refund that day and credited Mr S account 
with 300 Wirecard points. The £8 was credited back to Mr S bank account on 23 
September. 
Mr S didnt think this was good enough because 300 Wirecard points is only worth £3, he 
said the delayed refund had caused him financial difficulties. So he referred his complaint to 
our service.
Our Investigator considered Mr S complaint. She said, in summary, that there had a been a 
delay in processing the refund and that she could understand why Mr S was concerned 
because he wasnt working  but that she thought what Wirecard had done to put things right 
was enough. 
Mr S didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator. Ill explain why. 
Wirecard says that it would normally process a refund within 24 hours of receiving 
information from the merchant. It received Mr S refund from M on 16 September. So if it had 
followed its usual process, Wirecard shouldve processed his refund by 17 September. But it 
didnt process it until 20 September, when Mr S got in touch. It can then take between three 
and five days for the refund to credit the original account. 
I can understand why Mr S was concerned. Because he was expecting the refund sooner, 
he wasnt working and  based on the statements hes provided  I can see that he didnt have a lot of spare money. But hes also told our Investigator that being without the £8 didnt 
mean he couldnt meet his rent or basic expenses like food, and he received a payment in 
from elsewhere during this period for more than the £8 he was expecting from M. 
So Ive considered the overall impact on Mr S that was caused by Wirecard not processing 
the £8 refund for an additional three days. To do that, Ive considered the amount of the 
refund, the length of the delay and what Mr S has told us about his circumstances during 
that period. Having done so, I think the impact was limited because Mr S refund was 
delayed by a few days and for a relatively small amount  and hes told us that it didnt stop 
him from meeting his basic expenses.
Having decided that the impact of Wirecards mistake was limited, Ive thought about what it 
did to put things right for Mr S. When Mr S contacted it about the refund, it apologised, 
processed it the same day and gave Mr S 300 Wirecard points to recognise the 
inconvenience hed been caused. This is fair and reasonable in the circumstances because 
it took steps to put things right straight away, apologised and I know Mr S wont agree  but I 
think 300 Wirecard points is enough to recognise the impact this matter has had on Mr S. So 
I wont be requiring Wirecard do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2020.
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman