DRN-4126682
The complaint
Mr S complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money has failed to refund over 
£127,000 he lost as part of an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will provide a brief summary and focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
Mr S says he fell victim to an investment scam with Trends Turbo in June 2021 after he 
was encouraged to invest. The amounts he said he has lost have sometimes fluctuated, and 
Virgin Money hasnt been able to provide statements or a list of disputed transactions either. 
However, his professional representatives have now submitted a final list of payments he is 
disputing along with his statements, which totals over £127,000 made to crypto platforms 
such as Binance and CoinJar:
Date Amount Payee
7 July 2021 £2,600 CoinJar
13 July 2021 £2,400 CoinJar
26 July 2021 £10,000 CoinJar
26 July 2021 £10,000 CoinJar
29 July 2021 £10,000 CoinJar
29 July 2021 £2,000 CoinJar
16 August 2021 £3,500 CoinJar
16 August 2021 £10,000 CoinJar
19 August 2021 £10,000 CoinJar
19 August 2021 £3,700 CoinJar
23 August 2021 £1,725 CoinJar
25 August 2021 £10,000 CoinJar
25 August 2021 £5,500 Coinjar
2 September 2021 £10,000 CoinJar
7 September 2021 £10,000 CoinJar
7 September 2021 £10,000 CoinJar
7 September 2021 £10,000 CoinJar
8 September 2021 £6,140 CoinJar
Total: £127,565
Virgin Money said it initially blocked a transaction of £2,600 being made to Binance on 
25 June 2021 as it flagged up on its security system. It said Mr S came into branch to 
discuss the payment, where he said he didnt feel forced, pressured or had been asked by 
any third party to make the payments, and confirmed the Binance account was in his name.
Virgin Money said it also contacted Mr S about a payment of £2,600 he made to CoinJar on 
7 July 2021. When asked what this payment was for, the bank said Mr S told it the money 
was being sent to a stocks and shares account, and that he wasnt being pressured into 
sending the funds. It also said he told them he had a long-term relationship with his stocks 
and shares provider and hadnt had any issues so was happy to proceed. 
Virgin Money said it contacted Mr S for the third time on 29 July 2021, where it said he 
confirmed that he has done his research into the investment and that it was 100% legitimate. 
It said it wouldnt be able to refund his money if it turned out to be a scam, but that Mr S was 
still happy to make the payment. 
Mr S disputed this. He said no phone calls were made to him on either 7 or 29 July 2021. He 
said not once did Virgin Money warn him about fraud, and neither did he ever go into branch 
to explain anything. Mr S said the only phone calls he had with the bank were on 26 June 
2021 where he failed the security questions and was told to visit his local branch. 
Virgin Money eventually acknowledged that it had made a mistake. It said Mr S didnt come 
into branch as it had originally stated and said that it verified Mr S via his ID documents 
online, as he told the bank he was unable to come into branch. However, it maintained that 
phone calls were made, but said it couldnt locate copies of the call recordings. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think any further or earlier 
intervention by Virgin Money would have prevented Mr Ss loss, as the bank said that he 
hadnt been forthcoming with what he was doing when he spoke to it over the phone. Mr S 
continued to maintain that these phone calls did not happen. As he disagreed, the matter 
was escalated to me to determine. 
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in April 2023. I said I was minded to 
uphold it and set out the following reasoning:
Virgin Money do not dispute that Mr S has fallen victim to a scam. And given there is 
a warning published online by the Financial Conduct Authority about Trends Turbo 
(along with various other anecdotal evidence on online forums about the merchant 
being fraudulent), Im not persuaded the merchant had honest intentions, but instead 
set out to defraud Mr S of his money. 
It is also common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Mr S for 
the purposes of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. This is because they were made by him via online transfer to his crypto 
wallets using the legitimate security credentials provided by Virgin Money, where his 
funds were subsequently transferred on to the scammer. But having concluded that 
this was a scam, its also necessary to consider whether the disputed payments were 
unusual or uncharacteristic enough for Mr Ss account, such that they ought 
reasonably to have triggered an intervention by Virgin Money.
It isnt in dispute that the payment of £2,600 Mr S made to Binance on 25 June 2021 
was unusual given that it did trigger the banks fraud prevention systems and was 
automatically blocked pending further enquiry. Mr S called the bank to discuss the 
transaction, but he was unable to pass its security checks, which is when it asked 
him to go into branch. Mr S told Virgin Money that he was unable to visit his branch, 
at which point it agreed to accept ID documents uploaded online. 
I can see from the banks notes that the payment was flagged due to concerns about 
impersonation and that it might not have been Mr S who was attempting to make the 
payment, rather than any concerns that he might have been falling for an investment 
scam himself. So, I think Virgin Moneys intervention and simply asking Mr S to prove 
his identity was proportionate in these circumstances, as there was nothing else 
suspicious about the payment that would have warranted a more in-depth 
intervention. This payment was also subsequently returned by Binance, which is why 
it doesnt feature on the table of disputed payments being claimed by Mr S as it 
doesnt form part of his loss.
Following this, Virgin Money said it spoke to Mr S again on 7 July 2021 to discuss the 
payment of £2,600 he was making to CoinJar. However, Mr S disputes this phone 
call ever being made. Virgin Money said that Mr S told it he was paying a stocks and 
shares account of which he had a long-term relationship, and that he hadnt been 
forced or pressured into the payment. It isnt clear where Virgin Money have got this 
from, as I havent seen any corresponding notes to evidence this discussion. It also 
hasnt been able to provide copies of call recordings for this or any other calls it says 
it has had with Mr S.
Given the lack of corresponding evidence to show what was said on any of the calls, 
I cant be sure that any intervention Virgin Money made went far enough, or whether 
the calls even happened at all. Indeed, Virgin Money initially told us that Mr S visited 
its branch and told it that he didnt feel forced and hadnt been pressured by any 
third-party to make the payment. But it turns out that no such discussion ever took 
place with Mr S in relation to this payment, as he didnt visit the branch. I therefore 
cannot place much weight upon the other notes Virgin Money has provided about its 
interactions with Mr S (which, in any event, are extremely limited and lacking in any 
sufficient detail to build a full picture about any discussion that may have taken 
place).
So, without any further contemporaneous evidence such as call recordings, Im 
unable to place much weight on the notes Virgin Money has provided to conclude 
that the bank did intervene after 25 June 2021. I note, however, that Virgin Money 
said that the payment made on 7 July 2021 did flag on its fraud prevention systems. 
So, it therefore ought to have called him to ask probing questions about what the 
payment was for to see if he was at risk of falling victim to a scam. 
If Virgin Money had contacted Mr S and asked him further questions and for more of 
the basic surrounding context, I think its likely he would have explained what he was 
doing and that he was making an investment off the back of an advertisement he saw 
online, where he was being told to send money to a third party broker via cryptocurrency wallets that had been set up over Anydesk  all of which are typical 
features of these sorts of investment scams. As Ive set out above, Ive not seen 
enough persuasive evidence to suggest that Mr S wouldnt have been forthcoming if 
asked about the circumstances of the payment.
Overall, Im satisfied that a warning to Mr S from his bank would have probably led to 
him carrying out further research, where he could have discovered the various scam 
warnings online about Trends Turbo at the time. So, but for Virgin Moneys failure to 
act on clear triggers of potential fraud or financial harm, Mr S probably wouldnt have 
lost his money.
Contributory negligence
Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still 
take responsibility for their decisions (see s.1C(d) of our enabling statute, the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000). And in these circumstances, Im satisfied 
that Mr S should also be held partly responsible for his loss. 
Mr S says he carried out some research about the broker online, where he found 
positive reviews on websites such as Trust Pilot and Sitejabber. But having consulted 
these and other online forums, it appears there were also several negative reviews 
posted from as early as April 2021 stating that Trends Turbo was a scam. Therefore, 
Im not persuaded Mr S carried out sufficient due diligence before deciding to part 
with his money, or when being persuaded to invest higher amounts for example 
(where he could have then found an FCA warning). 
I can see that Mr S was also offered risk free trading by the scammer, whereby he 
would receive a refund of any losses suffered. This also ought to have seemed too 
good to be true and should have put him on notice that something wasnt right. 
Given the significant amount Mr S was investing, as well as the dubious promises he 
was being made, its reasonable to expect a sufficient degree of independent 
research to be carried out to be satisfied the investment opportunity is genuine. 
There was enough information in the public domain that was easy to come by about 
the merchant he was dealing with, which would have put him on notice that he was 
likely being scammed. I therefore consider a reduction of 50% is reasonable in these 
circumstances.
Interest
I can see that the Virgin Money account Mr S sent the money from was an Easy 
Access E-saver. The first two payments he made to the scammer on 7 July and 13 
July 2021 were funded from money he already held in his savings account, so I 
intend asking Virgin Money to award interest on these payments at the applicable 
savings account rate he would have earned on this amount at the time.
From 26 July 2021 onwards, money is then transferred in from another of Mr Ss 
accounts in order to fund the payments being made to the scammer. He has said this 
money came from a joint account held with his wife, which held funds that they were 
in the process of saving up to eventually pay off their mortgage. As a result, for the 
payments made from 26 July 2021 onwards, I intend asking Virgin Money to pay 
interest at the applicable rate that would have been earned at the time from the 
originating account.I invited further comments and evidence from both parties. Mr S accepted the proposals set 
out in my provisional decision, but Virgin Money disagreed. 
In summary, it said it accepted that it mis-informed our service about Mr Ss branch visit, but 
that the evidence from their system showing calls were made should be enough to 
demonstrate that they did take place, as well as their staff members testimony. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it for the reasons set out above in my provisional 
decision.
I accept its possible that Virgin Money did call Mr S on 7 July 2021, and that he may not 
remember the call taking place. However, as I set out in my provisional decision, there 
simply is not enough persuasive evidence to show what would have been said on this call in 
order to determine whether any intervention went far enough.
Virgin Money has said, for example, that Mr S was not forthcoming with information about 
what he was doing when it spoke to him over the phone. However, without the call 
recordings, I cant know what sort of questions would have been put to Mr S to determine 
whether he answered truthfully or not. There are also very limited call notes to show what 
exactly would have been said on this call, or whether Virgin Money asked sufficiently probing 
questions. I accept Virgin Money may have provided testimony from its staff members. But 
given it was incorrect about the branch visit, Im afraid I cannot place too much weight on its 
other testimony that is not supported by any other evidence.
As a result, Virgin Moneys further comments have not changed the conclusions reached in 
my provisional decision. It therefore follows that I uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Clydesdale Bank Plc trading 
as Virgin Money to:
Refund the disputed payments Mr S made to the scammer from 7 July 2021 
onwards, less any credits received, along with a 50% deduction in recognition of Mr 
Ss own negligence that contributed to his loss.
For payments made between 7 July to 25 July 2021, pay interest at the applicable 
Virgin Money savings account rate Mr S would have received at the time, from the 
date the payments were made until the date of settlement. 
For payments made from 26 July 2021 onwards, pay interest at the originating 
account rate applicable at the time, from the date the payments were made to the 
date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman