DRN-4082941
The complaint
D a company complains that ClearBank Limited blocked their account and caused delays. D 
would like compensation.
D is represented by its director Mr R.
What happened
On 22 March 2022 D received four payments into its account which it wasnt expecting. It 
contacted ClearBank to explain these four payments werent for any services provided by D. 
They originated from one of their clients I will refer to as Ms X who had been scammed. As 
the funds didnt belong to D, D asked ClearBank to return the funds to Ms X.
On 23 March 2022 ClearBank received a fraud report from Ms Xs bank reporting the funds 
as disputed. Clearbank proceeded to block Ds account.
The account remained blocked until 5 May 2022.
ClearBank have accepted that during this time they didnt provide D with the information it 
needed, and they provided confusing and misleading information at times. Mr R says he was 
told D could still receive payments into its account even though the account was blocked. 
However, Mr R realised that wasnt the case. He wanted to upgrade his account to one that 
allows telephone help, but his request was disregarded.
Mr R has said that as a small business he had no choice but to open a new business 
account for D with a new bank. He said that meant he had to work after hours to do the 
necessary admin work to set up the new account.
As a result of the way D was treated ClearBank have offered D £100 compensation and 8% 
interest for the time D didnt have access to the money in its account.
D complained to our service, one of our investigators looked into the complaint. She thought 
£100 compensation wasnt enough to reflect the inconvenience caused to the business 
during the block of their sole account. She agreed with Clearbank that the review could have 
been carried out faster and she increased the compensation to £250.
ClearBank disagreed they thought £250 was too much compensation. As there was no 
agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both ClearBank and D agree that there were errors made in the way this review was 
handled. D were given incorrect information by ClearBank. D provided ClearBank with all the 
information it had available and informed ClearBank of the payments before Clearbank had 
received notification from the remitting bank. 
ClearBank has offered 8% interest on the fuds in the account from 23 March 2022 to 5 May 
2022. D has agreed to this. Ive looked at the evidence and I see no reason to change this 
part of the award.
Where the parties disagree is in the amount of compensation that they consider fair. So, Ive 
gone on to consider this.
Ive taken into account that ClearBank have legal and regulatory obligations that they must 
comply with. Ive also considered that D was upfront with ClearBank and provided it with all 
the information it had about the payments into its account.
I have taken into account that this is a small business with only one account and having the 
account frozen for an extended period of time impacted the business ability to trade. Mr R 
has said he had to open another account in order to be able to receive payments for 
services and pay suppliers. 
Im sure this was an anxious time for Mr R. As the investigator has said, I can only consider 
the impact on D and not Mr R when deciding on the fair amount of compensation to award in 
this case. So, I cant take into account the anxiety this caused Mr R. However, I note that as 
the only employee of D Mr R had added responsibility to keep the business trading by 
providing services and then also dealing with the banking issues he had as a result of the 
block this diverted him away from normal activities. Looking at the information provided for 
me as a whole by ClearBank and D, I find that £250 fairly reflects the amount of 
compensation we would award in these sorts of circumstances.
I agree that D should also be compensated for the time it didnt have access to the funds in 
its account at 8% simple interest from 23 March 2022 to 5 May 2022.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above I uphold this complaint. I direct ClearBank Limited to pay 
D
£250 compensation
8% interest on the sum in the account from 23 March 2022 to 5 May 2022.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman