DRN-3308756
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc have not been able to locate the balance he says 
remains in old account he held with the Midland Bank Plc (responsbility for this is now with 
HSBC).
What happened
Mr B found an old cheque book for an account he believes he started with the Midland Bank 
in around 1985. Mr B told us the account was last used in 1986 or 1987. He says the 
account was never closed so he believes it ought to still exist and will have a sum of money 
of not more than £2,000.
Mr B contacted HSBC. He was asked to complete the banks unclaimed assets procedure, 
which he did. He provided his information, the account details and relevant branch 
information. HSBC say they cant find any record of this account or any outstanding balance.
Mr B is unhappy with this and was also unhappy with the way HSBC dealt with his initial 
enquiries.
An investigator at this service didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. She thought HSBC had 
sufficiently demonstrated theyd made the necessary checks to see if they could find an 
account or unclaimed balance in Mr Bs name and, or, against the account information hed 
provided. She set out that we wouldnt usually expect a business to retain customers 
records indefinitely.
Mr B didnt accept the investigators view or her reasoning. In summary he thinks HSBC 
have done something wrong, as they have not located his account or the balance of funds 
he says was in the account. Mr B set out a number of matters he said the investigator 
needed to deal with.
The investigators thinking didnt change. She clarified to Mr B that she accepted Mr B had 
historically had an account with the HSBC. But that she didnt accept there was enough for 
her to conclude HSBC did anything wrong or that she ought to ask them to do anything here.
The investigator continued to think HSBC had demonstrated to us that theyd completed 
relevant and sufficient searches.
She went on to acknowledge Mr B had asked about the arrangements for dealing with 
dormant or unclaimed accounts held by Midlands Bank at the time of the HSBC takeover in 
1992. HSBCs current process is that a customer can fill out an Unclaimed Assets Form (as 
Mr B has here); and HSBC will carry out a search to try to locate the account. In relation to 
what might have happened as part of the events in 1992, the investigator said this was 
something Mr B would need to ask HSBC about, as historic information wouldnt change 
their current processes and so wasnt relevant to this complaint.
Mr B continues to disagree with the investigator. He says she needs to supply the source 
documentation on which shed based her findings. Mr B has told us he is distressed to be 
seeking redress for his complaint. Mr B set out that his account was not closed by himself, 
nor were any funds transferred out of the account. Mr B says the account was left in credit 
and became dormant under the banks terms and not his.
Mr B told us he suspected the problem was because the relevant records for his account 
would not be easily accessible. He doesnt think this would be a valid reason not to search. 
He repeated the matters he says need to be dealt with.
I asked HSBC to provide any response they wished to make to Mr Bs comments about 
archive material. HSBC say they cant add much more than confirm that where a historic 
document has existed beyond their retention period it would have been destroyed in line with 
their policy; and here the account last used in 1986 or 1987 would have been made dormant 
and now would have been destroyed in line with their policy.
Mr B has been in contact and let us know that he is sure he last used the account he is 
complaining about in around 1987, as this was the time he opened a new account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint about HSBC. I can appreciate why Mr B 
feels frustrated HSBC can find no record of his historic account, but Im satisfied they have 
done enough in trying to find any record and I dont consider they have done anything wrong 
here.
Its clear Mr B had an account with the Midland Bank Plc prior to the year 2000. Based on 
what Mr B says, this account was opened around 1985, and was apparently only used for a 
couple of years at most, before he says he ceased using it. Mr B says he recalls opening a 
new joint account in 1987 and thats why he can recall when he last used his account.
Mr B thinks that when he last used the account it had a balance of not more than £2,000. I 
accept from Mr B he doesnt believe he ever closed this account or transferred any balance 
from the account. But this doesnt mean HSBC have done anything wrong
.
HSBC cant find any record of this account. Financial businesses aren't required to keep a 
record indefinitely. So we often find that information about an historic account can be quite 
limited. Where a business cant locate an account, we expect them to demonstrate they 
have carried out all the necessary searches. I accept HSBC have sufficiently demonstrated 
this to me, including checking the unclaimed balance records. 
Mr B wants us to send him copies of this material supplied to us. We often encourage parties 
to share information theyve relied on where appropriate, as we do ourselves. But there are 
times when this material contains sensitive information or falls into categories which we are 
not able to share, or we are not required to share. I think this material provided by HSBC 
falls predominantly into these descriptions. There are screenshots of searches completed on 
HSBCs internal system, these screen shots include data that falls to be protected. It has no 
bearing on Mr Bs complaint but means we cant share a copy of these screen shots. Ive 
also seen internal HSBC emails between different people asking for checks and searches to 
be made, and answering emails confirming these have been completed with a negative 
result. I dont consider these emails fall to be shared.
HSBC have satisfied me they have completed the searches we expect, and whilst I 
appreciate this is ultimately disappointing to Mr B, as they have not been able to find any 
information on his old account; they have done what we expect them to do. I am sorry this may not give Mr B the reassurance he seeks, and Ive seen what he says about his surname 
being comparatively unusual at the time. 
Mr B understands his account may have previously been declared dormant. In other words, 
an account which is no longer being used, and where the business has lost touch with the 
customer. Generally, after an account becomes dormant it's transferred to a separate 
register of dormant accounts, where it remains indefinitely. A business can never claim such 
money for itself, no matter how much time has passed. There's no set timescale that banks 
follow before declaring an account dormant - it varies depending on the financial institution; 
and not all providers make accounts dormant. The British Bankers' Association (BBA) 
does say a number of steps should be followed before an account becomes dormant. 
Given HSBC cant find a record here, there isnt enough for me to say that Mr Bs account 
was declared dormant in this way.
The BBA's pledge document sets out bank and building societies' commitments to assisting 
customers searching for their dormant accounts. The document sets out a requirement for 
the businesses to attempt to contact the customer; circumstances in which an account would 
be considered dormant and the process customers should follow. We expect businesses to 
keep to the provisions of these pledges. Theres nothing that makes me think HSBC has 
failed to do what was required here.
For completeness, where, as is the position here, there's no evidence that an account is still 
in existence (such as an entry in the financial business' current or dormant account records), 
we often consider it might not be unreasonable to conclude it's most likely an account was 
closed and the balance withdrawn. In our experience isnt unusual for people to forget they 
had closed an account or transferred funds when old account information is discovered 
many years later. Here for example it doesnt appear Mr B says he recalled or asked about 
the account for well over 20 years based on his account; albeit Mr B doesnt necessarily 
accept he would have described the account as dormant. I accept Mr B is sure his account 
was left unused for this time (since 1987 at the latest) with a credit balance.
Overall whilst I cant conclude in these circumstances what happened to Mr Bs account, I 
am satisfied HSBC have done enough and what wed expect them to do in trying to locate 
Mr Bs account. I dont think they have done anything wrong here and Im not upholding Mr 
Bs complaint. The fact they havent found any information, does tend to suggest on balance 
the account was closed rather than made dormant. However in the circumstances, I dont 
think theres enough for me to find that is what happened. I also conclude there is no loss to 
Mr B sufficiently identified to me, nor any that I would consider HSBC ought properly to be 
considered responsible for.
Mr B did let us know he wanted to consider his next steps. This is a matter for him. I have 
considered everything provided, including what has been said. I have also considered 
whether I require any further information. I am satisfied I have enough information to reach 
my decision on Mr Bs case.
My final decision
For the reasons given Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Louise WilsonOmbudsman