DRN-3496817
The complaint
Mr W complains that American International Group UK Limited (AIG) and its agents mis-
advised him when he tried to claim under his mobile phone insurance policy. For ease, Ill 
refer only to AIG when commenting on its, or its agents actions.
What happened
Mr W claimed under his policy for a damaged mobile phone screen. Unhappy with its offer of 
a replacement phone, he withdrew his claim and cancelled the policy. Later, he decided to 
continue with the claim and contacted AIG.
AIG declined his claim because he no longer had a policy, so Mr W raised a complaint. AIG 
agreed it made a mistake because Mr W first made it aware of his claim before he cancelled 
the policy. AIG said it shouldve considered the claim under the policy in place at the time he 
first reported the damage.
AIG agreed to consider his claim and it also offered Mr W £35 by way of apology. Mr W 
didnt think it was enough because, after being told he didnt have cover, he bought a new 
phone. Mr W asked for £300 to settle his complaint. AIG declined but repeated that it would 
consider his claim under the policy.
Our investigator thought that as AIG acknowledged its mistake and tried to put matters right, 
there was nothing further it needed to do. Our investigator thought AIG had treated Mr W 
fairly.
Mr W didnt agree and asked for an additional sum to settle his complaint, so the complaint 
was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr W will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill 
explain.
Firstly, Ill clarify the position regarding Mr Ws original claim. AIG accepted his original claim 
and offered settlement in line with the terms of the policy  repair or replacement. Because 
of some service shortfalls, it paid him compensation. However, Mr W didnt want a 
replacement phone and decided to cancel his claim and the policy. 
Our service has already decided Mr Ws previous complaints about AIGs claim handling, so 
my decision, here, is only about the way AIG handled his claim after he cancelled his policy.
The issue is that AIG told Mr W, incorrectly, that he didnt have a valid claim because hed 
cancelled his policy. As AIG hasnt disputed this, and it offered Mr W £35 by way of apology, 
I see no reason to comment on this element further.
So, Ive looked at whether AIGs subsequent offer to consider his claim and pay £35 
compensation to resolve Mr Ws complaint was fair.
Mr W says that he bought a new phone after AIG told him he didnt have a valid policy in 
place. To determine whether AIGs actions caused him any loss, Ive looked at what it 
shouldve done when Mr W made his claim.
AIG shouldve considered his claim under the policy in place when he first made AIG aware 
of the damage. The options available to him wouldve been repair or replacement. Im 
satisfied that he was aware of those options because hed previously agreed to a repair, but 
hed rejected the offer of a replacement. The policy doesnt provide for a cash settlement.
So, if AIG had accepted his claim, it wouldve offered repair or replacement. Instead, it 
declined, and Mr W bought a new phone. The loss, then, was the cost of a repair or the cost 
of a replacement phone. The policy doesnt provide for a brand-new phone. It covered Mr W 
for a replacement with a similar phone of a similar age and condition. Mr W was already 
aware of the options available to him under the policy because hed previously declined a 
replacement.
There wouldnt have been an option for Mr W to get a brand-new phone, so I dont think its 
fair to consider that cost when deciding his loss.
After realising its mistake, AIG again offered a replacement phone to settle Mr Ws claim. He 
declined because hed bought his new phone. But Im satisfied that AIGs offer was in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Mr W went on to ask for £600. Ive considered the cost of a refurbished phone of the same 
model, and it falls considerably short of the amount Mr W asked for. As AIG paid £35 for its 
mistake, and offered to replace the phone, I cant see any reason to ask AIG to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman