DRN-2163052
The complaint
Miss X complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) provided poor service when 
recovering her vehicle under a roadside assistance policy.
What happened
Miss X was driving when her vehicle broke down. She contacted UKI for assistance and 
was contacted by its recovery agent attending the scene. Miss X says the recovery driver 
provided poor service by acting in a hostile manner when unable to initially find the car.
Then upon arrival; Miss X said the agent was un-cooperative when she requested to 
be driven home to collect an alternative vehicle on the route to the garage. Following a 
conversation, the driver did then agree to her request.
Overall Miss X said the agents actions made her feel stressed and anxious. And 
she specified she felt UKI should award her £100 in compensation.
UKI considered Miss Xs complaint and said it was difficult to substantiate her concerns 
as the recovery agent disagreed about her version of events. But UKI said it had 
provided feedback to the network management team about her allegations to prevent this 
issue occurring again. And it said if multiple complaints are made against an individual 
agent, it would take action under its terms of contract with the provider. It apologised for 
any behaviour that wasnt courteous but said it wouldnt award any compensation.
Our investigator looked into what happened. She said it was clear the agent had detoured 
to meet Miss Xs request. And that this was outside of the terms of the policy as it only 
specified a single destination would be provided. So she said the agent had done more 
than wed have expected it to do. She also said UKI had acted appropriately by passing on 
the feedback about the driver, and she didnt feel it needed to do anything further.
Miss X disagreed. She said the driver hadnt detoured and they had stopped at her home 
as this was on the route to the garage. And she said the driver had left the vehicle on 
double yellow lines outside the garage when he dropped it off. Miss X also reiterated 
allegations about his behaviour and the impact of this and provided a statement from her 
relative who had been with her during this incident.
Our investigator said any additional location stop (even on route) would be classed as 
more than a single destination. And again, she felt the apology offered was fair. Because 
Miss X disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. For largely the same reasons as 
our investigator.
Miss X has a breakdown policy with UKI, this requires its agent to provide roadside help to 
get the car moving again, or to recover the vehicle if this isnt possible. In this case its not 
disputed the car required towing, and that it was towed to a garage. So, Im satisfied UKI 
met this requirement under the terms of the policy.
As our investigator has said, under the terms of the policy, the agent is required to drive the 
vehicle to a single location (in this case, the garage). Miss X requested an additional 
location but has said this is not a fair description as her home is on the same route. 
However, Im satisfied this stop was still an additional destination outside of the terms of the 
policy. So, I can understand why the agent was reluctant to provide this.
In any case, the driver did stop at Miss Xs home to allow her to follow in a different 
vehicle. So it seems UKI met Miss Xs request even where it didnt need to.
Miss X and her relative have said the agent was rude throughout the experience. Hes 
provided a different version of events, but UKI said it still passed this feedback on to its 
relevant management team and apologised. In the circumstances Im satisfied this is fair 
and reasonable response to the allegations made. And I dont believe a compensatory 
award is necessary. It follows Im not asking UKI to do anything further.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss X to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2020.
Jack Baldry
 
Ombudsman