DRN-1428091
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) only paid part of a claim made on 
his travel insurance policy. Any reference to URV includes its claims handlers.
What happened
Mr M took out travel insurance to cover himself and his family whilst on holiday, abroad, in 
June 2019. Whilst away, they say items were stolen from their hotel room. Mr M says he 
reported the incident to the hotel where they were staying, but they didnt assist. He also 
says he tried reporting the incident to the police whilst abroad and attended the police 
station. After waiting there for some for an interpreter, he was told to arrange for his own 
interpreter and return to the station, once this was in place. He says he then contacted the 
British Embassy for support. They suggested contacting his travel insurer, which he did. 
Upon his return to the UK, a claim was made under the policy. URV said ordinarily it wouldnt 
consider the claim without a police report but given the difficulties Mr M encountered when 
trying to report the theft of his and his familys possessions, it offered to pay him £800 in 
settlement of his claim as a gesture of goodwill. URV said this equated to approximately half 
of the value of his claim taking into account the financial limits on the policy for certain items 
claimed. Mr M initially accepted the settlement offer of £800 but subsequently complained to 
URV that it had unfairly considered his claim. URV didnt uphold his complaint.
Unhappy Mr M complained to our Service. Our investigator upheld his complaint. He 
recommended that URV reassess the claim in line with the remaining policy terms, as 
though the police report had been obtained. URV didnt agree so Mr Ms complaint has been 
passed to me to look at everything afresh, and decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I uphold Mr Ms 
complaint. Ill explain why.
URV must consider claims made under an insurance policy fairly and promptly and mustnt 
unreasonably decline a claim. 
The policy Mr M and his family had the benefit of can pay out up to £3,000 for possessions 
that are stolen whilst on holiday  subject to a maximum amount for certain categories of 
items  provided that the police or tour operator have been notified, and Mr M had obtained 
an independent written report. 
Its not disputed that Mr M didnt obtain an independent written report. However, in the 
circumstances of this particular case, I dont think URV has acted fairly and reasonably by 
using that as a reason to only pay part of the claim.
Im satisfied that Mr M has been consistent in his account that he did report to the hotel 
where he and his family were staying about the items being stolen. And that they didnt seem to care. He also says that other guests had reported items being stolen from their rooms and 
the hotel didnt assist. So, Im persuaded thats the reason why he wasnt able to obtain a 
report from the hotel.
Im also satisfied that Mr M has consistently said hed travelled to the police station with the 
intention to report the items being stolen from his hotel room. And that he waited at the 
station for a significant amount of time for an interpreter to assist him reporting the incident, 
but they never arrived. Im also persuaded he was asked to find his own interpreter and to 
return to the station once hed done that.
He explained this to URVs representative when he contacted them on 14 June 2019 (a day 
after he says the items were stolen), having first contacted the British Embassy who advised 
him to contact his travel insurer. Weve received a recording of that call and URVs 
representative told him that they couldnt provide an interpreter to assist him but as hed tried 
to obtain the police report, he was advised to write a covering letter to accompany his claim 
form to explain what had happened and that URV would be able to refer back to 
the recording of that call when assessing the claim.
URVs representative does say that she couldnt guarantee that the claim would be 
accepted, which I wouldve expected her to say given that a claim hadnt yet been made or 
assessed against the policy terms. But, importantly in this case, Mr M wasnt told about the 
significance of obtaining an independent report to support the theft having taken place. Im 
satisfied that he was left with the impression that if he included a covering letter when 
submitting his claim to URV explaining the difficulties around why he was unable to obtain a 
police report would be enough. If hed been told that his claim wouldnt  or was unlikely  to 
be accepted without such a report, its likely he wouldve made further attempts to obtain an 
independent report whilst away. However, given what he was told, I can see why 
he, reasonably, didnt try again.
When making this finding, Ive considered what URV has said about Mr M accepting the 
offer of £800 in settlement of his claim in July 2019. However, I dont think hes now 
prevented from being awarded a potentially higher sum.
Ive also considered what Mr M says about how long it took URV to consider his claim. The 
claim form he submitted to URV with supporting documents and the accompanying letter 
explaining what had happened is date stamped 24 June 2019. Im satisfied thats the date 
URV received it. URV acknowledged safe receipt of this on 27 June 2019 and advised that 
the claim would be considered within the next 10-15 working days. It may be that the website 
stated that claims would be considered within a slightly shorter period than this and I know 
Mr M chased for a decision on his claim before he was given one. However, I think URVs 
representative explained the timeframe it was working towards when responding to Mr M 
and that was inline with the timeframe set when acknowledging his claim. URV provided him 
with a claims decision on 12 July 2019 before the expiry of that deadline. So Im satisfied it 
didnt unreasonably delay considering his claim.
Im also conscious that some of the items stolen belonged to Mr Ms daughter and he says 
she needed those for a course she was taking. Mr M also says URVs failure to pay the 
claim in its entirety meant that those items couldnt be replaced and had a detrimental impact 
on his daughter. But looking at the value of the amounts claimed for those particular items, 
Im satisfied that the offer of £800 that was made and paid to Mr M wouldve covered the 
value of those items, meaning that they couldve been replaced with the money received. 
So, I dont think URVs failure to pay a higher amount under the policy made a difference to 
what happened with Mr Ms daughters course. 
Putting things rightWithin 28 days from the date on which we tell it that Mr M accepts our final decision URV 
should:
A. reconsider the claim made under the policy as though Mr M had obtained the 
requisite independent report under the policy  subject to the remaining terms of the 
policy; and
B. if URV does increase the amount it will pay him under the policy in respect of the 
claim made, it should pay Mr M 8% simple interest per annum* on the additional 
amount from 12 July 2019  the date it agreed to pay part of his claim - to the date 
the additional payment is made. 
*If URV considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any 
interest paid, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give him a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one. That way he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs, if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint, and direct Union Reiseversicherung AG to put things right by 
doing what Ive set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman