DRN-3296452
The complaint
Mr Hs complaint is about changes made to the terms and conditions of his mortgage with 
Sainsburys Bank Plc. When he took the mortgage out, there were flexible options 
associated with it, including a drawdown facility. He is unhappy that this facility was 
suspended on his mortgage in 2011 and completely removed from all Sainsburys 
mortgages in 2016, which he says he wasnt made aware of at those times and is unhappy 
about. 
Mr H has said that he didnt receive the 2016 notification of changes to the mortgage terms 
and conditions that removed the flexible options. As such, he wasnt given the opportunity to 
complain and refuse the changes.
What happened
Mr H took out an interest-only mortgage with Sainsburys in 1998. The mortgage included 
some flexible options, including the option to draw down any overpayments made during the 
term of the mortgage. A cheque book was provided to Mr H for him to access this facility. 
The mortgage terms and conditions stated:
2.2 (a) Overpayments. You may increase your monthly payments to above the amount of 
the Normal Payment.  Any overpayments can be redrawn at any time using options (b) 
[underpayments] and (c) [payment holidays] below or via cheque book facility up to the 
original loan amount plus 5% of the original loan to value.
2.3 You will cease to be eligible for the Options repayment arrangements which permit 
Underpayments or Payment Holidays if:

(d) an Event of Default occurs.
Section 5 of the terms and conditions detailed the events of default, which included the 
borrower being unable or believed unable to pay sums due. 
On 10 May 2010 Sainsburys wrote to Mr H about the flexible options on the mortgage. It told 
him that because the then Department for Social Services (DSS) was assisting with the 
monthly payments, the flexible options had been withdrawn from the mortgage. The letter 
went on to explain that any cheques Mr H wrote using the drawdown cheque book wouldnt 
be paid. 
In the autumn of the following year Mr H attempted to use the drawdown facility and the 
cheque he wrote was rejected by Sainsburys. Mr H was unhappy about this and Sainsburys 
provided a copy of its 2010 letter. It reiterated why it had suspended the flexible features and 
set out which parts of the terms and conditions allowed this to happen. It also confirmed that 
as a responsible lender, in line with regulators requirements, it would not increase the debt 
of a customer where a third-party source is contributing to the mortgage. Mr H was told that 
six months after DSS payments cease, if all payments have been received, it would review 
whether to reinstate the options. No guarantee was given that they would be reinstated. 
On 18 July 2016 Sainsburys wrote to Mr H to explain that it was changing the company that 
was administering the mortgage. It also said that it had reviewed its products, their features 
and terms and conditions. In light of that review, taking into account the then current 
legislative and regulatory requirements, Sainsburys had changed the format of its 
documentation and the terms and conditions of his mortgage. Mr Hs attention was drawn to 
a document enclosed with the letter that set out the changes made. The letter signed off by 
telling Mr H that he didnt need to do anything, but gave a number to call if he wanted to 
discuss the changes. It said that if it didnt hear from him by 1 December 2016 it would take 
it to mean that he had accepted the changes.
A copy of the new terms and conditions were enclosed with the letter along with a document 
highlighting the changes to the terms and conditions for Mr Hs individual mortgage. Both of 
these documents clearly stated that any overpayments that had, or would be made, could 
not be redrawn. 
Mr H has told us that he stopped receiving government assistance in paying his mortgage in 
June 2018. In late 2020 he contacted Sainsburys as he hadnt heard anything about the 
flexible options being reinstated. Sainsburys explained that that facility had been 
permanently removed in 2016. 
In January 2021 Mr H told Sainsburys that he hadnt received its letter in 2016 telling him 
that the drawdown option had been removed from the mortgage. As such, he didnt accept 
the changes and considered that they should still apply to his mortgage and be reinstated.
Further correspondence was exchanged about the issue, which culminated in Sainsburys 
final response in February 2021. It said it understood Mr Hs frustration that the options had 
been removed, however, it is entitled to make a commercial decision about its policies and 
procedures, including the ability to withdraw facilities from mortgages. It had decided to 
withdraw the options following a review of the mortgage market. It was satisfied that it was 
within its rights to do this, but it apologised for any upset the decision may have caused 
Mr H. 
In relation to the suspension of the drawdown option in 2010, it said that section 5.1(e) of the 
terms and conditions allowed it to remove the options in the situation where a consumer was 
unable to pay the contractual monthly payment (CMP). As Mr H had told Sainsburys that he 
was unable to do so, and so had applied for assistance from the DSS, it was satisfied the 
situation fell to be considered under that mortgage term. It highlighted the correspondence at 
the time and in 2011. It accepted this action may have upset Mr H, but it was satisfied that it 
had acted appropriately at the time and those actions were in line with the mortgage terms 
and conditions. 
Mr H remained unhappy and referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend that it be upheld. 
Mr H didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. He reiterated that while he didnt 
disbelieve that Sainsburys had sent him a letter in July 2016, he hadnt received it. He also 
said that had he received the letter, he didnt believe there is anything in it that would have 
concerned him as it just said that it had changed the format and content of the terms and 
conditions. He reiterated that he didnt have the opportunity to object to and refuse the 
changes. 
Our investigator confirmed to Mr H that whether he had objected to the removal of the 
flexible options, they would still have been removed. Mr H didnt accept what the investigator 
said. However, he subsequently clarified that his complaint solely related to the permanent removal of the flexible options in 2016 and whether he has been disadvantaged by that 
change. That said, he denied that a default event had ever occurred. He said that whilst 
Sainsburys can change the terms and conditions of the mortgage, the flexible options were 
referred to as a product and, therefore, were not part of the mortgage and couldnt be 
changed. 
He said that Sainsburys had confirmed in its letter of 25 January 2021 that it had sent him 
the wrong letter in 2016 and that the version he should have been sent included extra 
paragraphs that detailed the changes. He said that what he was sent didnt include 
information about the withdrawal of the drawdown facility. 
While our investigator considered Mr Hs further comments, she didnt change her 
conclusions. As agreement couldnt be reached, it was decided that the case should be 
passed to an ombudsman for consideration. 
I issued a provisional decision on 13 January 20212, setting out my conclusions and reasons 
for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
Whilst I note that Mr H has recently said that the 2010 and 2011 events are not part of his 
complaint, I also note that he has also said at the same time that there was no default event 
that would have allowed the flexible features to be suspended in 2010. In light of the latter 
comment, I consider that it would be appropriate for me to comment on these events for 
completeness. 
I have set out information about the original mortgage terms and conditions above. It is 
clearly stated that if an event of default happens, the flexible features would be suspended. 
While Mr H disagrees that an event of default occurred, the list contained in the terms and 
conditions of the mortgage includes the situation where the borrower is unable or might 
become unable to pay the amounts due under the mortgage. Mr H had told Sainsburys that 
since the death of Mrs H finances had been difficult and he was unable to pay the mortgage 
without the assistance of benefits. I am satisfied that this was sufficient to be considered a 
default event as per the mortgage terms and conditions. 
As our investigator pointed out, where a consumer is in a difficult financial situation, it is not 
usually appropriate for them to have the ability to increase their level of debt without having 
to seek assistance and the affordability of it being assessed first. As such, I dont consider 
the suspension of the flexible features was an inappropriate thing for Sainsburys to do in 
2010.
Mr H has said that he either doesnt believe the letter of 18 July 2016 was sent to him, or 
that if it was, it was not received. He has also said that he didnt receive the letter in 2010 in 
which he was told the flexible features had been removed from the mortgage. I have 
considered this and examined both of the letters he was sent. They were both addressed 
correctly, and Mr H has acknowledged that he has received a significant amount of 
correspondence from Sainsburys over the years. I have seen nothing that indicates the 
letters were returned as undelivered. 
While I accept that some letters do go astray in the postal system, I think it more likely than 
not that the letters were received. I acknowledge that Mr H has said he cant remember 
receiving the letters, and I accept that may be the case, but there is also the possibility that 
they were received and he didnt register the importance of the letters at the time. I say this 
as Mr H has commented on the content of the 2016 letter and said that this wouldnt have 
caused him to think anything significant had happened to his policy. Mr H has said he thinks that Sainsburys has admitted in its letter of 25 January 2021 to 
errors occurring in 2016. I have read the letter and I am afraid I cant agree with Mr Hs 
interpretation of its contents. As I have said above, Sainsburys has acknowledged that it 
should have communicated with him in 2018, including sending him another copy of the 
terms and conditions showing that there were no longer flexible options on the mortgage, 
when Mr H ceased to have part of his mortgage paid by the DWP. However, it has not said it 
sent him any incorrect information in 2016.  
Mr H has said that the 2016 letter wouldnt have alerted him to the changes to the mortgage 
terms and conditions that removed the flexible features. However, that information was set 
out in the changes document and the terms and conditions, which were enclosed with that 
letter. The letter highlighted that the changes document gave the detail of the changes to the 
terms and conditions. I am satisfied that if Mr H had read the enclosed information it would 
have alerted him to the fact that Sainsburys had removed the drawdown option from the 
mortgage completely.
Mr H has variously said that he doesnt think that Salisburys could change the terms and 
conditions to remove the flexible features without his agreement and that those features 
were separate to the mortgage and the terms and conditions didnt affect them. I can confirm 
that the flexible features were part of the mortgage contract, as is evidenced by the fact that 
they were included in the original mortgage terms and conditions. 
Lenders are able to change the terms and conditions of the mortgages they provide, and 
they need to be able to do so in order to comply with any changes to legislation or the 
regulators rules and guidance. There was a review of the mortgage market by the regulator 
in 2014 and new, more stringent requirements were placed on lenders to ensure that 
borrowing was affordable. As such, arrangements like the drawdown on Mr Hs mortgage 
were removed or significantly reduced by most lenders, as those arrangements didnt allow a 
lender to fulfil its new responsibilities. 
Mr H has said that not receiving the July 2016 letter prevented him from objecting to the 
removal of the flexible features. I would explain that even had Mr H objected to the changes 
at the time, it wouldnt have made any difference to the fact that those features were being 
removed from all mortgages like his. So whether Mr H received the notification or not, the 
flexible options couldnt have been reinstated in 2018 when the DWP stopped contributing to 
the mortgage payments.
Sainsburys has acknowledged that as it had told Mr H in 2011 it would review the position 
about the flexible benefits once he stopped receiving benefits to help him pay the mortgage. 
It has indicated that it was in error in not doing so. I can see where it is coming from when it 
said this. However, as Mr H had been told just two years earlier that the flexible features had 
been completely removed and the terms and conditions of the mortgage changed to reflect 
that, I am not persuaded that it needed to tell him that it wouldnt be undertaking the review it 
had promised in 2011, as the features no longer existed to be reinstated. I am not persuaded 
in the circumstances that further communication at that time was necessary and the lack of 
such communication means that Sainsburys did anything wrong. 
Overall, I am not persuaded that Sainsburys acted incorrectly in relation to the suspension 
and eventual removal of the flexible features that were originally attached to the mortgage.
Sainsburys accepted my provisional decision. Mr H did not. He confirmed that the 
suspension of the drawdown facility in 2010 was not part of his complaint, but also reiterated 
that he hadnt received the correspondence from the time telling him that it had happened. 
He also reiterated his points about Sainsburys letter of July 2016 and that its non-receipt by 
him meaning that the flexible features should not have been removed from his mortgage. Mr H said that he considered Sainsburys letter of 24 October 2011 represented a guarantee 
that the facility would be reinstated when the DSS stopped contributing to his mortgage 
payments. 
Mr H also raised some new concerns about the events of 2006 and 2010. He explained that 
it was Sainsburys that suggested he approach the DSS in 2006 for assistance with his 
mortgage payments. Had he been informed during the discussions that this might result in 
the drawdown facility being removed, he would not have accepted assistance from the DSS. 
He questioned why the possibility hadnt been mentioned in 2006 and why it had taken until 
2010 for the facility to be suspended. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would initially explain to Mr H that this service can only review a complaint if it is first 
referred to the financial business responsible for the acts or omissions complained about. In 
his response to my provisional decision, Mr H raised some new complaint points about 
Sainsburys actions in 2006 and 2010. I am unable to comment on these issues and if Mr H 
wants these points looked into, he will need to refer them to Sainsburys in the first instance.
Mr H has said that the drawdown facility was not dependent on making overpayments, as 
was the facility to drawdown the difference between the then current outstanding mortgage 
balance and the original loan amount. As such, the statements regarding redrawing 
overpayments, was not relevant. I cant agree with Mr H on this point. He is correct that the 
drawdown facility limit was the difference between the then current and original balances. 
However, as the mortgage was arranged on an interest-only basis, the balance would 
remain stable within a few pounds throughout the term of the mortgage. The balance would 
only reduce to allow drawdown if Mr H made overpayments. So I remain satisfied the 
information provided in 2016 would have made Mr H aware that the facility to drawdown 
funds from his mortgage no longer existed. 
I would also say that, while Sainsburys may have been willing to reinstate the flexible 
features to the mortgage in 2011, the simple fact is that those features no longer existed by 
the time the DSS stopped making payments to the mortgage. Sainsburys explained in 2016, 
those features had been removed completely from the mortgage product Mr H had and the 
mortgage terms and conditions were changed at that time, I can confirm that change applied 
to all mortgages like Mr Hs. I would also reiterate that even had Mr H objected to the 
change, it wouldnt have meant the change wouldnt apply to his individual mortgage or stop 
the change across the board progressing. 
I have carefully considered Mr Hs further submissions, but havent been persuaded to 
change my conclusion that Sainsburys did nothing wrong in relation to the removal of the 
flexible features that were originally linked to Mr Hs mortgage.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 
7 March 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman