DRN-4476466
The complaint
Mr I, Mr P and Mr L (together referred to as the trustees) are unhappy that Legal and 
General Assurance Society Limited declined a claim made on a term assurance policy (the 
policy) taken out by Mr M. And its decision to cancel the policy and refund the premiums 
paid.
What happened
Mr M applied for the policy in May 2016. When applying for the policy he was asked a 
number of questions  including about his lifestyle, health and medical history. 
Mr M sadly died in 2021 and the trustees made a claim under the policy for the benefit to be 
paid. That claim was ultimately declined by Legal and General. Thats because Legal and 
General says Mr M didnt answer some questions correctly when applying for the policy. It 
cancelled the policy and refunded the premiums paid.
The trustees complained to Legal and General. It maintained its decision to decline the claim 
and cancel the policy. Unhappy, the trustees brought a complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Our investigator considered what had happened and didnt uphold the 
complaint. The trustees disagreed so this complaint has been passed to me to consider 
everything afresh and decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
That includes the relevant ABI Code of Practice for managing claims for individual and group 
life, critical illness and income protection insurance products. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract. The standard of care is 
that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer (in this case Legal and General) must show it 
would have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Legal and General says Mr M failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when applying for the policy. Overall, Im persuaded that Legal and 
General has acted fairly and reasonably by declining the claim made under the policy by the 
trustees and cancelling the policy on the basis that it wouldnt have been offered at the time. 
Ive set out my reasons below. 
Did Mr M make a qualifying disclosure?
When applying for the policy, Mr M was asked a number of questions about his health and 
medical history including: 
During the last 2 years have you seen a health professional about
A stomach, bowel or oesophageal condition, for example Crohns? 
And
Apart from anything youve already told us about, during the last 2 years have you 
been referred to, or been under the care of, a hospital specialist?
Ill refer to these as the medical questions. 
Im satisfied the medical questions are clear. And on the application form, its reflected that 
Mr M answered no to them. When reviewing the claim made on the policy after Mr Ms 
death, Legal and General concluded that hed answered the medical questions incorrectly. It 
says, they shouldve been answered yes. 
I think Legal and General has acted fairly and reasonably when reaching this conclusion. 
Thats because at the end of May 2014 (and within the two years leading up to the date of 
applying for the policy and answering the medical questions), Mr M met with a consultant 
surgeon. The consultants letter reflects:
Mr M described classical symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux disease and it 
sounds very much as if he does have significant gastroesophageal reflux disease.
Mr M was unwilling to take antacid tablets and that Mr M would like to consider 
surgery. I am going to arrange an upper GI endoscopy and I have also arranged 
oesophageal physiology studies to assess function and both acidic and non-acidic 
reflux.
Ive gone on to consider whether Legal and General has fairly concluded that Mr M had 
made a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA by answering the medical questions 
incorrectly. And Im satisfied it has. 
I appreciate that had Mr M waited around a week later to apply for the policy, his answers to 
the medical questions may have been accurate. However, Im satisfied Mr M acted without 
reasonable care when answering the medical question. 
The consultants letter dated May 2014 reflects that Mr Ms symptoms have gradually 
worsened over the years and are now dominating his life. So, I think its something he 
reasonably ought to have recalled when applying for the policy. And if he didnt recall the 
exact the date of seeing the consultant, he couldve checked his medical records. Further, 
within the application, it says: when answering the following questions, if youre unsure 
whether to tell us about a medical condition, please tell us anyway. So, if Mr M was unsure 
about the date he saw the consultant, or when he was referred for further investigation 
(because this took place almost two years before applying for the policy), he was 
encouraged to tell Legal and General about this anyway.The medical evidence suggests that the investigations recommended by the consultant 
didnt take place before Mr M applied for the policy.  Legal and General has provided 
underwriting guidance showing that if Mr M had answered the medical questions correctly, it 
would have asked for further details and based on the available information, it wouldnt have 
offered the policy at the time of application in the circumstances of this case. Based, on the 
underwriting evidence provided by Legal and General to the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
Im persuaded that is what most likely wouldve have happened. So, I think the answer to the 
medical questions mattered to Legal and General. 
I know the trustees have asked to see the evidence provided by Legal and General to 
support their position. And I can understand why. But the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
Dispute Resolution: Complaints Sourcebook (DISP), which sets out how complaints should 
be handled, says at DISP 3.5.9 (2) and 3.5.10 that The Financial Ombudsman Service can 
accept certain information in confidence. Im satisfied that the information Legal and General 
has given us is genuinely commercially sensitive and can be accepted - and considered by 
the Financial Ombudsman Service - in confidence.
Declining the claim and cancelling the policy
Legal and General concluded Mr Ms misrepresentation was careless. I think a reasonable 
person would have considered the answers to the medical questions were relevant to Legal 
and General  and that was why they were being asked.  And although answering the 
medical questions in the way that he did, may have been the result of an oversight or 
mistake made by Mr M, Im satisfied that the conclusion reached by Legal and General is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. 
Ive looked at the actions Legal and General can take in line with CIDRA. Under this 
legislation its entitled to take the action it wouldve taken had the misrepresentation not 
occurred. Because Im satisfied that the policy wouldnt have been offered at the time, Im 
satisfied Legal and General has acted fairly by cancelling the policy and refunding the 
premiums. 
I know the trustees will be very disappointed with my decision, and I would like to pass on 
condolences to them during a very difficult time. I hope it will help them to know that this 
complaint has been reviewed by someone who is impartial and independent of the parties.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr I, Mr P and Mr L to accept or reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman