The complaint
Ms J complains about the customer service shes received from Money Management Team 
Limited (MMT).
What happened
Ms J instructed MMT to represent her in claims against a lender for mis-sold PPI. The lender 
agreed to settle several of Ms Js claims. MMT invoiced Ms J for its fee of around £1,800. 
Ms J said she wasnt willing to pay the full fee because she wasn't satisfied with the service 
shed received from MMT. She said it failed to contact her within the timeframe it had set. 
MMT claimed to do many things on her behalf which were never done and claimed it had 
done things it hadn't. After shed received her PPI offer, MMT began to harass her even 
before the allowed time for the money to go into her bank was up and continued to do so 
after this time. 
MMT said banks have eight weeks to investigate a claim. It wouldn't chase them for a 
response within this period. The lender made an offer within this time frame. MMT contacted 
Ms J when updates were available. 
Once MMT received confirmation that Ms Js claims had been successful and a settlement 
would be made, it raised an invoice. It said it followed the correct process by contacting Ms J 
to ensure shed received the payment safely. If it was to go over timescales, MMT would be 
required to chase the refund from the lender. It didn't expect fees to be paid until after Ms J 
had received the payment from the lender. If Ms J had informed it she hadn't received the 
money from the lender, MMT would have placed a hold on her account.
Ms J remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to our service. In addition to the 
points shed raised with MMT, she said she wasnt certain shed given MMT the authority to 
pursue her claims after agreeing for it to do a free PPI check.
Our investigator looked into Ms Js concerns. He thought MMT could have done more to 
update her and let her know how long the lender had to consider her complaint. But he didn't 
think MMT had delayed the progress of her claim. He was also satisfied that Ms J had given 
her authority for MMT to pursue her claims against the lenders. 
He acknowledged that MMTs process was to pursue claims on a claim by claim basis. But 
he felt that MMT should have limited the number of phone calls it made to Ms J, given that 
the claims were with the same lender and the offers were made at the same time.
Our investigator didn't think MMT should have to waive or reduce its fee. But he thought 
MMT should pay Ms J £75 compensation for the inconvenience caused by excessive 
telephone contact. 
DRN-1936961MMT hasn't responded to our investigators view. But Ms J said she disagreed with his view. 
She said MMT hadn't done several things it said it was going to do. She acknowledged this 
hadnt affected her claim, but she felt the fees were too high for the work it carried out. She 
said she didn't simply receive three phone calls a day. This was alongside eight emails and 
eight text messages a day.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
Ms J says MMT didn't keep her up to date on the progress of her claim and it didn't put 
pressure on the lender to pursue the claim as promised.
According to the rules set by the Financial Conduct Authority, the lender had eight weeks to 
consider Ms Js PPI complaint. I can see it made an offer within this time frame. So, I dont 
think it was appropriate or necessary for MMT to put pressure on the lender to deal with    
Ms Js complaint more quickly.
If MMT had explained this to Ms J it might have managed her expectations better. It also 
could have done more to keep her up to date with the claims progress. But Ms J has 
acknowledged that her claim wasn't affected by this.
The letters of authority Ms J signed when she agreed for MMT to represent her in pursuing 
her PPI claims contain the wording:
 If MMT are successful in recovering redress, fees of 20% plus VAT which is a total of 24% 
of the total redress offered by the lender will apply. So, I think MMT made it clear that the 
agreement was on a no win, no fee basis.
I know Ms J feels strongly that the fee isnt proportionate to the amount of work MMT carried 
out. But the fee didn't need to reflect the amount of work or time MMT spent on her case. It 
depended on the success of Ms Js claims and the amount of compensation she was 
awarded. And I cant see that Ms Js claim was delayed or that she lost out financially 
because of anything MMT did or didn't do.
So, I think its fair for MMT to charge Ms J the fee she agreed to when she chose to use its 
services.
Ms J feels MMT harassed her by phoning her three times a day and emailing and texting her 
eight times a day. This started before the time the lender had given for the money to be paid 
into her bank account was up. 
MMT says the earlier contact was to check that shed received the payment from the lender. 
It says the reason it made so many calls, texts and emails is because it communicates on a 
case by case basis. Ms J had eight claims with the same lender. If Ms J had returned the 
calls or informed MMT shed not received the PPI payments, it would have placed her 
account on hold while it waited for confirmation of receipt. 
While this might be MMTs process, I do feel the volume of calls, emails and texts were 
excessive. And this caused Ms J some inconvenience and distress. I appreciate Ms J feels 
she deserves more compensation than the £75 our investigator has recommended. But Ms J has acknowledged she didn't answer most of the calls. And Ive no reason to doubt what 
MMT has said about putting a hold on contact if Ms J had explained she was yet to receive 
the money from the lender. So, I think our investigators recommendation that MMT pay Ms J 
£75 for trouble and upset is fair.
Putting things right
MMT should pay Ms J £75 for trouble and upset. It may deduct this from the amount its 
invoiced her if she has not yet paid her fee.
My final decision
I uphold Ms Js complaint and direct Money Management Team Limited to put things right as 
Ive said above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2020.
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman