DRN-3892114
The complaint
Mr M complains about Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) poor handling of his claim under his 
home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr M held a home insurance policy with Aviva that also had home emergency cover 
included.  Mr M contacted Aviva as his boiler broke down. It sent an engineer, who found 
that the boiler required a part to complete the repair. The part was listed as obsolete on 
Avivas suppliers website. And because of this, the engineer declared the boiler beyond 
economical repair (BER) and told Mr M that a new boiler would be required. 
Mr M did not accept this partly because he had experienced a similar issue with his boiler 
the previous year, and he felt that the boiler could be repaired. He proceeded to source the 
required part from another supplier and informed the engineer. But as the engineer was 
unsure whether Aviva would use another supplier, he referred this to its claims department. 
Mr M explained that he continually, on a daily basis, called Aviva for updates, following this, 
as he was without heating and hot water. And as Mr M wasnt happy with the progress of the 
claim, he raised a complaint to Aviva. 
Aviva advised Mr M that following a boiler being declared as BER, it had 28 days to try to 
source parts. As it was attempting to source those parts, it said that Mr M did not have to call 
daily for updates.
A few days later, Aviva contacted Mr M to inform him that it had located the part and an 
appointment was made to carry out the repair.  But when the engineer attended, he found 
that the part was not the correct one required. Further investigations were carried out by 
Aviva who said that its supplier confirmed that the correct part needed was obsolete. Mr M 
said that he told Aviva that he had sourced the correct part with several different suppliers. 
Aviva eventually located the part, and another engineer was sent to install it. But he was 
unable to get the boiler working again (after having installed the part) and another engineer 
attended the following day. He was able to get the boiler correctly working.
In total, Mr M was without heating and hot water for 17 days. He also said that he had to stay 
with relatives as his home was too cold to live in. And he was unable to have a vulnerable 
relative stay with him as a result. He was unhappy about how Aviva handled his claim. 
In its final response, Aviva accepted that there were poor customer service issues and as a 
result, it offered Mr M compensation of £750 for the trouble and upset caused. Mr M was 
unhappy with this offer of compensation as he felt that he was unable to live at his home for 
around three weeks. Which he said meant that he had made mortgage payments and 
wanted at least £550 per week, in recognition of his financial losses. So, he referred his 
complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld.  She 
said that she accepted that there were poor service issues. But applying the policy terms 
and conditions, Aviva had 28 days to source parts, which it did do. Also, she felt that the 
£750 compensation offered by Aviva for the 17 days that Mr M was without facilities, was 
fair.  So, she wouldnt be asking Aviva to do anything further regarding the complaint. 
Aviva accepted the view, Mr M did not. Mr M provided a number of points for our investigator 
to further consider. These points related to the delay in Aviva sourcing the part for the boiler. 
The poor service he experienced from Aviva. That Aviva wouldve declared his boiler BER, 
when he felt it plainly wasnt the case. The incompetence of the Aviva engineers who 
attended and wouldnt listen to him, as well as dismissing the advice from the boiler 
manufacturer.  Finally, that Mr M wanted a substantial increase in the compensation he was 
offered from Aviva, given the other costs that he had incurred as a result of not being able to 
inhabit his home for around three weeks. So, he asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Mr M, but I hope my findings 
go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Both parties accepted that there was delay getting the part and ultimately repairing Mr Ms 
boiler. Both parties also accept that there were some customer service failings. Aviva offered 
Mr M £750 compensation, which Mr M felt was not fair or reasonable, as he had incurred 
other financial losses as a result of being without utilities for the period. Mr M was seeking a 
minimum of £1,500 compensation.
I note that Mr M has made a number of detailed comments. I hope the fact that I dont 
respond in similar detail here wont be taken as a discourtesy. As an informal dispute 
resolution service, we are tasked with reaching a fair and reasonable conclusion with the 
minimum of formality. In doing so, it isnt necessary for me to respond to every point made, 
but to concentrate on the nub of the issue, which I think is the level of compensation that Mr 
M has been offered, especially as he would like double, the amount offered as a minimum. 
Having read the file and evidence provided to me from both parties, Im satisfied that there 
were customer service failings by Aviva. I can appreciate how frustrating it would have been 
for Mr M to have to constantly phone for updates and the progress of his claim. But I also 
note that Aviva on more than one occasion asked Mr M to refrain from calling as it was trying 
to resolve the issues with his claim and on occasion, calls were being received from Mr M on 
a daily basis. 
I can see from the file, that Aviva were taking steps to progress his claim. But I can also see 
that there were some avoidable delays, such as the sourcing of the part.  Further, Aviva 
ought to have supplied Mr M with temporary heaters (as per the policy terms and conditions) 
which didnt appear to have been done. Equally, it should have returned calls when it 
promised to do so, which also wasnt done. 
Aviva sent me several phone calls between Mr M and Aviva, which I have listened to.  It is 
clear that Mr M was doing all he could to try to ensure that his boiler wasnt declared to be BER. And I also think it is clear that the departments within Aviva didnt appear to be working 
in tandem, to try to resolve the issues with Mr Ms boiler.
I also am satisfied that had Mr M not pursued Aviva, it was likely that it would have 
eventually declared his boiler BER, which wouldve meant that he would have to have 
replaced his boiler. But Aviva did ultimately repair his boiler, albeit by the third engineer who 
attended. And since that day Mr M confirms that his boiler has been working without any 
issue. 
For our service to recommend an award of over £750 could be fair, we would look at the 
impact of Avivas mistakes and whether this caused substantial distress, upset, or worry, or 
even potentially a serious offence or humiliation.  With this in mind, Mr M explained the 
impact of Avivas errors on him as: I thus paid 3 weeks of a mortgage, council tax and 
insurances and utilities etc for a property that I had no reasonable enjoyment of and incurred 
further costs of commuting to/from Pinner on most days and in increased electricity costs 
when using the emersion heater for hot water and for an oil filled radiator that I had to use in 
the small office room.
Whilst I can appreciate the frustration and how stressful this was on Mr M, I havent been 
provided with any evidence that supports there was serious disruption to daily life, with the 
impact being felt over many months or sometimes over a year. In total, Mr M said he was 
without full heating and hot water for around 17/18 days. Despite, Aviva not providing him 
with temporary heating (as per the policy terms and conditions) he accepts that he had 
access to a heater and access to some hot water (albeit via the emersion heater).  
I also understand that Mr M was unable to accommodate the needs of a family member 
during this time. So, Ive carefully considered the circumstances and that the amount of effort 
that Mr M put in to try and get a resolution. And it is for these reasons, I do think he was 
caused substantial distress, upset and worry. Consequently, I think that Avivas offer of £750 
compensation, is the amount I wouldve asked Aviva to offer, had it not done so already. 
I realise that Mr M said that he had to pay bills for a home that he could not inhabit. But, 
having looked at the policy terms and conditions. I think its clear that any delays or any 
associated expenses or losses incurred as a result of the emergency are not covered by the 
policy: The following are excluded from policy so we will not be liable for: a) Any costs or 
activities above the claims limit or any other limit specified in any What is covered? section. 
You are responsible for agreeing and settling any such costs directly with the engineer. b) 
Any losses caused by any delays in getting spare parts. c) Any associated expenses or 
losses you incur which relate to an emergency but are not directly covered by this policy.
In addition, Mr M did say that he had access to some heating and hot water. So I wouldnt 
have expected him not to have been able to live in his home. Although, I sympathise that it 
mightnt have been a pleasant experience. 
I know that Mr M was deeply unimpressed with how Aviva handled his claim and the 
complaint about it. I also know that he was hoping for more compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused. But Ive taken all of his detailed comments into account in reaching my 
decision and when assessing the impact on him, which I think caused substantial distress 
and inconvenience and needed a lot of effort to sort out, an award of £750 is fair and 
reasonable. So, it will be up to Mr M to accept the offer or not, as he wishes. But I wont be 
recommending a higher amount of compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman