DRN-2401680
The complaint
Miss C and Mr M complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly applied a final repayment 
charge when they paid off their mortgage.   
What happened
In 2007, Miss C and Mr M took out a mortgage with The Woolwich, which later became part 
of Barclays. The mortgage term was initially agreed to be over 14 years. But in 2019, Miss C 
and Mr M were in a position where theyd paid off the entire balance. They wished to 
discharge the mortgage and asked Barclays if there were any outstanding fees or charges 
remaining. They say that, on more than one occasion, Barclays advised there was nothing 
left to pay. Therefore, Miss C and Mr M expected the property deeds to be duly sent to them 
in around ten days time. 
However, three weeks or so passed and the deeds had not arrived. It was at this point that 
Barclays explained that there was in fact an outstanding amount payable. Because the terms 
of the mortgage included a final repayment charge (FRC), Barclays told Miss C and Mr M 
they had to pay £275 before the property deeds would be released to them. 
Unhappy with this, Miss C and Mr M raised a complaint. They found Barclays to have been 
misleading, having initially made it clear that they had nothing to pay  yet, it turned out there 
was in fact the FRC outstanding. There had been other discrepancies too in their opinion, 
including Barclays telling them in error that one of the final mortgage payments hadnt been 
collected by direct debit when it had. So, overall, Miss C and Mr M believed it fair for 
Barclays to waiver the £275 charge.  
Barclays accepted that Miss C and Mr M were given incorrect information about what was 
left to pay. However, it didnt waiver the FRC and instead offered £50 compensation to put 
things right. Miss C and Mr M remained unhappy, so they brought the complaint to our 
service and one of our investigators looked into it. 
In the circumstances, she thought the FRC was payable considering the terms of the 
mortgage contract. However, given the service provided, in her opinion £50 compensation 
was insufficient. So, she recommended that Barclays increase this to a total of £100. 
Miss C and Mr M do not agree. They maintain that the FRC should be relinquished by 
Barclays and therefore asked for an ombudsman to determine the matter. So, the complaint 
has been escalated to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that the mortgage terms stipulate that a FRC of £275 is payable if the 
mortgage was repaid in full before the end of the term. Amongst other correspondence, this 
was set out in the mortgage offer given to Miss C and Mr M in 2007. 
By signing and accepting at the time, Miss C and Mr M agreed to be bound by the terms of 
the offer and the corresponding conditions. They also did not have the right to change their 
mind and withdraw from the contract once the mortgage commenced. Consequently, I 
cannot ignore that Miss C and Mr M have a strict contractual obligation to pay this charge, 
because they consented to the agreement and chose to pay off their mortgage early.
Its evident that Miss C and Mr M wanted to reduce the term of the mortgage, because they 
made numerous repayments in addition to that of their monthly contractual obligation. Such 
as a lump-sum payment in 2014, along with overpayments on a frequent monthly basis in 
2015. As I see it, this makes it clear that it was their intention to redeem the mortgage in less 
than the original term. 
Because they wanted to exercise their option to pay off the lending early, it follows that they 
ought to pay the FRC that they committed to in order to satisfy their contractual obligations. 
Put simply, the contract makes it clear that the agreement would be subject to an FRC in 
such circumstances of repayment  and Miss C and Mr M are obliged to adhere to this. 
I do accept that the mortgage contract and its terms were first given some time ago. 
Nevertheless, Barclays has referenced the need for the FRC to be paid in subsequent letters 
to Miss C and Mr M. For example, in 2018, it pointed out that the quotations illustrated may 
not account for any charges; specifically, the final repayment charge. With this in mind, I 
must take into account that Miss C and Mr M had (at least) constructive knowledge of the 
need to pay this charge and chose to still go ahead with the early repayment of the lending. 
For me to decide that Barclays ought to waiver the FRC, Id need to be satisfied that it 
breached the contract to the extent that the relevant term should be voided. Or, its failing(s) 
require compensation in the region of £275  meaning that it should just remove liability for 
this amount or refund it to Miss C and Mr M if it has already been paid. Ive thought carefully 
about this, as its clear to me that Miss C and Mr M feel strongly that they should not be 
expected to pay this sum in any event.
Barclays accepts that it gave inaccurate information about what needed to be settled. Its not 
entirely clear what was advised; namely because the call recording from the key 
conversation where this was discussed cannot now be produced. Based on what I do know,   
Miss C and Mr M proactively asked Barclays to confirm if the property deeds could be 
released. I see no reason to doubt that, had Barclays spelled out the FRC at that time,    
Miss C and Mr M wouldve endeavoured to have made the necessary payment. 
Instead, everything leads me to believe that they were given the false impression that there 
was no remaining balance or charges left to cover. And Ive seen no compelling evidence to 
prove otherwise. That is, Barclays has not persuaded me that the need for the FRC to be 
satisfied was indeed pointed out to them at the crucial time. 
It strikes me that clearing a debt is important to most  not least the redemption of a 
mortgage, which is often the largest financial commitment to bear. As mentioned, we know 
that Miss C and Mr M were keen to make this happen sooner rather than later. And 
considering the FRC looks to be a relatively standard feature of the contract, it would be 
reasonable to presume that reminding consumers of the need to pay it could be 
straightforward for Barclays. 
On these grounds, I find that compensation is appropriate here, to reflect the undue distress 
and inconvenience caused. Even so, it remains my judgment that Barclays has applied the 
FRC in accordance with the contract and, despite providing conflicting information, I cannot 
safely say that it has not remained in keeping with the predetermined terms. Nor, am I convinced that its actions can fairly diminish the contractual right it has to apply 
this charge. Which is why, I find it fair and reasonable that Barclays make an award of 
compensation, rather than removing Miss Cs and Mr Ms liability to pay the FRC. 
Our investigator recommended a total of £100 compensation. Such an award must be a 
proportionate reflection of the impact that a businesss actions (or inactions) have had. 
Having considered the service Miss C and Mr M received, I think this award is a 
proportionate reflection of the impact caused. So, it follows that I uphold this element of the 
complaint, and I think the compensation recommended by the investigator is fair in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to award 
Miss C and Mr M a total of £100 compensation.   
So, Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Miss C and Mr M a total of £100, if it hasnt already 
done so, within 28 days of receiving notice from us of their acceptance of this decision, 
failing which interest will start to accrue on this sum or on any unpaid proportion at the 
simple rate of 8% a year (less any tax properly deductible) until the date of payment.
Miss C and Mr M should note that if they accept my decision, it will be legally binding and 
they wouldnt be able to take further action over these matters. If, however, they reject the 
decision or dont reply on time, their legal rights will remain intact. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman