DRN-3434725
The complaint
Mrs R has complained that Jigsaw Insurance Services Plc unfairly removed her cover for
prosthetics from her lifetime pet policy.
What happened
Mrs R bought her policy in June 2018 via a comparison website and then through Jigsaws
own website. The insurer at that time is an entity I shall call insurer A. The policy included
cover for hip replacements. Mrs Rs dog was diagnosed with hip dysplasia and Mrs R made
several claims for her dogs hip dysplasia.
The policy came up for renewal in June 2021 and Jigsaws renewal invite advised her policy
would now be underwritten by an insurer that I shall call insurer C. The terms of the policy
had also changed removing the cover for prosthetics. There was also a change in excess
and premium.
Mrs Rs vet had previously advised that her dog would require at least one hip being
replaced, so Mrs R was unhappy her lifetime policy now excluded this given it wouldnt cover
prosthetics. So, she complained. Jigsaw didnt think it had done anything wrong as it said
the changes were instigated by insurer C not Jigsaw.
As Mrs R remained dissatisfied, she brought her complaint to us. The investigator was of the
view her complaint should be upheld and that Jigsaw should pay for the cost of her dogs hip
replacement up the policy limits, adding interest if Mrs R had already paid for it. Mrs R
agreed with the investigators assessment. Jigsaw did not. It said the terms of policy
permitted policy terms and conditions to change over time.
On that basis Mrs Rs complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 11 August 2022 and I said the following: 
Investing in a lifetime cover policy for a pet tends to denote a wish by the 
policyholder to have their pet covered for life subject to the policys limitations. These 
policies are therefore sold on that promise. In the Insurance Product Information 
Document (IPID) it told Mrs R the following:
4Paws Pet Insurance  Life plus provides cover for veterinary treatment 
costs, due to illness or injury, for the lifetime of your pet.

Although cover is annually renewable, provided we offer and you accept our 
renewal invitation, you pet will benefit from continuous cover including costs 
for recurring conditions.
In the original welcome email, it also told Mrs R the following:
Please find attached your Certificate of Insurance and Statement of Fact 
which you must read in conjunction with the policy wording and keep for the 
life of your policy [my emphasis].
And here this policy was sold to Mrs R by Jigsaw. Mrs Rs dog will most probably 
require at least one hip replacement which will require the fitting of a prosthetic, 
which is now excluded from her policy given insurer Cs limitation. There is clear 
evidence of this from Mrs Rs vet. Mrs R also will be extremely unlikely to find any 
cover for this hip dysplasia from any other pet insurer since it would be classed as 
pre-existing and therefore excluded.
Like the investigator, I consider now excluding the fitting of a prosthetic is a 
significant change in the level of cover Mrs R thought she had, given her dogs 
dysplasia condition. Because it means that, unlike what was promised when she 
bought this policy, she now doesnt have the promised continuous cover for any 
condition her dog developed whilst covered by this policy, namely the hip dysplasia 
which will need at least one joint replacement. And I consider thats unfair, given this 
is a lifetime policy for her dog.
Insurer A withdrew from the pet insurance market and insurer C took over Mrs Rs 
policy for Jigsaw. Jigsaw said this is an annual policy and thats correct but it also 
means cover is continued year on year, provided Mrs R renewed each year as 
detailed above, in the IPID. It also said that can also mean that policy terms could 
change, as the policy terms indicated here, namely over time.
However, that doesnt mean the insurers changes to the policy terms will always be 
fair. I consider any changes need to be fair and reasonable, which shouldnt be 
fundamentally changing the cover promised to Mrs R when she took out this policy. 
The investigator asked Jigsaw several times whether it was responsible for wanting 
to sell this policy as in it went out and found an insurer for the policy types it wanted 
to sell. Or whether insurer A was responsible. Sadly, Jigsaw wouldnt confirm any of 
this. But it did say the following:
When [insurer A opted to withdraw as an insurance underwriter in the pet 
insurance market, an alternative insurer was required for the 4Paws lifetime 
pet insurance products to continue and to be able to invite Mrs R to renew her 
cover.
There were discussions with a number of pet insurance underwriters and the 
best agreement available was reached with [insurer C].
.
We feel the best action was taken to allow the 4Paws pet insurance to 
continue when [insurer A] made their decision to withdraw 
From this and the fact another insurer, namely insurer C, took over this cover from 
insurer A, I consider its most likely that it was Jigsaw seeking compatible insurers to 
underwrite its policies rather than the insurer seeking a partner to sell the policies. 
Therefore, I am satisfied it is Jigsaws responsibility to honour its promise to provide 
lifetime cover for Mrs Rs dog, for whatever conditions arose for her in the time of 
cover. Mrs R has kept her end of the duty to renew each year, after all.
So, I consider as Jigsaw chose to market and describe its policy as lifetime cover, 
(and whilst its not its fault insurer A withdrew from the market and insurer C didnt 
wish to cover prosthetics), it nonetheless has a duty to ensure its information at the time Mrs R bought her policy was clear, fair and not misleading. It was clear in my 
view, as it clearly was providing lifetime cover for Mrs Rs dog.
If, however, Jigsaw wanted to provide the policy on the basis there could be such 
significant changes to the terms at a later date (meaning that it wasnt in fact lifetime 
cover) it should have made that clear at the outset which wasnt the case here. That 
would have meant that it shouldnt have been marketed in the way it was. I dont 
consider a policy terms saying terms could change over time covers this, as the 
failure to provide the cost of prosthetics is a significant and fundamental change to 
the promise of lifetime cover given Mrs Rs dog was diagnosed with hip dysplasia.
Obviously, the promised lifetime cover hasnt happened here, given the limitation of 
insurers C cover, which is something specifically that Mrs Rs dog needs. I consider 
Mrs R now requires the promise of lifetime cover for her dog to include all the 
treatment necessary subject to the policys monetary limitations. Otherwise she has 
had no opportunity of a clear and informed choice at the time she bought her policy. 
Its also not enough to simply refer to terms and conditions. Mrs R thought she was 
buying lifetime cover for her and had no reason to believe the treatment her dog will 
need would be limited in the way insurer C is only now prepared to cover it.
So, I consider Jigsaw should now pay for any prosthetics Mrs Rs dog might need 
given this hip dysplasia and that should encompass both hips, not just the one Mrs R 
presently knows is likely to be replaced.
Mrs R has recently told us that her dog is in continuing pain and was seen by the vet 
in June 2022 where her medication was changed and again at the end of July where 
the vet has confirmed her condition is deteriorating and that she needs the hip 
replacement soon. So, Mrs R is understandably anxious to be able to get this matter 
sorted out, so that her and her vet can get on with treating her dog under this lifetime 
policy. I consider that this is obviously distressing for Mrs R. Therefore, I consider its 
reasonable that Jigsaw should also pay Mrs R £250 compensation for the upset and 
distress this matter has caused her.
Mrs R accepted my provisional decision, Jigsaw didnt. 
It said the following: 
We disagree with the decision that the Ombudsman has provisionally made against 
us 
We are being penalised for something that was not our decision, as it was 
insurer A that made the decision to withdraw as an insurer in the pet 
insurance market and insurer C who removed cover for prosthetics.
In regard to the statement quoted in the provisional decision, it is correct as 
veterinary treatments costs are covered. 4Paws Pet Insurance  Life plus 
provides cover for veterinary treatment costs, due to illness or injury, for the 
lifetime of your pet.
In regard to this statement, insurer C have continued to provide cover for 
recurring conditions. Since Mrs R renewed her policy with insurer C as the 
insurer, claims have been settled for the Hip Dysplasia condition, previous 
settled by insurer A.
[The policy says] although cover is annually renewable, provided we offer and 
you accept our renewal invitation, you pet will benefit from continuous cover 
including costs for recurring conditions.
Insurer C have not removed cover for a condition but that they will not provide cover for a treatment that requires prosthetics and have not removed cover 
for any alternative treatments.
General Insurance products are standardly offered on a 12-month renewable 
basis and the customer is invited to renew based on the terms offered at that 
renewal. No guarantee is given that the terms will not change.
There does need to be a mechanism for change in circumstances such as 
this and any alterations required due to new or amended legislation. The 
change was made in accordance with the regulatory requirements.
As Mrs Rs dog was not been diagnosed with Hip Dysplasia until February 
2021, its unclear how this would have impacted her decision when first 
purchasing the pet insurance in 2018.
The provisional decision is that we should cover the costs of the hip 
replacement and a potential future hip replacement; however, no amount 
limitation has been detailed and must presume that you expect this to be as 
part of the £7000 annual veterinary fees limit.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so again, I remain of the reasoning as expressed in my provisional decision.
 
This is because Mrs R was promised lifetime cover for any conditions her dog developed 
during the life of the policy on the provision that she renewed each year. Her dog sadly 
developed hip dysplasia, and namely one hip now requires a replacement prosthetic which 
has been removed from cover. So, in effect she is no longer able to have the benefit of the 
lifetime cover she bought originally because she would have to pay for the prosthetic 
required to be used to replace the hip joint regardless of the policy limit of £7,000 per year. 
Sadly, there is no other method of replacing a hip joint without a prosthetic so alluding to 
alternative treatments as Jigsaw has done above, doesnt make much sense.
 
As I explained in my provisional decision, the removal from cover of the prosthetic is 
significant in Mrs Rs case as her dog requires a prosthetic, so the promise of lifetime cover 
by Jigsaw is thereby unreasonably limited in very particular circumstances of Mrs Rs case.
So, on that basis as a provider, if Jigsaw set out to market and promise lifetime cover which 
naturally induces the consumer to buy it which Mrs R did in 2018, and then fails to deliver it 
in 2022, because the cover has been limited, its unfair and unreasonable. Because simply in 
that case, Jigsaw cant honour the promise it gave Mrs R in 2018. So, what Mrs R bought in 
2018 isnt promising what it said it would do in the situation she is facing with her dogs hip 
dysplasia now, given the most important promise of lifetime cover. 
I dont know how much the actual cost of a prosthetic is for such a joint replacement but 
given they tend to be rather bespoke to the actual dog, it appears to me that it could cost a 
substantial amount of the overall cost of the operation. Hence most likely the reasons for 
insurer C not wishing to cover that cost. 
So, because Jigsaw promised Mrs R lifetime cover that is a guarantee of exactly that, 
lifetime cover irrespective of the fact the policy is annually renewable. So, excluding a 
possible significant cost of the total of a joint replacement now, it remains unfair and 
unreasonable for Mrs Rs circumstances. The risk of things changing over the lifetime of the 
policy such as this, must be the providers not the policyholders with the exception of things 
like premium levels and co-payment percentages as otherwise it is wrong to induce a 
consumer in 2018 to buy a lifetime policy promising cover for any necessary treatment up to the policy limits and then exclude a potentially significant amount of the costs of the 
treatment required in 2022.
For the avoidance of any doubt throughout my provisional decision and now, I have always 
referred to the policys monetary limits. So for example say the hip replacement cost £5,000 
and the prosthetic cost £3,000 and Mrs R had the benefit of £7,000 unused cover, I would 
therefore expect insurer C to pay the £2,000 less the excess from Mrs R, Jigsaw to pay the 
£3,000 being the prosthetic cost with Mrs R to pay the excess. If the costs of the surgery 
exceed Mrs Rs cover level then I would expect the proportionate reduction to be shared 
equally between insurer C, Jigsaw and the remaining amount Mrs R would need to cover 
herself.    
My final decision
So, for these reasons, it my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Jigsaw Insurance Services Plc trading as 4Paws to do the following:
Confirm that when Mrs R presents her claim for the hip replacement her dog 
requires, it will compensate her the costs of the prosthetic which isnt covered by 
insurer C presently underwriting her policy as detailed in the example above.
If throughout the remaining lifetime of Mrs Rs dog and if Mrs R continues to renew 
this policy, and if her dog then requires the other hip replacement, it should likewise 
compensate Mrs R up to the costs of that second prosthetic as detailed in the 
example above.
Pay Mrs R £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman