DRN-3427958
The complaint
N, a limited company, complains HSBC UK Bank Plc failed to release funds which were held
in its business current account.
What happened
N held a business current account with HSBC. In November 2019 HSBC began a review of
the account and stopped N from accessing it. HSBC later granted N a bounce back loan
(BBL) in May 2020 while the account was still blocked. The account continued to be blocked
which meant N couldnt access the loan funds either.
In June 2021 HSBC decided it would release the non BBL funds to N. It sent a cheque for
the balance in the post. Mr N, who is Ns director, says he wasnt in the United Kingdom
when the cheque was sent, and he says he asked HSBC to pay him the balance to one of
his accounts. HSBC decided not to resend the balance. They have told our service the
reason for this. HSBC also cancelled the BBL and removed the loan funds from Ns account.
In March 2022 I issued two provisional decisions for this complaint.
In my first provisional decision I upheld the complaint in part. I found HSBC were able to 
initially restrict Ns account and conduct a review. But based on the limited information 
HSBC had provided at the time, I wasnt persuaded they could continue to hold onto the non 
BBL balance in the account. Instead I found they should send that balance to N. I also found 
that HSBC were able to cancel the BBL and revoke the loan funds in the account under the 
terms of the BBL. 
Mr N responded and said N didnt want the BBL anymore, but HSBC should return the non 
BBL funds promptly. HSBC responded and provided further reasoning on why they were 
retaining the non-BBL funds. Based on the new information I provisionally decided not to 
uphold the complaint. Here is what I said:
When I reached my previous provisional decision, I was clear that it was based on the
limited information HSBC had provided. HSBC had failed to respond to the investigators
findings, and they had been afforded enough time to provide a response. So, it was
appropriate for the case to be passed to me to decide. And, on reviewing the complaint, I
could not fairly conclude that HSBC had demonstrated they could reasonably continue to
hold onto the non-BBL funds. But since my provisional decision HSBC has provided further
reasoning to support their actions, which they were entitled to do.
HSBC is under no obligation to reveal to N why it is holding onto the non-BBL funds. But
what is clear is that they have a wide variety of legal and regulatory obligations, which
sometimes mean that holding onto funds is a reasonable action to take. I have re-considered
the complaint in light of what HSBC have now said, and, as a result, I understand why they
have yet to release the non-BBL funds to N. I find they are complying with their legal and
regulatory responsibilities, and I will not be directing them to release the funds they are
holding.
Since I issued my second provisional decision neither HSBC nor N has responded, but the 
deadline to respond has passed. As a result, I have decided to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided to not uphold Ns complaint for the same reasons I gave in my second 
provisional decision. Those findings are copied above and form part of my final decision.
I find HSBC were able to initially restrict Ns account while they conducted a review. I have 
considered the basis for their decision and I find it was reasonable. And, following HSBC 
providing further reasoning to explain why they are still holding onto the non-BBL funds, I am 
satisfied they dont need to send those funds to N. I find they are acting in line with their legal 
and regulatory responsibilities. I understand Mr N will want to know HSBCs reasons for 
taking the action they have, but they are under no obligation to reveal them.
For the reasons I have given, I am not directing HSBC to release the funds they are holding 
to N. 
My final decision
I have decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2022.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman