DRN-3251047
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the decision by Unum Ltd to turn down her income protection claim.
What happened
Mrs B is covered under her employers group income protection scheme. The scheme 
will pay benefit initially if Mrs B cant work in her occupation because of illness or injury. 
The scheme has a 26-week deferred period.
In January 2020, Mrs B stopped working in her customer-facing role. She submitted a 
claim to Unum. Mrs B then returned to work in August 2020.
Unum turned down the claim as it said Mrs B didnt meet the scheme definition of 
incapacity. Unhappy with this, Mrs B brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought the medical 
evidence supported that Mrs B had met the scheme definition of incapacity. She 
therefore recommended that Unum pay the claim, plus interest. The investigator also 
thought Unum should pay Mrs B £250 compensation to recognise the impact its claims 
decision had had upon her.
I issued a provisional decision on 16 December 2021. Heres what I said:
The policy terms explain that Mrs B is incapacitated if shes unable, due to illness or 
injury, to perform the material and substantial duties of her insured occupation. This 
would need to be the case throughout the 26-week deferred period.
The deferred period was 21 January 2020 to 20 July 2020. Ive therefore considered 
the available evidence during this period.
Mrs Bs husband sadly experienced unexpected ill health in mid-January 2020, and 
was hospitalised for several weeks as a result. Mrs B explained in her claim form that 
she was struggling to cope with stress as a result of this, and that she couldnt work 
due to lack of sleep, and because she was experiencing panic attacks and anxieties.
I see that Mrs B visited her GP at the end of January 2020. The GP noted that Mrs B was 
worried about her husband, and concerned about his care. The GP said Mrs B couldnt 
cope with work, as she couldnt concentrate and was understandably emotional and 
anxious about her husband. Her GP signed her off as unfit to work due to family stress 
due to health problems, and prescribed her medication for anxiety.
In February 2020, Mrs Bs GP noted that she felt the medication was helping. The GP 
also recorded that Mrs B was having counselling through work. The following month, the 
GP recorded that Mrs B had felt lower in the past two weeks, and that she was worried for 
her partner. It was noted that the anxiety Mrs B was experiencing was really affecting her 
mood, and that she would be open to trying an antidepressant.
Then in April 2020, Mrs Bs GP said her husband had been discharged from hospital 
and had carers in place. It was noted that Mrs B had tried the antidepressant 
medication once but felt tired and dizzy the following day and struggled to care for her 
husband, and so she stopped the medication. Mrs B continued to be signed off by her 
GP.
In June 2020, Mrs B was reviewed by occupational health. The adviser noted that Mrs Bs 
husband required a high level of care at home, which had resulted in stress affecting her 
mood, sleep, energy levels, concentration and memory. The adviser also said that Mrs B 
was experiencing panic attacks, which although reduced, were still occurring around twice 
a day. Mrs B told the adviser shed recently been allocated some additional support with 
night- time care for her husband, which she hoped would lead to more restful sleep. The 
adviser concluded that Mrs B was unfit to return to her role due to panic attacks and 
impaired mood, sleep, energy levels, concentration and memory.
Later that month, Mrs B told her GP that things were better at home, and her husband 
had night-time carers, so she was getting more rest at night. The GP said that Mrs B 
was still feeling quite panicky at times, sometimes twice a day. The GP noted that 
occupational health had suggested that Mrs B take a further four weeks off work to take 
some time for herself, and Mrs B agreed with them  though she was keen to get back 
to work after this time. It was at this point that the GP amended Mrs Bs sickness 
certificate to say she was unfit to work due to family stress due to health problems and 
own mental health problems.
In July 2020, Mrs B was again reviewed by occupational health. She continued to report 
panic attacks, though said her sleep had benefited from increased support at night as her 
husband had external carers. Mrs B said her concentration and memory remained 
impaired as she was easily distracted. The adviser thought that Mrs B remained unfit for 
work.
Overall, I think its apparent that Mrs B had a very difficult situation in her home life, and 
its clear this caused her stress. However, Unum points out that Mrs B was managing to 
care for her husband during this period. It also says that if Mrs B symptoms were 
disabling, it would expect to see a more proactive treatment plan, including a referral to a 
mental health team. I think Unum raises reasonable points here.
After Mrs Bs husband was discharged from hospital, she cared for him during the night 
until June 2020, and this seemingly impacted her sleep, as well as her memory and 
concentration levels. I see this improved once her husband had night-time carer support.
Mrs B also reported having panic attacks, and it appears this symptom was one of the 
main reasons why occupational health concluded that she couldnt work. However, I note 
that when Mrs B returned to work in August 2020, she was still having daily panic attacks, 
and these didnt prevent her from working.
I can only imagine the worry and upset that Mrs B experienced at this time. However, 
despite my sympathy for her situation, I think it was reasonable for Unum to conclude 
that the medical evidence doesnt support that Mrs Bs symptoms prevented her from 
carrying out her occupation throughout the 26-week deferred period, as required by the 
policy terms for benefit to be paid.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further comments they wished to make 
before I reached my final decision. 
Unum responded to say it accepted my provisional findings. Mrs B responded and made the following points:
The liability period for the claim was from 21 July 2020 to 24 August 2020 only.
She has provided evidence from two doctors from her GP surgery certifying that 
she was suffering from stress and her own mental health, and was therefore was 
unfit for work. She also says occupational health supported that she couldnt 
work. She would like to know what evidence Unum provided to show that she 
could work.
Unum didnt arrange for her to be independently assessed, and so she thinks it 
cant show that she had the capacity to perform her role.
She thinks Unum need to review their assessment processes when dealing with 
mental health issues, and to review their policy limitations.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the view expressed in my provisional findings. Ill explain why.
Im aware of Unums liability period under the claim; however, I wouldnt require an insurer to 
pay benefit where the policy definition of incapacity hadnt been met, simply because there 
was a short claim period. 
Mrs B has made reference to the medical evidence she provided in support of her claim. I 
can confirm that I referred to all the medical evidence I relied upon in my provisional 
decision, and Unum didnt provide any additional evidence that Mrs B hasnt seen. 
As Ive explained, for Mrs Bs claim to be payable, she must show that she meets the policy 
definition of incapacity. However, I dont think the available medical evidence does support 
this, for the reasons that Ive explained in my provisional findings.
Unum didnt arrange for Mrs B to be independently assessed. An insurer may occasionally 
arrange this as part of their assessment of a claim if they think it would be helpful, but it isnt 
something thats arranged as a matter of course in these types of claims. I would also point 
out that the onus wasnt on Unum to show that Mrs B could work, rather the onus was on 
Mrs B to show that she met the definition of incapacity.
Whilst I recognise Mrs B is disappointed with Unums decision, a financial business will 
decide their own internal processes, and decide upon the policy terms they offer under 
insurance contracts. 
Overall, I remain satisfied that it was appropriate for Unum to turn down the claim, and for 
the same reasons as set out in my provisional findings.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-RyanOmbudsman