DRN-2769973
The complaint
Miss C complains that Santander UK Plc rejected her claim under section 75 Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 in respect of a dating agency which failed to deliver.
What happened
In June 2018 Miss C joined a dating agency. She paid £2,045 and was promised a minimum 
of nine profiles of potential partners in 12 months. She received three, none of which she 
thought suitable and none led to a meeting. She says the responses she received from the 
agency were rude and condescending. Miss C asked about the complaints procedure in 
October 2018. The agency responded by apologising for any offence it may have caused 
and provided details of an email address to send in her complaint.
The agency says it assumed she was going to make a complaint and suspended her 
membership in anticipation. This was in accordance with its terms and conditions, but it 
didnt tell Miss C. She contacted it in August 2019 and learned of the suspension. The 
agency offered to reinstate the remaining nine months and to seek suitable matches, but it 
says she declined this offer.
She made a s 75 claim to Santander. Initially it believed the required debtor-creditor-supplier 
chain was broken due to payment being made to another company, but Miss C explained 
that this was a related company. Santander then considered the substance of her claim but 
concluded there had been no breach of contract. The decision was relayed in a phone call 
which got disconnected. A letter was also sent.  Miss C was unhappy that she wasnt called 
back. 
A complaint was brought to this service where it was considered by one of our investigators 
who didnt recommend it be upheld. He agreed that the debtor-creditor-supplier link was 
unbroken. However, he didnt consider there had been a breach of contract. He said Miss 
Cs account had been suspended in line with the terms and conditions which state  If you 
have not responded to our communications or we are investigating some aspect of your 
membership, your service may also need to be suspended.
He said it was regrettable that the agency hadnt made her aware her account had been 
suspended, but he also thought Miss C could have contacted the agency to enquire as to 
why she wasnt receiving any further matches.  
Miss C didnt agree. She said Santander had asked her to prove her claim but had not 
required the agency to do the same for its rebuttal. She said there was no communication 
that she hadnt replied to and the onus was on the agency to let her know what it had done. 
She had let it know she was insulted by the behaviour of the staff and the tone used in 
communications.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have every sympathy with Miss C, but I dont consider I can uphold her complaint. I will 
explain why.
There are three elements to Miss Cs complaint, the matches she received were unsuitable 
and the agency was unhelpful, it failed to let her know her account had been suspended and 
thirdly Santander hadnt investigated the matter properly.
She entered into a contract under which the agency agreed to provide at least nine matches 
in 12 months. It provided three in about three months. I appreciate Miss C thinks these 
werent suitable and they didnt result in any meetings. I gather the agency provided details 
of the potential matches and Miss C had the say as to whether to take them further. I believe 
she did, but she says that she did so reluctantly. 
The agency didnt guarantee nine meetings and it was open to Miss C to reject the three she 
says she was pressed to accept. In the circumstances I cannot see that the agency failed to 
honour its contract in finding potential matches.
It is clear there was a breakdown between Miss C and the agency and that is evidenced by 
the email exchanges I have seen. Miss C indicated she was going to complain and the 
agency provided the email address for her to do so. I am satisfied from the material I have 
seen that it took the presumptive step to suspend her account due to her impending 
complaint. That may have been premature, but I can see why it did so.
I agree that it failed to let her know and all parties do not dispute this. There was no 
requirement for it to do so, but it would have been good practice to let Miss C know. It seems 
Mss C put the matter on hold and waited over nine months before contacting the agency. I 
appreciate she had been told it would be more diligent identifying potential matches which 
might take some time, but nonetheless I would have expected her to have made an enquiry 
sooner.
Once she did contact it the agency offered to resume her account with a new matchmaker 
and extend it for nine months so it could be fulfilled. It seems that she was willing to allow it 
to identify matches during the preceding period but come August 2019 she decided she 
didnt believe it would be able to meet her needs. That is regrettable since it would have 
allowed the agency to fulfil the contract. 
I appreciate Miss C felt the tone of some of the emails from the agency wasnt acceptable 
but having read them I dont consider they were offensive. The agency said it was trying to 
find matches and while it was regrettable it had been unsuccessful at that point it couldnt 
make potential matches agree to a meeting. If Miss C had allowed it to provide at least nine 
matches and she had been able to show that these were not as she had sought then I might 
have been able to uphold her complaint.  
I have also looked at Santanders handling of her claim and I am satisfied that it made 
suitable enquires of the agency. The failure of the agency to notify Miss C her account was 
suspended was not disputed and it was done in accordance with its terms and conditions. 
The remedy if offered for this failure of a nine month extension was deemed reasonable by 
the bank. It did raise the issue of the correct link being in place but accepted this once 
further information was provided.  Overall, I cannot say that the claim was mishandled.
It is not clear if the agency is willing to provide a further nine months service or if Miss C 
would be willing to accept that offer, but I would hope that both parties will consider such a 
resolution.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman