DRN-4069158
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd didnt do more to help stop him losing money to 
gambling via payments made from his current account.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary:
Mr M has a gambling disorder and is unhappy that hes been able to circumvent Monzos 
gambling-prevention blocks. He thinks Monzo should do more to help customers, like 
him, who are unable to stop gambling and have no other means of support. And, if 
Monzo had done more when he sought help in September 2021, he wouldnt have lost 
£4,500 to gambling between November and December 2022. So hes asked the bank to 
refund this money.
Monzo refused to refund Mr Ms losses. It said the gambling block had prevented some 
transactions from going through. But some merchants processed Mr Ms payments using 
non-gambling merchant codes which prevented it from identifying and blocking them. 
Mr M didnt accept the banks response and asked us to look into the matter.
Our investigator didnt think Monzo had done anything wrong in allowing the disputed 
payments to go through. And they thought the ban had offered Mr M appropriate support 
relating to his gambling disorder. Mr M disagreed, so the complaint has come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr M, Ive 
reached the same outcome as the investigator for much the same reasons.
I first want to acknowledge and thank Mr M for being so open, with both this service and the 
bank, about his gambling disorder. It can be far more difficult to provide appropriate, tailored 
support if the consumer isnt (or, for whatever reason, feels they cant be) open and honest 
about the unfortunate situation theyve found themselves in.
Mr M brought a previous complaint to this service about the support Monzo offered when he 
contacted it in September 2021 about his disorder, after hed lost £400 to gambling. In July 
2022, the investigator concluded that Monzo ought to have done more and encouraged it to 
get in touch with Mr M to explore what further support he needed at that stage. But Mr M 
remains unhappy with the service hes received overall. He says the losses he suffered 
between November and December 2022 occurred because Monzo hadnt warned him about 
the limitations of the gambling block and because the block doesnt go far enough to protect 
consumers from gambling-related harm.
I appreciate Mr Ms strength of feeling and I wont be revisiting the conclusions we reached 
on his previous complaint. But I would note Monzos records show that, as far back as 
December 2020, Mr M was aware the gambling block couldnt prevent all payments to 
gambling websites. Hed contacted the bank then because a gambling payment had been 
processed and, at that point, the bank told Mr M how the gambling block worked as well as 
that some merchants find a way around it. I can also see that Monzo explains on its website 
how the gambling block works, with reference to MCCs.
To be clear, gambling blocks like Monzos work by identifying the merchant category code 
(MCC) that has been applied to the merchant/retailer. And some merchants have multiple 
codes to account for the different types of products and services they offer. There is a 
specific MCC that gambling merchants (including those offering their services online) are 
supposed to use when processing card payments. But if a gambling merchant doesnt use 
the correct code then the gambling block wont work. 
Unfortunately, this limitation is something that impacts all gambling blocks, across all the 
financial institutions that offer them, and isnt unique to Monzo. The merchants who use non-
gambling MCCs tend to do so precisely because it allows their customers to circumvent 
MCC-based gambling blocks. And I dont think, as Mr M suggests, its proportionate to 
expect Monzo to search the entire internet on a regular basis to try and find gambling 
merchants who are processing payments using non-gambling MCCs.
I also note that, at times, it seems Mr M has managed to gamble by sending money from his 
Monzo account to e-money institutions, or payment gateways, before sending it on to a 
gambling website. So I think its possible that Mr M would still have found a way to gamble 
his money even if Monzo had blocked other merchants.
What Im pleased to see is that:
Monzo has, on more than one occasion, identified and blocked payments that Mr M has 
authorised to gambling websites which have used the correct gambling MCC.
Monzo offers the facility for individual consumers to block certain merchants by name 
and it has done so on at least one occasion for Mr M after he told the bank a merchant 
was actually a gambling operator.
Mr M has proactively got in touch with Monzo on a number of occasions in an attempt to 
limit his exposure to gambling. In-app chats have taken place about limiting his overdraft 
facility, bank transfers and ATM withdrawals. I think, on most occasions, Monzo has 
replied in a timely and sensitive manner and enquired how else it can support him. But, 
on more than one occasion, Mr M told the bank that he didnt need further assistance 
because he was receiving sufficient support from elsewhere.
In all the circumstances, I cant fairly conclude its Monzos fault that Mr M found a way to 
gamble through his current account. I appreciate Mr M has a disorder and this type of 
addiction will drive individuals to behave in ways that are harmful to themselves. But I cant 
hold Monzo responsible for unscrupulous gambling merchants who deliberately 
miscategorise their MCCs in a way that allows them to prey on vulnerable people like Mr M. 
With all of the above in mind, I cant fairly instruct Monzo to refund any of the money Mr M 
has spent on gambling or make any other award of compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman