DRN-4271690
The complaint
Mr S has complained about Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, not contacting 
him when it blocked a transaction on his account. Hes explained this led to additional costs.
Mr S has been represented in bringing his complaint. But for simplicity, Ive referred to all 
submissions made on his behalf, as having been made by him directly.
What happened
Mr S was abroad, and went to collect his hire car. However, Barclaycard had blocked his 
account, due to fraud concerns. It didnt contact him to let him know, so this resulted in Mr S 
needing to call Barclaycard to find out what had happened. When he did, the card was 
unblocked. Unfortunately, the original car hire company then refused to accept it, leading to 
Mr S losing his deposit, and having to hire a car elsewhere.
Mr S complained to Barclaycard. It paid him £100, on the basis that it should have contacted 
him when it blocked his account, as per its normal procedure. It had his details, so there was 
no reason for it not to have done.
Mr S didnt agree, as he felt Barclaycard was also responsible for the other costs he 
incurred, specifically:
the loss of his deposit with the first hire car company; and
the costs incurred with the second hire company (which I understand are in dispute).
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She thought the complaint should be 
upheld in part. She thought it fair that, in addition to the £100 already paid, Barclaycard 
should also refund Mr Ss call costs, upon receiving proof of them. But, she didnt think 
Barclaycard should be held responsible for the further losses/costs, because it unblocked 
the card.
As Mr S disagreed, his complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considerable sympathy for the situation Mr S is in. It appears that what should have 
been a smooth car collection, ended up with things going wrong, one after another. It must 
have been very stressful, and Im also aware that the costs involved are substantial. Mr S did 
what he needed to, in a very difficult situation.
Its clear to me that the chain of events started when Barclaycard didnt contact Mr S, which 
its accepted it should have. Had it done, Mr S would presumably have responded, and the 
card wouldnt have been blocked. But, I need to think about how much of what then 
happened Barclaycard should fairly be held responsible for.
When Mr S tried to pay again, after the card had been unblocked, the original hire car 
company didnt process it. I cant know why not, as the card was no longer blocked. But, 
theres no evidence to suggest that this was because of Barclaycard. Once the card was 
unblocked, its not clear to me why the transaction shouldnt have gone ahead. For this 
reason, I dont think it fair to hold Barclaycard responsible for losses incurred regarding the 
original hire car company.
Im afraid it follows that Barclaycard shouldnt be held responsible for costs/losses regarding 
the second hire car company, because I dont think theyre sufficiently closely linked to 
Barclaycards initial mistake.
Putting things right
To put things right, as far as I think Barclaycard should, it must refund the call costs incurred 
as a result of trying to sort out the block. It should add 8% simple interest a year, from the 
date of the call(s), to the date of settlement.
This is in addition to the £100 already paid. If it hasnt been, it must be now.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint in part. I require Barclays Bank UK PLC, 
trading as Barclaycard, to take the actions set out above, in the section entitled Putting 
things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman