DRN-3581444
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as C, complains that Starling Bank Limited wont refund the 
money the company lost after they made a payment to a fraudster.
What happened
The background to the complaint is well known to both parties and so I wont repeat it at
length here.
Briefly, in early 2021, the companys director was called by someone pretending to be from 
British Telecom (BT). She was told that BT had detected some unusual internet activities on 
her account. She was asked to download a software and carry out certain checks. 
Eventually the caller persuaded the director that her personal and companys bank accounts 
were compromised. 
The director explains that at one point she became suspicious and questioned the caller. 
The caller became very aggressive and revealed that he was not calling from BT. He 
threatened that if the director refused to co-operate and carry out his instructions, he will 
clear all the funds from her bank accounts, including the companys accounts. He even 
demonstrated on her personal account that he could do so (though it later transpired that this 
was a trick that was orchestrated to convince her that he had the ability to do this).
The director felt that she had no option but to carry out the callers instructions and made 
some transfers from her personal account and from another account of the company. 
However, this complaint isnt about them. As I understand it, her banks in those instances 
have since refunded the money.
The director was then instructed by the fraudster to keep her laptop on overnight. She says 
that when she tried to sever the connection and shutdown the laptop, he called her back and 
issued further threats should she try to disconnect. 
The following morning, the fraudster called her again. He was again very aggressive. He 
accused the director of trying to hide that C had an account with Starling bank but he knew 
all about it. He then told her to transfer £25,000 from that account, which she did.
It is unclear what happened next but the following day the director reported to Starling bank, 
and also to her other banks, Action Fraud and the police.
Starling contacted the recipients bank but unfortunately nothing could be recovered. Starling 
told C that it couldnt reimburse the sum under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) 
code as, strictly speaking, this wasnt a scam. This is because by the time the director 
transferred the £25,000, the caller had already made her aware of his true intentions.
The director did not agree. She said that the police advised her that what happened here 
was an illegal activity as she had been under coercive control. So, she strongly feels that the 
bank should reimburse the sum.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and concluded that it should be upheld. 
They said, in summary:
In this case, it would be considered that C authorised the payment, even though she was 
threatened to make the transaction. 
However, the bank is expected to have measures in place to detect any unusual activity 
on the account and intervene appropriately when it occurs. This includes looking out for 
payments which might indicate that a customer is at risk of financial harm. In this 
instance there was enough going on around the account activity that warranted 
intervention by the bank before the payment was processed. 
If that had happened, and had the bank called the director to verify the payment, it is 
more likely than not that the director would have either revealed what was happening or 
she would have been unable to maintain a plausible cover story to disguise the real 
purpose of the payment. This in turn would have led the bank to take additional steps 
thereby eventually preventing the loss to C.
But the bank missed this opportunity to prevent the loss to its customer. Therefore, it is 
fair that it reimburses C the sum lost, together with interest at 8% simple p.a. 
Starling did not agree. In summary, the bank reiterated that the director went ahead and 
made the payment despite knowing what was happening. It said that the director ought to 
have called their bank(s) but she failed to do so. It said that the director acted in a grossly 
negligent manner. Therefore, the bank shouldnt be required to reimburse the loss. The bank 
was also of the view that even if it had intervened and called the director,  she would not 
have told the truth to the bank and would still have made the payment, as she was listening 
to the fraudster at that time. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigator that the payment was authorised by C, though it was under a 
unique set of circumstances. 
So, the starting position is that the bank isnt liable for the transaction that was authorised by 
its customer. But this isnt the end of the story. For example, Starling has a duty to exercise 
reasonable skill and care, pay due regard to the interest of its customers and to follow good 
industry practice to keep customers accounts safe. This includes identifying vulnerable 
consumers who may be particularly susceptible to scams and looking out for payments 
which might indicate the consumer is at risk of financial harm. 
Taking these things into account, I think the bank should fairly and reasonably have had 
systems in place to look out for out of character or unusual transactions, or other signs that 
might indicate that its customer was at risk of fraud. Ultimately, it is a matter for Starling as to 
how it chooses to configure its fraud detection systems and strike a balance between 
allowing its customers to transact business and questioning transactions to confirm they are 
legitimate.  But where it is alleged that it didnt do enough to prevent a loss, I will look into 
the circumstances of the case and decide, based on what I have seen, whether in that case 
the bank could have fairly and reasonably done more.
Having considered what had happened, I agree with the investigator that the bank ought to 
have intervened prior to the £25,000 payment going out. This was an unusual and a very large sum out of the account. The payment considerably reduced the available account 
balance  which might have been an indicator that account was at risk of fraud. 
In addition, about 20 minutes prior to this payment, an attempt was made to set up a new 
payee and that payment was blocked by Starling due to a mismatch in the account name. 
Immediately another new payee was set up with a different name to make this payment. It 
could well be that the payer made an error when setting up the new payee which they 
rectified but it could also be an indicator that account was at risk of fraud when taken 
together with the fact that an unusually large sum was being transferred out.
Further, all of this happened on an account that was only opened few days before. And in 
those few days the account received three large payments. Then this large outgoing 
payment happened. It is the case that the incoming and outgoing payments were all made 
by the director, but the bank wouldnt have known that for certain. This series of activities of 
large incoming and outgoing payments soon after an account was newly opened could also 
be an indicator that account was at risk of fraud.
Based on the circumstances of the transaction, I am persuaded there was enough going on 
that the bank ought to have been concerned that C might have been at risk of being 
scammed and should have intervened. I think the bank should have made further enquiries 
with C about the purpose of the £25,000 payment before allowing it to be made.
It is difficult to know for certain what exactly would have happened had the bank called the 
director. I note the banks argument that even if it had intervened and called the director, she 
would not have told the truth to the bank and would still have made the payment, as she was 
listening to the fraudster at that time. 
Had the bank called at the time, I am unsure whether the director would have told the truth, 
for fear of any repercussion. But I consider it more likely that she would have struggled to 
provide a coherent story had the bank asked all the right questions concerning the payment. 
I say this because firstly - unlike what usually happens - in this case the director knew the 
true situation. Secondly it is sometimes the case that scammers coach the payer 
beforehand as to how they should respond to any questions from their bank. But in this 
instance, it appears from what the director told us that there was no such prior coaching 
other than being told that she should put Marketing in the reference section. As such there 
was no cover story for her to tell too. Added to this, the director was under severe stress at 
the time.  Taken all of these into account, I think it is more likely that the director would have 
struggled to come up with a coherent story or stood up to scrutiny. 
Further, the payment reference was Marketing (as if the payment was towards some 
marketing activity of the company). However, as stated by the investigator, a quick check at 
the Companies Houses records would have shown the bank that the nature of business of 
the payee was purportedly Construction of domestic buildings. I doubt whether the director 
was even aware of what was stated in the Companies Houses records and so I am unsure 
how she would have explained making a payment for marketing to a construction company. 
I understand what Starling says and I appreciate it is difficult to know for certain what would 
have happened had it called the director. But in the circumstances, I consider it more likely 
that the director would have struggled to give a credible response.
The bank told us that in such circumstances where it wouldnt be happy with the response 
provided, it would reject the payment and refer it for further review, and no payment would 
be released without completing the review. Given what I said, I consider that is what would 
have more likely happened here. Had there been a payment block at that time and the account was subjected to a further 
review, I consider it more likely that the true position would have come to light. I also think 
that the fraudsters would have moved on as there would have been little prospect of 
receiving money from the account. Also, the delay would more likely have broken the spell, 
leading to the director taking actions which she did later.  
Therefore, as Starling missed an opportunity here to help prevent the loss to C, I consider it 
fair that it compensates C for the loss. 
The bank has said that C should be held liable because the director acted in a grossly 
negligent manner. It says that she went ahead and made the payment despite knowing what 
was happening, instead of calling the bank.   
For gross negligence to apply, the director would need to have shown a very significant 
degree of carelessness. That is not what happened here. As already mentioned, this is a 
unique situation.  I have considered the directors testimony. I have also listened to the calls 
she made to the bank the day after. It seems to me that she was under considerable 
pressure when she made the payment. She was under threat and in my view she was 
clearly in a vulnerable position, and at that point had no alternative but to follow the 
instructions of the fraudster or face the risk of losing all her money (or so she thought). So, I 
am unable to conclude that she acted grossly negligently in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of it, Starling Bank 
Limited should reimburse £25,000 to C (less any sum recovered and already returned), 
together with interest at 8% simple p.a. Interest should be paid from the date of the 
transaction to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman