DRN-1975189
The complaint
Mr J has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold him fee-paying Select and 
Gold packaged bank accounts in August 2001 and October 2004, respectively.
Mr J says that the accounts were mis-sold as he wanted an overdraft on a fee-free account 
and was led to believe the only way to get one was by having a fee-paid account. Mr J says 
that he received a letter saying the Select account was being withdrawn, so he upgraded his 
account to the Gold account to keep his overdraft.
What happened
Lloyds upheld Mr Js complaint about the Select account and arranged to refund Mr J the 
account fees he paid for it, plus 8% simple interest, less tax. But Lloyds didnt think the Gold 
account had been mis-sold.
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and upheld the Gold account, on the basis that 
Lloyds had sold it on an advised basis, which meant Lloyds had to make sure the account 
was right for Mr J. The adjudicator didnt think that recommending the Gold account to Mr J 
was reasonable. So the adjudicator initially recommended that Lloyds refund all of the Gold 
account fees, plus 8% simple interest.
Lloyds responded and said, amongst other things, that Mr Js testimony didnt match the 
available evidence (about his overdraft history). It also said that the Select account was not 
withdrawn until 2008 so says it would not have told Mr J the Select account was being 
withdrawn. Lloyds also said that Mr J may have travelled abroad, even if transactions did not 
appear on his bank statements, so believes Mr J may have had a need for the travel 
insurance.
The adjudicator responded to Lloyds and, whilst she acknowledged that Mr J may not have 
agreed to the account for the reasons that Mr J gave (to get an overdraft), she thought 
recommending the Gold account was unreasonable in the circumstances as Mr J couldve 
obtained the overdraft benefit and breakdown cover - benefits she thought Mr J had a need 
for - on a cheaper packaged account. Lloyds then agreed to refund Mr J the difference 
between what he did pay to have the Gold account and what he wouldve paid had he 
remained on the Select account, plus 8% simple interest, less tax.
The adjudicator put the offer to Mr J, but he did not accept the offer. Mr J questioned the 
logic of the offer given that the adjudicator had previously recommended a full refund of the 
Gold account fees. And also because Lloyds had already agreed to refund the Select 
account fees, which the adjudicator had agreed was reasonable.
Because neither party agreed on a fair resolution to the complaint, the matter has been 
referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our 
website, and Ive used that to help me decide this case.
Select account
I note that Mr J has questioned whether the Select account mayve been sold prior to August 
2001, as he believes it to be sold around 1995. So I have had a look at the evidence that is 
available. 
I can see there is a note in Lloydss records dated 9 August 2001 to show that Mr Js current 
account was changed to a Select account following Mr Js application for a loan. And as Mr J 
is aware, Lloyds no longer has bank statements prior to September 2001. Therefore, without 
any other evidence to suggest otherwise, Im satisfied that the Select account was, in all 
likelihood, sold to Mr J in August 2001 rather than 1995 as he recalls.
Mr J has questioned the amount that was refunded to him, as he believes the account 
initially cost £6 per month. Lloyds has provided evidence to show that the Select account 
initially cost £4 per month, and this increased to £5 from August 2002. So Lloydss 
calculations for the Select account fee refund look to be correct.
Lloyds has already refunded Mr J the Select account fees with interest, so I dont think it 
needs to do anything else in respect to the Select account. 
Gold account
I understand Mr J questioned why the redress being offered in relation to the Gold account 
was changed following the adjudicators initial assessment. But in explaining this, I think I 
should first make it clear that the adjudicator didnt think the account was mis-sold for the 
same reasons that he said it was. And I agree.
Mr J says that he was led to believe he had to upgrade his account (again) to the Gold 
account to get an overdraft. But Mr J already had an arranged overdraft by then. And hed 
increased it from £400 to £800 in November 2003. So I think Mr J was already aware that he 
didnt need to have the Gold account to have an overdraft or to increase it. 
Furthermore, if Mr J believed he had to have a packaged account to have an overdraft, I 
think its likely he wouldve opted for the cheapest one available (if he didnt want one for any 
other reason), rather than agree to an even more expensive one. And although Mr J has 
said that he was informed the Select account was being withdrawn and so had to change his 
account to the Gold account, the Select account was not withdrawn from sale until some 
years later in 2008. So again I cant say its more likely than not that Mr J was told this, 
particularly as Mr J, quite understandably, doesnt seem too sure on the events leading up to 
the sale of the Gold account due to how long ago it took place.
Therefore, when weighing everything up, I cant reasonably conclude that Mr J agreed to the 
Gold account because he was led to believe he had no choice but to do so to keep, or 
increase, his overdraft facility. 
But, as outlined by the adjudicator, Lloyds recommended the account to Mr J. And this 
placed a responsibility on Lloyds to ensure that whatever it was recommending was 
appropriate for Mr J. 
Mr J has confirmed that the he didnt have a need for travel insurance or mobile phone 
insurance at the time. Lloyds said that he might have travelled but used a credit card to pay for travel. However, Im not persuaded by what Lloyds has said, as Ive not been presented 
with any evidence to show that Mr J actually had a need for travel insurance in October 
2004. 
Mr J did go on to use the breakdown cover provided by the Gold account and clearly the 
overdraft benefits couldve been of use to him too. But the Gold account was not the 
cheapest account to have offered these two features  the Select account was. 
Therefore had an appropriate recommendation been made at the time, I think its not 
unreasonable to say that the Select account better suited Mr Js circumstances at the time. 
So I think it is reasonable put Mr J back in the position he likely wouldve been in had he not 
been sold the Gold account, and had instead been recommended an account that was 
appropriate for his needs at the time.
I understand why Mr J would question this, given that Lloyds has already accepted that it 
mis-sold the Select account and refunded the fees. But Lloydss reasons for doing so arent 
explicit, and so that outcome doesnt automatically have an impact on what I can conclude 
about the 2004 sale of the Gold account. What I have to consider is what Mr Js 
circumstances were in 2004, and whether Lloydss actions were fair and reasonable. Ive 
already explained why I dont think he agreed to the Gold account because hed been misled 
to think he had to in order to have an overdraft. But, as set out above, I dont think Lloyds did 
everything it needed to when it recommended this PBA to him. And so that is the basis on 
which I am making my decision.
Finally, I note that Mr J said he didnt have a need for the breakdown cover but chose to 
use it as he was already paying for it. But, as established above, Im not persuaded that he 
only agreed to the Gold account to have an overdraft. I think its more likely he agreed to it 
for the benefits provided. And as Mr J was driving a vehicle at the time, then I think it 
wouldnt have been unreasonable to recommend a product to Mr J that included breakdown 
cover.
As such, whilst I do understand Mr Js dissatisfaction, I think that the redress offered by 
Lloyds, as set out below, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Putting things right
In addition to the redress Lloyds has already paid Mr J concerning the Select account, to put 
matters right, Lloyds also needs to:
Refund Mr J the difference between what he paid to have the Gold account and what 
he wouldve paid had he held a Select account from October 2004 until the account 
was changed to a fee-free account in October 2015; and
Add simple interest on those fees at a rate of 8% per year, from the date they were 
paid, to the date of settlement
HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Mr J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I require Lloyds Bank Plc to do what I have set out 
above to put matters right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman