DRN-4520323
The complaint
Mrs B complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of boiler health checks under her 
HomeServe policy.
What happened
Mrs B holds a HomeServe policy with Aviva. An engineer carried out a health check of 
Mrs Bs boiler in January 2023, and found a number of issues with it. Aviva told Mrs B that 
she had 28 days in which to arrange the repairs, or her cover would be downgraded. Mrs B 
asked for an extension, and so Aviva gave her a further 28 days, but wouldnt extend the 
deadline further. As Mrs B still didnt arrange the repairs by the new deadline, Aviva removed 
her boiler cover from the policy. 
Aviva carried out two more checks on the boiler after Mrs B advised it that the repairs had 
been done, but there were still issues found. Aviva later said it shouldnt have carried out 
further checks, since it had already downgraded Mrs Bs cover by that point. It paid her £100 
compensation as shed taken time off work for the checks. Unhappy with Avivas handling of 
the matter, and its refusal to pay for the repairs needed, Mrs B brought a complaint to this 
Service. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be partly upheld. She thought Aviva had been 
entitled to downgrade the cover when Mrs B didnt have the repairs done within 28 days of 
the initial health check, and so didnt need to pay for any further problems found. Though 
she thought Aviva had caused Mrs B unnecessary confusion, and recommended it pay an 
additional £150 compensation to recognise this. She noted Mrs B had said she was still 
paying for the full cover, and said if that was the case then Aviva should reimburse her for 
the overpayments plus interest. Finally, she said if any parts needed replacing and were 
covered under Mrs Bs current policy, Aviva should arrange the repairs. 
Neither party agreed with our investigators recommendations, and so the matter has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted Mrs Bs request that I phone her before reaching my decision. However, Im 
satisfied that I have enough information to decide this complaint without speaking to her. 
Mrs B has explained her points about the complaint in some detail in writing. Id like to 
reassure her that Ive considered all her points, even if I havent commented on everything.
Mrs B took out Heating, Plumbing and Electrics Plus. This included cover for the boiler if it 
needed repairs. Though under the terms of the policy, a boiler health check was required to 
ensure the boiler was one Aviva could cover under the policy.
An engineer carried out the first boiler health check on 20 January 2023, and this failed. The 
engineer said the cylinder was in poor condition, and the boiler needed a new tpr 7 bar 
valve on unvented cylinder, flue not sealed.  
The policy says that when a boiler health check fails, Aviva will either:
Tell you what needs to be done to fix it  and how much it will cost if it is a repair we 
can complete
Remove the boiler or heating system cover from your policy and adjust your 
premiums accordingly
Or, cancel your agreement if you only have cover for your boiler and/or heating 
system and provide a refund
It also says:
Your boiler or heating system cover will be suspended whilst you make arrangements for 
the fix to be completed. If you subsequently provide evidence (within 28 days) that the 
problem has been fixed we will reinstate your level of cover or agreement.
Aviva told Mrs B the issues that were identified with her boiler so she could arrange the 
repairs, and suspended her boiler cover. When Mrs B didnt arrange the repairs within 28 
days, it wrote to her on 21 February 2023 to confirm that it would remove the boiler element 
from her cover. I understand Mrs B then asked Aviva for an extension to the deadline, and it 
gave her a further 28 days. However, it refused to give her any further extension after this 
and so removed the boiler cover from her policy. Im satisfied that Aviva could do so under 
the terms of the policy, and it acted reasonably by giving Mrs B some additional time to get 
the repairs done. 
Although Mrs B is of the opinion that she still has boiler cover, Aviva has provided 
screenshots of its system which confirms she doesnt. 
In April 2023, Mrs B told Aviva the repairs to the boiler had been completed. Aviva ought to 
have told Mrs B that the boiler cover had been removed from her policy. A new boiler health 
check should only have taken place if Mrs B had taken out a new policy after the repairs had 
been done, but this didnt happen. Aviva therefore arranged a second boiler health check in 
error. 
The second check took place on 10 April 2023, but this also failed. The engineer said the 
programmer wasnt working, and the boiler was noisy with unvented cylinder leaking. Mrs B 
thought the engineer had caused the problems with the boiler, and so Aviva arranged for a 
third check to take place to establish why the programmer wasnt working. The attending 
engineer said a new clock was needed. 
I can understand why Mrs B was confused by the engineer reports, as the issues identified 
in the second and third checks werent picked up in the initial check. Though I note the 
cylinder was found to be in poor condition from the outset. It could be that the issues found 
in the second and third checks only became apparent once the remedial work was done for 
the issues found in the initial health check. 
Mrs B thought that Avivas engineer had caused some of the problems with the boiler. Aviva 
did ask its engineering department about this to see if this was a possibility, which I think 
was reasonable. It was told that the components found to have issues wouldnt have been 
affected by a health check. Mrs B hasnt provided any evidence to indicate otherwise, so I 
cant reasonably conclude that Avivas engineers caused any of the problems found with her 
boiler.Mrs B wants Aviva to cover the issues identified in the second and third boiler checks. I dont 
require it to do so, as Mrs Bs policy had been downgraded with the boiler element removed. 
That means she didnt have cover under the policy for boiler repairs.  
Though its apparent that Aviva did cause Mrs B unnecessary confusion and inconvenience 
by arranging the second and third engineer visits when it shouldnt have done so. I also note 
that in Avivas final response, it advised Mrs B that if a boiler check failed, she needed to 
send in proof the remedial work had been completed so the policy could resume. But it didnt 
explain the repairs needed to be done by the deadline given, and as this didnt happen it 
removed the boiler cover. I think this has caused Mrs B some additional confusion as she 
still believes her boiler cover should have started when she sent in proof that shed had 
repairs done following the initial boiler check. I agree with our investigator that Aviva should 
pay Mrs B an additional £150 compensation for its poor handling of the matter. 
Mrs B told this Service that she is still paying for the boiler cover. Aviva has shown us thats 
not the case and it amended her remaining three premiums for the policy year from £53 to 
£26 to reflect that the boiler cover costing £84 had been removed. So I dont require Aviva to 
do anything further in this respect.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to 
pay Mrs B an additional £150 compensation*.
*Aviva must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mrs B 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman