DRN-3800750
The complaint
Ms T feels that Tandem Bank Limited has treated her unfairly about transactions on her 
credit card to purchase training courses.
What happened
In July 2019 Ms T enrolled in a course (which Ill call Course V) and in October 2019 she 
enrolled in a separate course (which Ill call Course D) both supplied by the same provider, 
using her Tandem credit card to pay for both courses. Ms T says the courses were sold to 
her as being available to her for lifetime. She paid just over £730 in total for the two 
courses.
Due to personal reasons and events of the time (the spread of the Pandemic being a factor) 
Ms T didnt try to use the courses until well into 2020. Shes pointed to emails she sent from 
June 2020 onwards regarding her inability to access all the courses and the course 
materials. So she complained to the Provider of the courses who pointed to a number of 
issues as to why the course materials werent available in the previous format. Ms T was 
unsuccessful in getting her money back from the Provider or being able to complete the 
courses as advertised. So she took her dispute to Tandem.
Tandem considered the dispute and decided that there had been a breach of contract by the 
Provider and that Tandem was liable. It considered what had happened and offered Ms T 
£400 to settle the matter. But Ms T wanted a full refund, so she brought her complaint to this 
service. 
Our Investigator considered the matter and concluded that Tandems offer was fair. But Ms T 
doesnt agree. So this complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should start by saying that the facts of the matter between the parties are broadly agreed. 
Specifically Tandem has accepted a breach of contract by the Provider, and it has made an 
offer to settle the matter. Ms T has said shes looking for a full refund, but Tandem feels its 
offer of £400 is fair in the circumstances.
Ms T says she has a cognitive disability which impacts her significantly. Ive considered this 
throughout in my decision making.
I note the timeline of events that Ms T points to and note that as the Investigator explained 
the other avenue for Tandem to consider the matter, namely under the chargeback process, 
isnt available to it due to the strict time limits in place for raising chargebacks. Having 
considered the timings of what happened here Im satisfied that Chargeback wasnt available 
to Tandem when Ms T took her dispute to it. Accordingly the only viable way of considering 
what happened here is under S75.
As Tandem has accepted that it can be held liable I dont need to decide on the finer points 
of S75 of the Consumer Credit Act. I just need to decide whether the offer is fair. 
The usual remedy for such breaches is performing the contract, but this, as the evidence 
from the Provider shows, isnt now available. And I note Ms T wishes a full refund. So an 
appropriate settlement is a fair remedy in this case.
I note that Ms T enrolled for these courses in July and October 2019 but also accepts she 
chose not to actively participate in these courses for some months. She describes not being 
able to access the courses from June 2020. Ms T hasnt shown the courses were 
unavailable before that point as she wasnt trying to participate in the courses any earlier 
than that. So we simply do not know when exactly the courses became unavailable other 
than that it was in June 2020 or earlier. So it would seem Ms T accepts she had apparently 
had access for between six and eleven months respectively for the courses.
From the evidence Ive seen it appears that neither course provided recognised 
qualifications. And as Ms T didnt participate in the courses it is hard to quantify how much 
work or benefit they entailed. Ive seen evidence regarding the course structure which 
indicates numerous modules. However I also have to consider the costs of the courses and 
note that they werent expensive. Ms T points to the number of modules of one of the 
courses as evidence it was a substantial course. But Ive also considered that one of the 
courses included a significant medical element and for the amount charged I can only 
conclude that it wouldnt have been a detailed course because had that been the case Id 
have expected the cost to be many multiples of what was charged. And for these reasons 
Im not persuaded by Ms Ts arguments about these courses enabling her to work with 
paying clients and not completing the courses meant shed not be able to get Liability 
insurance. Considering the costs of these courses and what we know of them Im not 
persuaded that completion of either course would enable her to be go straight into paid work 
whether employed or self-employed without further training, qualifications, or insurance. Im 
also not persuaded she would have been able to do this due to the nature of such work in 
this country is different to that from where the course provider was based particularly in 
relation to Course D.
Tandem has offered Ms T £400 which equates to over half of what she paid in total for the 
courses. It is of note that Ms T could have participated in these courses for a significant 
period and it appears at least possible she could have completed one of them in the time 
between enrolling and when we know it wasnt available any longer. And as we know Ms Ts 
reasons for not starting straightaway sit with her and are not the fault of the 
Providers/Tandem.
Ms T points to evidence that one course was listed as available for her lifetime and she 
accepts that she doesnt have evidence saying the same for the other course. However 
there is no persuasive evidence that the Provider at the time of agreeing the contract with 
Ms T knew that it wouldnt be able to provide the course. So as theres no persuasive 
evidence of a material misrepresentation which induced Ms T to enter the contract I find that 
a settlement such as Tandem has put forward is fair and reasonable.
I should also add that Ms T has repeatedly pointed to her losing out due to what happened 
with the provider. But shes made very little argument as to why Tandems offer is unfair, 
particularly noting that neither the provider nor Tandem are responsible for Ms T not starting 
the course when she purchased it. And her doing this is illustrative of there being no 
pressing need for her to complete these courses. It is also of note that some of the issues 
suffered here by the Provider have at least to some degree been either a direct or indirect link to issues stemming from the pandemic. And clearly none of the parties concerned could 
have anticipated this fully at the time Ms T made these purchases.
Ms T says I am struggling to understand the explanation about how I should receive a 
percentage of the money because of having access to some of the knowledge. The 
reason for this is simply that the usual remedy for such a breach is performance of the 
contract. But here that isnt possible. So Tandem looked at what was provided and that was 
many months of the courses being available to Ms T. And the reason she didnt participate 
with her isnt the fault of the provider or Tandem. Accordingly a proportionate settlement is 
fair. It should also be remembered that Tandem only has liability here due to the legislation 
Ive referred to. It wasnt a partner with the provider and received no profits or income from 
the provider. So it is entitled to provide what it sees as a fair settlement to the matter and Ms 
T is entitled to challenge the fairness of that settlement here.
And considering that the courses were available for some time to Ms T and that Ms T had 
opportunity to use it for some months I am not persuaded that the settlement offered is 
unfair. It has offered over half the amount paid. Accordingly I see no persuasive reason to 
direct Tandem to settle at any other amount as I think this is a fair and reasonable settlement 
in the round.
I appreciate that this isnt a decision Ms T wishes to read. However Im not persuaded 
Tandem has treated her unfairly here. I think its settlement offer is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, it is my decision the settlement offered by Tandem Bank 
Limited is fair. It should pay Ms T this amount within 28 days of receiving notification of her 
acceptance of this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman