DRN-3781655
The complaint
Miss S complains that Zopa Bank Limited (Zopa) irresponsibly gave her a credit card 
account that she couldnt afford.
What happened
On 23 December 2021, Miss Ss credit card was opened by Zopa with an initial credit limit 
of £800. This credit limit was never increased. 
In 2022, Miss S complained to Zopa to say that the account shouldnt have been opened 
because it wasnt affordable and that Zopa ought to have made a better effort to 
understand her financial circumstances before opening the credit card. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Miss S didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Zopa will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach 
to these complaints is set out on our website.
Miss Ss complaint is that Zopa made credit available that was unaffordable. Zopa has 
explained that it relied in part on information that Miss S provided at the time of application 
to assess affordability. They said they carried out a credit search in Miss Ss name to 
assess Miss Ss level of debt at that time and to understand how she had been managing 
that debt. With that information and using their own scoring metric, Zopa decided to agree to 
the credit limit of £800. So, there was some assessment of affordability at the time of the 
lending decision.
I have noted that Miss Ss credit file was reasonably clean at the time of the credit card 
application. When I say this, I mean that Miss Ss management of her existing credit was 
largely good. Miss S has provided her credit file and that shows that Miss S had one late 
payment on another credit card nine months before this lending decision was made. And it 
showed that there was a default on another account for a modest amount that was settled 
six months before this lending was granted. I can see that things were not so good in 2022, 
but I must look at the information that was or could have been available to Zopa at the time 
it made its lending decision, and not to use hindsight. 
Having done so, I think that had Zopa seen the credit file Miss S showed us, I think they 
would have seen insufficient reason not to offer the modest amount of credit it provided Miss 
S in December 2021. 
So, it seemed from the credit file that at the point that the lending decision was made, Miss 
S was affording her existing credit. And this ties in with the results of Zopas credit checking. 
So, Zopa were not put on notice of any reason not to agree the lending from that. And so, I 
dont think that the information that Zopa had at the time of the lending decision, would have 
led them to feel they ought to make more searching enquiries of Miss Ss financial situation. 
Having considered all the submissions made to me in this case, I have seen insufficient 
evidence that the other information that Zopa acquired or had presented to it at the time of 
the lending decision, would have led them to think that the credit they were offering was 
unreasonable. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, I have seen insufficient 
evidence to think that the credit Zopa provided to Miss S was unreasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman