DRN-3672383
The complaint
Mr W has complained about Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) in relation to his 
pension policy and the life insurance attached to it. He is unhappy that the life cover ended 
before his deferred retirement date as he was told by Aviva that as long as he kept paying 
the premiums the life insurance would continue until he turned 75 if that was what he 
wanted.
What happened
Mr W took out a pension with life insurance attached to it in 1998 from a business that Aviva 
is now responsible for.
The life insurance provided him with a sum assured of £100,000 and ran until he turned age 
60, March 2017.
Mr W regularly paid into the policy.
In 2014 he decided to defer his retirement until March 2022. The business at the time (now 
Aviva) agreed to this and processed the change. It confirmed the amendments in a letter to 
Mr W dated 15 October 2014. This letter set out that the revised selected retirement date 
was age 65. It stated that except as stated, the terms and conditions of the contract remain 
unchanged.
It also included an illustration of the policy where it set out that the death benefit of £100,000 
would be paid out if death occurred before the retirement date.
In 2020 Mr W received a statement for the pension and noticed that it also stated the life 
cover had ended in 2017.
Mr W complained to Aviva saying that before deferring his retirement date he checked with 
Aviva that the life protection could also be extended, and he was told it could. Hes also 
explained that he was told this again in 2018 verbally by Aviva and also felt the letters Aviva 
had sent him made no mention of the life cover not being extended. He also queried where 
his premiums had been going if not into the life protection. And given he had maintained the 
premiums for all this time he wanted the life protection reinstated.
When Aviva looked into his complaint it explained that the life protection could never be 
extended due to the age at the end being underwritten from the outset. So, the policy 
couldnt be reinstated and set up to end when Mr W retired in March 2022. However, Aviva 
did acknowledge that errors had occurred. It found that when the original retirement date of 
March 2017 arrived the life cover was not removed. It should have ceased, and this should 
have been recorded on its system. It also found that on a call Mr W made to Aviva in 2017 
the telephone adviser had confirmed that the £100,000 life cover on the policy would remain 
in place as long as Mr W kept paying the premiums. And another call in January 2018 where 
a different Aviva telephone adviser confirmed to Mr W the £100,000 life cover benefit ran 
until his deferred retirement date in March 2022.
It did however also confirm that the charge for life cover was collected until June 2020 at 
which point any further payments received from Mr W were reversed and the charges were 
reimbursed into to plan.
So, in light of this as well as giving the wrong information to Mr Ws financial adviser Aviva 
paid Mr W £150.
As Mr W was unhappy with the outcome Aviva had reached, he referred his complaint to this 
Service where it was assessed by one of our investigators. While she agreed that Aviva had 
given Mr W the wrong information, she felt the £150 that Aviva had paid him was sufficient to 
cover this mistake.
I issue provisional findings on this complaint on 11 August 2022 and set out why I felt the 
complaint should be upheld. An extract is below and forms part of this decision:
There is no argument that Aviva gave Mr W wrong information about the policy on a number 
of occasions. But in my view the incorrect information Aviva provided Mr W is significant. Not 
only did Aviva send paperwork which stated the life protection would continue but Mr W was 
also told this on two separate occasions, as was his financial adviser. So essentially over a 
number of years Aviva told and assured Mr W that the life protection part of the pension was 
still in place and would cease only when he retired at his deferred date of March 2022. In my 
view, this isnt good enough and I would expect a more accurate service from a professional 
provider.
Aviva has said that there was legislation brought in with the 2007 Financial Bill that resulted 
in member contributions to personal pension term assurance policies, including life cover set 
up in conjunction with a personal policy, no longer receiving tax relief on contributions made 
on or after 6 August 2007 in certain situations. Aviva has told us that this affected all of its 
individual personal pension products, as the life cover under its pension products were set 
up as a separate contract. Avivas personal pension scheme rules dont allow policyholders 
to pay contributions which dont qualify for tax relief. And one of these situations was if the 
term of the life cover was longer than the period specified on the application. So, on any 
personal pension if the policyholder decided to change or extend their retirement date the life 
cover would cease at the original retirement date.
However while this may be the case and I appreciate Avivas decision to not extend the life 
policy was born out of regulation there is no reason why Mr W would have known about this 
unless Aviva had made him aware (which it didnt). So, this argument in my view is flawed 
and isnt enough to argue that Mr W should have known this despite being told different on 
several occasions.
In deciding the right way to redress this situation I must consider a number of issues.
Firstly, its reasonable the life protection part of the pension couldnt be reinstated. And given 
Mr Ws deferred end date has now passed there would be no point in this happening even if 
it could be.
Mr W has said that he wouldnt have taken the policy in the first place had it not had the life 
cover. Given the pension amount was small it is likely he did only take it for the protection. 
But life cover was always a part of the policy from the outset and until 2017 the policy gave 
him what he wanted. So, I dont think in reality there is a question over whether Mr W would 
have taken the policy out in the first place.
I cant know what Mr W would have done if he had known at the time the life cover couldnt 
be extended. There is a possibility that he may have decided not to defer his retirement age. 
But equally he may have continued with deferred his retirement and decided to take out another life protection policy to give him the cover he needed for the extra five years.
However, he didnt take another policy in 2017 as he thought the life cover would also be 
extended. And when he did discover the life cover hadnt been extended in 2020 he didnt 
take another policy because of costs and because he wanted to wait for this Service to 
conclude our investigation. This isnt unreasonable. Furthermore, Mr W has now reached 
and in fact surpassed his retirement date. So, if no errors had occurred neither the pension 
or the protection would still be in place at this moment of time.
Therefore, it would seem that Mr W hasnt actually lost out financially due to the error Aviva 
has made. So, the redress needs to be representative of the error - the lack of care in 
Avivas service provided to Mr W as well as the distress and inconvenience Mr W has 
suffered as a result. So to this end I dont think the amount Aviva had paid is sufficient and
I am currently of the view this amount should be increased by £350 making the total of £500 
being paid to Mr W in recognition of the error.
In response to these provisional findings Aviva replied accepting the findings with no further 
comments.
Mr W replied saying that he was expecting a higher level of redress considering the stress 
and worry this has caused him and his family knowing these was no life cover for such a 
long period.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Aviva hasnt defended its position any further, I have no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings.
I appreciate Mr W has said he wants a higher level of redress but in making any decision 
I must remain fair to both parties. Any award I make is not punitive and must be 
proportionate to the distress and/or error caused. In this case I can understand how this 
situation would have been very worrying for Mr W and his family but he only found out about 
the life cover problem in 2020 when he was only a few months away from retiring (when the 
policy would have ended). So in reality he would have only have been worrying about this for 
a matter of months had the issue been able to be resolved immediately. Also, he chose to 
not take out further cover which would have mitigated the worry.
So because of that, I remain of the view that Aviva must pay a further £350 to Mr W for the 
error it made and the distress and inconvenience caused by it.
Putting things right
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited must pay Mr W a further £350 in recognition of the impact 
its errors have had on him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited 
to pay Mr W redress as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman