DRN-2403954
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that Zurich Insurance PLC has failed to recover the home insurance 
policy excess they had to pay from the third-party responsible for water damage to their flat.
What happened
In March 2019 there was a water leak from the flat above Mr and Mrs Fs which caused 
damage to their flat  specifically their bedroom ceiling collapsed. Mr F tried to find out from 
the owner of the flat above who his insurer was but he wouldnt say. Mr and Mrs F then took 
legal advice and were told it may be best to make a claim under their own home insurance 
policy which they did. 
Zurich sent out a loss adjuster to assess the damage and validate the claim. The claim was 
accepted and repairs arranged. Mr and Mrs F had to pay Zurich the £500 policy excess for 
making the claim which they thought Zurich would be able to recover from the insurer of the 
flat above. 
Zurich appointed solicitors to pursue a recovery against the third-party insurer and/or the 
third party for its outlay on the claim along with the recovery of Mr and Mrs Fs excess and 
their uninsured losses. Ultimately Zurichs solicitors were unsuccessful in doing so as the 
third-party insurer denied liability. In February 2020 solicitors reported to Zurich, and to Mr 
and Mrs F, that despite their best attempts they had been unable to establish that the owner 
of the flat above had been negligent; they recommended that recovery was abandoned.
 
In March 2020, a similar incident occurred. Mr and Mrs F contacted Zurich but in the end 
decided not to pursue a second claim because they felt the repairs would cost less than the 
policy excess of £500.
Mr and Mrs F complained to Zurich that it hadnt recovered their excess. Zurich looked into 
the complaint and said it was satisfied that it and its solicitors had done everything they 
could to pursue a successful recovery but had been unable to do so in the end. 
Unhappy with the outcome of their complaint to Zurich, Mr and Mrs F complained to this 
service. Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Zurich had done anything 
wrong so he didnt recommend the complaint was upheld. 
Mr and Mrs F disagreed with our investigators findings and asked for their complaint to be 
referred for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide whether Zurich has treated Mr and Mrs F fairly taking all the circumstances 
into account. I have to say that I think it has, Ill explain why. 
Most insurance policies include a policy excess. This is the amount the policyholder is 
contractually required to pay as a contribution towards the cost of any claim made under the 
policy. Typically, the higher the excess, the lower the premium. Most policies have several 
different excesses depending on the cause of damage the claim falls under. In Mr and Mrs 
Fs case I can see their policy excess for escape of water claims is £500. Unfortunately for 
Mr and Mrs F, the policy excess is payable by them regardless of fault. It is then up to the 
insurer to decide  if it thinks its policyholder isnt to blame for the damage  whether to 
pursue the third-party insurer/third party in an attempt to recover its outlay. That an insurer 
considers another party should be meeting the cost of the claim doesnt absolve its own 
policyholder from their contractual obligation to pay the excess in the first place.
An insurers decision to pursue a third-party insurer/third-party for recovery is its alone. It will 
weigh up the commercial cost of doing so and is under no contractual obligation to its 
policyholder to undertake recovery.  
I can see that following Mr and Mrs Fs claim, Zurich thought it would try and recover its own 
outlay, Mr and Mrs Fs policy excess and their uninsured losses. I can see that solicitors 
were appointed and their advice sought and given. Ive seen correspondence from the 
solicitors to the third-party insurer, the third-party and the plumber that attended shortly after 
the leak occurred to stop it. And Ive seen correspondence from the third-party insurer to 
Zurichs solicitors denying liability. The third-party insurer told Zurichs solicitors that its 
insured had acted immediately he was informed (by his tenant) to remedy the leak.
The third-party insurer asked Zurichs solicitors to provide evidence that its insured had been 
negligent. I can see that the Zurichs solicitors contacted the plumber that attended to deal 
with the leak who reported that the cause of the leak mayve been a blocked communal 
waste pipe given that sewage was overflowing from the bottom of it outside the building. The 
plumber reported that this meant when the toilet was flushed water backed up into the flat 
above Mr and Mrs Fs. The plumber said he had had to plunge the toilet for 40 minutes to 
unblock it but didnt know what had caused the blockage.
It was after receiving the plumbers comments about the cause of damage that Zurichs 
solicitors advised it, and Mr and Mrs F, that the evidence they had didnt allow them to 
establish third party liability so it recommended recovery wasnt pursued any further. 
From the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied that Zurich, through its solicitors, made every 
reasonable attempt to pursue recovery. I dont think Zurichs decision to follow the 
professional advice of its solicitors to abandon pursuit of recovery was an unfair one for it to 
have reached in the circumstances, particularly given the plumber was unable to confirm 
what had caused the leak  evidence that was vital if liability was to be attributed to the flat 
upstairs. 
Ive noted Mr Fs comments that in his opinion the plumbers are lying and that a tap mustve 
been left on. Unfortunately for Mr F theres no documentary evidence that this is what 
occurred. The only documentary evidence available is that provided by the plumber. In the 
absence of any evidence to counter what the plumber said I cant fairly conclude that Zurich 
unreasonably abandoned its pursuit of recovery. 
I appreciate that my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs F. They have 
been the victims of an incident not of their own making which has cost them a significant 
amount of money to resolve. Despite my natural sympathies for the position in which they 
have found themselves  through no fault of their own  I cant, for the reasons Ive given, 
say that Zurich has treated them unfairly by abandoning its pursuit of recovery on the advice 
of its legal advisers.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman