DRN-2621272
The complaint
Mr L has complained about the service he received from Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) 
and the time taken to resolve a failed self-service in-branch cash withdrawal.
What happened
On 22 February 2020, Mr L went into his local branch to withdraw £20. Mr L used a self-
service machine to carry out the transaction. The cash wasnt dispensed, and Mr L informed 
a member of staff. Mr L has explained that he was told by the member of staff that they 
would deal with it and that they took his details.
Mr L, later that day, contacted Barclays through its online chat system at around 3pm. Mr L 
was advised that the error would correct itself overnight. Mr L advised he would check his 
balance the next day.
Mr L then contacted Barclays through online chat the next day as his balance hadnt been 
corrected and he was still out of pocket for the £20.
The Barclays adviser explained that as it wasnt an ATM machine and was a self-service 
machine in-branch she didnt have the ability to raise the dispute within the online chat. The 
adviser asked Mr L if he was able to get in touch with the Dispute Team. Mr L asked the 
adviser to pass the query on as he was unaware how to contact the Dispute Team.
Shortly after, Mr L then contacted Barclays via its secure messaging chat system explaining 
the situation. Mr L was advised by Barclays that a dispute about a self-service withdrawal 
made in-branch, needed to be raised in the same branch.
On 27 February 2020, Mr L responded and advised that he was unhappy with Barclays 
service, wished to log a formal complaint and that he would not be going back into branch to 
resolve the issue when he had already reported it in-branch at the time the issue occurred.
Barclays responded later on that evening explaining that the withdrawal discrepancy should 
have corrected itself overnight and as that hadnt happened it would register a formal 
complaint and it asked what Mr L what Barclays could do to put matters right.
Mr L responded on 5 March 2020 advising that he wanted the £20 he didnt receive and 
additional compensation for the time and effort in trying to resolve the matter.
Barclays responded and asked Mr L what amount of compensation he was looking for.
Mr L then replied on 8 March 2020 explaining he had spent around four hours liaising with 
various Barclays departments, in branch, online chats and then secure messaging chats. 
Mr L explained that he charges around £300 per day for his services and expected at the 
very least £150 on top of the £20 that wasnt dispensed.
Barclays responded to Mr L on 9 March 2021. It apologised for the trouble Mr L had been 
put to and explained that it will log the complaint and escalate the matter to the branch for it 
to investigate. It then provided the branch details and asked Mr L if this was the correct 
branch which would enable the complaint to go ahead.
Mr L then responded on 23 March 2021 asking for an update on his complaint.
Mr L received a letter from Barclays dated 6 April 2021 advising that as some time had 
passed, and it hadnt given Mr L an answer, he could refer the matter to our service.
Mr L wrote Barclays a letter, which it received on 8 April 2021, expressing his frustration at 
the matter and that this was the fourth department he was now liaising with in trying to 
resolve the matter. Mr L explained in this letter that the situation had now taken eight and 
half hours of his time and that he expected to be compensated for this time (£300) on top of 
the initial £20 that wasnt dispensed.
On 9 April 2021, Barclays issued its final response to Mr L. It apologised for the service Mr L 
had received and for the inconvenience he had been caused. It explained Mr L hadnt 
received the level of service it expected and to recognise that it offered Mr L £175 as 
compensation to put matters right regarding the £20 that hadnt dispensed.
Unhappy, Mr L referred the complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into the 
complaint and didnt uphold it. In short, they considered the amount Barclays had offered 
was fair.
Mr L disagreed with the investigators opinion. As the matter hasnt been resolved its been 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out, and for much the same reasons. Ill explain why.
It isnt in dispute that the £20 wasnt dispensed. So all that is left for me to consider is 
whether Barclays offer of £175 as compensation, is fair. 
Things can and do go wrong from time to time and errors and problems do occur. In this 
case Mr L, when the cash wasnt dispensed, reported the matter in-branch. According to 
Barclays that was the correct process and the matter should have been dealt with straight 
away, or at the very least the branch should have raised the dispute through the correct 
process for Mr L.
So I can certainly understand Mr Ls frustration in having to liaise first with Barclays through 
its online chat systems, then through its secure messaging system and then through writing 
a letter to Barclays when the issue hadnt been resolved.
Barclays did make Mr L aware early on that if he went into the same branch where the cash 
wasnt dispensed, it could raise the dispute for him. I certainly understand Mr L, having 
already raised it in-branch at the time the cash didnt dispense, was unwilling to have to go 
back to branch. But I can see that Barclays realised this and said it will instigate the dispute 
for Mr L and asked Mr L to confirm the branch so it could go ahead.Barclays has acknowledged that things didnt happen as they should have  and its final 
response letter addresses and recognises the issues Mr L faced and that the service Mr L 
was provided wasnt what it would expect. 
I am of the opinion that Barclays thoroughly investigated what went wrong for Mr L and the 
service he received. It made a genuine attempt to apologise and also offered an amount of 
compensation that it thought was appropriate in recognising the inconvenience Mr L had 
been put to.
I consider Barclays offer of £175 for the £20 Mr L hadnt received and the inconvenience 
Mr L was put to was fair. I appreciate that Mr L had to contact several departments, but 
when things go wrong there is an element of effort or time that is required by a customer to 
put that right. When a problem or error arises, a customer will have to take the time to raise it 
with a business and to also explain the issue. Mr L did this, with Mr L having to write several 
messages through an online chat, and then subsequently through a secure messaging 
system and ultimately also writing a letter of complaint. 
Barclays should have dealt with the matter in branch, so the two online chats, and the 
several secure messages he had with Barclays alongside the complaint letter he wrote were 
all additional steps that Mr L had to take that he shouldnt have been required to do.
But Barclays has recognised this by offering Mr L £155 on top of refunding the £20 that 
wasnt dispensed. Barclays has explained that it thinks this amount fairly reflects the 
additional steps Mr L had to take to get the problem sorted. 
In short, Mr L considers that Barclays should pay him more compensation to recognise the 
time spent in trying to resolve the matter. Mr L in corresponding with our investigator after 
they had issued their view, estimated that he had spent around 53 hours on the matter and 
as a settlement he explained he would accept £530 (at £10 per hour) on top of the £20. So 
Mr L wanted £550 to resolve his complaint.
But I am mindful that Mr L, on 8 March 2020, explained to Barclays that he had spent around 
four hours liaising with various Barclays departments and expected compensation of around 
£150 on top of the £20. And following on from this, Mr L sent one further secure message 
asking for an update on his complaint on 23 March 2020 and then wrote Barclays a letter 
which it received on 8 April 2020. 
In this case, and all things considered, I think it is fair for Barclays to pay a fair, reasonable 
and proportionate amount of compensation for the error that occurred. And when looking at 
this I expect Barclays to consider the impact its error had, alongside the inconvenience 
caused to the consumer in putting things right.
Mr L was out of pocket for £20, but and fortunately for Mr L, not having this amount didnt 
have a financial impact on him as it would say to someone who was unemployed or had little 
or no money. But I agree that Mr L was inconvenienced unnecessarily. However Mr L was 
inconvenienced to the extent that he had to contact Barclays through several messages on 
online chats and secure messaging and then in writing a follow up letter. Having looked at 
the steps Mr L had to take, I am satisfied the compensation offer by Barclays for £175 in 
total is a fair and proportionate amount that recognises the level of inconvenience Mr L was 
put to in having to take some additional steps in communicating with Barclays to put matters 
right.
Overall, I think Barclays offer of £175 in total is fair and fairly recognises that Mr L had to 
take additional steps in contacting Barclays to put things right.I understand the compensation was paid directly into Mr Ls bank account, so Barclays 
doesnt need to do anything further.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman