DRN-4048962
The complaint
Mr K complains that Wise Payments Limited wont refund the money he lost when he was 
the victim of a scam.
What happened
In June 2022, Mr K says he was contacted by a woman via a social media website. He says 
the woman told him she could help him get good returns by investing with cryptocurrency 
and showed him how to open an account and a wallet with a cryptocurrency exchange. As 
the woman told him his money was safe and would stay in his name, and he couldnt find 
any reports of similar scams online, Mr K says he decided to go ahead and invest.
He initially made a small investment and then, as the woman showed him he was making a 
profit, he started paying larger amounts into his account. Ive set out the payments Mr K 
made from his Wise account below:
Date Amount
20 June 2022 £100
20 June 2022 £900
20 June 2022 £700
21 June 2022 £1,800
24 June 2022 £3,000
24 June 2022 £750
25 June 2022 £100
25 June 2022 £2,000
26 June 2022 £2,000
27 June 2022 £3,000
28 June 2022 £3,000
29 June 2022 £1,950
Unfortunately, we now know the woman was a scammer and Mr K lost all the money he sent 
to the investment. The scam was uncovered after Mr K saw money had been removed from 
his wallet with the cryptocurrency exchange. He asked the woman about this but was told he 
had to pay more money in to get higher profits and, when he refused to do this, he was told 
he had to pay a penalty to withdraw his money. Mr K again refused to pay in anything further 
and reported the above payments to Wise as a scam.
Wise investigated but said it was legally obliged to follow Mr Ks instructions to make the 
payments and it was his responsibility to make sure the person receiving any payment was 
genuine. It also said Mr K had previously made payments to other cryptocurrency 
exchanges, so it didnt find these payments to be unusual. And so it didnt agree to refund 
the money Mr K had lost. Mr K wasnt satisfied with Wises response, so referred a complaint 
to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They didnt think Wise had done anything 
wrong in allowing the payments to go through, as they didnt think the payments were 
significant or unusual enough that Wise should have intervened. So they didnt think Wise 
should have to refund the money Mr K lost. Mr K disagreed with our investigator, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think it would be fair to require Wise to refund the money Mr K lost. 
Ill explain why below.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that an account provider is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
terms and conditions of the customers account. And a customer will then be responsible for 
those transactions that they have authorised.
Its not in dispute here that Mr K authorised the payments. He accepts he made them himself 
to purchase cryptocurrency, as instructed to by the scammer. So while I recognise that he 
didnt intend the money to ultimately go to scammers, the starting position in law is that Wise 
was obliged to follow his instructions and process the payments. So Mr K isnt automatically 
entitled to a refund.
The regulatory landscape, along with good industry practice, also sets out a requirement for 
account providers to protect their customers from fraud and financial harm. And this includes 
monitoring accounts to look out for activity that might suggest a customer was at risk of 
financial harm, intervening in unusual or out of character transactions and trying to prevent 
customers falling victims to scams. So Ive also thought about whether Wise did enough to 
try to keep Mr Ks account safe.
But the first few payments Mr K made to this cryptocurrency exchange werent for what Id 
consider to be particularly large amounts, werent significantly larger than other payments 
made out of the account in previous months and didnt leave the balance of the account at 
particularly unusual levels.
And while the later payments Mr K made were for larger amounts, they still werent for what 
Id consider to be particularly large amounts. And the payments fluctuated in size 
significantly, so I dont think they formed a particularly suspicious pattern that Wise ought to 
have identified.
This kind of account is also often used by customers for occasional large payments, so 
these types of payments wouldnt have seemed particularly unusual to Wise. And Mr K had 
made a number of other payments to other cryptocurrency exchanges in the previous 
months, so payments for this purpose wouldnt have looked particularly unusual or 
suspicious either.
So I think its reasonable that Wise didnt identify that Mr K could be at risk of financial harm 
as a result of any of these payments, and didnt intervene to ask any further questions before 
allowing them to go through.Ive also considered whether Wise did enough to try to recover the money Mr K lost. Once 
they have been notified of a scam, we expect businesses to take reasonable steps to try to 
recover any money their customers have lost. But any attempt Wise made to recover the 
money here would likely have been unsuccessful, as any recovery attempt would have gone 
to the bank of the cryptocurrency exchange. And the cryptocurrency exchange hadnt done 
anything wrong  it had just allowed Mr K to purchase cryptocurrency, as hed asked to. So I 
dont think anything we would reasonably have expected Wise to do would have recovered 
the money Mr K lost.
Mr K has also said Wise shouldnt have allowed the payments he made to go through, as its 
website says it doesnt allow sending money to any cryptocurrency related business. And I 
accept that the website could be clearer, but Wise has shown that its terms and conditions 
say this only applies to money transfers, and not to card payments  which the payments 
Mr K made were.
In any event, Mr K accepts he wanted to make the payments at the time, he made other 
payments to cryptocurrency related businesses that hes not disputing and Ive not seen 
anything to suggest he thought at the time that the wording on the website meant Wise 
would stop the payments. So I dont think it would be fair to require Wise to refund the 
payments he made as a result of any confusion the wording on its website caused.
I sympathise with the position Mr K has found himself in. He has been the victim of a cruel 
scam and I appreciate that my decision will come as a disappointment to him. But, for the 
reasons Ive set out above, I dont think Wise has acted unreasonably or that anything I 
would reasonably have expected it to do would have prevented this scam. So I dont think it 
would be fair to require Wise to refund the money Mr K has lost.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman