DRN-3182109
The complaint
Mr R has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt treat him fairly when his account was 
showing signs of financial difficulties.
What happened
In February 2021 HSBC wrote to Mr R to explain that it had reviewed how it had handled his 
account when he had been in difficulties a few years earlier. As a result of that review it said 
it would be refunding to him £96.02 of interest it had charged him back then, plus £29.20 
compensatory interest. HSBC said this was because it had identified that it could have done 
more to help him at that time. Mr R complained to HSBC that this refund was not enough to 
recognise the impact of HSBCs failure to help him enough when he was struggling with his 
account.
HSBC looked at Mr Rs complaint, but didnt agree it had done anything wrong, it explained 
that the refund was to recognise that when his account was in difficulties it could have frozen 
interest and charges to further assist him. But HSBC noted that it had already, at the time, 
refunded £135 of charges and agreed a plan to help Mr R repay the debt on his account. 
Mr R remained unhappy, and so he referred his complaint to us. 
HSBC subsequently contacted us to say that it did not consent to us looking at issues 
regarding Mr Rs account from more than six years before he raised his complaint.
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint, she agreed with HSBC that any complaint 
about issues from more than six years ago had been raised too late. She also explained that 
she felt HSBC had done enough to help Mr R with his account. As Mr R remained unhappy, 
he referred his complaint for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what HSBC has already done to put 
things right for Mr R is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his complaint. Ill 
explain why I think this is the case. 
The rules I must apply say that, where a business doesnt agree, I cant look at a complaint 
made more than six years after whats being complained about happened, or if later, more 
than three years after the complainant knew, or should reasonably have known, that they 
had reason to complain. This is set out in Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R which can be found 
online.
This means that Mr R had, at least, six years from the date the charges were added or his 
account was in difficulty, in order to complain. Mr R didnt complain until 2021, so he 
complained more than six years after some of the events he is complaining about.
But DISP 2.8.2R (2)(b) can potentially provide a consumer with longer than six years to
complain, as long as they complained within three years of when they were aware, or they
ought reasonably to have been aware, they had cause to. So Ive considered whether DISP
2.8.2R (2)(b) provides Mr R with longer to complain here.
Mr Rs statements would have set out the charges and interest hes unhappy with. So I think 
that he would have been aware of the fees that HSBC was applying to his account at the 
time. And hed have been aware of his financial circumstances during that period of time too, 
so hed have known whether he felt anything HSBC was doing was contributing to his 
difficulties. As this is the case, I think Mr R would have known he had cause to complain as 
soon as any charges or interest were applied or his account started to get into difficulties, 
which means the three-year rule doesnt provide Mr R with longer to complain overall. And 
with this in mind, I think that his complaint about how HSBC handled his difficulties before 
April 2015 was made too late.
I can look at a complaint made outside of the time limit if Im persuaded that this was
because of exceptional circumstances. Mr R has told us that he didnt know he could 
complain about how HSBC handled his account until recently. But, as Ive explained above, 
Mr R knew what was happening with his account at the time, and he would have known if 
anything HSBC was doing was causing him undue difficulties. So, it remains that I think it 
wouldve been reasonable for Mr R to contact HSBC sooner than he did in the 
circumstances.
So, I think that more than three years have passed since he ought reasonably to have 
become aware he had cause for complaint. And other than what Ive considered above, 
Mr R hasnt put forward any other exceptional circumstances for me to consider. And I 
havent seen anything that would make me think exceptional circumstances apply in this 
case. So I still dont think I can look at what happened with Mr Rs account from before April 
2015.
I acknowledge that Mr R has said he didnt know that HSBC could have done more until it 
wrote to him in 2021, but the refund offered in 2021 appears to relate to interest applied to 
Mr Rs account form January 2016 onwards, so in any case this does fall into the period of 
time that Im able to consider.
So Ill now look at what happened with Mr Rs account from April 2015 onwards.
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect it to put the consumer in the position they would be in if that 
wrong hadnt taken place. So where a business continued to allow a consumer to use a 
credit facility which it should have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put 
the consumer in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and 
charges on that credit. This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and 
charges added to any credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it was 
unsustainable.
 
When Mr Rs account was showing signs of difficulties in late 2015/early 2016, HSBC took 
steps to refund the overdraft charges that had already been applied, and to freeze charges 
so no further new ones would be incurred while Mr R paid off the outstanding balance  
which he did a few months later. Interest did though continue to be applied to the debt. 
However, HSBC has now refunded that interest, plus compensatory interest on top, and that 
is what I would have expected it to do in the circumstances.  
So even if I were to find that HSBC should have done more to help Mr R, I wouldnt ask it to 
do anything more than it has already done to do put things right.I know this will be disappointing to Mr R, but Im satisfied that HSBC has acted fairly here, 
and I wont be requiring it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman