DRN-2930287
The complaint
Through a claims management company, Mrs H has complained that in 2006 she was given 
unsuitable mortgage advice by a representative of Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited. To 
settle the complaint Mrs H wants Aviva to compensate her for what she says are her losses 
arising from this unsuitable advice. For the sake of clarity, I will refer to Mrs H throughout as 
if the arguments put forward by the CMC have been made by her.
What happened
In May 2006 Mrs H was given mortgage advice by a representative of Aviva. The advice was 
to take out a capital repayment mortgage. However, Mrs H, who was going through a 
divorce, wanted to keep the costs low at the start of the mortgage. Contrary to the advice 
given by Aviva, Mrs H insisted that she wanted an interest-only mortgage, which, she said, 
she would convert to capital repayment when her divorce was finalised. The mortgage 
completed in August 2006.
In 2020 Mrs H complained to Aviva that the mortgage had been mis-sold. She said that 
Aviva had failed in its duty of care to her to recommend the most suitable type of mortgage. 
She also said that Aviva had failed to ensure she had a repayment strategy in place.
Aviva didnt uphold the complaint so it was brought to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Despite the time that had passed since the advice was given, Aviva consented to us 
considering the complaint. An investigator looked at the merits of the complaint but didnt 
think it should be upheld. 
He was satisfied that Aviva had recommended the most suitable type of mortgage for 
Mrs Hs circumstances  a repayment mortgage  but that she was insistent she wanted an 
interest-only mortgage. Aviva had documented in 2006 that Mrs H was going against their 
advice. The investigator was also satisfied that Mrs H had been made aware that, for an 
interest-only mortgage, a repayment vehicle would be required.
Mrs H didnt accept the investigators findings. She said that her complaint wasnt that she 
didnt know she had an interest-only mortgage, but that the advice to take it out was 
negligent and she should have been advised to take out a repayment mortgage. Mrs H says 
that if shed taken out a repayment mortgage, she would have paid less than the payments 
on an interest-only mortgage.
Mrs H also says that the documents provided by Aviva  the fact-find, suitability letter and 
Key Facts Illustration (KFI)  had never been provided to her.
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will explain first that, with a capital repayment mortgage, the borrower repays both interest 
and capital in the monthly repayments. With an interest-only mortgage, the borrower repays 
only the interest each month, and so has lower monthly repayments. Ive noted Mrs H says 
her payments would have been lower if shed taken out a repayment mortgage, but the 
opposite is, in fact, correct.
Ive looked at the point of sale documents  the fact-find, suitability letter and KFI. These are 
contemporaneous documents, which means they were created at the time the advice was 
given. The suitability letter is addressed to Mrs H at the address she gave Aviva on the 
fact-find, and is dated 8 June 2006. I can understand why Mrs H might not have given these 
documents to the CMC, as they undermine her position that she was given unsuitable 
advice. I think if the CMC had seen these documents, the complaint might not have been 
raised.
The suitability letter recommended a repayment mortgage on an initial fixed-rate basis. The 
letter goes onto note that Mrs H rejected this advice and insisted on having an interest-only 
mortgage. It was also noted that Mrs H told Aviva that when her divorce settlement came 
through, she would convert the mortgage to capital repayment. Aviva warned Mrs H There 
will come a point in time where conversion to a repayment mortgage will not be affordable 
which could result in having to extend the term or risk losing the property.
In his letter dated 25 May 2021 the investigator set out the provisions in the Mortgages and 
Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB) which deal with an insistent client 
wanting to go against the advice that has been given. Im satisfied that at the point of sale 
Aviva provided Mrs H with clear advice about the consequences of rejecting the advice to 
have a repayment mortgage  that shed need a repayment vehicle and that if she left it too 
late to convert to a repayment mortgage, it might be unaffordable. Despite this, Mrs H 
insisted on proceeding with the interest-only mortgage.
Mrs H also says that Aviva failed to ensure she had a repayment strategy. Aviva explained in 
the KFI that Mrs H would need a repayment vehicle if (against its advice) she took out an 
interest-only mortgage. Mrs H told Aviva what her repayment plan was; she said that when 
her divorce settlement came through, she would convert the mortgage to capital repayment. 
It was Mrs Hs responsibility to ensure that she carried through this strategy, and if she 
didnt, Aviva wasnt under any obligation to follow it up.
Overall, Im unable to find Aviva did anything wrong or that it recommended an unsuitable 
mortgage to Mrs H. It was her decision to go ahead with the interest-only mortgage, contrary 
to the advice given by Aviva. Im satisfied Mrs H knew shed need a repayment strategy, and 
that she provided Aviva with details of how she ultimately intended to repay the mortgage.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied Aviva provided Mrs H with suitable advice, which she 
chose to reject. This was a decision Mrs H was entitled to make, but I dont think it is now fair 
or reasonable to find Aviva responsible for the consequences of Mrs Hs failure to follow 
through with her plan to convert the mortgage to a capital repayment basis, as she said she 
would do.
I do understand and sympathise with the position Mrs H is in, some 15 years after taking out 
the mortgage. But I dont think Aviva is responsible for that. It arranged the mortgage she 
wanted  even though it had advised her that there were better and more suitable options available to her. Mrs H went ahead knowing that, and so I am unable to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman