DRN-3882102
The complaint
W, a limited company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc removed a payment from its 
account in error.
What happened
W says it sold an item for £5,100. It received a faster payment from the buyer on 16 August 
2022 and released the goods. The next day HSBC reversed the payment. W says it has tried 
to pursue the buyer about this and hasnt been able to recover the money. W was unhappy 
that HSBC wouldnt help it or explain what had happened.
HSBC said in its final response to the complaint that it had reversed the payment and due to 
data protection wasnt able to give any details about its actions. It said that W would need to 
contact the remitter and/or take legal advice.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld, and the payment returned to W 
with eight percent simple interest and compensation of £150. She said that W hadnt 
consented to this payment being removed from its account. Industry practice determined that 
HSBC should investigate before removing the funds. W had shown it had a right to the 
money following the sale of the item. And theres no evidence that the payment wasnt 
genuine. This resulted in a detriment for W. The representatives of W had spent time 
pursuing this and the compensation reflected inconvenience. But W couldnt suffer distress 
and we couldnt compensate the representatives personally.
HSBC said it didnt agree. It referred to Section 12 of its terms and conditions which dealt 
with payments made into an account as a result of a mistake or fraud. And that based on 
these it had the right to remove the funds. Our investigator didnt accept here that a mistake 
or fraud had been shown to have occurred in crediting the payment. So, she referred the 
case for a decision as HSBC had requested.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know that HSBC has explained that although the payment showed in Ws account there 
would have been a message confirming the payment was delayed. And that it wouldnt have 
affected the balance. It doesnt say that thered been any systems error. Ive not seen clear 
evidence about such a message or that the money didnt show in available funds. W has 
provided a statement showing that it featured in its statement balance on 16 August 2022 
and was then removed the next day from that balance.
W understood this to be a faster payment and I dont consider had reason to think that this 
wouldnt be applied in the normal way or could in some way be uncleared funds. 
I agree with our investigator that there was no evidence of any mistake or fraud when the 
money was sent by the buyer here. There is no right to a refund of a faster payment. And if 
say the sender had said a mistake had been made or thered been fraud then Id have 
expected HSBC to investigate this and have information to support it. In the case of a 
mistake there is industry guidance about how to approach this. But that doesnt say money 
should generally be taken back without reference to the recipient.
So, I find that the position should be that the money fairly remained in Ws account pending 
any investigation. I dont have a basis to think given the information W has provided to 
support this being a genuine transaction that the money would later have been removed. At 
the highest I think this may have been identified as a buyer seller dispute.
I do need to think about whether W would be unjustly enriched now if this money was 
returned. And an example of that would be if the buyer had paid it in another way or W had 
say recovered the item sold. While Ive seen that W has made reasonable efforts to pursue 
this I cant see that it has been successful. I find that paying the money back to W would be 
fair in the circumstances noting that this will now be a loss for HSBC. 
It seems from the evidence of Ws contact with a representative of the buyer that a decision 
had been taken by that buyer not to pay this money or deal with this issue. So, a large part 
of the inconvenience thats been involved here is down to that. I can though look at what 
HSBC did and the element of inconvenience it caused. And I agree that what our 
investigator has recommended about compensation is a reasonable resolution to the 
complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require HSBC Bank UK Plc to:
1) Pay W £5,100.
2) Pay W simple interest of 8% per annum on the amount in (1) from 17 August 2022 to 
the date of settlement.
3) Pay W £150 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman