DRN-2415956
The complaint
Ms M complained that she was mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy by Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide).
What happened
Ms M took out the PPI alongside a mortgage in 1994. Ms M said the sale took place during a 
meeting, and that Nationwide advised her to take the PPI. Nationwide couldnt confirm the 
sales channel, but said that Ms M would not have been offered advice about the PPI. Ms M 
said she thought she had to take the PPI to get the mortgage. She also said she didnt need 
the cover as she had good employee benefits and savings. (Ms M also complained about a 
life policy, but for the avoidance of doubt this decision is only about the PPI policy.)
The PPI policy provided accident, sickness and unemployment cover for Ms M at a monthly 
cost of £26.75. The monthly benefit was £328.99. If Ms M had made a successful claim, the 
policy couldve paid out for up to 24 months per claim. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Ms M disagreed, and asked that 
it be referred to an ombudsman for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
This isnt an easy case to decide as there is no documentation from Ms Ms sale other than 
the insurance schedule issued after the policy started. Having said that, the absence of 
documentation is unsurprising given that the mortgage was repaid over ten years ago, and 
businesses are not required to keep records indefinitely. 
Nationwide sent in copies of its computer records of Ms Ms account and the policy, along 
with copies of various statements and renewal notices issued during the life of the mortgage. 
We have in our files a copy of the PPI policy information booklet from 1994, and Ms M has 
provided her recollection of events, and details of her circumstances at the time. I have 
based my decision on what I consider most likely to have happened, taking into account all 
of this evidence and information. 
Ms M said the sale took place in a meeting, and I have no reason to think that wasnt the 
case. She said she felt the PPI was mandatory, and that the advice given wasnt sufficient or 
accurate.
As the sale took place during a meeting, I cant know how the salesperson presented the 
PPI. Ive thought about what Ms M has said, and as theres no documentation from Ms Ms 
sale, Ive also taken into account what we know about other PPI sales by Nationwide at 
around the same time. But we havent seen evidence suggesting that PPI was being 
presented as compulsory. Ive also looked at the PPI information booklet, and theres 
nothing on there to suggest that the PPI was required for Ms M to get a mortgage. 
On balance, I dont think I can fairly say its most likely that the PPI was presented to Ms M 
as being compulsory, which is what Id have to do to be able to uphold the complaint on this 
point  I simply dont have enough evidence that this is what happened. 
Nationwide said that advice wouldnt have been offered on the PPI policy. Ms M disagreed. 
But even if I consider the policy to have been recommended by the salesperson - and 
therefore that they should have made sure the policy was suitable for Ms M - it doesnt 
change my decision, as I think it wouldve been a reasonable recommendation to make. 
As Ive said, I cant know how the salesperson explained the PPI - especially the things not 
covered. But I cant see that Ms M wouldve been affected by any of these. Its not clear how 
the cost of the PPI was explained to Ms M  although the information booklet does give 
example premiums  but I dont think its likely that she would have agreed to take the PPI 
without some idea of the amount shed need to pay. And Ive no evidence to suggest the 
premium was unaffordable for her. 
Ms M told us that she wouldve been entitled to sick pay from her employer of six months full 
pay followed by six months half pay. She also said she had some savings she could have 
relied on, and two endowment policies that she couldve utilised. However, endowment 
policies are long term investments and the PPI couldve avoided the need to cash these in to 
meet a shorter-term need. Ms M also mentioned having death-in-service benefit  but this 
would not have paid out in the event of accident, sickness or unemployment so did not 
duplicate the PPI cover. 
Ive also kept in mind that the policy couldve paid out for up to 24 months in the event of a 
successful claim  so considerably longer than Ms Ms sick pay wouldve been paid out. This 
wouldve allowed her to use her savings for her other everyday living expenses. In any case, 
I think Ms M could reasonably have wanted to protect an important commitment that was 
secured on her home, So as Ive said, overall I think the PPI wouldve been a reasonable 
recommendation to make. 
On balance, although I cant know whether Nationwide clearly explained all of the policy 
details, I think Ms M would still have bought the policy if it had. It couldve provided useful 
protection if she couldnt work. Im sorry to disappoint Ms M, as I can see she feels strongly 
about this, but my conclusion is that on the evidence I have, I cant fairly say the PPI was 
mis-sold.
Separately, Nationwide has made a payment to Ms M of £635.68 in respect of commission 
received on the policy. I think this fair. So I dont consider it should do anything further. 
In summary, my conclusion is that this complaint should not be upheld.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman