DRN-2854201
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that benefits included on a previously existing Nationwide Building Society 
account werent included when he opened a new account of the same type.
What happened
Mr H had a Nationwide flex account, held jointly with his wife, which had been open since 
2014. In February 2017, Mr H called Nationwide and asked to open a new flex account in his 
sole name. The application was conducted on a non-advised basis over the telephone and 
the new account was opened as per Mr Hs request. However, Mr H later discovered that the 
new flex account didnt include travel insurance, as the old joint flex account, which had 
since been closed, had done. Mr H wasnt happy about this, so he made a complaint.
Nationwide looked at Mr Hs complaint, but they explained that newly opened flex accounts 
no longer included travel insurance as a benefit, and that it wasnt possible for the travel 
insurance benefit on the old joint account to have transferred over to the new flex account. 
So, they didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Mr H wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response, so he referred his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also noted that the terms 
of newly opened flex accounts didnt include travel insurance as a benefit. Our investigator 
also noted that Mr Hs application had been conducted on the telephone on a non-advised 
basis, and that Mr H had confirmed on that call that he understood the terms of the account 
he was opening. So, our investigator also didnt uphold this complaint.
Mr H remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has stated to this service that, when he called Nationwide and asked for a new flex 
account, he was specially asking for the same account as he held previously, and implicit 
within this request was that the new account include the same benefits as his older joint 
account, including travel insurance. 
Having listened to a recording of the telephone call where Mr H applies for the new flex 
account, Im not convinced by Mr Hs position here. One reason I say this is that Mr H asks 
for the same type of account as he has at the moment and refers specifically to a flex 
account. At no point in the call does Mr H specifically refer to wanting an account that 
includes travel insurance, and at no point in the call does Mr H request that his new account 
be opened under the same terms as the joint flex account he opened three years previously.
Account terms can be changed by the account provider, and it follows from this that features 
that may have been available to account type holders previously might not be available to 
new account type applicants at a later date. And this is what happened in this instance.
Im aware that Mr H feels that Nationwide should have informed him that the flex account no 
longer included travel insurance. But having listened to the telephone call, Im satisfied that 
Nationwide did provide an overview of the features of the account, and these features didnt 
include any reference to travel insurance. 
Indeed, Nationwides representative explained that the account application was being 
conducted on a non-advised basis and that as part of the telephone call the representative 
was obliged to give Mr H high level details of the accounts that he was eligible for, so that Mr 
H could make an informed choice as to the type of account that was most suitable for his 
needs.
Nationwides representative then proceeded to detail the high-level features of the accounts 
that Mr H was eligible for and began by outlining the features of the flex account  the 
account type that Mr H asked for - during which time no reference to travel insurance or 
other benefits was mentioned. 
This was in contrast to the other account types that the representative described, which did 
refer to additional benefits, and some of which included specific reference to travel 
insurance. So, its difficult not to conclude, having listened to that call, that Mr H ought 
reasonably to have been aware that the flex account he was asking for no longer included 
travel insurance as a benefit.
And it was incumbent on Mr H to have understood the terms and features of the account that 
he was requesting, and this is because, as Nationwides representative confirmed to Mr H, 
the application for the flex account was undertaken on a non-advised basis - meaning that 
Nationwide gave no recommendation or opinion to Mr H about what type of account he was 
opening.
So, while I can appreciate that Mr H may have believed that the flex account he was opening 
retained the same features and benefits as the joint flex account that hed opened three 
years previously, this wasnt the case, and given that the account was opened on a non-
advised basis, it was Mr Hs responsibility to ensure that he understood the features of the 
flex account he was opening. And it wasnt the case that it was Nationwides responsibility to 
inform him of any changes to account benefits that had taken place since he last opened an 
account three years previously.
However, it was Nationwides responsibility to provide Mr H with information about their 
products so as to enable Mr H to make an informed choice as to which type of account was 
most suitable for him. And as explained above, Im satisfied that Nationwide did this. 
Furthermore, during the telephone call, Nationwides representative specifically asked Mr H 
is he understood the terms of the flex account he had asked for, to which Mr H replied that 
he did. 
Its clear from Mr Hs complaint that he didnt understand the terms of the flex account at that 
time, but as I have explained above, it was incumbent on Mr H to be aware of those terms, 
and Mr Hs misunderstanding isnt something that I would consider holding Nationwide 
responsible for.   
Im aware that Mr H is also unhappy that it was explained to him by Nationwides 
representative that he would be sent a copy of the account terms, but that these never 
arrived. Mr H is also of the opinion that, because Nationwide cant provide a copy of the letter that was sent to him, it therefore cant be confirmed that these terms were ever sent to 
him, and that his complaint should be upheld on that basis.
But it wouldnt be expected by this service that Nationwide would retain a customer copy of 
such an account opening confirmation from 2017, and while its impossible to confirm, Im 
satisfied that on balance, its more likely than not that the letter was sent  although that isnt 
to say that Mr H definitely received it. 
However, even accepting that the letter wasnt received by Mr H, or might not have been 
sent, this still wouldnt affect my final decision here, and thats because the contract for the 
new flex account was agreed verbally by Mr H and Nationwide over the telephone. And as 
previously mentioned, Mr H confirmed to Nationwides representative during the application 
telephone call that he understood the terms of the account that he was applying for.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr H was wanting, but it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or asking Nationwide to take any further action at this time. 
Ultimately, its difficult not to conclude here that Mr H opened the new flex account on the 
incorrect assumption that travel insurance would be included as a benefit. And as I hope Ive 
been able to explain, it was incumbent on Mr H to understand the nature of the flex account 
he was opening. And Im satisfied that Nationwide fulfilled their obligations to provide Mr H 
with access to all the information necessary for him to understand the features of the flex 
account he was opening at that time and to make an informed decision as to whether that 
account was suitable for him.
I hope that Mr H can understand, given everything I have detailed above, why I have made 
the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman