DRN-3588210
The complaint
Mr F complains about the sale of his private medical insurance policy by AXA PPP 
Healthcare Limited.
What happened
Mr F held private medical insurance cover through his employer. 
In 2020, Mr F called AXA as he was leaving his employment, and was considering taking out 
an individual policy. After discussing the underwriting options available, Mr F opted to take 
out a policy on a continuing medical exclusions basis so he would have cover for his 
previous condition of cancer. 
In 2021, Mr F contacted AXA to discuss switching his cover to a moratorium policy. He 
explained that he needed regular blood tests to make sure he remains in remission for 
cancer. He said they would go down to once a year eventually, but he would need them for 
the rest of his life. It was explained to Mr F that he wouldnt be able to satisfy the moratorium 
because of this. 
Mr F cancelled his policy and complained to AXA about the sale of the policy. He said the 
moratorium hadnt been properly explained to him and he thought the adviser ought to have 
told him he couldnt ever have cover for cancer under the moratorium. He said if hed 
understood this, he wouldnt have taken out the policy in the first place. 
AXA thought that it had explained how the moratorium worked to Mr F in 2020. It therefore 
didnt uphold his complaint. Unhappy with this, Mr F brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She didnt think AXA had misled 
Mr F about how the moratorium worked. 
Mr F didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy says the following about the moratorium:
If you joined us on moratorium terms, it means that you wont have cover for treatment of 
medical problems you had in the five years before you joined us until:
youve been a member for two years in a row, and 
youve had a period of two years in a row, since you joined, that have been trouble-
free from that condition.
The policy defines trouble-free as:
Trouble-free means that you have not done any of the following for the medical condition 
you need treatment for:
had a medical opinion from a medical practitioner, including a GP or specialist; or
taken medication (including over-the-counter drugs); or
followed a special diet; or
had medical treatment; or
visited any medical practitioner, including but not limited to a practitioner, 
physiotherapist, homeopath, acupuncturist, chiropractor, osteopath, optician or 
dentist.
The policy defines treatment as surgical or medical services (including diagnostic tests) 
that are needed to diagnose, relieve or cure a disease, illness or injury.
Mr F has explained that he will require check-ups (blood tests) for the remainder of his life, to 
ensure he remains in remission from cancer. As the tests will be at least every two years, 
that means he cant ever satisfy the moratorium as the tests would fall under the policy 
definition of treatment.
Ive listened to the 2020 sales call to establish what was discussed when the policy was 
taken out. 
AXAs adviser explained to Mr F that there was a choice in how AXA looked at his medical 
history. He said Mr F could start his history again as a new member, which meant that 
anything from the last five years wouldnt be covered for at least the next two years 
(moratorium). Alternatively, AXA could continue to cover Mr Fs medical history in the same 
way as it had been covered under the company policy (continuing medical exclusions cover). 
Mr F explained hed had surgery for cancer earlier that year. Although hed been given the 
all clear, he didnt want to take the risk of not having cover for this. He therefore opted for the 
continuing medical exclusions cover.
The AXA adviser asked Mr F some questions about his health. Mr F explained that following 
his treatment for cancer, he needed check-ups for his condition every three months for the 
first two years. 
Later in the call, Mr F asked about the possibility of changing the underwriting to moratorium 
in two years time. The adviser said this would be subject to the medical questions at the 
time, and that it would depend on whether Mr F was completely signed off by his specialist 
by then. He said that was something AXA could talk to Mr F about at the time. 
Im satisfied that AXA didnt mislead Mr F during this call. It was clear that he wanted to have 
cover for his previous condition of cancer under the policy, and the continuing medical 
exclusions cover that was arranged provided this. 
Although the parties discussed Mr F potentially changing the underwriting in the future, this 
was only a possibility and it was made clear that it would depend on Mr Fs answers to the 
health questions at the time. The adviser didnt know enough about Mr Fs health to say 
whether Mr F would meet the moratorium in the future, so I wouldnt have expected him to 
comment on this.
I therefore dont find that the policy was mis-sold. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman