DRN-1211460
 
Complaint
Mrs E says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. AXA France 
IARD, as the insurer, have taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill only 
refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
What happened
Mrs E took out a PPI policy with a loan in 2000. Mrs E paid for the PPI with a regular monthly 
premium, which didnt attract interest.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs E disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Es case. 
Having done that, Ive decided that Mrs Es PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mrs Es credit agreement had a section for PPI. It set out what the policy would cost if she 
chose it  it wasnt part and parcel of the loans cost. There was a place Mrs E could sign if 
she wanted PPI, or which could be left blank if she didnt want it. Mrs E signed specifically 
for PPI, separately to signing for the loan itself. So I think that AXA made Mrs E aware she 
had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time  though I can 
understand if she no longer recalls doing so after so long. 
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs E, so they didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
They did have to give Mrs E clear information about the PPI.
The cost of the policy was shown clearly, alongside the amount it covered. So I think Mrs E 
wouldve understood how much shed need to pay for the PPI if she chose it.
It is possible that AXA didnt point out all the main things the policy wouldnt cover. But Mrs E 
doesnt appear to have been affected by any of those things.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mrs Es complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2020.Adam Charles
Ombudsman