DRN-2728016
The complaint
Mr S complains that the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement (HPA) with 
Specialist Motor Finance Limited (Specialist Motors) wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S acquired a car through a HPA dated 1 May 2019 with Specialist Motors. Under the 
regulations, specifically the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015) Specialist Motors can be 
held liable if the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Satisfactory quality 
takes into account factors such as the age and mileage of the car. When Mr S acquired the 
car, it was eight years old and had been driven over 110,000 miles. Therefore, it is 
reasonable to expect that the car would have experienced some wear and tear and that 
certain parts may experience issues within a relatively short period even if faults werent 
present at supply.
Mr S first contacted Specialist Motors at end July 2019 about issues with the car and I 
understand repairs were undertaken. In September 2019, he raised an issue with the 
handbrake. Mr S provided a copy of an estimate from August 2019 which shows the issue 
was investigated and it was recommended that the EMF control unit with actuator be 
replaced. I understand a repair took place and the cost was covered by the supplying dealer. 
Unfortunately, the repair didnt resolve the issue. Mr S has provided further evidence of 
investigation into the issue with the handbrake from December 2019 which reported a 
sporadic mechanical fault stored in memory and that further investigation into the electrical 
system was required. Mr S asked to reject the car at this time. Mr S has provided further 
evidence to show the issue with the handbrake unit is ongoing.
The evidence clearly shows that there is an issue with the electronic handbrake and that this 
was first investigated in August 2019 and while repairs have been attempted the issue is 
ongoing. Under the CRA if a fault is identified within the first 30 days, the consumer may 
have a short term right to reject. This issue was raised after that period but within six months 
of Mr S acquiring the car. When issues occur within the first six months it is generally 
considered the responsibility of the supplier to show these werent due to faults present at 
the point of supply. In this case, while the issue did occur within a few months, consideration 
also needs to be given to the age and mileage of the car at acquisition. An independent 
inspection report took place on 9 November 2020. This confirmed the issue with the 
electronic parking brake (EMF) actuator unit. It noted the mileage that had been covered 
before the initial failure occurred and the ongoing reported faults. It concluded that the initial 
fault would not have been evident at the point of sale, but instead, has occurred due to an 
electrical breakdown brought about by general wear and tear and deterioration. 
I have looked at the cars MOT history and a MOT took place at the time of acquisition. The 
car failed the MOT on 1 May 2019 and passed on 2 May 2019 showing it was road worthy at 
that time. The reason for the failure wasnt to do with the electronic handbrake and this 
wasnt mentioned as an issue in the MOT at that time. I note Mr S comments about the 
extent of the inspection report but I find, on balance, that based on the conclusion of the 
inspection report and the MOT from May 2019, it is more likely than not that the issue with 
the handbrake was the result of wear and tear rather than a fault that was present at the 
point of supply.
I have considered the durability of the car given when the issue arose. However, as the car 
was eight years old at acquisition and had covered over 110,000 miles and Mr S was then 
able to drive a further 6,000 miles before the issue with the handbrake was raised, I do not 
find I can say the car wasnt sufficiently durable. I can see Mr S has been able to continue to 
drive the car and that it passed a MOT in November 2020 by which time the mileage was 
over 131,000. Therefore, while there is clearly an ongoing issue with handbrake that repairs 
havent successfully repaired, as I do not find I can say the issue is due to a fault present or 
developing at acquisition I do not find I can hold Specialist Motors liable for this. Instead 
Mr S should discuss the issue with the repairs with the repairing garage.
Mr S account is in arrears. I can understand how this has happened due to his ongoing 
complaint. However, Mr S has continued to use the car and so it is reasonable that he would 
continue to make his payments. However, given the situation on his account I would now 
expect Specialist Motors to treat him positively and sympathetically regarding his 
outstanding balance and arrears. 
 
Overall, while I understand this isnt the outcome Mr S wants and I can understand why he is 
upset by the issue with the handbrake, I do not find I can say that Specialist Motors is liable 
in this case and so I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Specialist Motor Finance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman