DRN-2757434
The complaint
Mr V complains that Skipton Building Society (Skipton) refused to allow him to pay cash into 
his savings account or update his passbook.
What happened
Mr V says he visited his local branch in late May 2020, but as it was closed, he was directed 
to visit another local branch that was open. Mr V says while in the queue he was asked 
about the  transactions he was undertaking. After explaining this he was told by a staff 
member, that while they could accept the deposit of a cheque into his savings account, 
theyre werent able to accept a cash deposit or update his savings account passbook. Mr V 
says the branch staff said they were following government guidelines following the Covid 
pandemic and so he told the branch manager he wanted to lodge a formal complaint. But 
when Skipton wrote to him about his complaint, they didnt answer this fully or explain to him 
why he couldnt pay cash into his account when he was allowed to deposit a cheque. 
Mr V says he is looking for an apology from Skipton, a refund of lost interest and 
compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
Skipton apologised to Mr V for the inconvenience but have explained as a result of the Covid 
pandemic, their branches were operating a locked door policy, restricting customer 
transactions to those they considered essential. 
Mr V wasnt happy with Skiptons response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold Mr Vs complaint. 
She felt that Skipton were acting to protect its customers and staff and these rules apply to 
all of its customers. The investigator says Skipton had made a business decision in light of 
guidance from its regulator and that was a reasonable course of action for them to take. 
Mr V wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would have been frustrating and inconvenient for Mr V not to be allowed 
to pay cash into his savings account or have his passbook updated as he wished. I can also 
see that Mr V was further frustrated by the fact he believed there were no government 
guidelines to suggest he couldnt pay cash into his savings account as the staff at Skipton 
had implied. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Skipton acted unreasonably when they 
declined to accept Mr Vs cash deposit into his savings account and update his passbook. 
Mr Vs main contention here is that he was allowed to pay a cheque into his account but not 
cash. Mr V says Skipton havent explained to him why one transaction is considered 
essential and the other not. Furthermore, Mr V says the staff on the day implied they were 
following government regulation and referred to Boris (meaning the Prime Minister) making 
the rules, when in fact this wasnt the case. 
The first thing to say is I have to take into account the fact this happened during the Covid 
pandemic which affected both businesses and customers alike.
I understand the points Mr V makes but as the investigator has pointed out, Skipton would 
have considered the guidance given to them, like all banks and buildings societies, from the 
regulator The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). I am satisfied Skipton have interpreted this 
guidance in a way in which they believed best protected their staff and customers during 
these unprecedented times in the circumstances here. 
Skipton says they dont consider updating a passbook or paying cash into a savings 
account, which may have involved Mr V entering the branch, as essential. In the 
circumstances here, I think that was fair for Skipton to say. I think it was reasonable to 
conclude that Mr V paying money into his savings account wasnt an essential transaction, 
because there was no clear urgent need to do it.  Likewise, there was no urgent need for Mr 
Vs passbook to be updated either. I realise that both these things may have been important 
to Mr V  but I think Skipton acted reasonably when they said they wouldnt do them here 
because they werent essential from a business perspective.
That said, as Mr V points out, Skipton agreed to accept a cheque deposit, so I can see why 
hed ask why they couldnt take his cash. Given the Covid situation, Skipton considered this 
to have less risk attached to it than cash as it passes through fewer hands and didnt require 
Mr V entering the branch to make the transaction  that seems reasonable to me given the 
circumstances here. 
As far as how the conversation went with the members of Skiptons staff, obviously its 
difficult for me to comment on this, but even if they did imply this was a government directive 
as Mr V says, it doesnt detract from the fact Skipton had made a difficult business decision 
to restrict customer branch access and activity during this time. Its also worth mentioning 
that Skipton did email Mr V at the beginning of April 2020. In this email, it made clear the 
situation was changing daily and before visiting a branch, customers should check their 
website and only visit a branch for essential transactions. With that in mind, I am satisfied 
this made clear not all transactions would be possible and what transactions could be carried 
out was subject to change on a day to day basis. 
Thats not to say Mr V wasnt inconvenienced by the fact he couldnt pay cash into his 
savings account as he wished and that is understood, and I can see Skipton have 
apologised for this. Its fair to say the backdrop of the pandemic here meant that many 
businesses faced problems that resulted in inconvenience to its customers, so its important 
that this is taken into account when trying to establish what is fair and reasonable to 
impartially resolve a complaint. And here, while Mr V has suffered some inconvenience as 
he wasnt able to pay cash into his savings account, I am satisfied this was unavoidable due 
to the problems caused by the pandemic. 
While Mr V will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Skipton, 
here.  
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman