DRN-3516807
The complaint
Miss S complains about what happened when she lost her credit card, and tried to get
Santander UK Plc to send a replacement.
What happened
Miss S sent a secure message to Santander on 28 June 2021, saying shed lost her card,
and couldnt see how to report this online. The message said she wanted Santander to send
a new card, and to complain about how difficult it had been to report her old card as lost.
Santander told us it sent Miss S an automatic reply to this message, saying this secure
messaging service was no longer in use, and telling her about other ways to get in touch.
Miss S wrote to Santander on 19 July 2021. This letter also said she wanted to order a new
card and to log a complaint that the process to report a lost card was difficult. Miss S told
Santander shed suffered distress as a result of being unable to report her card as lost, as
well as consequential losses.
Santander wrote to Miss S, to say when a card is lost, it wants customers to call, so it can
act quickly to protect customers from fraud. And it also said it had to complete security
before it could issue a new card. So it didnt send a new card out then. It asked her to call.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He noted Miss S had said
Santander didnt tell her the secure message system was no longer in use. But he accepted
that Santander had sent the auto reply that it told us about. And that reply told Miss S she
would need to use another way to get in touch.
Our investigator said Santander told us that it really wanted Miss S to ring if her card was
lost. The terms of her account also said she could write to Santander about this. And our
investigator said Miss S had written to Santander. Although this letter was mainly about her
complaint, initially our investigator still thought Santander shouldve acted on this and issued
a new card. So at first, he thought this complaint should be upheld on this point.
Santander then told us it wouldnt do that. It needed Miss S to clear security before it could
send a new card out to her. And it couldnt just ring her to sort this issue out. Miss S had
clearly requested, in her letter, that Santander should only reply in writing.
Our investigator considered this new information, and changed his mind about this. He no
longer thought Santander was at fault for not issuing a card when Miss S wrote to it,
because she hadnt been able to clear security.
Our investigator didnt think Santander had to pay Miss S for any consequential losses. He
said shed chosen to send items by post, rather than use the freephone number. And
Santander had confirmed her balance was zero, so he hadnt been able to see that
Santander had caused any financial loss to Miss S.
Our investigator said although Miss S told us Santander hadnt respected her preference to
be contacted by post only, he hadnt seen any evidence to show that Santander had
contacted her other than by post in this instance. He noted that Santander does reserve the
right to contact Miss S by other means if there are security or other fraud concerns on her
account.
Miss S said her secure message was sent after she passed secure customer authentication.
She wanted to know why she was allowed to send this message, if that service was no
longer available. Having passed this security, she thought that should have been enough to
order a new card.
Miss S said she had rung Santander, but the phone was never answered. So she thought
postage was a consequential loss, and this amounted to £15. And she said shed incurred
interest on another account, as she couldnt use her Santander account, that was about £10.
Miss S still wanted compensation of £175, including these losses.
Our investigator didnt change his mind. But then Miss S wrote to say she had received a
new card. She thought this added weight to her complaint, and Santander should simply
have sent a replacement card to her when she first asked.
Our investigator asked Santander about this. It said Miss S had ordered a new card online. It
asks customers not to do this when the old card is lost (as opposed to worn out or damaged)
because this method of ordering a new card doesnt also block and cancel the old card.
Our investigator didnt change his mind, and this case was then passed to me for a final
decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
I am persuaded, on the evidence I have seen, that Santander did respond to the 
secure message that Miss S sent, and that the reply told her it was no longer 
operating the secure message system. I understand Miss S thinks if she can send a 
message, then Santander ought to read it, and act on it. But I dont think that its 
unfair or unreasonable, when Santander has decided to stop actively monitoring and 
responding through this system, for it to leave that system in place, and use it to tell 
people about other ways to get in touch.
Miss S then wrote to Santander, and this letter included information that her card was 
lost. Santander replied, to say she would have to ring it about this. It said in that letter 
that it hadnt been able to cancel her old card or order a new one for her. And in 
response to our investigators query about how Miss S had managed to get a new 
card more recently, Santander said Miss S had requested a new card online, but had 
never reported the old card as lost. Santander said unless customers ring, the old 
card wont be cancelled and blocked.
I note that Santanders terms and conditions say this 
20.5 If your Card is lost or stolen  you must tell us as soon as possible by
telephoning 0800 9 123 123 or writing to Credit Card Customer Service, 
Santander UK plc, PO Box 983, Bradford BD1 9FE. If we ask, you must write 
to us within seven days.
20.6 You must give us all the information you have about the loss, theft or 
misuse of the Card, Card number, Personal Security Details or the PIN, and any other information we ask for to help us. We may give the police any 
information we think will be useful.
That part of the terms and conditions does seem to me to allow for at least the first 
report of a lost card to be done by a letter. However, Santander has continued to 
insist, in its correspondence with Miss S, and then with us, that this simply has to be 
done by phone. It also told us that because Miss S hasnt phoned, the card she lost 
has never been blocked.
I know that Miss S hadnt complied with Santanders requirements for reporting a loss 
 she hadnt written to the right address, and she hadnt provided all of the 
information Santander asks for. She also hadnt gone through any security, when she 
wrote to Santander. So I dont think its as straightforward as saying Santander 
should just have sent Miss S a new card. I cant be sure that this is what Santander 
should have done when it got Miss Ss letter.
But when Santanders terms and conditions say that a lost card can be reported in 
writing, it should not have written to Miss S to say that the only way she could 
possibly do this was by phone.
I also think that, by the time Santander had responded to Miss Ss complaint, it was 
well aware that she had told it about a lost card. I think Santander did have enough 
information at that point to cancel and block Miss Ss old card, even if it didnt want to 
send her a new one without taking her through some security. I think its unhelpful for 
Santander still to be saying, several months after Miss S had brought her complaint 
to our service, that her lost card has never been blocked.
What Miss S wants to do is something that looks as if it should be possible, under the 
terms of Miss Ss card. Because Santander hasnt let her do that, I think Santander 
should make a payment of compensation to Miss S. And I think Santander should 
cancel and block Miss Ss old card now, if it has not already done so.
Miss S also says Santander should pay for her consequential losses. She said she 
had rung, but the phone was never answered. Whilst I understand there may have 
been long wait times for calls to be answered when Miss S lost her card, I havent 
seen anything to make me think that calls would not have been answered in time. So 
I dont agree that Miss S had no option but to send items by post. I dont think 
Santander has to reimburse Miss S for this.
Miss S also said shed paid interest on another account, as she couldnt use her 
Santander card. But she hasnt explained why there was a charge on that card, 
which she wouldnt have faced if shed used her Santander card. Without that 
explanation, it seems likely that Miss S would have paid around the same amount on 
the Santander card if it had been replaced by then. So I dont currently think 
Santander has to reimburse Miss S for this either.
Miss S has asked for a total of £175 for this case, including losses Ive explained I 
dont currently think Santander has to pay for. I dont think it would be consistent with 
other cases to make a payment the amount Miss S has requested in this case. My 
provisional view is that Santander should pay Miss S £50.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both parties replied. Santander said it would accept my decision. Miss S replied to make 
additional points, and repeat her request for £175 in compensation.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss S said that she didnt request the new card online, she had requested a new card 
repeatedly in writing by post. She felt that by failing to block her old card for such a long time 
after it was initially reported, Santander left her account open to potential fraud. Miss S said 
that she was unavailable to call Santander during its opening times, and she was 
unavailable to visit a branch during its opening hours. So she had to send a letter by 
registered post. And she referred to other cases our service has decided, to support her 
request for additional compensation.
Ill look at these points in turn.
Miss S said she didnt request her new card online. But Santander has sent us a screenshot 
of its internal systems, which record the method that Miss S used to order a new card, in 
mid-February as internet. That does suggest that Miss S ordered her new card online. So I 
havent changed my mind on this point.
Miss S said Santander had left her card open to possible fraud. I understand her point here, 
and thats why I have instructed Santander to block this card now. But I also have to bear in 
mind that Santander has always been clear with Miss S that her old card wasnt blocked. It 
asked her to call to do this, and Miss S didnt call Santander to ensure the card was blocked.
I note that Miss S says that she wasnt available to call Santander. But she has previously 
told us that she did call Santander, a number of times, and none of these calls were 
answered promptly. So I still dont agree that Miss S had no option but to send items by post.
Miss S mentioned a specific case, where compensation was much higher than I had 
proposed here, and others where she said awards were more in the region of £100. But our 
service assesses each case individually, on its own particular circumstances. And here, I still 
think a payment of £50 in compensation does provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint. 
So I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc must cancel and block Miss Ss old card now, if it 
has not already done so, and must pay Miss S £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 July 2022. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman