DRN-4048576
The complaint
Mr R and Mrs A complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt refunded them for the losses they 
suffered when they fell victim to a purchase scam involving flight tickets.
What happened
Mr R and Mrs A hold a joint current account with HSBC. In March 2022 they were looking to 
purchase five international flight tickets for them and their family. The family was planning to 
travel at a very busy time of year. So, they were pleased to find economy class tickets 
advertised online and at a slightly lower than expected price.
They tried to ring the number for the travel agent but couldnt get through. Not long after, 
they received a call back supposedly from an employee of the agent. Having explained what 
they were looking for, they received flight details and seat information. 
Mr R and Mrs A sent a deposit payment of £350 by Faster Payments bank transfer from their 
joint HSBC account. The account details they were given were for a personal account, the 
payees name being an individuals name rather than a company name. 
Mr R and Mrs A explain the travel agent told them that if the bank was to ask them the 
purpose of the payment, they should use the story that it was a payment to a friend or family 
member. The agent suggested perhaps using the story it was for a loan. They shouldnt tell 
the bank that it was going to a business. Neither should they say it was for the purchase of 
flight tickets. The agent said this was to avoid problems with the payment. 
Mr R says he thought this might be for tax evasion but went along with what he was being 
told to do. The payment was made without incident. A few days later, the agent asked them 
to pay the outstanding balance  a further £1,666.
Mr R tried to send the payment, again using the same details as before. But this time, the 
payment was blocked by HSBC. Mr R called HSBC.
In his call with HSBC, Mr R was told the payment had been held for fraud checks. He was 
asked what the reason for the payment was - and as hed been instructed by the agent, he 
told the bank it was for a friend or family member. He said he was making a payment to 
repay money hed borrowed from a work colleague. He said the loan had been to buy tickets 
and he now needed to give the money back. Mr R explained hed sent £350 to the same 
account details previously, and that his colleague had confirmed receipt so he knew the 
details were correct. 
Mr R was asked if anyone had told him to mislead the bank or how to answer the banks 
questions. Mr R replied no. He was told that if anyone did say this to him it would be a 
strong indication that he was being scammed. But Mr R insisted he knew the recipient and 
had spoken to them since the previous payment. He told HSBC he was quite happy with the 
payment being made.
HSBC then released the payment. It seems this was returned by the payees bank and 
recredited to Mr R and Mrs As HSBC account. 
Undeterred, Mr R tried to send the payment once again, to the same payment details. But 
again, the payment was unsuccessful and was recredited. 
Mr R says he then tried sending it to his cousin to ask him to make the payment on his 
behalf. But his cousin was also unsuccessful and returned the funds to Mr R.
Mr R and Mrs A say the travel agent then told them hed provide a different set of account 
details, and to send a small amount first to test it. This time, the payee was a limited 
company (although, again, the name didnt bear any obvious relation to the supposed name 
of the travel agent firm).
Mr R sent a payment of £400 to these new details. The following day after the agent 
confirmed it had been successfully received, Mr R sent a payment for £1,266.  
However, the agent then contacted Mr R and Mrs A. He said the original flights were no 
longer available. If they sent the agent a further £1,101 then hed upgrade them to business 
class and refund this additional payment to them, so theyd have not paid more than the 
economy class price.
Mr R says this seemed very fishy. He later spoke to HSBC about the payment. This time he 
told the bank the true situation and the scam came to light. 
HSBC was able to block and reverse the final £1,101 payment Mr R had been told to send. 
But HSBC was unable to recover the money Mr R and Mrs A had previously sent, a total of 
£2,016. That money had already been removed from the two beneficiary accounts before the 
scam had been uncovered. 
HSBC then looked into what had happened as an Authorised Push Payment scam (APP 
scam) under the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the 
CRM Code). The CRM Code can provide additional protection when customers fall victim to 
APP scams such as this was.
HSBC didnt think it was liable to reimburse Mr R and Mrs A under the CRM Code. When it 
had asked them about the reason for some of the payments, Mr R hadnt told the bank the 
true reason behind them, hindering it from protecting them against the scam that was 
unfolding. It didnt think Mr R and Mrs A had taken enough care to check this was a 
legitimate travel agent before sending the payments. 
Mr R and Mrs A didnt accept this was fair. They referred their complaint to our service for an 
impartial review. 
Our Investigator looked into what had happened. She thought HSBC had treated Mr R and 
Mrs A fairly.  She thought Mr R and Mrs A had (and reasonably ought to have had) 
significant concerns about several aspects of what they were being told by the agent, and 
that this should have prompted them to take a more cautious approach before sending any 
payments by bank transfer. The Investigator didnt think HSBC had been at fault or needed 
to refund them.
Mr R and Mrs A didnt accept the Investigators view on the matter. In light of this 
disagreement, I have been asked to reach a final decision on their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
Im sorry to hear about what happened to Mr R and Mrs A. I can understand entirely why 
they want back the money they lost, and why they dont accept the bank neednt take 
responsibility.But while I have sympathy for Mr R and Mrs A in what happened, I have to recognise that 
the principal cause of their losses here was the scammer who deceived them. Even though 
this was a scam and Mr R and Mrs A lost money as a result, HSBC does not necessarily 
have a responsibility to refund them in these circumstances. As a starting point, because 
Mr R and Mrs A authorised the relevant payments, they are presumed liable for them. 
However, the CRM Code can provide additional protection from APP scams. Im satisfied 
this payment was the result of an APP scam and is one that falls within the scope of the 
CRM Code.
The CRM Code wont always require a bank to refund its customer. It says the bank may 
choose not to fully reimburse its customer in some circumstances  where the bank can 
establish it is entitled to apply one (or more) of the exceptions to full reimbursement. HSBC 
says it has established that here  specifically, that Mr R and Mrs A made these payments 
without holding a reasonable basis for believing they were making the transaction to a 
legitimate travel agent. HSBC further says that it met the standards required of it.
Ive therefore considered whether HSBC has established that such an exception can be 
fairly applied  in other words, that Mr R and Mrs A made the payments without holding that 
reasonable basis for belief. In determining this point, I have carefully considered everything 
Mr R and Mrs A have submitted (and what has been submitted on their behalf by their 
professional representative), as well as the other evidence available to me.
This scam had some features that made it seem more genuine, such as it appearing the 
agent operated from an office in London and providing screenshots purporting to show 
booking details.
But there were other factors I think should have caused Mr R and Mrs A to have significant 
doubts about what was happening. 
The initial prices being offered werent exceptionally low for economy class flights to the 
relevant destination. However, Mr R explained hed expected prices would have been high 
because he was trying to book a late availability flight at an extremely busy point in the 
calendar. He told HSBC, in these circumstances, he thought it was too good to be true.
I think that might perhaps be why Mr R was willing to go along with the agents suggestion 
that he should deceive his bank about what the payments were for. 
But in any event, I consider it should have been a significant red flag when the agent told 
Mr R and Mrs A that they should lie to HSBC if asked the purpose of the payment. That is 
not something a legitimate travel agent would normally ask someone to do. 
Mr R has explained he thought the agent might have been asking him to make the payment 
a certain way to evade taxation, and says he was willing to go along with the suggestion 
despite these concerns. However, I am not persuaded it would be reasonable to expect a 
legitimate travel agent to be attempting to evade properly due taxes, nor to seemingly 
require its customers to be complicit in that effort.
The agent provided relatively little to evidence that they were a legitimate travel agent. But 
even had the agent provided more, I think the factors above should have caused Mr R and 
Mrs A to doubt the legitimacy of the agent.
In the round, I dont find they held a reasonable basis for believing they were dealing with a 
legitimate travel agent when they made any of the relevant bank transfers to the two 
destination accounts.
So, I find HSBC has been able to establish it can fairly apply the exception to full 
reimbursement under the CRM Code. 
I have gone on to consider whether HSBC met the standards set for it under the CRM Code, 
as well as more generally.Under the terms of the CRM Code, HSBC should take reasonable steps to provide a 
customer with an effective warning where it identifies an APP scam risk in the course of a 
payment journey. 
Based on what HSBC could reasonably have known at the time, I dont consider any of 
these payments were ones which would have particularly stood out as being at risk of being 
connected to a fraud or scam. None were for a remarkable sum or would otherwise have 
seemed a significantly unusual payment in the context of Mr R and Mrs As typical usage of 
their account. Mr R and Mrs A sent and received payments of a larger size than the disputed 
payments reasonably regularly.
With this in mind I dont think HSBC needed to give an Effective Warning under the terms of 
the CRM Code. Even were I to think differently on this point, and say it ought to have done 
so, I dont consider the bank could reasonably have given a warning that would have likely 
made a difference in this specific instance - I dont think this would have made a material 
difference to the success of the scam that took place. 
During the call where HSBC spoke to Mr R about the payment, he gave the bank a false 
payment reason and had invented a cover story to deliberately mislead the bank about what 
was happening. Under the CRM Code the nature of the effective warning given should 
reflect the specific APP scam risk type that has been identified. Here it seems Mr R would 
have disguised the true reason for making the payments so I think any such warning would 
not have been relevant and so would have been unlikely to make a material difference to the 
success of this scam. 
Furthermore, when HSBC did provide a relevant scam warning (at the time of the very first 
payment to the scam of £350), it began by saying:
Fraud alert
! This could be a scam
WARNING  If someone has told you to mislead us about the reason for your payment and 
choose the wrong payment type, stop. This is a scam.
This exactly matches the true scenario, as Mr R later described it to the bank. The message 
went on to say the following: What you need to do before making the payment  Stop and 
think  does this seem right, is the offer for a limited time or feel too good to be true?
Given Mr Rs comments that it did seem too good to be true, and arguably that what he was 
being asked to do shouldnt have seemed right, I think this message was relevant to what 
was happening. 
All considered, I dont find HSBC needed to do more in relation to these payments under the 
terms of the CRM Code. And even had it done more by providing Effective Warnings, I am 
not persuaded this would have made a material difference to the success of the scam that 
unfolded. 
The CRM Code does not represent the full extent of the obligations on HSBC. The Code can 
provide additional protection where it is relevant. Nonetheless, I have also considered 
whether there is any reason that Mr R and Mrs A might be entitled to reimbursement outside 
the provisions of the CRM Code. But I dont think HSBC failed to meet the other obligations it 
was under, or that HSBC should be liable to reimburse Mr R and Mrs A for another reason.
In particular, I think HSBC took appropriate steps during its call with Mr R at the point he 
attempted a payment of £1,666. 
Unfortunately, when Mr R spoke to the bank about the attempted payment, he inadvertently 
hindered HSBCs ability to protect himself and Mrs A from this scam. HSBC explained during 
the call that if anyone had asked Mr R to mislead his bank, or told him how to answer the 
banks questions, then this would be a strong indication he was being scammed. But in response to the banks direct question to Mr R about whether this had happened here, he 
denied it. 
When, in the final calls with HSBC, Mr R explained the true situation - the scam came to light 
and HSBC acted to prevent further losses.
Lastly, after HSBC had uncovered the true situation, I am satisfied the bank took the 
appropriate steps in attempting to recover the funds, although none remained.
HSBC has already paid Mr R and Mrs A £100 because it acknowledges it incorrectly advised 
Mr R hed be refunded in full during part of the call where the scam came to light. It corrected 
the error in a follow up call very shortly afterwards. I think this sum was appropriate in the 
circumstances. I dont require HSBC to pay more.
In saying all of this, I want to stress that I am very sorry to hear that Mr R and Mrs A were 
the victims of this scam. They ultimately paid over a significant sum in the belief they were 
purchasing airline tickets, and so have ended up out of pocket as a result. But I can only look 
at HSBCs actions here. I cannot hold the bank liable for the actions of the scammer who 
tricked and deceived Mr R and Mrs A. I can only make an award if I find HSBC was at fault 
in some way or is otherwise required to refund them under the terms of the CRM Code.
Based on what Ive seen, I dont find HSBC is responsible for the losses Mr R and Mrs A 
suffered here and it doesnt need to refund them. I understand that this is not the outcome 
theyd want. But I can reassure Mr R and Mrs A that Ive carefully considered all the 
circumstances of their complaint before reaching what I consider to be the fair and 
reasonable decision in all of the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr R and Mrs As complaint about HSBC UK 
Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman