DRN-3645746
The complaint
Mr L complains about Trading 212 UK Limiteds (T212) decision to withdraw cryptocurrency 
contracts for differences (CFD) ahead of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) imposed 
deadline. This related to his open positions and their failure to give him sufficient notice of 
these changes. 
What happened
Mr L traded in CFDs with T212 during July and August 2019. He placed ten BUY CFD trades 
in Litecoin and kept these open long term until 26 November 2020, when he received a 
notification through their mobile application, which he says left him no choice but to close all 
of his positions with immediate effect. He closed his ten positions with a loss of £1,100 and 
interest /swap charges of £320 and an estimated £5,000 in loss of profits.
He says T212s notice of change was unfair and inadequate, and they failed to comply with 
the obligations outlined in the FCAs Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). He says the 
two notices they sent were within a short time frame, were misleading and didnt represent 
his best interests. He says their use of the mobile application to notify customers of changes 
was not a reasonable form of communication. He also feels they deliberately misrepresented 
the FCA publication PS20/10. To resolve his complaint, he would like all his losses 
reimbursed with interest and to be paid his loss of profits.
In response, T212 said the FCA banned the sale of cryptocurrency CFDs to retail clients on 
6 October 2020 and was effective from 6 January 2021.  They say regulatory changes, 
market volatility, and the increase in charges from third parties made it almost impossible to 
hedge their cryptocurrency exposure without increasing costs for their customers. As a 
result, they made the commercial decision to withdraw the products sooner than the FCA 
imposed deadline. They say the terms of the CFD account allowed them to make these 
changes without notice but do consider the notice they gave to be adequate, so they didnt 
uphold his complaint. As a gesture of goodwill, they offered Mr L £800, but he rejected the 
offer and brought his complaint to this service.  
Our investigator explained that her role in this complaint was to consider if T212 had done 
anything wrong. She said, they were not required to give any notice at all and there was 
nothing stipulating which form of communication should be used. She also didnt think they 
had misrepresented the FCAs publication as this did not change T212s ability to make its 
own business decisions. She concluded that T212 had acted in accordance with the terms 
and conditions of the agreement and didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr L didnt agree so this has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to first outline what my role at this service is. It is to review the complaint 
presented and in deciding what is fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant 
regulation, law, and best industry practice, but its for me to decide, based on the information 
and evidence that I have been given, whether T212 have done anything wrong. 
As a regulated business, there are several obligations set by the FCA which T212 must 
adhere to. They also have a certain amount of commercial discretion regarding how they 
operate, the products and services they choose to offer and how much they charge their 
customers as long as they are transparent and fair. 
The FCAs decision banned the sale, marketing and distribution to all retail consumers of 
any derivatives that reference unregulated transferable crypto assets by firms acting in, or 
from, the UK. As a UK based firm, T212 were required to comply with these FCA rules. The 
FCA gave them a deadline of 6 January 2021 to comply with the ban on cryptocurrency, but 
this didnt impact or prevent them from making any other commercial decisions in the usual 
course of their business. They still had the right to exercise their commercial discretion to 
make any changes they required, and this is provided for in the Client Agreement, the terms 
of the account and the agreement between T212 and Mr L. Clause 6.10 says:-
6.10. We shall have the right to introduce new Financial Instruments and Market 
Hours for trading at the Trading Platform and to suspend and/or remove from the 
Trading Platform any Financial instrument and Market Hours at our sold discretion.
T212 had sole discretion to withdraw any instrument and in this case, cryptocurrency, from 
their trading platform. This discretion is separate from the FCAs decision to ban 
cryptocurrency and they were able to make these changes at any point prior to the FCA 
deadline. So, I would consider their removal of this to be reasonable exercise of their 
commercial discretion to make changes. 
I appreciate this has resulted in losses to him and the Client Agreement covers this type of 
situation. Clause 7.4 which says T212 shall not incur any liability for a Force Majeure. This 
is defined in clause 25 as an event beyond their reasonable control which goes on to include 
the suspension or failure of any financial instrument. 
I note Mr Ls comments in relation to the two communications he received on 23 and 26 
November 2020 and that he says they dont comply with COBS 2.1.1(1), A firm must act 
honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interest of its client. I 
understand why Mr L feels strongly about this complaint, he had intended to keep these 
positions open long term and was reassured by the first notification that the ban imposed by 
the FCA only affected the opening of new cryptocurrencies and didnt directly ask for the 
liquidation of already open cryptocurrency positions. So, its not unreasonable that the 
second notification of change informing him that all cryptocurrencies would be liquidated 
caused confusion and seem unfair to him. 
T212 have explained that the FCAs decision to ban cryptocurrency and market volatility  
which is a result of a number of factors including worldwide events and the FCA ban, in 
addition to the significantly increased costs third party liquidity providers had added made it 
almost impossible to hedge cryptocurrency. This would have presented an added further risk 
to them and an increase in costs to their customers. These were circumstances outside of 
T212s control and not unusual with CFD trading where firms have to act to swiftly to protect 
the interest of all their account holders and their own. From what Ive seen, I am not 
persuaded that T212 failed to act in the best interest of their customers or that they failed to 
comply with COBS rules.Mr L says the second notification on 26 November 2020 was misleading and misrepresents 
the FCA publication. The notification says they are suspending trading of all cryptocurrencies 
and liquidate all exiting positions in response to the FCAs policy statement on 
cryptocurrency. I appreciate this notification on its own may not present a complete picture, 
but having looked at the previous notification on 23 November 2020, I know that a detailed 
explanation of the FCA decision had already been given as well as a link the relevant 
publication, which was also given again in the 26 November notice.  Adding the link so that 
customers can read the FCA publication PS20/10 goes against Mr Ls statement that T212 
intended to misrepresent the FCA publication. As Ive explained above, there were additional 
factors that fed into T212s decision to liquidate all existing positions. Market volatility and 
liquidity issues with cryptocurrency and CFD products have been well documented, so Im 
not minded to think they tried to misrepresent the FCA publication.
Looking at the notice period T212 gave Mr L of the changes it was imposing in its second 
notification  the notification was sent on 26 November 2020 with the changes being 
imposed the following day at 01:00. The terms of the Client Agreement do not require T212 
to give their customers notices of these changes prior to making them nor do they stipulate 
any particular form of communication for sending notifications of any changes. I considered 
whether Mr L was unfairly disadvantaged by not being given enough notice. Clients were 
given more than 31 hours to close any open positions, but Mr L says he didnt see this until 
much later and only had six hours notice of the change. He says this because the 
notification was sent to the platforms mobile application and the online platform, whereas he 
would expect such a change to be communicated via email. Notice of change was not 
required, and I consider T212s use of their platforms mobile application to send customers 
notification of the changes to be reasonable and not unusual.
Whilst I appreciate from his point of view the notice period may seem unfair, I dont consider 
having a larger notice period would necessarily have mitigated his exposure. There was no 
way of knowing with any certainty at that time that it would have reduced his losses 
particularly during a period of volatility so, overall, I am not persuaded that the notice period 
given to Mr L was unfair. I know he will be disappointed with my decision, but I based on the 
evidence, I am unable to uphold this complaint.
Much of the concerns Mr L raises are to do with the way in which T212 operate, and whether 
their practices are fair and in line with the regulations set out by the FCA. At this service we 
look at complaints based on the evidence that has been presented to us. It is not within the 
remit of this service to tell a business how they should operate or interfere with what services 
they provide. This is the role of the FCA, and I would suggest if Mr L continues to have any 
concerns about the way in which T212 operate, he should pursue his complaint with them. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Trading 212 UK Markets 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman