DRN-4403122
The complaint
Mr W complains about Building Block Insurance PCC Ltd (BBI) and the service they 
provided when he needed to claim on his Breakdown insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W held a Breakdown insurance policy, underwritten by BBI. Unfortunately, in June 2023, 
Mr Ws tyre ran flat. And so, he contacted BBI for assistance.
BBI accepted Mr Ws claim. And they instructed a local recovery agent, who Ill refer to as 
R, to attend and either fix the tyre, or tow Mr W home. But Mr W was unhappy with how 
long this took and so, he raised a complaint.
Mr W was unhappy that at 7.30pm on the day of the claim, he was told a recovery agent 
would be in attendance within 60-90 minutes. But R didnt arrive at the scene until around 
11pm, around 4 hours after Mr W initially contact BBI. Mr W unhappy with the delays he 
experienced, and the impact this had on his elderly mother who was in the car with him at 
the time. So, he wanted to be compensated for this upset this caused.
BBI responded to the complaint, and they apologised to Mr W for the dissatisfaction hed 
experienced. But they thought the delays Mr W experienced were outside of their control and 
they felt they had updated Mr W reasonably during this time. So, they didnt think they 
needed to do anything more. Mr W remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They recognised that BBI 
couldve done more to manage Mr Ws expectations on timescales, and that this failure to do 
so resulted in Mr W expecting an attendance earlier than the one he received. And they also 
recognised Mr Ws comments regarding his elderly mother, and the additional impact this 
created. But our investigator thought the apology already offered by BBI was a fair one, 
considering Mr W and his mother were parked in a retail car park while waiting for an 
attendance. So, they didnt think BBI needed to do anything more.
Mr W didnt agree, and he provided several comments explaining why. These included, and 
are not limited to, Mr Ws belief that an apology wouldnt be enough action for BBI to learn 
from their mistake and improve their service overall. He also didnt think BBI appropriately 
took into consideration his mothers vulnerabilities, and he didnt think it was fair to rely on 
the location the car was parked as he himself drove to the car park, with the flat tyre 
originating on a main road. So, Mr W maintained his belief that compensation should be 
paid.
Our investigator considered and replied to Mr Ws comments, but their view remained 
unchanged. Mr W continued to disagree and so, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr W. I dont dispute the 
inconvenience Mr W wouldve been caused by when his tyre run flat unexpectedly. And I 
recognise Mr W took out the policy with BBI to help assist him both practically, and 
financially, in situations such as the one he found himself in. So, when he was given an 
approximate time for an attendance and BBI failed to honour this, I can understand the 
frustration and upset this wouldve caused. And I do recognise how this wouldve been made 
worse by the worry Mr W wouldve felt for his elderly mother, who was with him in the car at 
the time.
But for me to say BBI should offer something more than the apology already put forward, I 
would need to be satisfied that Mr W, as the policy holder, was impacted in such a way by 
an error that was within BBIs control that a financial compensatory award should be made. 
And in this situation, following our services approach, I dont think thats the case.
It's not in dispute that it took R longer to arrive at Mr Ws location that was initially expected. I 
can see that within 30 minutes of Mr W making a claim, BBI called Mr W to make him aware 
that R had been instructed. Ive listened to this call, and Im satisfied BBI did suggest R 
should be with Mr W within 60-90 minutes.
But I note on this call, BBI did also explain that should this timeframe change, they would 
keep Mr W updated. On this occasion, I can see BBI called Mr W just before the 90-minute 
time period elapsed, to explain R had been delayed on a previous job. And so, there would 
be another 3060-minute period before R should arrive. While I understand the frustration 
this wouldve caused, I dont think I can say BBI did anything wrong up to this point. While 
they set an approximate timescale initially, I think they acted fairly by proactively contacting 
Mr W when it became clear this timescale would be missed. And I dont think BBI were able 
to reasonably control the fact R had been delayed at another job beforehand.
But on this call, I do think they set another expectation that R would be with Mr W by around 
10pm. And I can see that Mr W had to call BBI around 10 minutes after this timescale 
expired, as R still hadnt attended. I wouldve expected BBI to have been proactive in their 
update, as they had been initially. But they werent. So, I can understand the frustration Mr 
W wouldve felt, as he wouldve been left wondering where R was, having already waited for 
around three hours at this point. But again, I dont think BBI were able to control the delays R 
experienced in reaching Mr W, due to the job R attended beforehand and the distance they 
had to travel.
So, I do think BBIs service couldve been improved. But this doesnt necessarily mean a 
financial compensatory amount should be paid. Our service doesnt expect a perfect level of 
service; instead, we expect the service provided to be fair and reasonable overall. And even 
where we think the service a business has provided isnt fair, we need to consider the impact 
this service had on a customer, to decide whether financial compensation should be paid.
In this situation, Mr W is the policyholder. So, Im only able to consider the impact had on Mr 
W. This means I can consider the worry and upset he felt because his elderly mother was with him at the time. But Im unable to consider the actual detriment his mother felt directly, 
as she isnt the eligible complainant.
And in this situation, I note that Mr W was parked with his mother in a retail car park and so, 
I dont think he nor his mother were at risk of immediate danger. I think this must be 
considered against the fact BBI were unable to control delays R faced from a previous job, 
and that he made a claim on a Friday evening and so, would be deemed out of normal 
working hours. And having done so, I dont think I can be satisfied that the additional hour 
delay after 10pm, where BBI didnt proactively update Mr W, has created an impact that is 
significant enough to say that the apology BBI offered wasnt a reasonable resolution to Mr 
Ws complaint. Because of this, and all the above, I dont think I can say BBI should do 
anything more on this occasion.
I understand this is unlikely to be the outcome Mr W was hoping for. And I recognise Mr W 
doesnt feel an apology is a significant enough action for BBI to take on board his concerns 
and look to improve their services. But its important to note it is not our services role to 
punish a business, nor do we hold the powers to direct a business to change their internal 
processes. This would be the role of the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority.
Instead, it is our services role to consider the individual circumstances of the complaint and 
the impact this had on the complainant and policyholder, who is Mr W on this occasion. And 
when doing so, we must be fair and impartial to both parties. And having considered the 
complaint with this in mind, I dont think it would be fair, or proportionate, for me to say BBI 
should do anything more than the apology theyve already provided.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint about Building Block 
Insurance PCC Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman