DRN-3795041
The complaint
Mr O complains about American International Group UK Limited (AIG) who replaced his 
phone with a faulty device and poor service, following a claim under his gadget insurance. 
What happened
Mr O contacted AIG to make a claim on his policy, due to his phone becoming damaged and 
the loss of his laptop. Mr O explained that there were many delays during the claims process 
and that the level of communication from AIG was poor. When AIG replaced his phone, Mr O 
said that the replacement phone was faulty. He said that he contacted AIG within 24 hours to 
report the fault with the phone. But following on from this, he heard nothing back from AIG. 
So, Mr O complained to AIG for the faulty phone and poor service he received. In its final 
response, AIG said that it had contacted Mr O on numerous occasions, without success.  It 
also said that on occasion it spoke to Mr O to try to troubleshoot the issues with the phone. 
But on those occasions, Mr O said that he didnt have the phone with him.  AIG further 
explained that it was unable to validate what Mr O had said about the phone as a result. So, 
it could do nothing further. 
Mr O was given his referral rights and referred a complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said that AIG 
had provided evidence that it had contacted Mr O on several occasions. And as it was 
unable to make contact or when it spoke to Mr O, he said he didnt have the phone with him. 
So, it was unable to validate the claim. He was satisfied that AIG took reasonable steps to 
support Mr O in attempting to troubleshoot the phone. But as it was unable to make contact, 
our investigators view was that it wasnt reasonable nor did he we expect AIG to replace the 
phone, without first being able to troubleshoot the phone.  
AIG accepted the view, Mr O did not. He said that he had paid his premiums on time for 
several years. AIG had given him a faulty phone. He maintained that he contacted AIG 
several times and hadnt received a call back from them at all. He said that he had been left 
with a faulty phone that meant that AIG now didnt have to replace it, which he felt was 
unfair. So, he asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I realise this will be a disappointment to Mr O, but I hope my findings go some 
way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
Mr O said that he had held a policy with AIG for around nine years and had always paid the 
premiums on time. He believed that AIG offered him poor service and a faulty phone when 
he had to make a claim on his policy. So, Ive had a look at the evidence in relation to the 
poor level of communication and what steps AIG took to address the faulty phone. 
Mr O said that he contacted AIG shortly after receiving the phone, as he said that the 
replacement phone it had sent was faulty. He said that after his initial contact with AIG, he 
had no contact from them. He said that he had to try to chase them for updates, and the 
communication was poor. Plus, the issues with his phone remain unresolved. 
AIG said that on several occasions, it attempted to contact Mr O and tried to trouble shoot 
the issues with Mr Os replacement phone. In support of this, it has provided me with call 
logs. From that evidence, on at least seven occasions, AIG contacted Mr O. I cant say that 
on each of those occasions it was successful, but on at least two occasions, AIG spoke to 
Mr O. Further, Mr O said that if AIG called on a withheld/private number, it was unlikely that 
he wouldve answered it. Nevertheless, from the evidence that I have seen, Im satisfied that 
AIG made reasonable attempts to speak with Mr O and maintain contact, to discuss the 
issues with his phone. 
Mr O further complained that the issues with his phone remain unresolved and that early on, 
he was told by AIG that it would replace the faulty device. Which is the resolution that he 
would like. 
AIG said, that before any replacement phone could be sent to Mr O, it would need to be 
satisfied that there was an actual fault with the phone. This was the reason why it contacted 
Mr O on so many occasions, so that it could identify the problem with the phone, before any 
replacement was sent. Consequently, I dont think it was unreasonable for AIG to attempt to 
validate the phone before a replacement was sent to Mr O. 
Further, I also asked AIG, if it was still able to troubleshoot the phone, as well as carry out 
the necessary inspections to identify the issues. It said that a call-back could be arranged to 
attempt to troubleshoot the issue, that the device is covered under a 24-month warranty, but 
it wanted to have an informed discussion with Mr O before actioning a replacement under 
the warranty. AIG confirmed that this option is still open to Mr O. And I think it would be 
advisable for Mr O to contact AIG and to arrange for this to be done. 
Overall, I think AIG dealt with Mr Os claim fairly. I think it was reasonable for AIG to attempt 
to trouble shoot and identify the issues with the phone before possibly replacing it. I 
understand that this offer is still available to Mr O, which is fair. I acknowledge that this might 
not be the outcome that Mr O wouldve liked but, in the circumstances, I cant reasonably 
ask AIG to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons as outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman