DRN-2169576
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy that British Gas Insurance Limited has declined to offer him a deduction in 
premium, following it postponing an appointment Mr E requested, under his home 
emergency insurance policy. 
What happened
In early May 2020 Mr E contacted British Gas, after discovering his gas fire had broken 
down. He wanted to arrange an appointment for an engineer to attend his property and 
repair the problem. 
British Gas told Mr E it wasnt able to offer an appointment to him at the time. It said this was 
because it was following government restrictions in place because of the Coronavirus 
pandemic. It said these restrictions had meant it was only attending properties in emergency 
situations. British Gas didnt consider the breakdown of the gas fire to be an emergency.
Mr E was unhappy with this and felt he should receive a reduction in the cost of his 
insurance premium. Mr E said he wasnt receiving the service he had paid for  and so like 
some other companies he had various dealings with, a cost reduction would be fair. 
British Gas didnt agree. It said it wouldnt reduce the premium being paid, and that it would 
be able to book the work in for Mr E, when the current situation in respect of the pandemic 
had improved.
Because Mr E remained unhappy with this, he referred his complaint to this service for an 
independent review.
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He noted the 
terms and conditions in Mr Es policy which said British Gas would attend in a reasonable 
time, unless something beyond its control meant this wasnt possible. And our investigator 
said Mr E had received the cover he paid for under the policy, it was just the appointment 
was later than Mr E would have liked.
Mr E disagreed. He said that British Gas were charging full price, when it wasnt providing, 
and had no intention of providing, a full service. He reiterated some other companies had 
provided him with a price reduction for their services  and felt British Gas should have done 
the same in this case.
As Mr E disagreed, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Es complaint. 
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of Mr Es policy, to see what cover it was agreed 
would be provided to him. And I can see his policy does provide cover for a breakdown to his 
gas fire. The policy also provides information on timescales Mr E can expect to be adhered 
to by British Gas. It says;
well carry out any repairs or visits youre entitled to within a reasonable time, unless 
something beyond our control makes that impossible  in which case well let you know as 
soon as possible and give you another time when we can visit.
Given the above, Im aware the agreement between Mr E and British Gas doesnt provide a 
set timescale for attendence to Mr Es property, other than to note this will be within a 
reasonable time. And it does highlight that it will let Mr E know if circumstances make that 
impossible. So, Ive needed to consider whether British Gas acted in line with this, in this 
circumstance.
Ive thought carefully about this. And Im satisfied British Gas acted as its policy said here. 
The words reasonable time arent defined within the policy. But having considered the 
circumstances, including the type of problem reported and the government restrictions not to 
visit other households at the time, I dont think the time taken, or the decision made by 
British Gas was unreasonable. Im also satisfied that the government restrictions did mean 
the timescales British Gas could attend in were altered, but as this was out of its control, I 
dont think it acted unreasonably here.
Mr E has said he appreciates that the timing of the breakdown was difficult  but that he had 
paid for a certain level of customer service. And it was for this reason he felt in his case a 
price reduction should be agreed. But, I cant see British Gas went against the level of 
customer service it agreed to provide, and was paid for. And, there is no dispute that British 
Gas promptly told Mr E it couldnt attend, why this was, and that it would be able to attend 
when the current situation (the Coronavirus pandemic and the government advice) altered. 
Im aware once the government restrictions were lifted British Gas did attend Mr Es 
property, after this was booked. It viewed the gas fire, and changed the batteries to fix the 
issue. Because Mr Es policy provides cover for repairs of this nature, and this is what British 
Gas did, Im satisfied it provided the service Mr E had paid for. And therefore I dont think its 
unreasonable that a reduction in the price of the premium wasnt offered, in this case. So, I 
dont think British Gas needs to do anything more here.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. And therefore, I dont 
require British Gas Insurance Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
 Rachel Woods
Ombudsman