DRN-3206589
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely Loans lent to him 
irresponsibly.
What happened
There is limited information available about this matter but from what Ive seen, Mr L 
borrowed £1,000 from Oakbrook in December 2018. The loan was due to be repaid in 12 
monthly instalments of about £106. The total amount repayable was around £1,278.
One of our adjudicators has looked into the complaint but didnt think Oakbrook had been 
wrong to provide Mr L with the loan. Mr L disagreed with the adjudicators assessment. As 
the complaint has not been settled, it has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Mr Ls complaint.
Oakbrook needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr L irresponsibly. 
I think there are key questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did Oakbrook carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr 
L was in a position to sustainably repay the loan? If not, what would reasonable and 
proportionate checks have shown at the time? Did Oakbrook make a fair lending 
decision about the loan?
Did Oakbrook act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr L in some other way?
Oakbrook was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment or affordability check. 
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so Oakbrook had to think about whether 
repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr L. 
Oakbrook had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr L 
would be able repay the loan sustainably. There was no set list of checks that Oakbrook had 
to do, but it could consider a number of different things such as the loan amount, the length 
of the loan term, the repayment amounts, and the borrowers overall financial circumstances.
In light of this, I think that reasonable and proportionate checks ought generally to have been 
more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); and
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period)
Ive carefully considered all the evidence, arguments, and information Ive seen about this
matter and what it means for Mr L.
Oakbrook asked Mr L for information about his income and it acquired credit information and 
a wage slip before providing the loan. Oakbrook says it calculated Mr Ls expenditure using 
ONS data. Oakbrook thinks its checks were reasonable and proportionate, and that the loan 
was affordable for Mr L.
As Ive explained, there is limited information available about what happened at the time. 
Oakbrook says it does not hold a credit report from the time it lent to Mr L, but says it has 
some information extracted from the credit data.  Mr L declared an annual income of around 
£50,000 on his application and his wage slip showed net income of around £3,900. 
Oakbrook calculated his annual gross income to be in the region of £42,000. Oakbrook says 
there wasnt anything on its credit report that would have prevented its lending to Mr L. Ive 
reviewed the credit risk data supplied by Oakbrook, but this information is limited. 
Mr L thinks that his credit record at the time would have shown he had been struggling to 
meet his mortgage payments and that he had another loan and a large number of defaults 
and arrears on other outstanding credit.
Oakbrook has also provided a credit search undertaken in 2021, around the time Mr L raised 
his complaint. Ive thought carefully about this document. I can see there is some adverse 
information on this later report including two defaults from 2015 and 2016. But I think a 
lender would expect reasonably expect there to be some adverse information given the type 
of lending involved. And I think it would have been reasonable for Oakbrook to consider 
defaults from 2015 and 2016 to be historic. From what Ive seen, there are a large number of 
other defaults on this later report but appear to date from some time after the time when Mr L 
took his loan from Oakbrook.
In any event, I cannot fairly say that the information available in the later credit report would 
have been available to Oakbrook at the time it carried out its checks in December 2018.  A 
lender might only see a portion of the credit file at the time, or some data might be missing or 
anonymised, or the data might not be up to date. New credit commitments can take some 
time to appear on a credit report and so dont always appear in any reasonable and 
proportionate checks that are carried out at the time. So, this may explain any differences 
between the information provided by these credit checks and the information Mr L says 
Oakbrook should have seen in December 2018.  
Oakbrook thinks its checks were reasonable and proportionate. Mr L thinks it ought to have 
done more to check he could afford the loan. Ive thought carefully about the evidence on 
this matter as a whole. But on balance, there isnt enough information available for me to 
fairly say that I think Oakbrook ought reasonably to have carried out more in-depth checks  
such as requesting bank statements - before it lent to Mr L. And from the limited information 
Ive seen, I cant fairly say that I think Oakbrook ought reasonably to have concluded that it 
shouldnt lend to Mr L or that it lent to him irresponsibly.Ive not seen anything which makes me think that Oakbrook treated Mr L unfairly in any 
other way. And as I have explained, on the information provided, I cant fairly say that I think 
Oakbrook ought reasonably to have declined to lend to Mr L. I know Mr L will be very 
disappointed by my decision and Im sorry that he has struggled financially.  But Id like to 
reassure him that I have carefully considered everything that has been provided about this 
matter. Having done so, I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint about this loan.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint or make any award against 
Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely Loans.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2022.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman