DRN-3678467
The complaint
Mr H complains he has been charged interest on a buy now pay later (BNPL) agreement 
with Creation Financial Services Limited (Creation). 
What happened
Mr H purchased a new vacuum cleaner and used a Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) finance 
agreement offered by Creation on 1 February 2021. The agreement allowed Mr H to pay the 
balance for the vacuum within 12 months of the purchase date at no extra cost to him. If Mr 
H did not pay in full within that time Creation would add interest to the balance. 
Mr H says each month Creation sent an email detailing the balance of the finance together 
with a payment due date. 
The balance on the account was £699 and the payment due date was 01/03/2022. Mr H 
says he thought the payment due date was the date on which the BNPL promotion ended. 
So he assumed the balance of the finance needed to be cleared by the payment due date in 
order to benefit from the interest-free period. 
On 1 February 2022 interest totalling £174.05 was added to the balance of the account. Mr 
H says it turned out the payment due date was a month after the end of the promotional 
period following which the interest-bearing payment plan begins. Mr H says this is unfair 
because by that point its too late to clear the balance since the interest has already been 
added. 
Mr H complained to Creation and says he wants a refund of the interest since he feels the 
payment due date is misleading. 
Creation said the finance agreement was a 12-month BNPL agreement dated 1 February 
2021 for the value of £699. So full payment was due by 1 February 2022 in order to ensure 
no interest would be applied to the balance, and to ensure no monthly direct debits 
payments were requested from Mr Hs bank. Creation said since Mr H didnt pay the full 
account by 1 February 2022 it applied interest to the balance.
Mr H wasnt happy with the response from Creation and so he referred his complaint to this 
service. Our investigator looked into things for him. He said he wasnt upholding the 
complaint since Creation gave Mr H a reasonable amount of notice as to when the interest 
free payments were due to end, and the terms and conditions of the credit agreement also 
provided details of the relevant dates.  
Mr H didnt agree. He said he thought the investigator needed to consider that emails are 
read differently to traditional letters and as such Creation should take extra care to present 
key information in a clear way. Mr H provided details of other consumers reviews of Creation 
which he was able to find online. So the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding it and Ill explain why. 
I can see that Mr H feels very strongly about this matter and I understand why. He has 
maintained that the information provided to him in the monthly correspondence led him to 
believe he had an extra month to pay the balance of the agreement. And so he was shocked 
to see that interest had been applied after 1 February 2022. 
I empathise with the position Mr H finds himself in. But in order to say Creation must do 
something differently here I must first be satisfied its done something wrong. I cant see it 
has which is why I am unable to tell it to alter its position. 
Its clear to me from the information thats been provided that the BNPL period ended on 1 
February 2022 as explained to Mr H at the outset of the agreement. And the balance wasnt 
settled in time. So Ive looked at whether Creation did enough to notify Mr H of the terms of 
the BNPL period. Im satisfied that it did. 
I can see Creation did send Mr H monthly statements and these warned of the BNPL period 
coming to an end. Mr H has said the information provided by Creation was misleading since 
it appeared to show the end of the BNPL period as 1 March 2022. But I dont agree. The 
statement says, If your only purchase is on BNPL, the payment due date below is to advise 
when youre first direct debit will become due. Details of your BNPL end date will have been 
provided at the time of purchase. 
The information from Creation is accurate in that it properly informs Mr H of when his first 
payment is due. It is correct that his first contractual monthly payment needed to be made by 
1 March 2022. But thats separate to the expiration of the BNPL period. That ended 12 
months after the purchase date on 1 February. I can see why that may have caused some 
confusion, and perhaps Mr H expected more contact from Creation about the ending of the 
BNPL period, but it is not obligated to do more than it already did. 
Mr H says he receives a number of emails each day and he speed-reads them glancing at 
each one to locate and extract information. And this may be the case but thats not 
something I can reasonably hold Creation responsible for. 
Mr H has said when he first entered the agreement on 1 Feb 2021 he was told the end date 
for the BNPL would be 1 February 2022. And since Mr H didnt pay by that date Creation 
was able to add interest to the balance as set out in the terms and conditions which Mr H 
agreed to at the outset. 
I do not believe the information was misleading as Mr H suggests. He was told at the point 
he made the purchase when the BNPL period would end. Payments only become due if the 
payment isnt made in full by that date. The statement also explained the payment due date 
was when the first direct debit would be due, and that details of the BNPL would have been 
provided at the time of purchase. I think it was clear the two were not the same. 
For these reasons I agree with the investigator that Creations information was not 
misleading and that it did not treat Mr H unfairly. I know Mr H will be disappointed by my 
decision. But I hope my reasoning explains why I have come to this conclusion. My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint about Creation Financial 
Services Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman