DRN-4311410
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the quality of a car she acquired under a hire purchase agreement
with Startline Motor Finance Limited (Startline).
When I refer to what Mrs S and Startline said, or did, it should also be taken to include things 
said, or done, on their behalf.
What happened
In November 2021, Mrs S entered into a hire purchase agreement with Startline to acquire a 
used car first registered in October 2017, that had travelled around 35,000 miles. The cash 
price of the car was approximately £15,000. The total amount payable was approximately 
£19,134. Mrs S paid a deposit of around £7,000. The first repayment was around £202 
followed by 58 monthly payments of around £202, and by one final repayment of around 
£212.
Mrs S said that on 21 October 2022, the car experienced a brake failure on the motorway. 
She said the recovery company that came out to help said the entire calliper had fallen off 
the brake disc and this could only happen if the bolts were not tightened properly with correct 
torque. The car was then towed to a local repair shop where it was repaired at a cost of 
£638.45. At the time the car had travelled a total of approximately 37,880 miles. Mrs S said 
she first contacted the supplying dealership, but they wouldnt deal with her concerns, so she 
contacted Startline. Startline wouldnt accept the report from the local repair shop that did the 
repair, so they told Mrs S to get an independent report which cost £199. Mrs S said that after 
the repairs were completed, she wasnt using the car for three months as she was expecting 
a prompt reply from Startline. So, as a resolution to her complaint she would like Startline to 
refund her the full cost of the repairs, the cost of the independent report, plus three months 
of payment she made from October to December 2022. She would like them to also 
compensate her and her partner, for the stress caused and have the car checked by one of 
the cars manufacturers service departments. Alternatively, if these requests cant be fulfilled 
then she would like to return the car and have Startline refund her deposit plus the above 
costs she incurred. 
In December 2022, Startline wrote to Mrs S saying that, when purchasing a used car, there 
is an expectation that components are not as new and that each component has its own 
lifespan. Unfortunately, this means that sometimes even shortly after a purchase, a used car 
may require some form of repair. In this correspondence, they interpreted the independent 
report, commissioned by Mrs S, as suggesting there is no evidence the faults identified were 
present or developing at the point of sale. They assumed that there must have been repairs 
done to the brakes, before the failure on 21 October 2022, but after Mrs S already took 
possession of the car. So, they said they didnt uphold her complaint.
Mrs S was not happy with Startlines response, so she brought her complaint to this service.  
Our investigator thought that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied, so she 
believed Startline needed to put things right. She thought that Startline should cover the cost 
of repairs Mrs S incurred plus reimburse her for the independent inspection. The investigator 
also thought that Startline needed to pay Mrs S £100 for the distress and inconvenience 
thats been caused. 
Startline didnt agreed with the investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
issue a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances. 
Im very aware Ive summarised this complaint very briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and largely in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, I havent ignored it. Ive not commented on every individual 
detail. But Ive focussed on those that are central to me reaching what I think is the right 
outcome. This reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Mrs S acquired the car under a hire purchase agreement, which is a regulated consumer
credit agreement. Our service can look at these sorts of agreements. Startline is the
supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and is responsible for dealing with
complaints about their quality. So, Ive looked at whether the car was of satisfactory quality.  
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) covers hire purchase agreements such as the one 
Mrs S entered into. Under a hire purchase agreement, there is an implied term that the 
goods supplied will be of satisfactory quality. The CRA says that goods will be considered of 
satisfactory quality where they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory  taking into account the description of the goods, the price paid and other 
relevant circumstances. I think in this case those relevant circumstances include, but are not 
limited to, the age and mileage of the car and the cash price. The CRA says the quality of 
the goods includes their general state and condition, as well as other things like their fitness 
for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability.
In Mrs Ss case the car she acquired was used, with a cash price of around £15,000. It had 
covered around 35,000 miles and was approximately four years old when she acquired it. 
So, I would have different expectations of it compared to a brand-new car. And, as with any 
car, there is an expectation that there will be ongoing maintenance and upkeep costs, and 
that there are parts that will naturally wear over time. In second-hand cars its more likely 
parts will need to be replaced sooner, or be worn faster, than in a brand-new car. So, 
Startline would not be responsible for anything that was due to normal wear and tear whilst 
in Mrs Ss possession. But, given the price paid, I think its fair to say that a reasonable 
person wouldnt expect anything significant to be wrong shortly after the car was acquired.
The CRA says that if the car acquired wasnt of satisfactory quality, or not as described, then 
Mrs S would be entitled to exercise her right to repair or to replace the car. So, for me to 
conclude that Mrs S can exercise her right to repair, I would need to see that the car wasnt 
of satisfactory quality, because the faults she complains about were likely to have been 
present, or developing, at the point of sale.
After Mrs Ss car was recovered, the emergency breakdown assistant service indicated that 
the calliper bolts must have been loose. It also stated that the calliper had come off, the 
brake pads were missing, calliper piston was missing, and that the brake fluid was low. The receipt from the local repair shop, that did the repairs after the car was recovered, renewed 
the rear left brake calliper, rear brake discs and pads, as well as changed the brake fluid. 
Also, the independent report commissioned by Mrs S said that from the images supplied, the 
engineer identified that the left-hand rear brake calliper had become completely detached 
from its axle fixing, the right-hand rear calliper was loosely fitted with one bolt still fitted, and 
that the calliper has rotated away from the brake disc. It also said that all brake pads were 
missing, presumed lost during the incident, as well as the right-hand rear calliper application 
piston also appeared to be missing. Taking all of this into consideration, I think most likely, 
there was something wrong with the car, so I will now consider if the faults in question were 
present or developing at the point of sale.
I know that Startline interpreted the independent report, commissioned by Mrs S, as 
suggesting there is no evidence the faults identified were present or developing at the point 
of sale. Startline assumed that there must have been repairs done to the brakes before the 
car failure on 21 October 2022 but after Mrs S took possession of the car. They said that the 
conclusion of the independent report confirmed that the faults wouldve been present at the 
point of sale unless the brakes had been removed since the point of sale, so Startline are of 
the opinion that the repair in question should be Mrs Ss liability. Ive considered this but Ive 
not seen evidence to say that most likely Mrs S had any work done on the brakes since the 
point of sale and before the car broke down. And Ive also considered the conclusions of the 
independent report. 
The independent report states that the engineer had inspected the cars MOT history and 
advised that the rear brake disc have been noted as pitted and scored on the MOT dated 23 
September 2020 at a recoded mileage of 24,814. The engineer concluded that the images 
supplied show that both brake discs are not pitted or scored, so he said that this suggest that 
the rear brake callipers have been removed at some stage, since the 23 of September 2020, 
to replace the rear brake discs and possibly the brake pads. He was of the opinion that 
during this repair the rear brake callipers werent refitted correctly with all four locking bolts 
being left loose at the time of refitting. This, over time, caused the bolts to become loose 
subsequently becoming detached from the calliper support brackets, and eventually causing 
both callipers to fall off the support brackets. The engineer said that the brake pads have 
also become detached and both rear brakes have failed, resulting in total brake failure. In 
the engineers opinion there was an MOT that was carried out two weeks prior to the point of 
sale, so this would suggest the brake callipers would still have been located sufficiently to 
allow effective brake operation. His report states that this can still be the case if the calliper 
bolts are loose. The report also explains that the MOT test centre is responsible to check the 
brake pads condition if visible. As both rear callipers are visible on this car, their condition is 
therefore visible to the MOT tester who has not reported any issues. So, the report 
concludes that the fault would have been present at the point of sale, unless the brakes had 
been removed since the point of sale.
Based on the above, I think most likely the brakes had work done to them before Mrs S took 
possession of the car as the car passed its MOT in November 2021. And, considering that 
Mrs S has only travelled about 3,000 miles in the car, I think its most likely these faults were 
present or developing at the point of supply. From all the evidence available, Ive seen how 
significant these faults were and taking everything into account  including the price paid, the 
age, the usage of the car, and the faults in question (including the fact that this was a safety 
issue)  Im not persuaded that the car was of satisfactory quality when Mrs S took delivery. 
Given the age, mileage, and the price paid, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person 
wouldnt expect to have such a brake failure occur after only traveling in the car for about 
3,000 miles. 
The CRA sets out that, where the supplied goods are not of satisfactory quality, the 
consumer can require the supplier (Startline in this case) to fix the faults. After the car was recovered, it was taken to a local repair shop that fixed the faults with the brakes. So, I think 
its fair and reasonable that Mrs S gets reimbursed for these costs. Also, I think its fair that 
she gets reimbursed for the independent report that Startline asked her to get, because she 
wouldnt have to have these expenses had she been supplied with a car of satisfactory 
quality. 
I know that Mrs S has mentioned that this situation has also had impact on her husband. But 
in this decision, I can only consider the impact this situation had on Mrs S, so I cant consider 
the impact this had on him. But I have considered that this matter has caused her distress 
and inconvenience while trying to resolve it. Mrs S had to take the car back for repairs and 
she had to correspond with the dealership and Startline, as well as arrange the independent 
inspection that was carried out on the car. Which, I think, she would not have had to do had 
Startline supplied her with a car that was of a satisfactory quality. So, I think Startline should 
pay her £100 in compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mrs S said that, as a resolution to her complaint, she would like Startline to refund her three 
months payment she made from October to December 2022, and she would like the car to 
be checked by one of the cars manufacturers service departments. And if these requests 
cant be fulfilled, then she would like to return the car and have Startline refund her deposit 
plus the above costs she incurred. But there are no reasonable grounds to ask Startline to 
refund the monthly instalments as there is no evidence that once she got the car fixed, it was 
unsafe to drive. Also, the car passed its MOT on 5 November 2022 with no advisories, so I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to ask Startline to refund her the monthly 
payments or to have the car checked by one of the cars manufacturers service 
departments. 
Having considered all the above, I think the resolution Im proposing in this decision is fair 
and reasonable, considering all the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Startline Motor Finance 
Limited to:
1. Refund Mrs S £638.45 she paid for the car repairs; 
2. Refund Mrs S £199 she paid for the independent report;
3. Add 8% simple interest per year to all of the above points above from the date of 
each payment to the date of settlement;
4. Pay Mrs S £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
If Startline Motor Finance Limited considers tax should be deducted from the interest 
element of my award, they should provide Mrs S with a certificate showing how much they 
have taken off so she can reclaim that amount, if she is eligible to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman