DRN-4154533
The complaint
Mr S complains Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk 
(MoneyBoat) provided him with a loan without carrying out appropriate affordability checks. 
What happened
Mr S was granted a loan for £800 on 23 March 2023 and he was due to make six monthly 
instalments of £245.70. Mr S has had some problems repaying this loan and MoneyBoat 
says an outstanding balance remains due. 
Following Mr Ss complaint, MoneyBoat issued its final response letter on this matter on 
28 March 2023. It considered the complaint and concluded it had made a reasonable 
decision to provide the loan because it had carried out proportionate checks. It also 
explained why it wouldnt have needed to review Mr Ss bank statement. Unhappy with this 
response, Mr S referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator, who didnt uphold it. She said MoneyBoat 
had reasonable grounds to believe Mr S could afford the loans because it had carried out 
proportionate checks. 
Mr S didnt agree, in summary he said:
The adjudicator hadnt reviewed the credit report MoneyBoat received as part of its 
checks. 
Although further documents ought to have been gathered by MoneyBoat, the 
information that it did have showed a number of concerning issues such as the 
number of defaults and open and closed credit cards and the previous 18 months. 
Mr S had also taken cash advances of £6,000 from his credit cards. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat had to assess the lending to check if Mr S could afford to pay back the amount 
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate 
to the circumstances. MoneyBoats checks could have taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ss 
income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MoneyBoat should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr S. These factors include:
Mr S having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr S having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr S coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr S. The adjudicator didnt consider it 
reached the point in the lending relationship where this applied and I agree, because only 
one loan was granted.  
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Mr S could sustainably repay the loan  not 
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr S was able to repay 
his loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, that a borrower wont be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further, then it follows that it should conclude those 
repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ss complaint.
Before the loan was approved, MoneyBoat asked Mr S for details of his income, which he 
declared as being £1,924 per month. MoneyBoat says the declared income figure was 
checked by cross referencing information through a third-party report provided by a credit 
reference agency.  
Mr S has also confirmed he provided a copy of a wage slip before the loan as advanced  
but a copy of which hasnt been provided by MoneyBoat.  But overall, it would seem, given 
this, that the declared monthly income was likely to be accurate.  
Mr S also declared monthly outgoings as £745 across a number of different variables such 
as rent / mortgage, food, transport and other. As part of his application Mr S declared he had 
no existing credit commitments. 
MoneyBoat then used information from its credit searches and or using the Common 
Financial Statement to bring Mr Ss declared expenditure in line with the averages within the 
above statement. As a result, of this check, Mr Ss monthly expenditure was increased by a 
further £105 per month. But even after carrying out these checks, Mr S had sufficient 
disposable income to be able to afford the monthly repayment that he was committed to 
making.  
Before the loan was approved MoneyBoat also carried out a credit search and it has 
provided a copy of the results it received from the credit reference agency. It is worth saying here that although MoneyBoat carried out credit searches, there isnt a regulatory 
requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. 
Having reviewed the credit check results, there isnt anything that wouldve indicated that 
Mr S was having current financial difficulties, for example it knew there were no current 
insolvency markers or debt management plans. And it also knew that Mr S hadnt defaulted 
on any account within the last year. 
However, there were clear signs that between July 2018 and February 2019 Mr S had 
significant financial difficulties, because there were three defaults recorded in the credit 
report MoneyBoat was given. And while only one default had been settled, I dont think these 
defaults alone wouldve prompted MoneyBoat to have carried out further checks. 
Indeed, its my view the defaults were sufficiently long ago for MoneyBoat to not to have 
been overly concerned by them and I say this because defaults recorded around four years 
before the loan arent an indication that Mr S was having current difficulties.  
In addition to the defaults Mr S had total outstanding debts of £3,684  which is fairly modest 
and actually he was utilising only 13% of his available revolving credit  which in my view is 
a low amount. And therefore, this isnt high enough to have triggered further checks and it 
didnt suggest Mr S was overindebted. 
MoneyBoat was aware that Mr S had three active credit cards  all of which had been 
opened in 2022. However, two of the cards, according to the report, didnt have any 
balances on them. And on the other card Mr S only owed £239  which isnt a particularly 
large amount. 
Mr Ss main point is that the credit report showed that over the last 12 months he had taken 
cash advanced (from his credit cards) of around £4,300. I accept that this amount was larger 
over the last three years  but that wouldve been too long before the loan was advanced for 
MoneyBoat to have been worried about. I can see from the credit report that these advances 
werent taken all from one card. Indeed, one of the credit cards, that was showing as a zero 
balance Mr S had taken a cash advance from in February 2023  so only a month before 
this loan. 
I can understand why Mr S says that the number and value of cash advancements ought to 
have been of concern for MoneyBoat. And I agree in as far as that Mr S needed to obtain 
further funds during the month and he was doing so through his credit cards. But having 
thought carefully about this, I dont think the cash advances wouldve triggered further 
checks especially when the income and expenditure information  which was proportionate 
to have gathered showed the loan to be affordable and there wasnt as far as the credit 
report showed any adverse payment information. 
Mr S was making use of his overdraft, I can see from the recorded balances on the credit 
file, that the amount of overdraft fluctuated and as recently as November 2022 it seems he 
wasnt using it at all. So, I dont think MoneyBoat wouldve or ought to have been concerned 
by this. 
Finally, there wasnt any indication from the credit report that Mr S was reliant on high-cost 
short term credit and I say this because he had only opened one new credit facility within the 
last six months. And typically, a sign of someone who is reliant on this type of lending would 
have had more. And again, I cant fairly say that one recently opened credit account ought to 
have led to further checks. Ive outlined earlier on in the decision some of the factors that could lead to MoneyBoat 
carrying out further checks, and while this isnt an exhaustive list, I havent seen enough in 
the information either MoneyBoat was provided with or what Mr S declared to it that ought to 
have led it to carry out further checks or to have declined his application. 
I appreciate Mr S will disagree with that, but Ive considered the credit report in light of all of 
the other information MoneyBoat had and also kept in mind that MoneyBoat operates in a 
sector of the market where it is unlikely that every customer will have an adverse free credit 
file or score. 
In this case, thinking about the recent payment information, no recent history of opening lots 
of new accounts and there was a low credit utilisation. I do think MoneyBoat made a fair 
decision to lend and didnt need to do any further checks before advancing the loan. 
So, while Mr S has provided copy bank statements, in the circumstances of this case, it 
wouldve been disproportionate for MoneyBoat to have considered them. I also dont think 
the credit check results were sufficiently concerning for MoneyBoat to have led it declining 
his application for credit. 
Given the evidence provided, I think it was reasonable for MoneyBoat to have relied on the 
information Mr S gave about his income and expenditure to show he had sufficient 
disposable income to afford the repayments he was committed to making. And there wasnt 
anything else to suggest that the loan would be unsustainable for Mr S.
Im therefore not upholding Mr Ss complaint. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment 
for him, but I want to reassure him that Ive read and considered everything provided. 
Based on the information provided, an outstanding balance likely remains due and I would 
remind MoneyBoat of its obligation to treat Mr S fairly and with forbearance when discussing 
a way forward to repay what is owed. 
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman