DRN-3080223
The complaint
The estate of Mrs I complains about the service provided by Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) 
over a number of years.
What happened
Mrs I sadly passed away on 12 August 2018. 
Mr I made a number of complaints to Lloyds about the management of his account and the 
management, in his capacity as the representative of Mrs Is estate, of Mrs Is account.
Mr I was unhappy with the responses he received from Lloyds in respect of the various 
complaints he had made, so he asked our service to investigate them further.
One of our investigators wrote to Mr I to say what complaints (he had raised) she was able 
to consider, and had considered, and what in respect of these complaints Lloyds needed to 
do  if anything.
In summary she said that:
Lloyds had accepted that it didnt book an appointment for Mr I, to discuss Mrs Is 
passing and her account, despite advising him it had done so.
Lloyds had accepted that it had addressed Mr I by the wrong title in a text sent to him 
regarding Mrs Is account after her passing.
Lloyds offer of £50 in respect of the above two matters was, in all the circumstances, 
fair and reasonable.
Lloyds acted entirely appropriately in paying a bill of £2,547.75 from Mrs Is account 
after her passing, when the same was presented to it (by funeral directors) for 
payment.
Lloyds didnt deal with the call Mr I made about the above payment being made 
appropriately. And for this service failing it should pay £100.
Lloyds could have dealt with Mr Is concern about a draft drawn for £5,404.70 better 
than it did. And for this it should pay £100 over and above the £100 it had already 
offered to pay.
The investigator then went on to advise Mr I that in her view Lloyds had done nothing wrong 
in allowing £163 paid by the DWP into Mrs Is account to be recalled (after her passing) 
given the date this sum was paid into Mrs Is account and the date of her passing.
Lloyds accepted the investigators view, but Mr I didnt. Therefore, the complaint has been 
passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mr I has very strong feelings about the matters he has complained about. He has 
provided detailed submissions in support of his view which I can confirm Ive read and 
considered in their entirety. However, I trust that Mr I will not take the fact that my findings 
focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in 
considerably less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every 
point raised. The purpose of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for 
reaching them. 
I would also like to make clear what I can consider in this decision, and what Ive gone on to 
consider in this decision.
This complaint relates solely to the service provided by Lloyds to Mrs I in respect of her 
account and then to Mr I (following Mrs Is passing) in respect of her account.
Now having inspected statements for Mrs Is account for the period August 2017 to 
February 2019 (date the account was closed) I cant see any payments, or attempted 
payments, to an energy supplier. And because of this Ive not considered in this decision any 
complaint Mr I might have about the payment by Lloyds  whether by direct debit or other 
method  to his, or Mrs Is, energy supplier.
I also have no power to consider the complaints Mr I has made about, but not restricted to, 
the police, the health service, Mrs Is funeral director, his or Mrs Is energy supplier and his 
or Mrs Is neighbour. What Ive the power to consider and have gone on to consider (subject 
to what I say below and have said above) are the complaints Mr I has made specifically 
about Lloyds.
Mr I has made what I can best describe as being general comments and observations about 
Lloyds banking practices over a number of years. But given the very general nature of these 
comments and observations I make no finding on these in this decision, nor am I required to.
Given what I say above, I can confirm that what Ive gone on to consider in this decision, and 
make a finding on, is the following:
an appointment (for Mr I to be able to discuss his late mothers passing and her 
account) not being made/booked by Lloyds
Lloyds addressing Mr I by the wrong title in a text
Lloyds decision to pay the funeral bill
How Lloyds dealt with Mr Is call to it about its payment of the above funeral bill
How it dealt with Mr Is concerns about a bankers draft
The payment back to the DWP of £163 from Mrs Is accountappointment not booked for Mr I (regarding Mrs Is passing and her account) and Lloyds 
addressing Mr I by the wrong title in a text
Its not in dispute that an appointment Mr I made wasnt booked by Lloyds, and that it 
addressed him, in a text message, by the wrong title. So, all I need to decide here is what, if 
anything, Lloyds should have to pay by way of compensation for these two shortcomings.
Now I appreciate Mr I might not agree, but Im satisfied that Lloyds offer for these two 
shortcomings of £50 is, in all the circumstances, fair and reasonable.
Lloyds decision to pay the funeral bill in respect of Mrs Is passing
Having looked at Mrs Is statements for the period August 2017 to February 2019 (date the 
account was closed) I can only see  despite Mr Is submissions to the contrary  one 
payment of £2,547.75 having been made in this respect. 
Having considered the circumstances around this payment, I can confirm that Im satisfied 
that Lloyds did nothing wrong in making it.
Now if Mr I still wants to dispute this payment, then like the investigator I think his complaint 
is better directed at the funeral directors and not our service.
How Lloyds dealt with Mr Is call to it about the payment to the funeral director
Like the investigator I think that Lloyds could have handled this call better than it did, with 
more understanding and empathy being shown. But like the investigator Im satisfied that the 
payment of a further £100 by Lloyds for this shortcoming is fair and reasonable.
The bankers draft
Now this draft wasnt drawn from Mrs Is account, but from Mr Is own account. But the 
reason Ive addressed Mr Is complaint in this respect is because the draft was drawn 
against money that had come from Mrs Is account.
Mrs Is account was closed on 22 February 2019 and the sum of £10,904.70 that was in it 
was transferred to Mr Is account. Then on the same day Mr I asked for a bankers draft to 
be drawn for £5,404.70 against this transferred balance payable to a charity. This was done 
by Lloyds.
However, for reasons well known to both the parties and for reasons that arent in dispute, 
this draft (on presentation to Lloyds by the charity payees bank) wasnt paid, resulting in it 
being cancelled on 3 June 2019 and a new one (which was then paid on presentation to 
Lloyds by the charity payees bank) later the same month.
Lloyds offered £100 for this shortcoming. The investigator considered this offer and 
concluded that it should be increased to £200. And taking everything into account I agree 
that this represents fair compensation for this particular issue.
the payment back to the DWP of £163 from Mrs Is account
On 13 August 2018, a day after Mrs Is passing, the DWP paid into Mrs Is account £163  a 
sum it had been paying Mrs I (on a weekly basis) for several months.Now I dont know whether these payments are made by the DWP in advance, arrears, or a 
combination of both. But Mr Is complaint in this respect is that Lloyds shouldnt have allowed 
the recall of this payment (by two separate transactions of £27.08 on 9 October and £135.92 
on 11 October 2018) because he had made separate arrangements with the DWP to repay 
anything that might be due back to it.
Now Ive looked at Mr Is account statements and it does appear that he paid the DWP £163 
on 24 September 2018 from it. But I dont think that Lloyds did anything wrong in allowing 
the £163 paid by the DWP into Mrs Is account to be recalled given the date the sum of £163 
was paid into Mrs Is account and the date of her passing.
But in any event I cant see there is any loss outstanding in this respect given that Mr I says 
he has been able to secure an appropriate refund from the DWP for any over payment 
(repayment) made.
summary
I dont underestimate the distress Mr I says he is under, and he says he has been under for 
many years (if not decades). But taking everything into account, including what Ive found I 
can, and cant, consider a complaint about here, Im satisfied that the payment of £350 (in 
total) by Lloyds represents an appropriate sum for it to have to pay in the particular 
circumstances of this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC must pay the estate of Mrs I, to the extent it hasnt 
done so already, £350.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs I 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman