DRN-4170550
The complaint
Mr H complains that he was a victim of a scam after Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as 
Tesco Bank approved payments from his account. 
What happened
In 2021 Mr H appointed a firm of builders to carry out work on a property theyd purchased. 
Mr H has explained that around 2 May 2021 he made a payment from his Tesco Bank 
account to the builder for £10,000 as a deposit. Work began following the completion of the 
property purchase. Mr H made further payments of £6,000 on 5 May 2021, £10,000 on 31 
May 2021, £5,000 on 2 June 2021 and £2,250 on 21 August 2021. In total, Mr H made 
payments totalling £33,250 to the builder from his Tesco Bank account. Other payments 
were made to the builder from different banks. Mr H has explained that at no point did Tesco 
Bank contact him to ask questions or carry out further checks about the payments he was 
making. 
Mr H has told us the builder failed to complete works in line with the agreed schedule and 
was often absent from the site. In addition, Mr H has explained that costs increased from the 
original quotations provided by the builder and that he was asked to transfer additional 
sums. Ultimately, work slowed then stopped entirely and Mr H contacted Tesco Bank in early 
November 2021 to advise he had been the victim of a scam. 
Tesco Bank investigated Mr Hs case but didnt think hed been the victim of a scam and said 
the dispute related to his dissatisfaction with the works carried out by the builder. Tesco 
Bank went on to issue a final response to Mr Hs complaint on 10 January 2022 and paid 
him £50 for delays and poor service when investigating his concerns. But no refund of the 
disputed payments was offered by Tesco Bank. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Hs complaint. They looked at the available 
information and agreed Mr H appeared to have been the victim of a scammer. The 
investigator also thought Tesco Bank shouldve done more to check the initial payment was 
genuine with Mr H, like asking probing questions in an attempt to prevent financial harm. But 
the investigator thought Mr H would most likely have still proceeded with the payments even 
if Tesco Bank had warned him about the risks of fraud as, at that point, he wasnt aware of 
the scam and thought the builder was legitimate. 
Mr H asked to appeal and said that if Tesco Bank had contacted him with a warning about 
potential scams he wouldnt have proceeded. Mr H also said the absence of any questions 
by Tesco Bank led him to believe the recipient was legitimate. Mr H also said references and 
testimonials for the builder were received shortly after the first payment was made and that 
hed researched them as far as possible before deciding whether to proceed. As Mr H has 
asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief in setting out the background above as all parties broadly agree 
concerning the overall timeline for Mr Hs complaint. Mr H made an initial payment of 
£10,000 on 2 May 2021 and followed up with several more in the months that followed. The 
final payment made from Mr Hs Tesco Bank account was made on 21 August 2021 for 
£2,250. Whilst Tesco Bank has said it feels this is a civil matter between Mr H and the 
builder, I think its more likely than not that Mr H has been the victim of a scam. And its clear 
Mr H has lost a substantial sum as whilst works were started, they werent completed and 
hes had to subsequently pay for it to be finished out by other professionals. 
Like our investigator, I think the first payment of £10,000 from Mr Hs account shouldve 
caused Tesco Bank to pick it up and contact him to ask questions about the transaction. As I 
understand it, a payment of this amount wasnt something Mr H usually made so shouldve 
put Tesco Bank on notice that there was a risk he couldve been the victim of fraud. And I 
think there were grounds for Tesco Bank to have asked Mr H questions about the other 
payments that he went on to make. So as a starting point, I agree with Mr H that Tesco Bank 
shouldve done more when he instructed substantial payments to the scammer. 
However, like the investigator, Ive considered what Mr H wouldve done differently if Tesco 
Bank had held payments and asked him questions before proceeding. In response to the 
investigator Mr H said that if Tesco Bank had asked probing questions about the instruction 
he wouldnt have made the first payment which was a deposit. But Mr H has added that he 
checked the builders details via Companies House and it appeared the business was 
genuine. Mr H also obtained testimonials regarding the builder, albeit shortly after the 
deposit was paid, and went on to transfer the remaining payments to them with the 
understanding it was being legitimately used for building expenses. I think its more likely 
than not that Mr H wouldve told Tesco Bank he thought the payments were legitimate which 
wouldve satisfied concerns about being a victim of scammers. 
Mr H has also provided us with copies of messages between him and the scammer. I can 
see there is a substantial amount of back and forth between Mr H and the scammer. And the 
messages show payments continued to be made to the scammer as late as the middle of 
October 2021, when the messages say £1,000 was paid from an account with a different 
bank. So whilst we can see with hindsight that Mr H appears to have been the victim of a 
scam, I think its fair to say that as late as October 2021 he was still of the view that the 
builder was operating a legitimate business and that works would be completed at his 
property. 
I appreciate that a short time later Mr H contacted Tesco Bank to raise a fraud investigation. 
But Im satisfied that during the period when payments were being made to scammer from 
the Tesco Bank account, Mr H was of the view that they were legitimately required to 
complete building work at his property. And in those circumstances, I think its more likely 
than not that Mr H wouldve still proceeded with the transactions, even if payments were held 
so Tesco Bank could ask security questions. 
When Mr H raised the payments with Tesco Bank it contacted the scammers bank to raise a 
fraud case. Our investigator has obtained information directly from the third party bank and it 
shows Tesco Bank did raise the issue as claimed. But by the time the fraud concerns were 
raised and an investigation started, there were no funds available in the scammers account 
to return to Mr H. I can understand why Mr H finds the position to be unsatisfactory, but as 
Tesco Bank was unable to recover the disputed funds, I havent been persuaded its acted 
unfairly by declining to issue a refund. Mr H has told us that Tesco Bank failed to respond to his complaint in line with the standard 
time limits. I agree with Mr H that the service provided appears slow at times and I can 
understand how frustrating that mustve been, given the background of his complaint. But, 
for the reasons Ive given above, Im unable to tell Tesco Bank to refund the disputed 
payments. And Im satisfied the £50 payment Tesco Bank has made in terms of the service 
provided and inconvenience caused is fair in all the circumstances. As Im satisfied Tesco 
Bank dealt with Mr Hs case fairly overall, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank has already paid a 
settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman