DRN-4417152
The complaint
M has complained about American International Group UK Limiteds (AIG) handling of its 
claim under its Motor Fleet Insurance Policy.
M is represented by a representative from its insurance broker, who I will refer to as Ms W.
What happened
One of Ms tractor units, which it leases, was damaged in an accident. It made a claim under
its fleet policy and provided an estimate for its repair. AIG appointed a firm of motor
engineers, who Ill refer to as N, to assess the damage to the unit. N provided a report to
AIG. It estimated the cost of repairing the unit to be £25,200. And it said the market value of
the unit at the time of the damage was £38,200 based on a valuation it obtained from CAP,
which is an independent industry recognised guide used to value vehicles.
AIG decided it wasnt economic to repair the unit and decided to treat it as a total loss, i.e. a
write-off. It said it had placed a value of £38,200 on the vehicle and would be offering this
less the policy excess of £350. M wasnt happy with this and on 31 January 2022 Ms W let
AIG know M would be challenging this offer. Ms W emailed AIG on 2 March 2022 with 
evidence that she thought supported a higher valuation. AIG responded on 16 March 2022 
to say it wouldnt increase its offer. Ms W emailed AIG again on 29 March 2022 asking if 
theyd consider repairing the unit. After several chaser emails, AIG eventually responded on 
6 April to say it would not alter its position and would treat the unit as a total loss. Ms W 
emailed AIG for the salvage value. Having initially been given an incorrect one, she was told 
this was £13,370.
On 29 April 2022 Ms W emailed AIG with further evidence to support a higher valuation and
asked it to contact the lease company directly about the valuation. AIG told Ms W the
engineer had spoken with the lease company. However, according to Ms W, the lease
company had not heard from the engineer. In the end, Ms W raised a complaint with AIG
about the matter with further evidence to support a higher valuation. And it wasnt until
16 September 2022 that AIG finally confirmed that it had increased its valuation to £57,995. 
It said this made the vehicle repairable. Then due to various issues around AIG locating the 
unit and getting it to the repairing garage, it did not arrive there until 25 October 2022.
M complained to AIG about its original valuation and the length of time it took to revise this
and then get the unit in for repair. M asked them to cover the cost of leasing the unit for the
period of the delay it thought had been caused by AIG. AIG acknowledged it was
responsible for some of the delay and agreed to pay £600 in compensation. However, it
would not agree to cover the lease costs.
M asked us to consider its complaint. One of our investigators did this. She said it should be
upheld and eventually recommended AIG pay M £20 per day for the loss of use of the unit
from 22 October 2022 to 22 January 2023. This was in addition to the £600 in compensation
AIG had already offered.
AIG agreed to the investigators recommendations, but Ms W, on behalf of M, did not. She
asked for an ombudsmans decision. She argued that if AIG hadnt failed to investigate
the value of the unit properly in January 2022, repairs would have been authorised at this
point and M would not have been without its vehicle for such a long period of time. She
explained that she thought AIG should cover the cost to M of leasing the vehicle for the 
period after it should have been repaired up to the point it was repaired and back on the 
road.
I issued a provisional decision on 3 October 2023 in which I set out what Id provisionally 
decided and why as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with Ms Ws view that AIG valued Ms unit incorrectly in the first instance. Valuing
this type of unit is not straightforward and I do not believe it is a matter of simply getting a
guide value and going with that. For an accurate valuation, I believe discussions should have
taken place between either the engineer or AIG and the lease company and adverts for
similar vehicles for sale at the time should also have been considered. I appreciate AIG
and/or N may have used this approach and felt it appropriate to rely on the CAP valuation.
But the problem is that - in my opinion  N and AIG used the wrong value from CAP. This is
because Ms policy states the maximum amount AIG was obliged to pay for the Insured
Vehicle (the unit) was the Market Value. This is defined in Ms policy as the cost of
replacing the Insured Vehicle with another of a similar make, model, specification, age,
mileage and condition immediately prior to the date of the loss or damage.
The CAP valuation AIG used said the retail value of the same unit at this time was £44,750,
excluding VAT. So this was the cost of replacing it. Instead of using this figure AIG placed a
value on the unit of £38,200, which it referred to as some sort of mid-book value. But this
was not the cost of replacing the unit. This figure was somewhere in between the trade
value, which is what a motor trader would have paid to buy the unit and then sell it, and the
retail cost of replacing it. I think this means AIG used the incorrect market value to decide
whether Ms unit should be repaired or treated as a total loss. And it is clear that had they
used the correct figure of £44,750  bearing in mind the repair cost and the salvage value 
AIG would or should have decided to repair it.
This means AIG could have authorised the repairs on 28 January 2022 instead of making its
total loss offer at this point. And the vehicle would still have been with the repairer at this
point and it would not have been moved to storage by AIG. Whereas AIG didnt actually
authorise the repairs and get the vehicle back to the repairing garage until 25 October 2022.
Therefore, in my opinion, AIGs incorrect valuation of Ms unit meant M was without it for
nine months longer than should have been the case.
If the unit had been repaired and back in use nine months sooner its clear M could have
carried out a lot more work than it could without the unit. And, while it would still have had to
pay the monthly lease amount, plus fuel and maintenance and the cost of someone to drive
it, I accept that at the very least it would have earned enough money from the vehicle to
cover these costs. I say this because there would have been very little point in M leasing the
unit if there was no benefit in doing so. Of course, because the unit was off the road for nine
months longer than should have been the case, M didnt incur any fuel, maintenance costs
or have to pay anyone to drive it. But it did still have to pay the monthly lease amount without
receiving any income from the vehicle to cover this. So, I consider it fair and reasonable for
AIG to reimburse what M paid to lease the unit for a period of nine months, as  due to AIGs
original mistake it had to pay the lease without receiving any income from the vehicle for
nine months longer than should have been the case.The cost of leasing the unit to M, excluding VAT, was £1,560 per month, so I think it is fair
and reasonable for AIG to pay M compensation of £14,040, which represents nine monthly
lease payments. Im not intending to award interest on this amount, as it is what I consider a
fair and reasonable compensation payment as opposed to a payment for loss of income M
should have received.
I think the £600 that AIG has already paid M in compensation is enough to compensate it for
the general inconvenience it experienced as a result of AIGs error, but this amount should
be in addition to AIG covering the cost of lease.
In summary, Ive provisionally decided that the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint
is for AIG to pay M a further £14,040 in compensation to cover the additional nine months
Ms unit was off the road as a result of AIGs incorrect decision to treat it as a total loss.
I gave both parties until 22 October 2023 to provide further comments and evidence. 
Ms W came back to say that M agreed with my provisional decision.
AIG have made the following further comments:
They are a commercial fleet insurer and Ms policy meant it had to pay the cost of 
replacing the insured vehicle with another of a similar make, model specification, 
age, mileage and condition immediately prior to the date of the loss or damage. And 
its approach was to assess the vehicle valuation with consideration of the 
commercial market guidelines. And the CAP valuation for the date of loss had the 
following range:
Clean £34,400
Average £33,400
Below £31,700
Retail £42,000
Its explained that below average and average were discarded and it took the mid-
point of clean and retail (£38,200) and it thinks this provided a fair representation of 
the pre-accident vehicle (unit) value. 
Its said if it had set the vehicle valuation at £42,000 it would not have altered its 
decision to treat it as a total loss. This would have included the cost of repair, but 
also the nature of the vehicle and the structural damage. 
Ive suggested the CAP retail valuation for the unit was £44,750 and it would like 
clarification of this figure. This is because it clarified with Ms W in March 2022 that 
£42,000 was its retail value and the figure of £44,750 is a valuation for January 2022, 
as opposed to the date of loss. 
It accepts it did not consider adverts initially or discuss the valuation with the lease 
company. But adverts were later considered. And it did engage with the lease 
company, whose valuation was much higher than CAP and the adverts AIG had 
seen. 
The value it reached in September 2022 of £57,995 followed the receipt of 
extraordinary information provided by Ms W. This was a Wholesale pricing matrix 
provided directly from the manufacturer of Ms unit. It allowed a calculation of the 
depreciated value of the vehicle. It considers this evidence as highly unusual and when it was referred to N, it said it had never seen or used a dealer matrix for valuing 
vehicles. 
The re-assessed value was not admitted and the decision to repair the vehicle was a 
pragmatic stance to deliver a satisfactory conclusion following the receipt of such 
extraordinary evidence. 
It considers its original approach to base its valuation on independent industry 
recognised guides was reasonable. And it has reiterated its point that if it had valued 
the vehicle at £42,000 it would still have classed it as a total loss. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted AIGs comments in response to my provisional decision, but they have not altered 
my view on what the fair and reasonable outcome to Ms complaint is. Ive explained why 
below and addressed AIGs comments.
My reference to a retail value of £44,750 was based on the only actual CAP valuation sheet 
available to me as part of the evidence provided. This did not show the date of loss. And 
while I noted that AIG had referred to a retail value of £42,000, Id assumed £44,750 was the 
correct retail valuation. I appreciate it was provided in January 2022, but it could still be for a         
1 December 2021 date of loss. It could have been higher because CAP updates its data 
daily, but without a full print out of the valuation N obtained, it is hard to be sure a retail value 
of £42,000 was based on the correct details and therefore correct. However, even if I were to 
accept the correct retail figure was £42,000 at the point AIG decided on what to do about Ms 
vehicle, I still consider it was wrong to use a valuation of £38,200. This is because the policy 
wording states the market value should be the cost of replacing the insured vehicle. And M 
would have had to replace it in the retail market, which means AIG should have used the 
retail figure, not the mid-point between clean and retail. 
And even if the retail value according to CAP when AIG first assessed Ms claim was 
£42,000, I do not accept it would have been right for AIG to use this figure to assess whether 
the vehicle was a total loss. I still consider it should have carried out more research with the 
lease company and in the market generally and come to the conclusion the retail value was 
much higher than £42,000. I say this because, whilst I accept the pricing matrix was an 
unusual piece of evidence, AIG had access to the purchase price of the unit to M. And if it 
had engaged with the lease company it would have suggested, as it did later on, that the 
retail replacement cost was much higher than £42,000. Also, I think AIG could have done 
more research around other units for sale with the same mileage. So, I think in light of this, it 
remains my view that AIG should have decided Ms unit was repairable at the outset. 
I think it is also of note that even at a retail value of £42,000, based on the repair cost and 
salvage value, the unit was borderline for being a total loss, even allowing for the structural 
damage. 
As explained on our website, valuing vehicles is not an exact science and it is especially 
difficult with commercial vehicles. And insurers need to take into account more than just 
industry guides and take care not to end up relying on these in isolation and using an 
incorrect valuation, which is what I think happened with Ms vehicle. 
As will be clear from what Ive said, it remains my view that AIG was wrong to class Ms vehicle as a total loss initially and that this led directly to M being without the vehicle for nine 
months longer than should have been the case. Therefore, I see no reason to depart from 
the redress I suggested for the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
The cost of leasing the unit to M, excluding VAT, was £1,560 per month, so I think it is fair
and reasonable for AIG to pay M compensation of £14,040, which represents nine monthly
lease payments. Im not awarding interest on this amount, as it is what I consider a
fair and reasonable compensation payment as opposed to a payment for loss of income M
should have received.
I think the £600 that AIG has already paid M in compensation is enough to compensate it for
the general inconvenience it experienced as a result of AIGs error.
In summary, Ive decided that the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint
is for AIG to pay M a further £14,040 in compensation to cover the additional nine months
Ms unit was off the road, as a result of AIGs incorrect decision to treat it as a total loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms complaint about American International Group UK 
Limited and order it to pay it a further £14,040 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman