DRN-3062736
The complaint
Mr A complains that Cia Insurance Services Limited mis-sold a landlords insurance policy to 
him as it did not explain to him that he didnt have all the legal expenses cover he wanted.
What happened
Mr A owns a number of properties which he lets out to tenants. In 2010 he took out an 
insurance policy for the properties through Cia. The policy provided buildings insurance for 
each of the properties and included legal expenses cover. He renewed the policy each year 
up to 2020. When he was then involved in a legal dispute, he made a claim on the policy but 
was told the policy didnt include cover for that type of dispute.
Mr A then asked to increase the legal expenses cover, and complained that the policy had 
been mis-sold.
Cia didnt uphold the complaint, saying:
it had provided the policy documents to Mr A every year, which set out the level of 
cover he had, and he had renewed it on the same terms;
having reviewed the last four renewal calls, he had never asked about the level of 
legal expenses cover, nor had it advised him that he had fully comprehensive cover  
it had simply confirmed that legal expenses cover was part of the policy and he had 
renewed on that basis.
When Mr A brought the complaint to this service, our investigator didnt think it should be 
upheld. She said :
the main purpose for the policy was to provide buildings insurance;
the policy documents set out what cover was provided, including limited legal 
expenses cover;
Cia didnt need to ensure the legal cover met all his needs, as that was not the main 
purpose of the policy.
Mr A disagreed with the investigator. He said she had only looked at the policy he took out 
originally over 10 years ago, and he bought legal expenses cover for what he needed in later 
years, so she should review which policy she was looking at. The investigator said she had 
compared the original policy with the policy from 2020 and the cover was essentially the 
same. And she said he had only added the extra cover from renewal in 2021, having not 
requested that previously.
Mr A was still unhappy and requested an ombudsmans decision. He said:
Cia never explained to him there were two levels of cover and he only had the more 
basic level;
he wasnt even aware there were two levels of cover;
Cia deliberately misled him;
at all times when renewing his policy he asked for the best legal expenses cover to 
be included.
I issued a provisional decision saying I did not intend to uphold the complaint. I set out my 
reasons as follows:
This was an advised sale. So Cia needed to assess Mr As demands and needs and then 
recommend a policy that was suitable for those needs. And any information provided to him 
had to be clear, fair and not misleading.
Mr A is unhappy because he says Cia misled him, as it wasnt explained to him that there 
were different levels of legal cover. When the policy was originally sold, Cia provided copies 
of the policy documents, and asked him to check these carefully to make sure it had 
understood what he was looking for and to say if any changes were needed. The documents 
say the policy includes legal expenses cover and the key facts document says only Option 
A is available, which provides cover for legal costs of eviction and rent recovery. Theres 
nothing to show Mr A asked for any changes or requested any particular legal cover in 
addition to this.
The policy then renewed each year on the same terms. Mr A says he asked for the best 
legal cover. We dont have details of all the renewals dating back to 2011. But I have 
listened to recordings of the calls Mr A made when making the last four renewals. In each of 
the calls, the focus of the conversation was around the buildings cover and the price to be 
paid  Mr A asked whether it was possible to reduce the premium. Although he did mention 
the legal cover, this was only to check it was included. He didnt ask any questions about 
what was covered or give any indication there was anything particular he needed.
The documents from the 2020 renewal show Cia recommended the policy on the basis it 
matched his requirements and was the lowest premium available. The documents also 
clearly show there are two levels of legal cover available and what cover is provided by 
each. If Mr A had wanted the additional cover, he would have needed to pay an additional 
premium for this (for each property). Mr A didnt ask about adding the higher level of legal 
cover, or what it would cost to do that.
Looking at all the circumstances, Im satisfied Cia arranged a policy that met the needs Mr A 
had indicated, namely for buildings insurance that also included legal expenses cover, at the 
lowest price available. So to that extent I think it was suitable for him. Cia didnt have to find 
the best or most suitable policy  simply one that was suitable  and I think it did that. The 
information Cia provided was clear and theres nothing to suggest it misled him.
If he had expressed any need for a higher level of cover or asked for more information about 
this, I would have expected Cia to respond to that. But as Ive explained, Mr A didnt do that; 
the focus was on the buildings cover and whether the premium could be reduced. He 
renewed the policy each year without questioning the legal cover provided. There was no 
suggestion he was looking to increase the cover (which would have increased the premium). 
On the basis of the information he had provided about what he needed, I dont think there 
was a mis-sale.
Replies to the provisional decision
Cia accepted the provisional decision but Mr A did not. He says:
every year he renewed his policy on the same terms as the policy he had originally 
bought in 2010/11;
at the renewals Cia never told him which level of legal expenses cover he was about 
to buy and he understood it would have the same legal expenses cover he bought in 
2010;
he didnt even know there are different levels of legal expenses cover;after 25 years of being a Landlord he would never have renewed his policy with 
something that meant he couldnt make any claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has provided details of a legal action he took back in 2011, when solicitors were 
appointed to act under his policy. He says this shows he had the right cover then and should 
still have this now. However, looking at the documents provided, these appear to relate to a 
possession claim against a tenant. His policy still includes cover for possession proceedings 
and rent recovery. So (subject to meeting the other policy terms and conditions) he would 
still have cover for that type of claim now. From the information I have seen, his policy has 
always included cover for this type of claim.
What it doesnt include is cover for certain other types of legal disputes. For that, he would 
need to have taken out the additional cover. He didnt have that additional level of cover 
when he first took out the policy or when he renewed it in later years. As our investigator 
explained, the cover was essentially the same throughout. I agree with Mr A that he renewed 
the policy on the same terms each year, but I cant see that he had the higher level of cover 
when he took out the policy. So I dont think its a case of Mr A having a lower lever of cover 
now than he had when he first got the policy. Nor is it the case that he cant now make any 
claims. He can still make those claims which are included in the level of cover he has  and 
this is the same level of cover he had originally.
Ive considered the additional points Mr A has made, but these dont lead me to reach a 
different conclusion. My view remains that  for the reasons set out above  the policy was 
suitable for him; the information provided was clear; and theres nothing to show Cia misled 
him. So I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman