DRN-1172904
 
The complaint
Miss B complains about an error made when she tried to complete a balance transfer.
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Tesco has acknowledged it made an error when carrying out a balance transfer and 
that this caused Miss B distress and inconvenience. Its already paid her £150 
compensation for this and refunded the £27.12 balance transfer fee. Miss B doesnt 
think this is enough compensation.
Miss B had to call Tesco a number of times and the issue took a couple of weeks to 
resolve. In that time Miss B says she had to borrow money from a friend but Tesco 
has pointed out she didnt tell it of her financial difficulties. And if she had done so it 
couldve helped. Miss B also says she incurred some additional expenditure on 
another card. But as Tesco says this was expenditure she wouldve normally 
incurred. As a result I dont think on balance that I can fairly require Tesco to 
reimburse her for this expenditure or the money she borrowed from her friend.
Even so it is clear Miss B was frustrated and inconvenienced over a couple of weeks 
by what happened. This warrants an award of some compensation. Taking 
everything into account, including the level of awards we make, I think the £150 
compensation already paid by Tesco is fair and its also reasonable for it to have 
refunded the balance transfer fee. 
Overall, although I recognise Miss Bs strength of feeling, I think Tesco has acted 
fairly and I cant reasonably require it to do anything more or differently, including 
paying Miss B more compensation as shed like.
 
For these reasons I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Tesco Personal Finance PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman