DRN-2183171
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) has declined a claim he made on 
his travel insurance policy 
What happened
Mr B was due to go on a trip abroad. He says that his passport was stolen so he had to 
cancel his trip. He wants URV to cover the costs, including his flights. URV declined his 
claim, saying that this situation wasnt covered by Mr Bs policy.
Our investigator looked into what happened. Based on the policy terms he didnt think it was 
unreasonable for URV to decline the claim. He agreed this situation wasnt covered under 
the policy. Mr B didnt agree because he says URV should pay the claim and referred to the 
policy having been mis-sold.
I asked URV for more information about the sales process. Their records showed the policy 
had been taken out via a price comparison website. Our investigator explained this to Mr B. 
He also explained that my initial thoughts were that, as URV hadnt given Mr B advice about 
the policy, it didnt need to ensure it was right for him.
Mr B responded to say that hed need to check his records to confirm how the insurance was 
taken out. He says that the policy didnt explain that passport theft was only covered in 
certain circumstances and the limitations of cover were not made clear. Mr B didnt provide 
any further evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that URV has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
I can understand how upsetting and worrying it must have been for Mr B to have his 
passport stolen and then be unable to travel. 
Mr Bs policy will pay up to £7500 for cancellation in certain circumstances. It says it will 
provide cover if: 
You had to cancel your trip because the following unexpectedly happened before you 
left home. 
You, a travelling companion, a family member, a business associate, or the 
person you were going to stay with became ill, was injured or died; 
Your home was burgled, or seriously damaged by file (sic) storm or flood;
You were called for jury service or required as a witness in a court of law; 
You, or a travelling companion were made redundant; 
You, or a travelling companions as members of HM Forces have your leave 
orders cancelled. 
As Mr B lost his passport and was unable to travel this isnt something that is strictly covered 
by the policy terms. 
Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable for URV to pay the claim. I 
dont think it is. It isnt uncommon for travel insurance policies to have limited cover relating 
to the loss of travel documents. And if this was something that was particularly important to 
Mr B he had the option to purchase cover elsewhere. 
Mr B says that the policy documentation isnt clear and this exclusion wasnt highlighted to 
him during the sales process. Mr B said hed taken out the policy over the phone but URVs 
records show that it was taken out online. So, I think thats most likely to have happened.
URV didnt give Mr B advice about the suitability of the policy for his needs. So, the relevant 
rules and industry guidelines say they have a responsibility to ensure that he had enough 
information to decide if the policy was right for him. 
As Ive already explained its not uncommon for there to be limitations on cover for loss of 
travel documents. So, I dont think URV needed to specifically highlight that cancellation 
costs wouldnt be covered if Mr B lost his passport before he left the UK.  
Mr B had the opportunity to read the policy documents and summary of cover during the 
sales process. And, in any event, if cover for cancellation due a lost passport was 
particularly important to Mr B then Id have expected him to raise it with URV within the 
cooling off period once hed had the chance to look through the policy documents. 
Im satisfied that Mr B had enough information to decide if this policy was right for him. I 
appreciate that Mr B will be disappointed but theres no cover for this scenario under his 
policy and so I dont think it is unreasonable for URV to decline the claim.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman