DRN-3355019
The complaint
Mr N complains Monese Ltd unfairly held on to funds he had in his account and delayed 
releasing them to him. He wants compensation for the trouble he was caused.
What happened
In June 2020 Monese carried out a review and blocked Mr Ns account. They let him know 
his account was blocked the same day. Monese completed their review and closed his 
account in July 2020. They sent him an email saying his account was closed and the 
balance would be returned to the remitter. But Mr N says Monese told him over the phone 
that they would return the balance to him directly. He provided them with his account details 
to send the funds to.
Monese failed to send the funds to Mr N and they subsequently sent him an email in October 
2020 to check his account details, but they didnt receive a response. They sent him another 
email in January 2021 and received a reply back from him in April 2021, after which they 
made payment. They also offered him £100 for the delay he experienced.
Our investigator decided Moneses offer was fair. They also said Monese were entitled to 
restrict his account to meet their legal and regulatory obligations and they could close his 
account.
Mr N disagreed with the outcome our investigator reached. He says he never received the 
email in October 2021, and he would have provided his account details straight away if he 
had as he needed his money. He asked for a final decision by an ombudsman, so his 
complaint has been given to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided that Monese should pay Mr N £100, but I am not directing them to pay any 
further compensation. Ill explain why.
Monese has important legal and regulatory obligations they must meet when providing 
accounts to customers. Those obligations are ongoing and dont only apply when an account 
is opened. They can broadly be summarized as a responsibility to protect persons from 
financial harm, and to prevent and detect financial crime.
To comply with their responsibilities, Monese will monitor and review accounts. Its common 
industry practice for firms to restrict access to an account in order to conduct a review. Doing 
so helps prevent potential financial loss or harm. So, I find Monese could restrict Mr Ns 
account and they didnt need to action his initial request to transfer his balance elsewhere.
Monese has the discretion to close an account. And unless their decision was unlawful our 
service wont generally interfere with their ability to choose who they want as a customer. 
So, I find Monese were able to close Mr Ns account and they didnt act unlawfully.
Monese admits there were avoidable delays in sending Mr N his balance and they 
incorrectly told Mr N his funds were being returned to the remitter. This understandably 
caused Mr N confusion and frustration. But I find £100 represents fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I find Monese sent Mr N an email in October 2020 to request what account they should send 
his funds to. I understand Mr N disputes receiving this email, but I can see it was sent to the 
same email address Monese had for him which they had sent previous emails to. Its 
possible Mr N missed the email or there was a problem with his email account, but this was 
not Moneses fault.
Monese should have sent the funds to Mr N after they closed his account, so before October 
2020. But I have also considered that Mr N delayed providing different account details after 
receiving Moneses subsequent email in January 2021. So, I am not persuaded the funds 
were as urgently needed as Mr N says they were. Otherwise, I think he would have provided 
his account details to Monese in January 2021. 
Mr N says he couldnt celebrate his birthday as a result of his account being blocked. But at 
the time of his birthday Monese hadnt completed their review, so I dont find they should 
have released his funds to him at that time.
Putting things right
Subject to Mr N accepting this decision I direct Monese to pay Mr N £100 unless Mr N has 
already received payment of their offer of compensation.
My final decision
I direct Monese Ltd to make payment to Mr N according to my direction above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Ombudsman