DRN-3769741
The complaint
Mrs K complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Royal London) 
unfairly suspended her income protection benefit when she received a settlement payment 
from her former employer. 
Mrs K is represented in this complaint, but for ease Ill refer to all submissions as being 
made by her directly.
What happened
When Mrs K became incapacitated by persistent postural perceptual dizziness (PPPD) in 
2019, she made a successful income protection claim with Royal London. Mrs Ks 
employment was terminated in 2020 however, and as part of that process she received a 
settlement payment from her employer. That payment was made up of pay in lieu of notice 
(PILON), accrued holiday, and compensation. 
Royal London explained that Mrs Ks PILON and holiday pay constituted earnings that would 
need to be deducted from her income protection benefit. So, it ceased paying benefit for a 
period of 20 weeks (having calculated how many benefit weeks those earnings had equated 
to), and resumed doing so once that timeframe had elapsed. 
Mrs K complained and said the deduction hadnt been made in line with the terms and 
conditions of her policy. She also said the amount of time itd taken Royal London to deal 
with matters had exacerbated her condition and caused her additional stress and anxiety.
Royal London said it had acted in line with the policy terms but acknowledged it had been 
responsible for some delays and could have handled some matters better. Royal London 
apologised for that and offered Mrs K £300 compensation, but Mrs K remained unhappy and 
brought her complaint to this service instead.
Our investigator thought Royal London had suspended Mrs Ks benefit in line with the policy 
terms. They also thought the £300 it had already offered was a fair reflection of the impact 
that would have been caused by its customer service failings. Mrs K disagreed though, and 
said our investigator hadnt demonstrated that each of her points had been adequately 
investigated. So as no agreement was reached the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I set out any findings I think it important to highlight that like the investigator before 
me, I will not address each and every point that has been made. My decision will only focus 
on those matters I consider central to the outcome of this complaint and for the following 
reasons I will not be directing Royal London to take any additional action:
The terms and conditions of Mrs Ks policy explain that benefit will be reduced in the 
event of any other earnings from employment. Specifically, they read:
If the person covered has other income
Well reduce the amount we pay so that the total income you receive equals the 
lower of £1500 or the cover amount youve chosen if:
you have any other plan with us or with any other company which provides 
what we judge to be similar covers, or
the person covered continues to receive earnings from any other form of 
employment or self-employment while they meet the definition of 
incapacitated in section 5, and
the income from this plan together with the income from those other sources 
would exceed 55% of pre-incapacity earnings. 
Similar covers include ones that, if the person covered meets the definition of 
incapacitated, replace all or part of their pre-incapacity earnings.
I appreciate Mrs K says the above terms are ambiguous, but I dont agree. The terms 
explain that the receipt of earnings from any other form of employment or self-
employment would lead to the benefit amount being reduced. This policy was 
designed to provide Mrs K with an income in the event of incapacity, and the money 
she went on to receive following her termination and outside the policys benefit did 
constitute earnings from other employment. So, Im not persuaded that it was unfair 
or unreasonable of Royal London to treat Mrs Ks PILON and accrued holiday as 
earnings.
Royal London appears to have calculated the earnings correctly. I know Mrs K 
disagrees with the way its approached this, but Royal London has already explained 
that even if her holiday pay had been paid in monthly instalments rather than in bulk 
for example, the calculation would have remained the same. Mrs Ks earnings were 
paid to her in bulk however, and as she was already in receipt of income protection at 
that point I dont think it was unreasonable of Royal London to reduce her benefit in 
line with the policy terms cited above.
Im sorry to hear of the impact Mrs K says Royal Londons failings had on her. Royal 
London accepts it could have done more to communicate with Mrs K at times and 
has acknowledged it was responsible for some delays. I dont see any benefit in 
reciting all of the failings Royal London was responsible for given its addressed 
those in its final response letter. But I am pleased that it has apologised for where it 
let Mrs K down.
Im also pleased that Royal London has offered Mrs K compensation. Compensation 
is designed to be a fair and proportionate reflection of the impact a businesss 
mistake has had on someone. I havent seen any medical evidence to demonstrate 
that Mrs Ks condition was exacerbated by Royal London, but I fully appreciate why 
she would have been upset by what happened and I acknowledge the stress and 
anxiety she says she was caused. I think £300 represents a fair and proportionate 
reflection of the impact of Royal Londons failings for those reasons too. I know Mrs K 
chose not to accept Royal Londons offer at the time it was made, but Royal London 
has confirmed it remains available to her and I think it should now be paid. Putting things right
The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited has already made an offer to pay £300 
compensation to settle the complaint, and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited should pay the 
£300 it has already offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman