DRN-4059404
The complaint
Mr D and Miss D are unhappy with the service provided by Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited (Admiral) when purchasing car insurance.
Mr D and Miss D are both parties to this complaint. Mr D has primarily dealt with this service. 
For ease of reference I have referred to Mr D throughout this final decision. 
What happened
On 18 October 2022 Mr D contacted Admiral by phone to add an additional car to his policy. 
Mr D selected insurance which included the supply and fit of a telematics device.
 
Admiral wrote to Mr D informing him of a confirmation of change to his policy and included 
documents confirming details about the telematics device.
 
The policy schedule explained Please read extra conditions/endorsements in your Car 
Insurance Guide at [web address].
This provided details for the Telematics Guide which explained:
If you fail to install your [telematics device] within 30 days, we will revert your policy 
to a Standard Admiral policy, in which case you will lose any discounts and policy 
features associated with [telematics device]. We will provide written notice of the loss 
of discount.
 
How is the device fitted?
Shortly after you purchase the policy, our professional installers will contact you 
either by email, phone, or SMS to book an installation time online. 
Appointments are usually either morning or afternoon slots Monday to Friday. 
Whilst we cannot specify an exact time when you book your appointment, our 
installer will contact you before they arrive to ensure that you are available. 
The telematics key characteristics sheet explained:
The professional installer will be in touch to arrange the fitting at your convenience. 
The unit must be installed within 30 days of the policy start date or your policy will be 
cancelled. If you fail to attend an appointment or your device cannot be installed, 
there is a fee of £35 payable.
 
On 21 October Mr D contacted Admiral saying that he was unhappy with the booking 
process for installing the telematics device because it could not provide a specific time on 
when an installer would be able to attend.
 
Mr D explained he works during the weekdays so wouldnt be able to be present for an 
appointment. Mr D also requested that he keep his insurance without the telematics device 
but be charged the same cost for his insurance as with the telematics device discount. 
Mr B was told this wouldnt be possible as removing the telematics device from the policy 
would also remove the discount. Mr D complained to Admiral about the appointment 
scheduling being restrictive and no longer being happy with having the telematics device 
fitted in his car because of this. Mr D was told a representative from Admiral would try to call 
back within 72 hours to discuss his complaint but this couldnt be guaranteed.
On 26 October Mr D spoke to another Admiral representative saying he hadnt heard back 
following his complaint on 21 October. Mr D explained We couldnt agree a time to fit the 
box as I have work commitments One thing we can do is cancel the box but keep the 
premium as it is. Mr D also explained he had booked an appointment for 31 October but he 
had complained about the telematics box because of the restrictive scheduling and was 
waiting for a response to this. The Admiral representative told Mr D that he would receive a 
call back the following day. But that didnt happen.
Mr D didnt attend the appointment scheduled for 31 October and so he received a notice 
informing him that a charge of £35 would be payable because of the unsuccessful 
installation of his telematics device. 
On 1 November Mr D called Admiral to complain about the failed call back of 27 October, 
and also the £35 charge notice hed received. Mr D was told the failed call back would be 
added to his complaint that was logged on 21 October. Mr D was also told that it can take up 
to eight weeks for a complaint to be investigated and responded to. As a goodwill gesture, 
the Admiral representative agreed to remove the £35 missed installation charge.
During the call Mr D explained The problem is telematics company cannot accommodate 
us- so telematics box should be taken and premium stays the same. Mr D also explained 
To be honest otherwise well have to cancel everything, we have an experienced driver we 
dont need the box but it brought the premium down, if you can take the box but keep the 
premium down. The Admiral representative explained In terms of removing the box and 
wiping the fee, its not something we usually do, I will manage expectations by saying the 
extra cost is quite a lot the complaints team have larger potential, its unlikely theyll wipe 
the whole difference, I want to manage expectations.
On this call Mr D also clarified his understanding of what would happen regarding the fitting 
of the telematics device. He asked What we dont want is Admiral saying you havent fitted 
the box, and the policy is going to be cancelled, and then I have to make numerous phone 
calls, the ball is in your court, is that correct? The Admiral representative said Hopefully, I 
can leave a note on the policy saying the complaint is on-going regarding the telematics, I 
can do what I can on my end, hopefully it will be enough but I cant guarantee it will be 
enough [I will] say can we please avoid chasing while complaint is on-going and hopefully 
that will be enough. 
On 14 December Mr D received a response to his complaint. Admiral accepted that Mr D 
didnt get a call back on 27 October as he was told he would. They agreed to pay Mr D £25 
in recognition of this error, and the inconvenience caused to Mr D. 
Admiral didnt agree with Mr Ds complaint about the restrictive timings for scheduling an 
installation appointment, saying that the terms and conditions for Mr Ds telematics device 
explained we cannot specify an exact time when you book your appointment. Admiral also 
found that the information given to Mr D about the discount for the telematics device only applying if the telematics device remains on his policy, was correct. Admiral said there 
wasnt any evidence to indicate that Mr D had been told anything different. 
On 9 January 2023 Admiral wrote to Mr D saying:
We have been notified that your [telematics device] unit has failed to be installed in 
vehicle registration [registration number].
Rather than cancel your policy and leave you without insurance, we have removed 
the [telematics device] discount from your policy.
 
As a result of the loss in discount, there is an additional amount of £394.07 to pay. 
Mr D complained to Admiral about the extra charge being requested for his policy. Admiral 
explained this charge had been applied fairly- because Mr D didnt have a telematics device 
on his policy, the discount wasnt applicable. During this call Mr D was offered the 
opportunity to cancel his policy based on the original cost of the policy without the discount, 
and only pay for the time hed had the benefit of cover, without incurring any cancellation 
charges. Mr D was told if he didnt want to cancel, hed have to pay the additional charge to 
continue with cover. 
Mr D was unhappy with this response, and brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
Mr D told this service that he wasnt happy with the restrictive scheduling process to install 
the telematics device, he was promised call backs which didnt happen, and that he missed 
out on the opportunity to have his telematics device fitted because he was told to wait until 
the investigation into his complaint had been completed. Mr D doesnt feel its fair that 
Admiral are asking for full payment for his insurance when they told him that the requirement 
to fit the telematics device would be on hold while his complaint was being investigated. 
The investigator found that Admiral couldve provided a better service in responding to Mr D 
when they said they would, but the £25 offered was reasonable compensation for the impact 
on Mr D, and didnt recommend Admiral do anything more in settlement of Mr Ds complaint. 
Mr D rejected these findings saying (amongst other things) Within first 30 days, Admiral 
manager asked us not to take further action re fitting black box until further instructions and 
on the outcome and conclusion of the investigation which was officially completed in Jan 
2023, otherwise we would have had the black box fitted in October. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it has been passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mr D for taking the time to explain everything thats happened when dealing with the 
issues with his telematics device with Admiral. I understand it has been a stressful time for 
Mr D. Id like to reassure the parties that although Ive only summarised the background to 
this complaint, so not everything thats happened or been argued is set out above, Ive read 
and considered everything that has been provided.
Mr D feels strongly that Admiral have treated him unfairly by removing the telematics device 
discount. Mr D feels that it was because of Admirals poor customer service, and inaccurate information, that he didnt get the opportunity to fit the telematics device in time. Admiral say 
that Mr D was informed of the requirement to have the telematics device fitted within 30 
days, and because he didnt do this, the discount was removed. 
When evidence is contradictory or inconclusive (or both) I have to make a finding on the 
balance of probabilities. That is what I find is most likely to have happened in view of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances. 
I have seen that the Telematics Guide explained we cannot specify an exact time when you 
book. I think it was made reasonably clear to Mr D that an exact time could not be provided 
at the time of scheduling an installation appointment. Mr D agreed to this at the time of 
taking out his policy. The Telematics Guide also explained:
If you fail to install your [telematics device] within 30 days, we will revert your policy 
to a Standard Admiral policy, in which case you will lose any discounts and policy 
features associated with [telematics device]. We will provide written notice of the loss 
of discount.
Mr D feels strongly that this is something he wouldve had done had he not been told to wait 
until completion of his complaint being investigated. Ive considered Mr Ds comments 
carefully alongside the evidence confirming the calls he had with various Admiral 
representatives about his telematics device. 
Having carefully considered the evidence, and what Mr D told Admiral at the time about the 
difficulty he was having scheduling an installation appointment, Im not persuaded that Mr D 
wouldve agreed to installation of the telematics device sooner in the way that he has 
described.   
I say this because Mr D told the Admiral representative on 21 October 2022 that there wasnt 
any way he could have the telematics device fitted because of his working hours. The crux of 
his complaint at the time stemmed from being unable to be present for the telematics device 
to be supplied and fitted. On balance given Mr Ds strong feelings about the difficulties in 
making this happen (and the reason for his initial complaint) Im not persuaded Mr D 
wouldve been in a position to arrange for installation of the telematics device sooner even if 
the communication about this had been clearer from the outset by Admiral.  
Mr D also says that he was told not take any action while his complaint was being 
investigated. But the evidence I have seen doesnt support this. Mr D was told that a note 
would be made so that Mr D doesnt receive chasers about fitting the telematics device- but 
not to the effect that Admiral were telling him not to fit the telematics device. I dont think the 
Admiral representative misled Mr D in the way that he has described.
Mr D was made aware that although the Admiral representative would make a note of Mr Ds 
on-going issues with the telematics device, any request could not be guaranteed. The 
Admiral representative explained I can leave a note on the policy saying the complaint is on-
going regarding the telematics, I can do what I can on my end, hopefully it will be enough but 
I cant guarantee it will be enough [I will] say can we please avoid chasing while complaint 
is on-going and hopefully that will be enough. 
I have also seen that Admiral did conclude their investigation into Mr Ds complaint on 14 
December 2022. So he still had time to fit the telematics device and benefit from the 
telematics discount between the time that the final response letter was issued on 14 
December 2022 and 9 January 2023. I cant see that Mr D made any attempt to do this. It wasnt until Mr D received notice of the telematics discount being removed that he 
challenged Admirals response to his complaint in January 2023. So even if he was of the 
understanding that Admiral has told him not to act until their investigation was complete, 
there was still time to have the telematics device fitted after a response to his complaint had 
been issued on 14 December 2022. 
During the calls with Admiral Mr D also explained on several occasions that the resolution he 
was looking for was to cancel the box but keep the premium as it is. Ive seen that Mr D 
was offered the opportunity to cancel his insurance (based on the cost of the policy without 
the discount) and only pay for the period hed benefitted from cover, without cancellation 
charges. Although Mr D doesnt feel that this was a fair resolution to his complaint, I think 
Admirals offer was reasonable. 
I say this because Mr D purchased his policy, and benefitted from the telematics discount, 
because he agreed to the supply and fit of a telematics device. Admiral correctly informed Mr 
D that the discount would be removed if the telematics device wasnt set up. As Mr D didnt 
do this on time, the discount was removed. These actions were fair and in line with what Mr 
D was told would happen. 
Mr D has referred to call backs that didnt happen, and general service failings. I have 
listened to the call of 21 October 2022 and although I accept Mr D was very keen to speak to 
a manager, he was told this could happen within 72 hours, but also that it wasnt guaranteed. 
I think the Admiral representative did enough to manage Mr Ds expectations.
Mr D was promised a call back when he spoke to a representative on 26 October 2022, 
which didnt happen. Admiral paid £25 in recognition of the impact on Mr D because of this. I 
think this amount is reasonable and broadly in line with what wed recommend in the 
circumstances. This amount takes into consideration the upset caused to Mr D in waiting for 
a call back that didnt happen, but also that Admiral had logged Mr Ds complaint and a 
response was provided within the eight weeks a business is required to respond within. 
I appreciate Mr Ds disappointment with this outcome. This situation has clearly left Mr D 
feeling stressed, and financially out of pocket. Although I appreciate the upset caused to Mr 
D, I am satisfied Admirals actions have been reasonable, and in line with his policy terms. 
Because of this, I wont be asking Admiral to do anything in settlement of this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons provided I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Miss D 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman