DRN-3240663
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs C complain that Lloyds Bank Plc have caused a financial loss and 
embarrassment when failing to honour a cheque. 
Mrs C has brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman, so Ill refer to her throughout. 
What happened
In March 2020 Mrs C drew two cheques, each for £1,500 to the same recipient. The total 
amount represented Mrs Cs full inheritance tax free gift allowance for that tax year. One of 
the cheques was drawn from a joint account and the other was drawn from Mrs Cs sole 
account. In April 2020 Mrs C was told by the recipient that one of the cheques that shouldve 
been drawn from the joint account was dishonoured. 
Mrs C wrote to her branch, but after not receiving a response, she visited the branch to seek 
an explanation into what happened. Mrs C said she gave a copy of her earlier letter to the 
branch and was told the signature looked good on the cheque. Lloyds then sent two letters 
in May 2020 which gave conflicting reasons for the cheque not being accepted due to the 
way it had been written. Mrs C remained unhappy, so a formal complaint was raised. 
Lloyds considered the complaint and offered Mrs C £50 for the inconvenience the issue had 
caused her and paid this into her account. It said the automated scanner had highlighted an 
error with the cheque. And its process is to contact Mrs C to verify the cheque. But as 
contact was unsuccessful, the cheque was returned unpaid. Lloyds sent a further letter 
explaining that cheques are sometimes checked for security reasons and that this is what 
had happened in this instance. 
Mrs C remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. She 
said she should receive £1,000 in total for this issue because it had caused her estate to 
suffer a net loss of £600 and that Lloyds should pay her £400 in compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience shes suffered. 
Our investigator felt the complaint should be upheld in part. He said Lloyds should increase 
its offer of £50 compensation to £150 to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused to 
Mrs C in having to make several trips to the branch and incorrect information being supplied 
by branch staff. But he didnt think Lloyds needed to make up for the inheritance tax loss 
because it wasnt foreseeable for it to know the cheque needed to be cashed by a certain 
time for inheritance tax purposes. 
Mrs C disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. She said Lloyds has failed to 
explain why one of her cheques wasnt accepted but the other was. And if they had both 
been dishonoured it wouldnt have caused any issues with her inheritance tax as it couldve 
been carried over to the following tax year.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator which is to uphold the 
complaint in part. And for largely the same reasons. But I dont agree that Lloyds should pay 
Mrs C a total of £1,000 for whats happened here. Ill explain why below. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
Lloyds has said it has a new automated system which will occasionally flag some cheques to 
be additionally reviewed. And thats what happened here. Its important for banks to have 
fraud prevention systems in place to protect consumers. Reducing fraud is a priority for the 
Financial Conduct Authority so, in order to meet any legal and regulatory requirements, its 
necessary for banks to have appropriate controls and systems in place to protect themselves 
and consumers from fraud. I dont therefore think its unreasonable for Lloyds to have fraud 
prevention systems in place.
Mrs C said that Lloyds should cover the financial loss she has incurred due to not being able 
to make the inheritance tax planning payment. I can understand Mrs Cs frustration here and 
why she wants a more detailed answer explaining why the cheque wasnt honoured. Shes 
been provided with different explanations as to why the cheque was unpaid which hasnt 
helped the situation. Lloyds accepts that its explanations werent clear enough and that 
Mrs C has experienced distress and inconvenience. 
So, the issue for me to decide is whether the £150 Lloyds has now agreed to is fair or if 
Mrs C is entitled to the £1,000 she has asked for. 
Lloyds has said its automated system flagged an issue with one of the cheques and it didnt 
contact Mrs C to discuss the cheque because it didnt have a contact number. That meant 
Mrs C found out about the cheque not being honoured from the recipient which she said 
caused her embarrassment. 
And although Lloyds checked for a phone number for Mrs C on the day, it doesnt then seem 
to have followed this up promptly by writing to make Mrs C aware of the issue, which I think 
wouldve been the fair thing to do. It wasnt until Mrs C contacted the branch that Lloyds 
acknowledged that there had been a problem with the cheque. But I dont think this means 
Lloyds should pay Mrs C what she lost from her inheritance tax planning. 
The cheque was dated 27 March 2020 and was processed on 1 April 2020 but, in the 
circumstances, Im not satisfied there wouldve been enough time for Lloyds to write to 
Mrs C during the Covid-19 pandemic and then for a new cheque to be drawn and sent back 
to Lloyds so the money could be paid to the recipient before 6 April 2020. And Ive also 
noted the 4 and 5 April 2020 fell on the weekend leaving less time to get the cheque 
honoured.  
I understand it has caused inconvenience to Mrs C and to the intended payee in having the 
cheque returned. Its also understandable shes been caused embarrassment, particularly as 
she says the cheque payment was a genuine and legitimate transaction. Having an 
automated fraud prevention system in place is important and necessary for Lloyds to protect 
their consumers. While unfortunately this may lead to occasions where legitimate 
transactions are declined, it doesnt mean Lloyds has done something wrong in dishonouring 
the cheque for further checks. Putting things right
Lloyds has admitted it didnt then deal with Mrs Cs queries sufficiently and has now agreed 
to pay £150 for the distress and inconvenience it caused her, I am satisfied that this is fair 
and reasonable compensation in the circumstances of this case.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part, and in full and final settlement of it, order 
Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mrs C and Mr C £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman