DRN-2414280
The complaint
Mr P complains about how National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) dealt with his request 
for account access.
What happened
Mr P says he tried to transfer money from his NatWest account to his account in Australia 
where he now lives. He says in summary he spent months trying to resolve the issue and 
was given incorrect and inconsistent reasons for what took place and how to resolve it. Mr P 
says he called NatWest on a number of occasions was given some compensation despite 
rejecting it.
NatWest accepts it gave inconsistent advice to Mr P and that it took too long to sort out the 
problem. It says it has paid a total of £400 compensation and apologised for what took place. 
NatWest says the issue has now been resolved.
Mr P brought his complaint to us and our investigator accepted he had been caused distress 
and inconvenience but thought the compensation paid was fair and reasonable.
Mr P doesnt accept that view and says he should be paid £1,000 compensation to settle his 
complaint and says NatWest lied to him and caused him a significant financial loss. He says 
he was unable to buy a car and was unable to make a stock market investment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that NatWest has paid a fair and reasonable 
amount of compensation and I dont require it to increase that offer. I appreciate Mr P will be 
disappointed by my decision.
There is no doubt NatWest didnt deal with the account access issue as it should have. I 
appreciate that Mr P spent some time trying to sort matters out and I have no doubt was 
caused inconvenience and distress. But I can also see that NatWest has now sorted out the 
issue and has fairly apologised for what took place. 
The key issue is the level of compensation that is fair and reasonable. Im satisfied that the 
compensation offer of £400 is fair and reasonable and fairly reflects that the problem took 
some months to sort out. I appreciate Mr P says he was unable to use the money to buy a 
car and was unable to make a stock market investment. But I make clear that I dont think Mr 
P has told us if he had access to other money in Australia and that he hasnt provided any 
evidence about the missed investment opportunity and what that may have cost him. In 
those circumstances I cant fairly consider those issues any further and think that Mr P has 
had an opportunity to have provided such information if he wished to do so.
Overall, I think that £400 compensation is appropriate and, whilst I accept NatWest ought not 
to have paid some of the compensation if Mr P rejected it, I dont think that had a significant 
impact on him. It follows that I cant fairly order NatWest to increase the compensation it 
should pay to £1,000 as Mr P says.
My final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc has paid a fair and reasonable level 
of compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman