DRN-2803987
The complaint
O complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) acted wrongly in completing transactions 
which O says were not authorised. O wants Lloyds to refund the disputed transactions. 
What happened
O is a business which regularly made payments to a third-party business, R. 
On 9 May 2020, O made a transaction sending £2000 to R. This was authorised by Lloyds 
and debited from Os account on 11 May 2020. 
On 15 May 2020, a block was placed on Os account, pending a review of the account. 
Also on 15 May 2020, a further transaction was attempted to send another £2000 to R. 
O says that this transaction as unsuccessful. Lloyds says that the transaction was 
authorised, but because of the block on Os account, the funds were not debited from the 
account. 
The block remained on Os account until mid-June 2020, when it was lifted. 
By that time, a backlog of payments had accrued at Lloyds, due to the pandemic. Lloyds 
began working through payments manually. 
On 17 July 2020, the second transaction debited Os account. 
O noticed the debit from the account and contacted Lloyds. O was concerned that the debits 
were unauthorised. 
Lloyds sent O its final response in August 2020 rejecting the complaint. Lloyds explained 
that the transactions were authorised debit card transactions and that Lloyds had been 
obliged to complete the transactions. 
O was not happy with this response and contacted us.
One of our investigators has looked into this complaint and has set out their view to the 
parties. During the course of the investigation O accepted that the first transaction was made 
by O. Our investigator established that O attempted the transaction on 15 May 2020 and this 
was authorised by Lloyds. It was then processed and debited when Lloyds was able to 
manually process the transaction, after the block had been removed. Our investigator 
therefore thought that Lloyds had done nothing substantially wrong. 
O did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Os concern in this matter. If, from Os perspective, the attempted transaction in 
mid-May had appeared to fail, and there was a block on the account, I can see why O would 
not expect any transaction from that time to be later processed. It also seems that R is 
unable to locate the payment and has not used the payment as O expected, so of course O 
is worried that his payment might be missing. 
I have read our investigators comprehensive explanation of the evidence and the 
regulations considered and I agree with the view. Lloyds has provided evidence which 
shows that the transaction was authorised by the provider at the time when it was attempted. 
This constitutes a guarantee for Lloyds to then pay on the transaction. Lloyds has also 
provided evidence that the funds were transferred to R, albeit later than expected, so it 
should be possible for R to identify this payment based on the information Lloyds has 
provided. 
I agree with the investigator that it would have been helpful for Lloyds to contact O before 
making the payment, so that it was clear why this payment was now being debited, but I 
agree that O did not have a choice as to whether the transaction was completed then, and 
so contact would have been as a courtesy only, rather than to seek consent, as consent had 
already been given by attempting to make the payment in May.
I realise this will be disappointing to O, but I have not seen evidence that Lloyds has done 
anything wrong, and so I do not uphold Os complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Os complaint and do not ask Lloyds Bank 
PLC to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman