DRN-3630228
The complaint
Mr M complains BUPA Insurance Limited unfairly turned down his claim for treatment it had 
already authorised.  
What happened
Mr M contacted BUPA in November 2020 when he needed to see a specialist. BUPA 
authorised Mr M having a consultation and tests with Dr W and provided an authorisation 
code. However due to delays relating to the Covid-19 pandemic, Mr M didnt have his 
consultation until 26 February 2021. 
Mr M made a claim against his policy for the cost of the consultation and tests. However 
BUPA declined to pay the claim. It said Mr Ms cover had been ended by his employer on 30 
November 2020, so the claim he made for a consultation in February 2021 wasnt covered. It 
said although the treatment was eligible, and it had authorised it, this was on 4 November 
2020, prior to his cover being ended.
The policy terms say the following about claims which relate to treatment outside of the 
cover period under the sections payment of benefits and general information. 
We only pay benefits for treatment you receive while you are covered under the 
agreement and we only pay benefits in accordance with the cover that applies to you 
on the date the treatment takes place. We do not pay for any treatment, including any 
treatment we have pre-authorised, that takes place on or after the date your cover 
ends. 
If your cover ends for any reason we will not pay for any treatment that takes place 
on or after the date your cover ends  even if we have pre-authorised the treatment. 
Mr M complained to BUPA. He said his treatment had been postponed by the hospital and 
that he was a member of his employers group scheme at the time the treatment was 
authorised. 
BUPA said the treatment wasnt covered as it had taken place after the policy was cancelled. 
And at the time of authorising the treatment, it was unaware Mr Ms policy was going to be 
cancelled, so it didnt warn him hed no longer be covered after the cancellation date. It said 
it doesnt follow up with doctors or hospitals to advise authorisation codes are no longer 
valid, as it checks eligibility of treatment at the time the code is issued. 
Unhappy with BUPAs response, Mr M brought his complaint to this service. He said hed not 
been asked for any payment details by the hospital, and thought the claim had been 
accepted. He said he wouldnt have gone ahead with the appointment if it wasnt covered as 
he couldnt afford to pay for it. He asked that his claim is paid and that he is awarded 
compensation. An investigator here looked into what had happened and said they thought 
BUPA had declined the claim fairly. 
BUPA made no comment on the investigators view. However Mr M disagreed and asked for 
a decision from an ombudsman. So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say BUPA has a 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Having done so, I dont think BUPA has acted unfairly. And Ill explain why. 
BUPA authorised the treatment Mr M requested whilst his policy was in force, which 
is what I would expect it to do. And I accept, at that time, it had no prior knowledge 
that Mr Ms employer would cancel his policy shortly after. So Im satisfied it was 
reasonable for BUPA to authorise the treatment and I dont think it needed to advise 
Mr M of a deadline for completing it. 
The authorised consultation was delayed by the treating hospital until February 2021. 
So it took place some considerable time after Mr Ms policy cover ended on 30 
November 2020. I understand there were delays related to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
And I dont think it would be fair to hold BUPA responsible for delays which were 
beyond its control and being managed by the treating hospital. 
The policy terms and conditions clearly state that treatment provided after a policy 
had ended will not be covered, even if it has been authorised. So Im satisfied Mr Ms 
claim for the treatment which took place after his policy was cancelled, is not 
covered. And I dont think it would be reasonable to expect BUPA to contact the 
treating hospitals or doctors for all members where it has issued an authorisation 
code, when their cover expires. 
Ive also seen no evidence that Mr M contacted BUPA again to find out if he was still 
eligible for treatment after his cover ended, which is something he could have done 
had he wanted to ensure he wouldnt be responsible for paying any bills. 
I should also clarify that Im aware Mr M has raised some comments around the necessity of 
scans the treating hospital performed, and has said they didnt tell him he would be paying 
for his treatment. In this complaint Ive looked at the actions of BUPA as the insurer. Its not 
within my remit to look into the service provided by the treating hospital, and this is 
something Mr M may want to address with the hospital directly. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against BUPA Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman