DRN-1866039
 
The complaint
Mrs B complains that HSBC Bank plc (HSBC) told her she had to make a transfer to a 
European recipient in Euros, not sterling. The payment was returned by the recipient bank. 
Because the money had been converted from sterling to Euros and back again, Mrs B 
received less than she originally transferred.
What happened
Mrs B wanted to invest £40,000.00 in a family members business. The business is based in 
Europe. She went to her local HSBC branch for help to make this payment. She took with 
her the wiring instructions shed been given. 
At the branch, Mrs B set up the transfer in the presence of a member of HSBCs staff. She 
says that, when it came to putting in payment details, she was told that she needed to put 
the amount in in Euros, even though she had instructions to pay in sterling. So the payment 
was set up in Euros.
The payment was sent, but was returned by the recipient the next day. HSBCs system 
shows this was because an incorrect account number had been used. When it was returned, 
the payment was converted back from Euros to sterling. This meant that Mrs B received 
back £2,190.76 less than she sent.
A couple of days later, Mrs B re-sent the amount that had been returned to her. This time the 
transfer was made in sterling and was successful.
Mrs B complained to HSBC about her loss. They looked at her complaint but didnt accept 
theyd done anything wrong. They said their records show the payment was returned 
because the recipients bank details were wrong. Mrs B had entered these and so they 
werent responsible for her loss.
Our investigator looked at the evidence and decided that HSBC had acted fairly and 
reasonably. He said the bank would have had no way of knowing the currency of the 
receiving account, so it wasnt unreasonable for them to send currency to a European 
account in Euros. He also said its the customers responsibility to give the bank the correct 
account details. Hed expect the bank to pick up any clear mistakes in the payment 
information but there werent any in this case. 
I didnt agree with the investigators view. My provisional decision explained that Id seen Mrs 
B had been cautious about sending such a large amount overseas, so shed taken steps to 
make sure nothing went wrong. Shed gone to the branch specifically so HSBC staff were on 
hand to help her make the transfer. Shed taken the wiring instructions  but she hadnt 
followed them. I didnt see anything to show me why Mrs B wouldnt have followed those 
instructions. I concluded that the most likely reason for that was because HSBC advised her 
not to. HSBC had said their staff dont give advice. But theyd not provided any evidence about this 
particular case  or provided anything to show a different reason for Mrs B to have set up the 
payment in Euros. So I decided that Mrs B should be refunded the amount shed lost in 
converting her money from sterling to Euros and back again - and that HSBC should pay her 
interest on that amount. Finally I said that HSBC should pay Mrs B £200 for the trouble and 
upset theyd caused her.
Mrs B didnt comment on my provisional decision. But HSBC said in response that their 
system automatically selects the currency of the country the payment was going to. So, in 
this case, it wouldve selected Euros and there would wouldve been no need for a staff 
member to tell Mrs B to make that selection.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
I based my provisional decision on Mrs Bs testimony. I thought her explanation of what had 
happened was plausible. And HSBC didnt provide any evidence to support what they said  
so I had nothing to weigh against Mrs Bs version of events.
HSBC have now said that their computer system automatically selects the currency for the 
transfer, based on the country its being sent to. And theyve provided a guide to how 
payments are made. The guide includes notes at various points to help customers complete 
it.
I can see that customers have to select the country the transfer is going to. And they have to 
put in the International Bank Account Number (IBAN). Mrs B thought the account she was 
sending money to had a UK IBAN. But Ive seen from the wiring instructions that the IBAN 
for the receiving bank is actually a European IBAN.
Im satisfied that completing this form would mean HSBCs system would have automatically 
sent the payment in Euros. But HSBC have confirmed that this can be overridden. So the 
payment could be made in sterling  as the second payment was.
And I think it was reasonable for Mrs B to expect that the first payment should have been 
made this way. She could have made this payment online from her home. If she had, shed 
have been responsible for making sure the details were right. 
But she didnt do that  she went to HSBC for help. And the staff at the HSBC branch did 
help her. They didnt input the transfer details  but they did sit with Mrs B to deal with any 
queries she had and give her confidence in the process. 
The system defaults to making the transfer in Euros. And  even though Mrs B thinks there 
was one - I cant see theres an option to actively choose Euros. I think whats most likely to 
have happened here is for the system to have defaulted, and the staff member telling Mrs B 
thats what it did.
I dont think thats sufficient in this case. Mrs B wanted to make the payment in sterling. 
Shes consistently stated thats what she wanted to do. She had wiring instructions telling to 
do that. And you can choose to make payment in another currency by amending it manually. All of that information should have led the HSBC staff to check that Mrs B was happy to 
accept the systems default positions  and send the payment in Euros  or show her how to 
change it. 
But they didnt. And, because they said they would support Mrs B in the transfer but didnt 
then check, I think theyre responsible for her losses. So Im satisfied its fair to confirm my 
provisional decision and direct HSBC to refund her losses (with interest) and compensate 
her for the trouble and upset they caused her.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined, Im upholding Mrs Bs complaint about HSBC Bank plc and 
directing them to pay her the following:
£2,190.76 (the amount she lost due to conversion of her payment from sterling to 
Euros and back)
interest on £2,190.76 at the rate of 8% from 15 October 2019 to the date of payment 
to Mrs B
£200 in recognition of the distress and worry they caused her. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2020.
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman