DRN-2858051
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about their buy to let mortgage with Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Birmingham Midshires (BM).
What happened
Mr and Mrs S have a mortgage with BM. They borrowed around £67,000 in 2003, with a 
further £11,500 in 2004. The mortgage was originally on interest only terms, though 
Mr and Mrs S converted it to repayment in 2016.
BM wrote to Mr and Mrs S to say that it had calculated their mortgage payments incorrectly 
over the years. This meant that it hadnt asked Mr and Mrs S to pay enough to meet what 
the payments should have been and their balance was higher than it ought to have been as 
a result. This is known as mortgage underfunding. It said that it had reduced their mortgage 
balance to what it would have been had Mr and Mrs S been paying the correct amount all 
along  and it wouldnt ask them to make up the payments they hadnt made. This resulted 
in a reduction of the balance by around £2,900 on one part of the mortgage and around 
£420 on the other. 
Mr and Mrs S say that the mis-calculation of their mortgage has caused them several issues. 
They say they tried to sell their property in 2016 and again in 2018, but there was so little 
equity in the property that they would be left with little or nothing after paying estate agents 
and legal fees. Had the balance been correct at those times, they might have been able to 
sell. They say that when they tried to sell the property was only worth around £85,000 and 
they believed the balance was over £70,000. Removing £3,500 from the balance makes a 
significant difference, and that amount would have covered the costs of sale. 
Mr and Mrs S say that due to the high loan to value due to the incorrect balance they were 
trapped with BM and couldnt move their mortgage elsewhere to access a lower interest rate. 
They have been forced to use loans and credit cards to service the mortgage. They want BM 
to pay them £10,000 compensation. 
BM said that Mr and Mrs S bought this property as an investment, and could have sold it but 
chose not to. It said there was no financial loss, because Mr and Mrs S had paid less each 
month than they should have done  and even though it wouldnt ask them to make up the 
difference, it had reduced their balance as if they had. 
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint, so Mr and Mrs S asked for an 
ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S have had this mortgage for a number of years. The property is not their home; 
its a buy to let mortgage over a property they rent out for profit and as an investment.
In around 2008, Mr and Mrs S missed some payments and the mortgage fell into arrears. 
Once things were back on track, BM agreed to capitalise the arrears.
Capitalisation means adding the arrears to the main mortgage balance. This means that they 
become part of the overall debt from then on, and BM no longer requires them to be made 
up as missed payments. The balance goes up  and so the monthly payments also need to 
increase to cover the increased interest that results.
Unfortunately, BM didnt re-calculate the mortgage payments. So from then on, 
Mr and Mrs S were no longer paying enough to cover the interest added each month. And 
that meant their balance very gradually increased over the next eight years.
In 2016, Mr and Mrs S converted the mortgage to repayment. But because of this error, their 
monthly payments werent enough to repay the mortgage in full by the end of the term.
In 2019, BM realised its error. A situation like this  where a lender hasnt asked the 
borrower to pay enough each month to service the mortgage  is known as underfunding. 
We have a well-established and longstanding approach to mortgage underfunding. We 
expect a lender who makes an error like this to put the mortgage back in the position it would 
be in had the error not been made.
This means that BM needed to reduce the balance to what it would have been had it asked 
Mr and Mrs S to pay the correct amount each month. And since it wasnt Mr and Mrs Ss 
fault that they didnt pay enough, we wouldnt expect BM to ask them to make up the 
difference  though its fair to adjust the payments going forwards.
Thats what BM did here. It put things right in the way we would expect  by reducing the 
balance without asking Mr and Mrs S to make up the missed payments.
Mr and Mrs S say that BMs mistake also caused them consequential losses, which they 
want it to compensate them for.
But Im not persuaded that there are losses. The difference in the balance is relatively small. 
Mr and Mrs S say it prevented them moving their mortgage elsewhere, or taking a new 
interest rate with BM. But I dont think that was the case. The mortgage is on a tracker rate, 
which is similar to the sorts of buy to let rates theyd be able to get with other lenders  so 
Im not persuaded that theyve lost out. And the error with the balance would have reduced 
the loan to value from about 82% to about 78%, based on Mr and Mrs Ss estimate of the 
property value (which matches BMs estimate). Most lenders require a loan to value of below 
75% for competitive buy to let mortgages  so I dont think the underfunding error made any 
difference to Mr and Mrs Ss ability to re-mortgage. And I havent seen any evidence that 
they made any applications to other lenders in any case.
Im also not persuaded that the underfunding error prevented them from selling the property. 
There was equity in both 2016 and 2018. And while it might not have been as much as 
Mr and Mrs S would have liked, it was enough to allow them to repay the mortgage, cover 
the cost of sale and retain some money for themselves. It seems to me that the issue here is 
that the value of the property hasnt significantly increased while theyve had the loan, and 
thats why Mr and Mrs S consider it to have been a poor investment. I also note that they 
havent sold the property since the error was put right in 2019  which supports my view that 
this wasnt what was stopping them from selling.
I must also take into account that Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage balance was reduced by £3,500. 
Had the error not been made, the balance would have been at the same level  but only 
because Mr and Mrs S had paid enough to reduce it. The error meant that they got the benefit of having their balance reduced in 2019  without having had to pay the correct, 
higher, payments each month from 2008 to 2019. And while I think discovering the error 
would have caused Mr and Mrs S upset, the amount of compensation I might award for that 
is more than offset by the saving theyve made in having lower monthly payments for eleven 
years.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that while BM made an error here, it has already 
put it right in the way Id expect. I dont require it to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman