DRN-4120897
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy Monzo Bank Ltd wont reimburse her for funds she lost due to a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in April 2023. My provisional findings were 
as follows:
I know this will be disappointing for Miss C, but I dont intend for Monzo to refund any 
of the unauthorised transactions in dispute here. However I do agree with the 
investigator she is due a reimbursement of the £499 and £1 payments she sent, 
under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (the code). Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the social media advert Miss C saw that started this scam and the 
warning Monzo said it showed her. The price is reasonable for the item being sold 
and I dont see any reason Miss C wouldve realised this could be a scam. I accept 
that the social media platform suggests Miss C should pay in another way, but this 
isnt a consideration under the code. And I dont think a bank transfer is necessarily 
that unusual for a person to request. Ive reviewed the warning Monzo showed Miss 
C and I cant say that in sending the payment she ignored an effective warning for 
her situation. She confirmed with the seller who she was paying and then did get a 
match for their details, so she was paying who she expected to pay. The price was 
reasonable for the item and she hadnt been, at that time, told about any risks to her 
account or to ignore any warnings. So I dont consider Miss C ignored an effective 
warning here.
Monzo has said that Miss C paid a different party to who she was messaging, so this 
shouldve been a concern. But we know that the seller explained shed be paying 
their partners account, which I dont think is again so unusual it should have meant 
Miss C didnt reasonably believe she was paying someone she expected to pay. Just 
because someone doesnt have the same surname as their partner it doesnt mean 
its a scam. And as above, the item pricing was in line with what Ive seen elsewhere, 
and the images were of the correct item. So I dont think Miss C didnt have a 
reasonable basis for belief here either. So she is due a full refund of the two faster 
payments she sent to the scammer, plus 8% simple interest per year on these 
payments from the date Monzo declined to refund her under the code, to the date it 
does reimburse her.
Moving on to the unauthorised payments, under the Payment Services Regulations 
2017 and the terms of her account, Miss C is presumed liable for transactions shes 
carried out herself. If a transaction can be shown to be unauthorised, as its accepted 
the later transactions were here, then the bank must demonstrate that Miss C failed 
with intent or gross negligence to keep her account and personal details safe. And I 
think Monzo has shown that in this case.
Miss C has explained how this scam started and I accept that she wasnt aware she 
was being scammed when she first tried to buy the item online. However, it was the 
scammer who told her that her bank would be emailing her. The scammer asked for 
Miss Cs contact details and then said shed be receiving an email from her bank, 
which she received shortly after. So I think it shouldve been a clear concern to her 
whether or not these emails were genuine. This is especially because the reason for 
her bank emailing her was that the scammer hadnt received the funds  which Miss 
C had confirmed with genuine Monzo through her app that they had.
I can see that when Miss C received the emails - which, apart from the persons 
signature, didnt come from or include any details for Monzo - she replied to them 
saying shed already been scammed that evening. So by this time she knew the 
social media purchase was a scam. And yet she then continued to correspond with 
this person via email and give away her details, including sending a verification 
video, despite the clear link between these emails and the scam. The emails also say 
they are in relation to a £500 payment but Miss C hadnt sent a single payment of 
this value. She sent two payments  £1 and £499  so a total of £500. I wouldnt 
expect a bank to make this kind of error and Miss C knew she sent two payments.
The above email chain is before Miss Cs account has been compromised. And at 
this time I think she had enough information to be aware that the emails were part of 
the same scam. As above, the email address is not a Monzo one but a gmail 
domain and someone who she knew was a scammer had told her to expect an email. 
She also recognises in the emails that the Monzo link tells her not to share it with 
anyone, but they are asking her to do so. Miss C says she didnt share the link, but I 
can see from the screenshots we do have, that we dont have the full chain of emails. 
And considering the scammer was able to access her account shortly after the 
emails Ive seen asking for the link, I think its most likely that Miss C did share the 
link, as I cant see how else they wouldve been able to do this.
Taking into account all of the above, Im satisfied that Monzo has demonstrated Miss 
C failed in her obligations to the extent she did fail with gross negligence. I think she 
has shown a very significant degree of carelessness in this case. She is using the 
genuine Monzo chat whilst also emailing with Monzo to an email address that isnt 
one thats associated with Monzo. And as above, it was a scammer that said shed 
be getting emails and shes aware of this by this point. We know she shared personal 
details and it seems she also sent a link to this email despite all the above, and this is 
what enabled the third party to access her account and make the unauthorised 
payments.
Monzo responded to the provisional decision accepting it. Miss C didnt agree. She said that 
Monzo shouldve done more to prevent her being the victim of this scam. She said she 
hadnt previously purchased cryptocurrency and this was associated with scams. And these 
and the large payments to luxury brands didnt match her normal spending. 
Miss C also said that she thought the second device should have been concerning to Monzo 
as shed reported shed been discussing being a victim of another scam. So she said 
Monzos fraud prevention measures failed and this is why she was the victim of the second 
scam. She also said that she didnt agree the compensation awarded was fair for how long 
her account was locked.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Miss C nor Monzo has provided any further comments on the core findings I 
made in my provisional decision, I see no reason to change these. So I still conclude that 
Monzo is liable to refund Miss C under the CRM code for the two payments she made.
In relation to the unauthorised payments, I still conclude that Miss C failed with gross 
negligence to keep her security details safe. So I have then gone on to consider the points 
shes made in relation to the unusual nature of the transactions and the compensation 
already paid.
I accept that the total amount spent by the scammer was unusual for Miss Cs account. 
However I dont agree that Monzo needed to intervene on the payments that are still in 
dispute. The payments to the luxury brands were pending and then returned to Miss C. And 
looking at the value of the cryptocurrency payments, Im not persuaded in this case that 
Monzo needed to intervene on these.
The other challenge in this case is that Miss C shared her security information with the 
scammers and a video that shouldve enabled the scammers to unblock her account in the 
event of a temporary block. So even if Monzo had blocked the account before these 
payments processed, as we have seen from the Monzo chat, the scammers were able to 
access her account and say the payments were genuine. So in any event, Im not persuaded 
that a block by Monzo would have prevented the payments to the cryptocurrency exchange.
Ive considered that Miss C had just been the victim of a different type of scam before these 
payments. But Im not persuaded this means Monzo shouldve known the cryptocurrency 
payments werent carried out by her. The type of scam Miss C had described to Monzo 
didnt involve any of her details being compromised, she simply explained that shed paid 
someone who was claiming they hadnt received the money. So theres no indication in this 
that someone else had full access to her account and so these payments were possibly 
unauthorised.
Ive then considered the compensation Monzo awarded Miss C for communication and the 
time it took to unfreeze her account, and to let her know her account was no longer frozen.
I dont think the information requests Monzo sent Miss C during the time they were 
investigating were unreasonable. Or that it caused unnecessary delays here. Considering 
how much personal information was shared, it was important Monzo got to the bottom of this 
so it could ensure Miss Cs account was fully secure before it unblocked it. There was a 
delay in Monzo letting her know the account was no longer frozen, but from the information 
we hold this was a few days, once the investigation was complete. And I cant see that 
during this time Miss C was actively chasing Monzo. It seemed the greater inconvenience 
was caused to her during the time it was reasonably investigating, which I wouldnt award 
for. So while I accept it should have informed her about unfreezing the account as soon as 
this happened, Im not increasing the compensation award in this case.
Putting things right
Monzo needs to reimburse the two faster payments Miss C sent to the scammer (total £500), 
plus pay 8% simple interest per year on these payments from the date it declined to refund 
her under the code, to the date it does reimburse her.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I partially uphold Miss Cs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 June 2023.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman