DRN-3954903
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc declined their request to extend their 
mortgage term by one year.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took a repayment mortgage for approximately £175,000 in 2007 with      
Bristol and West (the mortgage was subsequently taken over by Bank of Ireland  BOI). 
In 2009 the mortgage was converted to interest only. No repayment strategy appears to 
have been established at the time of conversion to interest only. BOI says it contacted       
Mr and Mrs M in 2015 to discuss repayment strategy, but Mr and Mrs M didnt have a 
repayment strategy and wanted to explore the options available. They called BOI back to 
say they were interested in extending the term and converting to repayment. BOI says an 
appointment was booked with an advisor but Mr and Mrs M were unavailable when the 
advisor called, and the application was cancelled.
Mr and Mrs M contacted BOI again in 2016 and that led to an appointment with an advisor to 
discuss a conversion to repayment, a term extension and a new interest rate. BOI says      
Mr and Mrs M did not respond when it wrote to them for financial information to support their 
application. And, after writing to them again with no response, BOI assumed they didnt want 
to proceed.
In 2017, Mr and Mrs M contacted BOI again, wanting to extend the term and obtain a new 
interest rate. That time the application was successful, and the term was extended by four 
years and six months and a new interest rate was fixed until 30 April 2022.
Mr and Mrs M wrote to BOI in May 2021 to extend the mortgage term again. BOI says it 
called them to tell them the application process and the information that would be required. 
Mr and Mrs M wrote again in December 2021, saying they were not in a position to repay the 
mortgage and would like the term extended. BOI says it called Mr and Mrs M in December 
and January to discuss the matter, but they were unavailable. But an appointment did take 
place with a BOI adviser on 24 January 2022. Mr and Mrs M wanted to extend the term by 
five years and use the sale of their business  a guest house  to repay the mortgage at the 
end of that term. BOI informed Mr M that its criteria for term extensions changed in 2017 
and it no longer allowed the sale of a business as a repayment vehicle for an interest only 
mortgage. BOI says Mr and Mrs M didnt want to discuss any other repayment strategy at 
that time. And on 25 January 2022, Mr and Mrs M called BOI to make a complaint.
Mr and Mrs M say they planned to repay their mortgage with the sale of their guest house. 
But its value was impacted by the covid pandemic due to a loss in income for two years. 
They say they marketed their home for sale as soon as BOI told them it wouldnt extend the 
term and they provided evidence to BOI of that. 
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint is that BOI havent considered their request fairly bearing in mind 
there are no arrears on the mortgage account and their business was affected by covid.     
Mr and Mrs M say BOI ignored their letters and were not sympathetic to their circumstances. 
Theyve also said the initial mortgage was mis-sold  on a self-certified basis  and BOI 
shouldnt have changed the repayment method to interest only. 
In its final response letter to Mr and Mrs Ms complaint dated 11 March 2022, BOI said its 
position remains unchanged from its response during their conversation in January 2022  
Mr and Mrs Ms proposed repayment vehicle did not meet BOIs lending criteria.
Dissatisfied with BOIs response, Mr and Mrs M asked us to consider their complaint. Our 
investigator said we dont have the power to consider Mr and Mrs Ms complaints about the 
mis-sale of the mortgage and the conversion to interest only because those complaints were 
made too late according to our rules. Mr and Mrs M accepted that, so Ill not consider those 
issues further.
With regard to Mr and Mrs Ms complaint about BOIs refusal to allow them to extend their 
mortgage term, our investigator thought BOI hadnt acted unfairly. He said as BOI no longer 
accepted the sale of a business as a suitable repayment vehicle for interest only mortgages, 
he didnt think BOI had done anything wrong.
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree. They said BOI could have helped them at a time theyd suffered 
as a result of the covid pandemic but chose not to. They said BOI knew they couldnt 
remortgage with another lender because their businesss reduced profits would have 
affected affordability. But their business has now recovered and is trading well.
As Mr and Mrs M didnt agree with our investigator, their complaint has been passed to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To decide Mr and Mrs Ms complaint, Ive thought about whether BOI acted fairly and 
reasonably in declining their request for a term extension on their mortgage.
Mr and Mrs M raised a concern that BOI didnt respond to letters about a term extension. So, 
Ive checked BOIs contact notes to see if it engaged with Mr and Mrs M about their request. 
Having done so, I think the notes do support BOIs testimony about the contact between 
both parties, as outlined above. Its not possible from the evidence Ive seen to establish 
whether there was additional communication from Mr and Mrs M that went unanswered, but 
it looks like there were a number of times when Mr and Mrs M didnt respond to contact from 
BOI. So, on balance, I think any delay that may have arisen from contact that wasnt 
responded to wasnt solely caused by BOI. 
I dont think any delay, caused by either party, should have led Mr and Mrs M to cease 
planning for the end of their mortgage term. Thats because they knew the end of the term 
was coming and I dont think it would have been reasonable for them to assume BOI would 
extend their mortgage term. That said, I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs M couldnt have 
planned for the covid pandemic and I accept that substantially impacted their plans for 
repaying their mortgage.
BOI has said that they were aware that Mr and Mrs Ms intended repayment strategy was 
the sale of their guest house. But it has also provided documentation showing that it 
changed its criteria for acceptable repayment strategies in March 2017. That document 
showed the strategies it would accept, and the sale of a business was not listed. Lenders are 
free to change lending criteria over time. Thats often related to the level of risk it is willing to take depending on a number of factors. It isnt for us to suggest to a lender how much risk it 
should be willing to take, so we wouldnt interfere with any decisions it makes to change 
lending criteria. We would expect a lender to apply its criteria fairly and reasonably. It 
appears to have done so here as its decision not to extend Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage term 
was in line with its documented internal guidance and that guidance suggests that it applies 
to all similar customers. 
Having considered all the evidence available, I dont think BOI declined Mr and Mrs Ms 
request for a term extension unfairly or unreasonably. So, I dont uphold their complaint. 
However, that isnt to say BOI doesnt need to consider all reasonable forbearance 
measures  as outlined in the FCAs finalised guidance to lenders published in 2013: 
Dealing fairly with interest only mortgage customers who risk being unable to repay their 
loan.  now Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage term has come to an end.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint about Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman