DRN-2727327
The complaint
The estate of Ms R is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt open an executor account 
in a timely manner such that the estate realised a lower value for the investments held by the 
estate than should have been the case.
What happened
The estate of Ms R received Grant of Probate for the late Ms R in early-December 2019. In 
mid-January 2020, The estate of Ms R applied for an executor account at Barclays so as to 
be able to realise the value of the investments of the late Ms R for the benefit of The estate.
The estate was expecting the executor account to be opened by Barclays in early-February 
2020. However, when the account still wasnt open in mid-February The estate contacted 
Barclays and were told that some paperwork had been lost and that the application to open 
the executor account needed to be redone and resubmitted.
The estate resubmitted the necessary paperwork and was told by Barclays that the executor 
account would be open in ten working days  in late-February - and that the transfer of funds 
from the late Ms Rs accounts would take a further 15 days  in mid-March.
But the executor account wasnt opened in the timeframe promised by Barclays and was 
only opened in mid-May. This meant that The estate wasnt able to realise the value of the 
investments of the late Ms R for some time after they ought to have been able to. As a 
result, The estate calculated that they had incurred a financial loss of approximately £7,500. 
The estate wasnt happy about this, so it made a complaint.
Barclays looked at The estates complaint. Barclays acknowledged that they hadnt opened 
the executor account as quickly as they should have done and made an offer of £500 to 
compensate The estate for the trouble and inconvenience it had incurred. 
But Barclays didnt feel it could be demonstrated that The estate had incurred a financial loss 
in the manner that was being claimed. So, they didnt uphold that aspect of The estates 
complaint.
The estate wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so it referred its complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also didnt feel that it was 
possible to demonstrate that Barclays delay in opening the executor account had led to The 
estate incurring a financial loss. So, they also didnt uphold this complaint.
The estate remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order for me to consider instructing a business to compensate a complainant for financial 
loss incurred, Id need to first be satisfied that an actual financial loss has been incurred, and 
Id then need to be satisfied that it can be demonstrated that the financial loss incurred is 
solely as a result of the acts or omissions of the business being complained against.
Ultimately, in this instance, Im not convinced that it can be demonstrated that an actual 
financial loss has been incurred. 
One of the reasons I say this is because, while it isnt in doubt that Barclays didnt open the 
executor account in a timely manner, I dont feel that it can be reasonably said that The 
estate itself would have acted to encash the investments in a timely manner had Barclays 
opened the account at an early date. 
Indeed, its notable that there appears to be some time between The estate receiving Grant 
of Probate in December 2019 and the first application being made to Barclays for the 
executor account by The estate in January 2020. There also appears to be a period of time 
between the executor account being opened in May 2020 and The estate realising the value 
of the investments in June 2020.
Its also notable that theres been considerable disagreement about exactly what date the 
executor account should have opened, had Barclays processed the opening of the account 
in a timely manner  the full details of which I will not go into here. 
This uncertainty, combined with the uncertainty surrounding whether The estate itself would 
have acted in a timely manner, means that Im not satisfied that its possible to meaningfully 
quantify the dates necessary to calculate whether the value of the investments, as they were 
realised by The estate, was greater or lower than they should have been  if the date that 
they should have been encashed could be determined.
Additionally, it must also be remembered that during the period of time under consideration 
here, the global financial markets were extremely turbulent as a result of the Covid-19 
pandemic, such that it may have been the case that The estate benefitted from being 
compelled by Barclays delays to encash the investments at a later date. 
Indeed, Im not satisfied that it can be fairly said that The estate incurred any financial loss at 
all, and it may well have been the case that the value of the investments realised by The 
estate was greater than would have been the case had the executor account been opened in 
a timely manner by Barclays  especially if considered as being following the initial 
application by The estate in January 2020. And given that it was acknowledged by Barclays 
that the first application had taken place, I can see no reason why that wouldnt be the case. 
So, while there were delays in Barclays opening the executor account, I dont feel that it can 
be sufficiently demonstrated that these delays caused the Estate to incur any financial loss 
as a result. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that the Estate was wanting here, but it follows from 
this that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking Barclays to take any further action at 
this time. I hope that the representatives of The estate can understand, given everything I 
have explained above, why I have made the final decision I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr H and the estate of Ms R to accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman