DRN-2727538
The complaint
Mr Es unhappy with how Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited has handled his 
commercial motor insurance claim. 
Mr Es been represented for this complaint. For ease Ive referred to the actions and 
comments of the representative as being those of Mr E.
What happened
In November 2018 Mr Es catering van was damaged by another vehicle. He claimed for the 
damage on his Markerstudy commercial motor insurance policy. Mr Es unhappy with how 
Markerstudy settled the claim.
Mr Es own repairer considered the van a total loss and potentially unsafe to repair due to 
chassis damage. Markerstudy arranged its own inspection. Its engineer felt the van to be 
repairable. It didnt see any chassis damage. But it couldnt find a suitable specialist repairer 
willing to the do the work. So it sent Mr E a cash in lieu of repairs settlement. That was 
based on a repair estimate of £8,400 (plus an amount for VAT to be paid later if due). Mr E 
wasnt happy with that. 
After looking at some photos of the van Markerstudys engineer said there was chassis 
damage. He said it would be prohibitively expensive to repair. But he felt it wasnt from the 
accident claimed for. So Markerstudy didnt agree to pay for repairs to the chassis.   
After Mr E complained Markerstudy said the cash in lieu payment was the only option for 
settling the claim  due to the pre-existing damage to the van. It accepted it hadnt been 
sufficiently proactive when handling the claim. So it paid Mr E £300 compensation. A month 
later it increased the repair estimate to £8,900  sending him a cheque for an extra £500.
Mr E didnt accept that. He feels the settlement isnt enough to have the van repaired 
properly. He had temporary repairs made but felt unsafe using it. Hes unhappy at how long 
Markertstudys taken to deal with the claim. The matter has caused him a great deal of 
distress and inconvenience. 
Our investigator said it wasnt fair for Markerstudy to calculate the settlement using solely 
photographs. She recommended it arrange for a physical inspection, and estimate of the 
accident related damage, by a specialist engineer. Markerstudy didnt accept the findings. It 
said its engineer had inspected the van previously. So the complaint has been passed to 
me. 
In March 2021 I issued a provisional decision. As it forms part of this final decision Ive 
copied its findings in below. In it I explained why I intend to come to a different outcome to 
the investigator. I said I felt Markerstudys decisions not to cover the chassis damage and to 
cash settle, based on its estimated cost of repairing the incident related damage, were fair. 
The decision explained I felt Markerstudy had already offered enough compensation to 
recognise any unnecessary distress it had caused. And I asked the insurer and Mr E to 
provide any further information they would like to consider before coming to a final decision. 
Markerstudy didnt respond to my provisional decision but Mr E did. Ive considered his 
comments and responded to them, where I feel it necessary, below. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr Es policy says it will cover him against loss or damage to his vehicle caused by 
an accident. The policy says Markerstudy can provide a replacement vehicle, pay for 
the damage to be repaired or pay an amount of cash equivalent to the loss or 
damage. The policy also says the most Markertstudy will pay will be the lower of the 
market value of the vehicle or the cost of repairing it.  
So the policy allows Markerstudy to settle the claim by paying Mr E the cost of 
repairing the damage. But Ive considered if its decision to do so, and the amount its 
offered, is fair and reasonable. 
Its accepted by Mr Es own repairer that the van has chassis damage. He said its 
not safely repairable. Markerstudys engineer now agrees that damage exists. Hes 
described it as prohibitively expensive to repair. So they both seem to agree the van 
is the equivalent of a total loss. 
Markerstudys engineer has described chassis fractures as longstanding  hes 
pointed to signs of corrosion. He also highlights signs of a previous repair to what he 
considers was probably a similar chassis fracture. He feels this supports the damage 
being design or fabrication related rather than from the collision. The photos support 
what he says. 
I havent been provided with anything, from Mr E or otherwise, to persuade me the 
chassis damage is from the incident. So based on what Ive seen I think its most 
likely it isnt  and Markerstudys decision not to cover those repairs is fair and 
reasonable. 
I also feel Markerstudys decision to cash settle for the repairs is reasonable. It hasnt 
been able to find a suitable repairer willing to take on the repairs. In any event it 
would seem inappropriate to repair the collision damage without the extensive 
chassis issues being addressed first. It seems the van wouldnt be safe to drive 
without those repairs. 
I accept Mr Es been unable to find a repairer. But ultimately the damage is unlikely 
to be repaired unless the chassis damage is repaired. It seems unlikely that will 
happen. So Markerstudys decision to settle the claim based on the estimated cost of 
repairing the accident damage seems fair. 
Mr Es said the settlement isnt enough to repair the van. I accept Markerstudy hasnt 
provided much detail to explain its £8,900 figure. Its said to be based on its 
engineers experience of repairs. But Mr E hasnt provided anything from an expert or 
otherwise to explain why Markerstudys estimate wouldnt be a reasonable amount to 
repair the damage from the collision. I can see that Markerstudy did invite him to do 
so. 
Our investigator proposed Markerstudy inspect the van again to provide a more 
detailed estimate for the settlement. But I dont intend to require it to do that. Its provided a figure, with some calculations, from its engineer. As I say its not detailed 
 but I havent been provided with anything to make me think its unfair. 
If Mr E feels it is then I invite him to provide me something, in response to this 
provisional decision, from a suitable expert setting out what reasonable repair costs 
would be for the damage caused by the collision. If the expert feels the chassis 
damage is from the collision, then they should explain why. 
Markerstudys accepted it could have been more proactive. I agree it could have 
been more efficient. Its engineers failure to spot the chassis damage initially delayed 
the claim by a few months for example. But I feel the £300 compensation already 
offered by Markerstudy is enough to recognise any unnecessary distress its caused. 
So I dont intend to require it to pay Mr E anything extra.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont require Markerstudy to pay any more to settle the claim or do 
anything differently. 
Mr E didnt accept the chassis damage to be pre-existing. He said his own specilaist repairer 
feels its acident related. Mr Es pointed to various photos he feles supports this. Ive 
considered what he says, including the comments of his repairer. I accepts its possible the 
damage is accident related. But overall Im still more persauded by the observations of 
Markerstudys engineer, that point to it most likely being pre-existing. 
A new estimate for repairs, from a specialist repairer, was provided by Mr E. In total the 
repairs listed come to a little more than £31,000. He feels the £8,900 offered by Markerstudy 
is too low.
I sent the latest estimate to Markerstudy, along with some explanatory comments from Mr E 
and the specialist repairer. In response it didnt offer to increase on its settlement of £8,900. 
It felt the estimate was for a complete van refit rather than to repair the damage caused by 
the collision. It pointed to the estimates inclusion of replacement doors, hatches and cooking 
equipment.  
Mr Es provided an explanation for the inclusion of much of the work in the estimate. He 
responded to a question asked about the inclusion of new doors and hatches. He said it will 
be necessary to remove and replace many additional items to repair the panel damaged in 
the collision. The repairer, when asked, didnt seem to support what Mr E says. He wasnt 
sure why these items were included. He said it must have been because Mr E said they 
needed replacing.
I hadnt seen it previously mentioned that cooking equipment was damaged in the collision. 
In response to that point Mr E said the £8,500 listed by the repairer was for equipment that 
may be damaged. He said the extent would only be known for certain once the vans panels 
had been removed. Unfortunately, the repairers explanation is slightly different. He said 
£8,500 was calculated in line with the equipment Mr E had stated were damaged in the 
collision. 
Due to these potentially different accounts I tried to speak to the repairer again. 
Unfortunately, he didnt return my attempts at contact. So Ive had to make my decision 
based on the information I do have. I accept its possible Markerstudys offer isnt enough to repair the damage caused by the 
collision. But ultimately feel its decision not to increase it in response to the latest estimate is 
fair. Its suggestion that the costs are for a full refit isnt completely unreasonable. 
The estimate does seem likely to include unrelated or unnecessary work. I accepts its 
possible that it doesnt, but I havent been able to ask any further questions of the repairer. 
Im unable to understand from it how Markerstudys offer for the relevant repairs is 
inadequate. So I still havent been provided with enough to say it should increase it.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont require Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited to do 
anything differently.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman