DRN-2728624
The complaint
Mr G complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited unfairly recorded a late 
payment marker on his credit file.  He also feels its standard of customer service was poor. 
He wants compensation.
What happened
Mr G tells us that around July 2020, as part of an exchange deal, he settled an existing hire 
purchase agreement. But that he later noticed that VWFS had recorded a late payment 
marker on his credit file. Mr G says he contacted VWFS but not all of his calls were returned. 
And he was kept waiting on the phone for long periods. Mr G was concerned that the marker 
on his credit file may have had adverse consequences for future credit applications he might 
make.
VWFS told us that due to an error by the dealer the settlement sum on the agreement hadnt 
been forwarded by the required date. And a late payment marker had been recorded. It said 
that when Mr G contacted it (VWFS) about this matter it had taken immediate steps to rectify 
the error.
Our investigator thought VWFS hadnt done anything wrong in initially recording the late 
payment marker. And when it realised thered been an error by the dealer it had taken the 
correct action to have the marker removed. He felt its offer of £200 was fair and reasonable.
Mr G didnt agree with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr G would be concerned when he discovered that a late payment 
marker had been recorded on his credit file.
Theres no significant dispute in the facts of this case. Mr G settled a previous finance 
agreement on a vehicle at the same time as he was acquiring another vehicle. And it seems 
he was advised by the dealers that he could cancel the direct debit which related to the older 
vehicle.
Unfortunately, the dealer failed to ensure that the settlement payment from the earlier 
agreement was forwarded to VWFS by the due date. And VWFS - believing a contractual 
payment to have been missed - had this recorded on Mr Gs credit file.
Ive seen the notes provided by VWFS and from those I can see that Mr G raised this issue 
on 8 September 2020. And he requested a call back from a manager. He followed this up on 
10 September as it seems the return call hadnt materialised.
Following this later call, the notes show that VWFS took immediate steps to have his credit 
file updated and the late payment marker removed. Having originally made an offer of £90 
as a gesture of goodwill, VWFS issued a final response letter in December 2020 in which it 
apologised for the inconvenience caused to Mr G. And it increased this offer to £200.
Taking the circumstances as a whole, I dont think that VWFS has done a great deal wrong 
here. And even though it was unable to comply with the usual time limits in terms of 
responding to Mr Gs complaint, this was mitigated by the current Covid situation.
The initial error was as a result of the dealer failing to forward the settlement payment. 
Which in turn meant that VWFS was unaware the agreement had been settled and that 
monthly contractual payments were no longer due. This error was outside the control of Mr 
G and VWFS. 
And when VWFS discovered what had happened, the notes indicate that on 11 September 
2020 (the day after Mr Gs follow up call) it started the process of having Mr Gs credit file 
corrected. So I dont think it couldve acted any quicker.
Looking at the offer made by VWFS, Im aware that Mr G doesnt think its sufficient. But Ive 
reached the conclusion that this offer is a fair and reasonable means by which this complaint 
can be settled. Ill explain why.
The initial error was not that of VWFS. And when it discovered what had happened it took 
steps to put things right and update Mr Gs credit file with correct information. I dont 
consider a delay of three days from the time of first contact to starting the process to correct 
the error is unreasonable.
In terms of the allegation of poor service, this isnt by itself a regulated activity. And whilst Mr 
G didnt receive the callback he requested - and apparently needed to make a number of 
calls to follow up his complaint - Ive already explained that the delays which occurred were 
largely due to the effects of the current situation.
As this service isnt an industry regulator its not within our power to instruct businesses on 
their customer service processes.
I accept that Mr G was inconvenienced by the circumstances, but Ive not seen anything to 
show that he incurred any financial loss. He told our investigator that hed delayed further 
applications until his credit record had been corrected. And that whilst his credit score had 
initially fallen it had since gone back up.
In summary, Im satisfied that the offer made by VWFS is fair. Theres no precise means of 
calculating an award for distress and inconvenience. But given the overall circumstances, I 
find that the offer is at a level  possibly even more  that Id have been considering if the 
offer hadnt already been put forward.
So whilst Im upholding this complaint, I shant be asking VWFS to increase its offer.
Putting things right
VWFS has made an offer of £200 to Mr G in full and final settlement of this complaint. I find 
that is a fair and reasonable resolution of this complaint. 
My final decisionFor the reasons given above Im upholding this complaint. I find that the offer made by 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited is fair and reasonable. And in full and final 
settlement of this complaint I require it to pay £200 to Mr G.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman