DRN-3462925
The complaint
Mr U complained about the workmanship carried out by British Gas Insurance Limited 
(British Gas) under his Home Emergency policy.
What happened
Mr U made a claim on his policy when a leak caused cracks in his bedroom ceiling. The leak 
was fixed, but it took around four months before agreement was gained for British Gas to 
repair the cracks in the ceiling for issues it had caused.
Several trades were required for the repairs. British Gas appointed an asbestos remover, 
joiner, and decorator but as it couldnt source a plasterer, Mr U appointed his own plasterer 
to speed up the repairs.
The repairs were completed on 12 July 2021 and British Gas said before it closed the 
complaint, Mr U confirmed he was satisfied with the works. British Gas paid Mr U £200 
compensation for the problems it had caused.
Mr U said shortly after the ceiling was re-plastered the ceiling has cracked where the
repair happened. Mr U was particularly unhappy as he thought this was inevitable. Mr U 
said, all four trades told both their own companies and myself that the proposed repair 
wouldnt work.
British Gas investigated the complaint. It concluded, after consulting the three trades 
appointed by it, that liability for the cracked ceiling lay with the plasterer. British Gas said as 
the plasterer was appointed by Mr U, it wouldnt take responsibility for his work. British Gas 
said Mr U should enquire whether the work was warranted and whether he could get the 
plasterer back to review and rectify the works carried out.
Mr U thought this was unfair as he only appointed a plasterer as British Gas couldnt source 
one.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He said as British Gas and Mr U didnt 
agree on what had happened and he didnt have any reports or evidence to show British 
Gas work was sub-standard, he was unable to uphold the complaint. He said if the crack 
had appeared due to the work carried out by the plasterer, who was appointed by Mr U, then 
he could not reasonably hold British Gas responsible for that. Mr U disagreed, so the 
complaint has been referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In claims where the insurer has appointed contractors to carry out repairs, I would expect the 
insurer to take responsibility for the workmanship of work carried out. However, if part of the 
claim is settled and the policyholder appoints their own contractor to carry out works, then it 
wouldnt be reasonable for the insurer to be made responsible for this work as it hasnt 
contracted for that work. So, responsibility for this work would lie with the policyholder who 
would need to secure the right assurances and warranties for any work carried out.
In this complaint, I can appreciate Mr Us frustration as he only sourced a plasterer as British 
Gas couldnt secure one in reasonable timeframes. However, as Mr U decided to appoint his 
own contractor to speed up the works and this work was settled by British Gas, then I think 
any work carried out by the plasterer is no longer under the control of British Gas and 
therefore not its responsibility. Therefore, if its the plasterers work that was sub-standard, 
then Im likely to say its not fair that British Gas is held responsible for this.
I can see Mr U feels aggrieved as he felt the repairs that British Gas was undertaking 
wouldnt be satisfactory. He said all the trades had said to him before the work had started 
that the proposed work wouldnt be successful. However, British Gas has said it thinks this is 
a misunderstanding.
It said [our contractor] feels in light of the fact the joiner has freely confessed to having 
concerns prior to the work beginning, but clarifying they were only on the basis that the 
ceiling should be plastered and nothing more than this. They believe this has simply been a 
misunderstanding based upon what you heard. I havent seen any evidence that Mr U 
raised his concerns before the work commenced or tried to stop the works as he wasnt 
happy with what was proposed. So, whilst Im not saying Mr U wasnt advised as he has set 
out, I dont have any evidence to support what was said before the work started, so I cant 
consider this point any further.
I have considered what investigations have been carried out to identify what had caused the 
defect in the ceiling. British Gas consulted the three trades it had appointed to gauge their 
views on the circumstances of this complaint. 
British Gas said:
Having liaised with our [contractors], they have spoken with each of the parties involved in 
repairing the ceiling at Mr U's property, which disputes what Mr U has stated.
The painter and decorator confirmed that they informed Mr U that the taped joint wouldn't 
work, due to the lip being roughly 5mm and it wouldn't leave an even surface, so he advised 
it should be plastered instead, which was carried out by Mr U's own appointed contractor.
The asbestos removal team advised a person from his office, that the amount we originally 
asked to be removed was too little due to the size of the crack, which was on the ceiling and 
they had to cut further back to go to the nearest joist. This work was also agreed with 
ourselves, which was carried out to an adequate area where the contractor was happy with 
the ceiling being cut/fixed.
The joiner advised Mr U that it would be up to the painter if he could fill the gap and make a 
level surface, which was later deemed impossible and the painter advised for the ceiling to 
be skimmed.
[Our contractor] also confirmed that during their visit to assess the situation on 1 October 
2021, they found the hairline crack on the bedroom ceiling on investigation. The engineer 
tried to move the plasterboard ceiling, to which there was little movement with
great force pressed against the ceiling. Mr U confirmed he had since put storage in the attic 
space, and it is possible the movement from above has caused the issue to show up.As Mr U nominated his own plasterer for the works to be carried out, we cannot agree that 
we are liable for this cracking and Mr U should pass it back to his plasterer to rectify.
I think British Gas investigations are reasonable  it has consulted those trades who were 
closely involved with the job. It has made its conclusions based upon these investigations. I 
think the conclusions follow on logically with what the investigation has shown, therefore, I 
think British Gas has been fair in its outcome of this complaint. 
British Gas has defended its work and shown why it thinks the storage in the attic or the 
plasterers work was more likely to have caused the defect in the ceiling. It has said the 
plasterer was appointed by Mr U. Therefore, I think based on the evidence provided its not 
fair to hold British Gas responsible for this defect. Mr U hasnt provided alternative evidence 
or expert reports to show the defects werent caused by the plasterer and were caused by 
contractors appointed by British Gas. So, I dont have any evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint, I dont require British Gas Insurance 
Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman