DRN-3032258
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Loans2Go Limited lent to him irresponsibly.   
What happened
Mr M was given three logbook loans by Loans2Go between 2014 to 2015. The loans were 
secured each time against a vehicle that he owned. From what Ive seen:
Loan 1 in March 2014 was for £400 repayable in 12 monthly instalments of around 
£73. The total amount payable if the loan ran to term, including interest, was around 
£880.
Loan 2 of £500 was taken around six months later in September 2014, repayable in 
12 monthly instalments of around £91. The total amount payable if the loan ran to 
term, including interest, was around £1,100.
Loan 3, taken in June 2015 was for £500 repayable in 12 monthly instalments of 
around £91. The total amount payable if the loan ran to term, including interest, was 
around 1,100.
Mr M complained that Loans2Go failed to carry out proper checks and that the loans were 
unaffordable for him. An adjudicator looked into the complaint and thought Loans2Go 
shouldnt have provided Mr M with any of the loans. Loans2Go accepted the adjudicators 
view that it ought not to have provided Loan 3, but it didnt agree with the assessment about 
the first two loans. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Mr Ms complaint.
I think there are overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did Loans2Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks each time to satisfy 
itself that Mr M would be able to repay his loans in a sustainable way? If so, did it 
make a fair lending decision each time? If not, what would reasonable and 
proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Did Loans2Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Loans2Go needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr M 
irresponsibly. This means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that he could repay each loan in a sustainable way. The lender was required to carry out a 
borrower focussed assessment - sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check. 
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so Loans2Go had to think about whether 
repaying the loans sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr 
M. In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans2Go to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Mr M.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer, such as their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications 
of vulnerability or financial difficulty and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough: 
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); and 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the lending is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,  
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the evidence, arguments, and information Ive seen about this 
matter and what it means for Mr M. 
Loans to Go says it checked Mr Ms income and expenditure before each loan. It says it also 
carried out credit checks. I think in the circumstances the checks that were carried out before 
the first loan were reasonable and proportionate. But I dont think that Loans2Go made fair 
lending decisions and I will explain why.
Loan 1
Loans2Go calculated Mr Ms monthly income and expenditure and it thinks that he had 
sufficient disposable income to repay the first loan. Loans2Go says the amount being 
borrowed and the monthly repayments were relatively low, and that Mr M could afford the 
lending.
From what Ive seen, Loans2Go was aware from its checks that Mr M had an active County 
Court Judgment (CCJ) and at least one other long-term loan. Loans2Go says, given the type 
of lending, it would have expected to see some adverse information on a customers credit 
report. It also says that one CCJ would not have been a cause for concern. I have considered carefully what Loans2Go has said. But given the lenders own calculations about 
Mr Ms regular expenditure, his payments to existing creditors and his loan repayments, I 
think it ought reasonably to have realised that Mr M would have a very limited amount of 
disposable income each month to cope with unexpected emergencies. Indeed, from what 
Ive seen, Mr M did in fact return to borrow for a second time only part way through the loan 
term, due to unexpected bills. Taking everything into account and what it knew about Mr Ms 
wider circumstances, I think Loans2Go ought reasonably to have concluded that Mr M would 
unlikely be able to afford to repay loan 1 sustainably and so ought reasonably to have 
declined the loan.
Loan 2
Around six months later Mr M returned to Loans2Go to borrow for a second time. Loan 2 
was used to settle the first loan and provide the remainder in cash.
Loans2Go may have assessed that, on the face of it, given the amount being borrowed, the 
loan was affordable for Mr M. But I think that Loans2Go focussed its calculation of whether 
the loan was affordable for Mr M on a pounds and pence basis. As Ive already explained, 
the lender was required to establish whether the borrower could sustainably meet his loan 
repayments  not just whether the loan payments were technically affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't 
automatically follow this is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define 
sustainable as being without undue difficulty  in particular without incurring or increasing 
problem indebtedness. The customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Mr M had returned part way through the first loan term to borrow for a second time, for a 
slightly higher amount and for an increased monthly cost. The loan application states that 
the purpose of the loan was for unexpected bills on car. I think the credit checks would have 
indicated to the lender that Mr M might be struggling to repay his outstanding CCJ.  I think in 
the circumstances, Loans2Go ought reasonably to have realised that for its checks to be 
reasonable and proportionate, it needed a better understanding of Mr Ms current financial 
position - to ensure that he could sustainably repay his second loan over the whole loan 
term.
So I think the lender should have gone further on this occasion and carried out more in-
depth checks to independently verify some of the information Mr M had given about his 
financial situation  for example by asking to see bank statements.
Mr M has provided us with copies of his bank statements for the period leading up to his 
second loan application so I can determine what better checks might have shown Loans2Go 
at that time. And I have considered this information in light of what Ive set out above. Of 
course, different checks might show different things. But I think if Loans2Go had carried out 
what I consider to be proportionate checks, I think its likely it would have discovered more 
about Mr Ms financial position. In particular I think it more likely than not the lender would 
have seen from Mr Ms bank statements that his outgoings were more than he had 
estimated and that he had a number of returned direct debits, returned cheques and unpaid 
transactions fees. Overall, I think Loans2Go ought reasonably to have realised that this 
consumer was already struggling financially and that he was most likely borrowing for a second time in order to maintain his financial commitments. I dont think Loans2Go should 
have provided Mr M with loan 2.
Loan 3
Loans2Go has already accepted that it ought not to have provided the third loan to Mr M, so 
I do not need to consider this loan further.
Mr M has suggested that his car was repossessed but Loans2Go has told us it did not 
repossess the car and that its understanding is that the vehicle was scrapped. Overall, I 
havent seen sufficient information for me to make any findings about this issue. I havent 
seen anything else which makes me think that Loans2Go treated Mr M unfairly in any other 
way. But I dont think it should have provided loans 1 or 2 to him. And Loans2Go has 
accepted that it ought not to have provided the third loan to him. So I am upholding Mr Ms 
complaint about his loans and Loans2Go needs to put things right.
  
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr M to repay the principal amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid interest and charges on loans 
that shouldnt have been provided to him. 
If Loans2Go sold any outstanding debt payable in respect of Mr Ms loans, it should buy it 
back from the third party, if its able to do so, and then take the following steps. If Loans2Go 
isnt able to buy any outstanding debt back then it should liaise with the new debt owner to 
achieve the results outlined below.
Loans2Go should:
Remove all interest, fees, and charges from Loans 1, 2 and 3 and treat all the 
payments Mr M made as payments towards the capital. 
If reworking Mr Ms loan account results in him having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then Loans2Go should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the 
date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled*. 
If reworking the account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
Loans2Go should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr M, bearing in 
mind its obligation to treat him positively and sympathetically in these 
discussions.
Loans2Go might have already returned the logbooks to Mr M, but if it has not 
done this, it should cancel the bills of sale and return the V5 document to him 
once any outstanding capital has been repaid.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file in relation to the 
loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans2Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans2Go 
should give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to put 
things right as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2022.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman