DRN-2484083
The complaint
Mrs T complains that London General Insurance Company Limited (London General) failed 
to carry out a proper repair on her daughters laptop under her technology and small 
appliance insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs T bought a laptop for her daughter, and in July 2020 made a claim when a drink was 
accidentally spilt on it. London General carried out a repair, however shortly after having it 
back, Mrs Ts daughter noticed that it still wasnt working properly. The screen and track pad 
kept freezing and the laptop was very hot, leading her to believe the fan wasnt working 
properly. 
The laptop was returned to London General who discovered that it hadnt been repaired 
properly the first time, as the liquid damage was still present. There was also a fault with the 
motherboard and though it had been replaced during the first repair, it needed replacing 
again.  
Due to these errors, Mrs T wasnt confident the laptop would be repaired properly, and so 
wanted a replacement, or for the warranty to be extended. 
London General admitted the laptop wasnt repaired properly initially, so offered Mrs T £15 
compensation, along with a 90-day recall meaning Mrs T could return the laptop again within 
90 days should anything go wrong. Mrs T didnt accept this as she felt the problems would 
only continue. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and felt the compensation amount should be 
increased. He agreed that London General was acting fairly and reasonably when it didnt 
provide a replacement laptop, as the policy would only cover this should the laptop become 
uneconomical to repair  which in this case it hadnt. He also agreed an extension to the 
policy shouldnt be granted as the 90-day recall period would still be valid even if the cover 
had expired. 
But he did feel the compensation should be increased to £100 due to the inconvenience 
caused. He explained that while the laptop was in for repair, Mrs Ts daughter had to borrow 
her sisters laptop, who also needed it for work. And as Mrs Ts daughters work had been 
moved online, she made the decision to buy her a new laptop. While this wasnt something 
Mrs T had to do, our investigator felt it showed the level of inconvenience experienced.
 
As Mrs Ts daughter isnt named on the policy, our investigator explained that even though 
most of the impact wouldve been on her, the overall circumstances would have caused 
inconvenience and stress for Mrs T. Because of this, he felt an amount of £100 would be 
fair. 
Mrs T accepted this, but London General disagreed. They felt £15 was a fair offer as it was 
in line with their internal compensation matrix. They also explained that the policy offers a 
repair plan, where several repairs can be completed. 
Because of this the complaint has been passed to be for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked through everything, I agree with the investigator and feel the compensation 
should be increased to £100. I will explain why below. 
I fully agree and understand the policy here provides a repair plan, meaning multiple repairs 
can be carried out on a faulty item. However, in this case, the second repair was needed as 
result of the first one not being done properly, which I think is a slightly different scenario. 
I also note that the offer of £15 has been made in line with London Generals internal matrix, 
which is something they use to make sure their offers are fair for all customers who 
experience this issue.
 
However, it may help for me to explain that at the ombudsman service, we award 
compensation depending on how the matter has affected a customer specifically, and we 
consider their personal circumstances in doing so. This means that two people could 
encounter the same problem, but it may impact one of them in a greater way. In these cases 
we may be likely to ask a business to offer more compensation, as the matter has had more 
of an impact on that person.
 
In this case, Mrs T decided to purchase a new laptop for her daughter, showing it was 
important her daughter had something to work on at all times. Had the repair been done 
properly the first time, she may not have needed to do this, and she wouldnt have suffered 
as much of an inconvenience. I understand the laptop had to be sent for repairs the first 
time, but the second time could, and should have been avoided, which London General have 
agreed with.
 
Because of this, I agree with the investigators view and the reasons given. I dont think it 
would be fair for London General to replace the laptop or extend the warranty for the 
reasons our investigator provided. However they have admitted they made an error, so I feel 
the compensation should be increased from £15 to £100.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. London General Insurance Company Limited 
should award Mrs T £100 in total for the distress and inconvenience they caused her.
London General Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of 
the date on which we tell them Mrs T accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, 
they must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the 
date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If London General Insurance Company Limited consider that they are required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, they should tell Mrs T how 
much they have taken off. They should also give Mrs T a tax deduction certificate if she asks 
for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman