DRN-2414481
The complaint
Mr M complains about the service received after he made claim on his commercial vehicle 
policy held with QIC Europe Ltd. Reference to QIC includes its agents.
What happened
Mr M holds a commercial vehicle policy with QIC. After his windscreen was damaged, he 
made a claim with QIC. QIC accepted his claim and sent out one of its engineers to carry out 
the repair.
Mr M said the repair was completed, but the engineer had trouble with his card machine and 
couldnt take payment of Mr Ms £100 excess. Mr M said the engineer left a bit flustered and 
advised Mr M would need to call up to pay his excess.
A few hours after the engineer had left, Mr M noticed he couldnt find his keys. He thought 
the engineer must have not given them back to him after completing the repair, so he called 
QIC who in turn called the engineer.
The engineer said they searched their van but didnt have Mr Ms keys. QIC originally agreed 
to waive Mr Ms excess that hed not paid yet, arrange for a locksmith to come out and gain 
entry to his van and contribute £80 toward the cost of this. But it later changed its stance. It 
said as it didnt think its engineer was to blame for the missing keys it didnt think it needed 
to honour its original offer. It said it was willing to help Mr M by waiving his £100 excess and 
arranging a locksmith to come out but that it wasnt willing to contribute toward the cost of 
that visit.
Mr M wasnt happy with this and complained to QIC. He said he looked all over for the keys 
and that the only remaining explanation was that the engineer didnt give the keys back to 
him after completing the repair.
QIC didnt change its decision. So Mr M brought his complaint to us. He thinks QIC should 
honour its original offer and says this issue caused him stress and worry.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. He 
thought that on the balance of probabilities the engineer didnt have Mr Ms keys and that 
they must have been lost in another manner. He thought QICs offer to waive the excess and 
arrange for the locksmith to attend was fair. 
Mr M disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. I understand this will be disappointing 
for Mr M, but Ill explain why.
What I have to decide is whether I think that on the balance of probabilities Mr Ms keys were 
taken and lost by QICs engineer, or whether they were misplaced and lost in some other 
manner. I need come to a decision on whether I think its more likely than not that the 
engineer didnt give Mr M his keys back.
This repair took place outside a Bed and Breakfast ran by a member of Mr Ms family and 
after considering both Mr Ms testimony and that of the engineer who carried out the repair, I 
find it unlikely that the engineer failed to give Mr M his keys back and left the repair while still 
in his possession.
I of course wasnt present at the time, so cant say what happened as a matter of fact. I 
understand Mr M feels strongly that the engineer must have not given him his keys back. But 
he cant say this for certain either. I understand hes said he doesnt remember the engineer 
returning his keys to him, but this doesnt mean he didnt, only that if he did, Mr M didnt 
remember it. The engineers statement is that he gave the keys to Mr M. But by the same 
measure, this doesnt mean he did, only that he remembers doing so.
I dont think it would be fair to place more weight on either Mr Ms or the engineers 
testimony here. I have no reason to doubt that they both believe what they are saying to be 
true. But when the engineer was informed Mr M hadnt got his keys and thought they were 
still in his possession, he searched his own van and couldnt find them. I think its likely that if 
the engineer did have them, theyd have been found at this point and returned to Mr M.
Im not persuaded that on the balance of probabilities the engineer had or was responsible 
for, Mr M not having his keys. And while I cant say what happened to Mr Ms keys, I dont 
think its more likely than not that the engineer had them or didnt give them back to Mr M.
Because of this, I dont think QIC needs to do anything more than it has done already. I can 
understand Mr Ms unhappiness at being offered help from QIC before it then changed its 
mind. But ultimately, I think waiving Mr Ms excess is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman