DRN-4198415
The complaint
Miss W complains of issues with a car she acquired through a Hire Purchase Agreement 
with Secure Trust Bank Plc (Secure Trust). She would like her initial complaint upheld , and 
to be reimbursed for her financial losses.
What happened
Miss W says she took out a Hire Purchase Agreement with Secure Trust in July 2021. She 
says she is unhappy that she wasnt allowed to choose a car from a dealership of her choice 
and says she agreed to a car that was outside of her budget
She says she took delivery of the car it wasnt as per the photos she had seen so she 
wanted to return it . She says she didnt get a reply to her request.
Since then, she says the car has had a recurring fault which was repaired once under 
warranty but a  second time she had to pay £457.09 which she would like refunded. She 
says the car has since broken down again 
Secure Trust said it understood the initial points Miss W raised  scratches and marks on the 
car along with a crack in one of the headlights leading to water ingress were repaired. At this 
point her complaint was closed although it acknowledged due to an administrative  error the 
broker who Miss W put her complaint into didnt advise her of this but did offer Miss W  £100 
compensation.
It noted repairs in September 2021  to the  coolant housing and a replacement sensor were 
not evidenced as point of sale issues for which it was responsible
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Ws complaint.  He noted the broker accepted it didnt 
respond to Miss Ws initial complaint in the timeframe intended. However, he found the initial 
faults with the car were cosmetic. He found no evidence of an issue with the car in 
September 2021, and the repairs in March 2022 were for serviceable items and not ones 
that supported an issue of car quality at the point of sale.
Secure Trust accepted our investigators view but Miss W didnt. She provided an invoice for 
work completed in September 2021 which our investigator considered but didnt change his 
view. He felt the items listed were serviceable items which Secure Trust had addressed 
under the one right of repair it had. He noted the ECU unit , an issue in September 
2021,needed replacing in March 2022 but didnt find this unusual for a car the age and 
mileage of Miss Ws.
Miss W didnt accept this further view. She said the recurring fault with the ECU happened 
35 days after she got the car but continued to be a problem.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Miss Ws frustration . She has told us she incurred a bill for work to her car for 
£457.09 which she feels she shouldnt have to pay. And she has also told us the car has 
since broken down again.
Miss W has made some comments about the purchase of the car that I think relate to the 
service provided by the broker. This complaint is against the provider of the finance not the 
broker so I cant really comment on any issues that arose with the broker other than to make 
a general comment that Miss W could have looked to get finance elsewhere if she wasnt 
happy with the range of cars on offer.
With regard to issues with the delivery of the car I have no evidence of these. But any such 
issues arent relevant to whether the car was fit for purpose at the point of sale or not.
Miss W has also raised the fact that the broker didnt respond to her initial complaint. I do 
think its relevant I consider this as at this point Miss W says she asked to reject the car and 
Secure Trust has investigated this. From the information I have seen it seems  Miss Ws 
complaint was logged on July 30, 2021. The broker couldnt find any evidence Miss W asked 
to reject the car and the supplying dealership said Miss W wanted to keep it. However, the 
broker apologised for not contacting Miss W to confirm this and to say it was closing her 
complaint. I understand it also offered £100 compensation.
As I have no evidence that in July 2021 Miss W asked to reject the car immediately she got 
it, and issues such as scratches and a broken headlight wouldnt make the car of 
unsatisfactory quality at the point of sale.
As Miss W took out an agreement for an eight-year-old car with 77,900 miles on the clock 
when  she got it she might reasonably expect more wear, tear, and repair issues with a used 
car than with a new one. Having said that we do expect cars to be fit for purpose at the point 
of sale
When issues arise within the first six months its usually down to the business to investigate 
and if appropriate to resolve. When issues arise after six months its usually down to the 
consume to show there is a point-of-sale issue for which the business is responsible.
From the information I have it seems repairs were carried out in July and September 2021. I 
would class items such as replacement brake pads, a brake light, thermostat housing and a 
temperature sensor as serviceable items that might be expected to be repaired or replaced 
on a used car. These items wouldnt make a used car of unsatisfactory quality at the point of 
sale. The work in September 2021 included reading of ECU fault codes and resetting the 
ECU. The invoice doesnt state the ECU was repaired or replaced.
In March 2022 some eight months after Miss W had the car repairs to the total of £457.09 
were carried out  - the issues identified here  again seem to me to be serviceable items that 
might reasonably be expected to be replaced such as the coolant hose and the exhaust front 
pipe. However, the invoice supplied indicates a fault with the ECU and a recommendation it 
is replaced. There is no comment made as to whether this would have been a point-of-sale 
issue or not.
For me to ask Secure Trust to refund Miss W the costs she has incurred I would need to be 
persuaded there was a point-of-sale issue for which it is responsible unfortunately I dont feel 
I have that evidence. The work carried out up to and including September 2021 seems to be 
items that might be expected to be replaced in a used car.  The note re the ECU in 
September 2021 doesnt state anything was needed other than the resetting of the ECU. 
By March 2022 when it seems the ECU needed replacing Miss W had had the car for more 
than six months so at this point the onus was on her to prove a point-of-sale issue for which Secure Trust was responsible for example by way of an independent inspection. Whilst I am 
sympathetic to Miss Ws situation I dont think she has evidenced a point-of-sale issue for 
which Secure Trust is responsible. So, on that basis I cant reasonably ask Secure Trust to 
reimburse her costs as Miss W would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman