DRN-3829546
The complaint
Miss A complains about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling of her buildings insurance policy.
All references to AXA also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Miss A feels very strongly about her complaint  and she has my natural 
sympathy for the subsequent issues shes described in her submissions. I want to assure 
her Ive thought carefully about what shes said and taken it into account when making my 
decision. 
But having reviewed everything, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for 
these reasons:
The policy was taken via a price comparison website. Ive seen screenshots of the 
journey Miss A went through at the point of sale. And for the policy she took out, I 
can see she wouldve been asked questions regarding whether she wanted to add 
optional legal expenses and home assistance cover. The information Ive seen 
shows Miss A chose not to opt in for these options.
AXA sent a welcome letter to Miss A which also set outs her chosen options and 
extra cover you can choose. In that list is home assistance and legal expenses 
cover. 
Miss A would have also been directed to an online portal containing important 
documents to view regarding the policy, which I can see also clearly set out that legal 
expenses and home assistance were not included.
Miss A says she didnt receive this letter, but I can see it was addressed to Miss A at 
the same address as we have on file, and Ive not seen anything that persuades me 
AXA didnt send this to her.
Miss A said she always takes policies that include home assistance and legal 
expenses as standard  and that she searched for quotes with these specific criteria. 
However, based on the information available Im not persuaded the policy that was 
taken out and what it covers, or didnt, was a result of something AXA did wrong at 
the point of sale. 
So, for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman