DRN-4199630
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc, who were Hitachi Capital UK PLC, and 
who are trading as Novuna Personal Finance (Novuna), led her to believe her finance 
agreement had been settled when it hadnt been, and that they didnt tell her about their 
name change. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs S, but I dont think Novuna need to take any further action here. 
Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
There doesnt appear to be a dispute that the payment of £1,745.67 needed to settle Mrs Ss 
fixed sum loan, did not go through. Novuna have explained that was because the direct debit 
had been cancelled before the payment could be taken in October 2018.
Mrs S says she didnt here from Novuna again until October 2022 and that she was 
therefore unaware there was anything due on the account.
Novuna have provided copies of annual statements sent to Mrs S in 2019, 2020, and 2021. 
They were all sent before Hitachi Capital UK PLC had changed its name so I think its likely 
that Mrs S would have been aware they related to the loan she had taken out, and that there 
were still sums due on that loan. Novuna have explained they emailed those statements to 
Mrs S and as Ive seen copies of other emails Mrs S says she did receive, I think its likely 
the 2019,2020, and 2021 statements were delivered too.
In those circumstances I dont think it would be fair to ask Novuna to take any action 
regarding the amount due on the account, as Im persuaded they provided sufficient 
communication to Mrs S to enable her to understand there were still sums due.
I dont think theres sufficient information to suggest Novunas failure to communicate their 
name change has been detrimental to Mrs S. Theyve offered £30 to Mrs S in recognition of 
this issue, and I think that is sufficient in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman