DRN-2567731
The complaint
Mr F complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited didnt permit him to retain his 
cars salvage after he made a claim on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Fs car was damaged in an incident, and Advantage declared it to be a category B total 
loss. It said Mr F couldnt retain the salvage if he went ahead with his claim. But Mr F had an 
estimate for the cars repair from a dealers garage. He wanted his car repaired and he said 
he wanted to buy back the salvage.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought 
Advantage had reasonably relied on its engineers assessment that the repair costs of the 
car exceeded its pre-accident value. He thought it had decided it was category B total loss 
based on the car being an End of Life Vehicle (ELV) due to its age, mileage and its pre-
accident value compared to its estimated repair costs. And he thought Advantage had 
warned Mr F he wouldnt be able to retain the car if he went ahead with his claim.
Mr F replied that there was nothing in the policy that said Advantage could retain the car 
once it had been declared a write-off. He said his car was a classic, not an ELV, and he was 
prepared to reimburse Advantage to reclaim his car. He said his garage had said the car 
was repairable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
I agree with Mr F that theres nothing in his policy booklet that says that Advantage could 
retain the car once it had been declared a write-off. But I can see that it does state on page 
15 of the policy booklet:
If your Car cant be repaired or your Insurer deems the cost of repair to be uneconomical, 
your Car will be declared a Total Loss (sometimes called a write-off). If your Car is a Total 
Loss, your Insurer may put it in storage until your claim is settled. Your Insurer is also 
entitled to take possession of your Car once theyve settled your Total Loss claim.
So once the claim was settled, Advantage could take possession of the car. I think this is in 
keeping with our approach that when a car is written off and deemed a total loss under a 
motor insurance policy, as Mr Fs car was, the insurer, in this case Advantage, becomes the 
owner of the salvage only after the consumer accepts payment of the cars full market value. 
Our stance is that if the consumer asks to keep the salvage, we would expect the insurer to 
allow this. The car is, after all, the consumer's property and they should have the right to 
keep it if they wish to do so. However, in that event, the insurer is entitled to deduct from its 
settlement offer what it would have been able to sell the salvage for. 
So Ive looked to see if the claim was settled and if Mr F asked to retain the salvage. I can 
see from the file that Advantage valued Mr Fs car at £1,300. The estimated repair costs 
were over £8,000. Mr F provided his own repairs estimate which was for over £5,000. So as 
the repairs estimate greatly exceeded the cars pre-accident value, I think it was fair and 
reasonable for Advantage to declare it to be beyond economical repair and a total loss. 
I can see that Advantage issued the settlement payment of £910.53 after deductions for the 
policy excess and outstanding costs. It gave Mr F time to consider this offer and it declined 
to increase it further. 
Before it did this, I think Advantage made it clear on at least two occasions that if Mr F 
wanted to have his car repaired privately he would have to withdraw his claim. This was 
explained before his car was removed to a salvage yard and a report made that the car was 
a Category B total loss. This was based on the car being an ELV. And I think this was a 
reasonable decision based on the cars age, mileage and pre-accident value compared to its 
estimated repair costs.
But I cant see that Mr F told Advantage that he then wanted to retain the cars salvage. He 
was still pressing it to undertake an uneconomical repair or to increase its settlement offer. 
And later he was trying to add a replacement vehicle to his policy. He didnt again raise the 
issue of retaining the salvage until some months later. By this time, it had been disposed of. 
So I think Mr F had the opportunity to ask to retain the cars salvage, and so withdraw his 
claim. But he didnt do so. And so I cant say that Advantage has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably or that it needs to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman