DRN-2877359
The complaint
Mr K complains HSBC UK Bank plc (HSBC) gave misleading information regarding a 
promotion on his credit card.
What happened
Mr K says in February 2019 he applied for a Premier World Elite (PWE) credit card with 
HSBC. Mr K says he received the correct reward points in the first year and on the card 
anniversary, after paying his second membership fee in February 2020. Mr K says he 
received no further reward points in 2021 even though he had used the credit card and paid 
his third membership fee. Mr K says when he complained to HSBC, he was told this was 
correct and he feels he has been misled by HSBC. Mr K says their promotional offer isnt 
clear and he has received no benefit for his membership fee, in view of the constraints on 
him due to the Covid pandemic. Mr K wants HSBC to refund his 2021 membership fee.
HSBC says there has been no bank error and the fee was correctly applied in 2021. HSBC 
says the promotion only offered the reward points depending on the level of expenditure in 
the first 90 days of opening the account and on the anniversary of the credit card, but not on 
future anniversaries. HSBC says this is clear in their promotional offer and in the terms and 
conditions of the credit card. 
Mr K wasnt happy with HSBC response and referred the matter to this service. 
HSBC says they have since agreed to provide all PWE customers with 12 months free 
membership in recognition of the Covid pandemic and in Mr Ks case, as he has already 
paid the membership fee, they are happy to refund him his 2021 annual membership fee.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt the promotional offer and terms and conditions of the PWE credit card were 
clear and no errors were made by HSBC. The investigator reiterated HSBCS offer to refund 
Mr Ks 2021 membership fee and felt this was fair and reasonable. 
Mr K still believes the promotional offer was misleading and asked for the matter to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I can understand it would have been frustrating for Mr K to have believed he was due further 
reward points on his PWE credit card after he had paid his third membership fee, only to find 
this wasnt due. When looking at this complaint I will consider if HSBC correctly applied the 
membership fee on Mr Ks credit card in 2021.
Mr Ks complaint centres around the wording of the promotional offer for his PWE credit card 
as he feels he should have received further reward points after he paid his 2021 
membership fee, given he had continued to use his card. I understand that Mr K feels the 
wording of the promotional offer is misleading and has offered wording he feels is more 
appropriate for the promotion - Mr K says he paid a fee in 2021 with no benefit for doing so.   
Like the investigator I have read the terms of the offer. The offer states: 
Welcome points boost: Receive 40,000 reward points when you spend £2,000 on your card 
in the first 90 days of card membership.
Anniversary points: Spend £12,000 or more on your card within your first 12 months of 
membership to receive a further 40,000 reward points at the anniversary of card 
membership.
While Mr K disagrees, I cant say that the offer implies on each anniversary of the PWE card 
and payment of the membership fee, further reward points are due. I say this because the 
offer refers to the anniversary of the card within the first 12 months and I am satisfied that is 
clear here. Having said that, its important to say HSBC have recognised, given the backdrop 
of the Covid pandemic, customers like Mr K, havent been able to take full advantage of the 
benefits the PWE card offers. So as an act of goodwill, they have offered a free 12- month 
membership to its customers, and in Mr Ks case, a full refund of the 2021 membership fee. I 
am satisfied this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
While I understand Mr K still feels the promotional offer is unclear and misleading, I am 
satisfied this is more of a case of misinterpretation and not a deliberate attempt by HSBC to 
misled him here, for the reasons I have already given. HSBC says Mr K can contact them for 
a refund as it hadnt been generated by the time of their response. HSBC says Mr K can also 
apply for a different credit card with them, if he so wishes, before the renewal of his credit 
card in February 2022 and I will leave it with Mr K if he wants to take up that offer. 
While Mr K will be disappointed with my decision, it follows I wont be asking anymore of 
HSBC here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman