DRN-4349293
The complaint
Mrs P complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) mis-sold her 
a personal pension plan in 1989. She also complains that the plan had extortionate fees, 
attracted no inflation-linked increases, and failed to offer her the retirement option she 
wanted. 
What happened
There is very little documentary evidence from the time of the advice. But Ive been provided 
with two documents from February 1989. 
The first is a report of a financial review. This recorded that Mrs P:
Was employed, earning £5,000 a year
And that her employer didnt have a pension scheme
It also noted that Mrs P had no other pension arrangements.
The second document provided was a copy of the application for a Department of Social 
Security rebate. This recorded that Mrs P:
Was 21 at the time
And that her Estimated gross earnings from employment to which DSS payments 
relate were £5,000. And that she was eligible for the DSS incentive payment of 
2%.
Prudential said it has issued annual pension statements to Mrs P each February. 
Mrs P was unhappy with how her pension plan had been sold. So she wrote to Prudential on 
16 December 2022. She felt the annual statement from February 2022 had been confusing. 
And that her pension should be worth more than the statement had noted. She wanted to be 
compensated in respect of the following complaint points:
1. The pension plan had been mis-sold to her. Shed been on a low salary in 1989. And 
this had been very unlikely to change. She said as shed been very young at the time 
of the advice, she didnt feel shed been given fair advice or a reasonable explanation 
of what the plan would do for her before being signed up to it. And that if Prudential 
had done the correct due diligence, it wouldve realised that the pension plan wasnt 
appropriate for her. And she should instead have been advised to stay in the 
government pension. 
2. The fees Prudential had charged were extortionate. She felt that her 2022 statement 
showed that Prudential had taken 84% of the annual growth in her fund in charges, 
leaving her with only 16% of that growth. And that as such charges had been taken 
since the start of the plan, Prudential mustve taken the vast majority of any 
increases. 
3. She felt there must be an annual inflationary increase due shortly. And that this 
would need to be added to her account 
Mrs P also said she understood shed be able to draw the funds in her pension plan once 
she reached age 55, which would happen the following year. So she included an instruction 
to Prudential for it to arrange for her policy to be closed once shed reached 55. She said 
she wanted it to pay her the full value of her plan, not an annuity.
Prudential issued its final response to Mrs Ps complaint on 11 January 2023. It didnt think 
itd done anything wrong. It felt that itd made Mrs P aware of the pension plan. And that 
shed met the minimum criteria at the time of the sale. Therefore it felt that the pension plan 
had been suitable for her. And it hadnt been mis-sold.
Prudential also said that the fees itd charged had been noted on each of Mrs Ps annual 
pension statements. And that the details of what the charges were was fully explained on 
those statements. And explained that although state benefits did increase in line with 
Consumer Prices Inflation (CPI), Mrs Ps pension plan didnt. 
Prudential acknowledged Mrs Ps instruction to close her plan once shed reached age 55. It 
said that her only option when the plan had been arranged was to take the benefits from her 
plan at state retirement age in the form of an annuity. But that due to changes in pension 
legislation, she could now take her benefits from age 55. It said it would arrange for Mrs P to 
receive information about the options she had for taking her benefits. 
On 11 January 2023, Prudential wrote to Mrs P with a summary of her pension plan. 
Prudential also sent Mrs P a retirement pack on 11 January 2023. It explained Mrs Ps 
options for accessing her pension. And how she could find help. It also sent Mrs P a Key 
risks document.
Prudential also sent Mrs P a further letter on 14 January 2023 about her pension plan 
options.
Mrs P called Prudential on 23 January 2023 as she wanted to access her pension. 
Prudential told her that shed have to wait until 30 days before her 55th birthday to do this.
Mrs P was unhappy with Prudentials final response letter. She wrote to it again on 8 
February 2023 to detail her outstanding concerns. She also said that shed contacted 
Prudential about taking her pension on 23 January 2023. But that shed been put on hold for 
70 minutes. And then told shed have to wait until closer to her 55th birthday before she could 
do anything. 
Prudential replied to Mrs P on 21 February 2023. It still felt that her plan hadnt been mis-
sold and that the fees itd charged had been correct and not excessive. But it felt that Mrs P 
shouldnt have had such difficulties in contacting it. It said it had arranged for £50 to be sent 
to Mrs P to apologise for the trouble and upset caused by the poor service shed received 
when calling it. 
Prudential acknowledged that Mrs P didnt feel shed received an explanation about why it 
wouldve been in her best interests to take out the pension plan. And that she felt shed not 
been given the full facts. It also acknowledged that Mrs P couldnt remember signing any of 
the sale documentation. But it said itd already shared with her a copy of the application form 
and fact-find, both of which shed signed. It also said that when Mrs P had signed the application, shed confirmed that shed received a copy of the Personal Pension product 
guide which confirmed how the policy worked, where the funds would be invested, and the 
charges. Prudential said it felt that the documentation had confirmed that the appropriate 
information had been given to Mrs P at the time of the sale. 
Prudential also said that the fees for the pension plan had been fully explained at the outset. 
And that Mrs P had agreed to them. So it couldnt agree that the fees were incorrect or 
inappropriate. 
Mrs P called Prudential on 21 March 2023 to tell it she wanted to take the benefits from her 
pension plan as a cash lump sum. And on 22 March 2023, Prudential wrote to her to confirm 
that shed told it she wanted to take her fund value as cash. And that she understood that 
the payment Prudential would make to her would have a deduction for income tax. 
Later in March 2023, Prudential wrote to Mrs P to tell her that her pension plan had been 
closed. And that it would make a cash lump sum payment to her bank account. The letter 
gave a breakdown of how the amount being paid had been calculated. 
Unhappy with Prudentials response, Mrs P referred her complaint to this service on 26 May 
2023. She said she definitely wouldnt have taken out the pension plan if the details and 
charges had been explained to her. She wanted Prudential to recognise that itd mis-sold the 
pension plan. And to compensate her for the money shed lost, plus interest. She also 
wanted compensation for the stress and anxiety Prudential had caused her.
Mrs P also told our investigator that she now understood that the charges on her pension 
plan were based on the fund. But said she wasnt given this information by Prudential at the 
time of the sale. She felt Prudential had taken advantage of her. She also felt that this had 
led to Prudential taking fees to which it shouldnt have been entitled.
As the event being complained about had occurred more than six years ago, our investigator 
asked Prudential if it would give us its consent to consider the complaint. Prudential gave us 
its consent. 
Our investigator didnt think that the complaint should be upheld. Although he acknowledged 
that he couldnt be certain that Prudential had fully explained the plan at the time, he felt that 
at the time of the sale, there was a strong prospect of better returns for the future through 
money saved rather than not saving and remaining in SERPS. And that if Prudential had 
explained the plan more fully, it wouldve appeared more attractive to Mrs P than staying in 
SERPS. 
Mrs P didnt agree with our investigator. She said she didnt receive enough information to 
make an informed decision at the time of the sale. And that she hadnt given permission for 
the pension plan. So Prudential had taken fees without her authority. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators view for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain 
why.
Ill first give some background to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS).What is SERPS?
SERPS was a top-up to the basic state pension payable at the consumers state pension 
age. It was also sometimes called the additional state pension. So in addition to their basic 
state pension, consumers would also receive a SERPS pension at retirement. 
You had to be employed to qualify for SERPS as benefits were built up by National 
Insurance contributions (NICs) made by consumers and their employers. The amount of the 
benefits depended on the consumers earnings each tax year. 
Consumers could choose to opt out of SERPS, also known as contracting-out. So rather 
than building up an additional state pension, they could build up benefits by redirecting some 
of the NICs to a personal pension plan - as Mrs P did - or by joining an occupational pension 
scheme that was contracted-out. 
For the avoidance of doubt, Mrs Ps basic state pension is unaffected by the decision to opt 
out of SERPS using the Prudential personal pension plan. 
I next considered the sale in 1989.
The sale of the policy
The sale took place in 1989. At the time, Prudential was a member of the Life Assurance 
and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation (LAUTRO). LAUTRO required members to exercise 
due skill, care and diligence and deal with investors fairly. And to consider the customers 
financial position and all other relevant circumstances when giving advice. But there was no 
requirement to complete a fact-find or issue a recommendation later. So, its not surprising 
that theres very little documentation relating to the advice.
Mrs P said Prudential didnt give her enough information for her to make an informed choice 
at the time of the sale. And that she was unlikely to earn much more in future than she was 
earning at that time.
But overall, taking into account what I know about Mrs Ps circumstances at the time, I 
havent seen anything that makes me think the advice Mrs P was given about contracting out 
of SERPS was unsuitable for her. I explain why.
When the government decided to allow individuals to contract-out of SERPS, it offered 
incentives to encourage them to do so. No guidance was provided to firms about who should 
be advised to remain in SERPS or who was likely to benefit from contracting out. So pension 
providers actuaries carried out comparisons of the projected benefits from SERPS with 
those from alternative personal pension arrangements. The calculations were based on what 
were considered to be relatively conservative assumptions of future investment returns at 
the time. Although, as our investigator explained, those assumptions look high compared to 
todays investment returns. 
People who contracted out of SERPS received rebates into personal pension plans from the 
government. The rebates were set in such a way that it was generally more attractive for 
younger people to contract-out than those who were older. The ages where advice changed 
about whether to contract-out or not were called pivotal ages. In 1989, Prudentials pivotal 
age for women was 35. So, it considered that females under 35 were likely to be better off by 
contracting out. This was because they had a sufficiently long investment horizon to achieve 
growth on the rebates paid to them by the government. Mrs P was 21 at the time of the 
advice, so she was significantly below the pivotal age for women, meaning there was 
substantial time and opportunity for investment growth before she would likely retire.Another factor used to determine whether someone was likely to be better off contracting-out 
of SERPS was their amount of earnings. The application form confirmed that Mrs Ps income 
was £5,000 per year. At the time, because the government was offering a 2% incentive to 
contract out, some providers didnt set a minimum level of earnings. However, Prudential 
had a minimum of £5,000. For context, when the incentive was removed in 1993/1994, the 
minimum level of earnings was set at £5,000 per year. So I cant reasonably say that 
Prudentials 1989 minimum was unreasonable.
Given Mrs Ps earnings in 1989 were £5,000 a year, I think her earnings were sufficiently 
high to ensure that rebates forwarded by the government would cover the plan charges.
Prudential also said that a further criterion was that a customer would need to have been 
able to opt out for at least five years. And that its records showed that it did receive 
payments for six years in a row, as well as additional payments after that. So Mrs P met the 
criteria of being able to contract out for at least five years.
Ive also considered the fact that there was some investment risk attached to Mrs Ps 
pension plan and she didnt appear to have previous investment experience. Contracting out 
of SERPS meant that Mrs P would be giving up her entitlement to SERPS in the hope that 
the contributions would grow in excess of the pension she couldve expected to receive from 
the state. There is no record of Mrs Ps attitude to risk, but the contributions were invested 
into the with-profits fund, which was considered to be a cautious fund at the time. I havent 
seen anything to suggest Mrs P was unable to take any risk with these funds. So, I dont 
think the arrangement was too risky for her, given that she had almost 40 years before she 
could start to think about taking the benefits from her plan and so she had time to recoup 
any losses.
Overall, Im satisfied that Mrs P met the criteria at the time and I think there was a 
reasonable prospect that she couldve been better off by contracting out of SERPS. For this 
reason, I dont think the advice from Prudential here was unsuitable.
I acknowledge that Mrs P doesnt consider that Prudential fully explained the pension plan at 
the time of the sale. And that Mrs P considers that if Prudential had done the correct due 
diligence, it wouldve advised her to stay in SERPS. 
I have no way of knowing what information Prudential shared with Mrs P, other than the 
limited documentation it has provided. But I note that the declaration it appears Mrs P signed 
stated: I have received a copy of the Personal Pension Product Guide. And Prudential said 
this confirmed how the policy worked, where the funds would be invested, and the charges. I 
consider it most likely that this guide was provided and that it wouldve covered the areas 
Prudential said it did.
In any event, I agree with our investigator that regardless of whether Prudential did or didnt 
provide a full explanation of the pension plan at that time, I consider that taking out the plan 
was suitable for Mrs P at the time of the sale. 
I say this because Mrs P decided to take out the plan even though she now considers she 
didnt have enough information to take such an action. She signed documents at the time of 
the sale which agreed to it. And Im satisfied that if she had received all the information she 
felt she needed at the time of the sale, she would still have taken out the pension plan, 
because it wouldve appeared to be in her best interests to do so.
I next considered whether Prudential had made the charging structure clear. And if it had 
charged Mrs P correctly over the years shes had her pension plan.Charges
Based on the 2022 annual statement, Mrs P considered that Prudentials charges were 
extortionate. And she wouldnt have taken out the pension plan if the charges had been 
explained to her. She also felt that she hadnt given Prudential permission for the pension 
plan. So it had taken fees without her authority. 
I can see that Mrs P now understands that the charges are based on the value of her 
pension fund. But I want to explain in a bit more detail why I consider Prudential has fairly 
taken the fees its charged.
As I noted earlier, Mrs P signed a declaration at the time of the sale which stated: I have 
received a copy of the Personal Pension Product Guide. Im satisfied that this shows that 
Mrs P did agree to the pension plan, as she signed the declaration agreeing to start it. Im 
also satisfied that she was given a guide which wouldve explained the charging structure of 
the product. However, even if that document didnt fully explain the charges, I can see that 
the annual statements do fully explain the charging structure. From what Ive seen, the 
charges are in line with other products of the same type. 
On this basis, Im satisfied that Mrs P did give Prudential permission for the pension plan. 
And in doing so, she gave it her authority to take the fees connected to the plan. Ive seen no 
evidence that Prudential has charged Mrs P the wrong amount. Nor have I seen any 
evidence that the fees are extortionate, or out of line with other providers fees for similar 
products. So I cant fairly uphold this part of the complaint. 
I finally considered whether there shouldve been an annual inflationary increase on the 
pension plan.
Increases to the pension plan
Mrs P felt that her plan would receive annual inflationary increases. 
I can see that Mrs P felt that the pension plan shed started in 1989 should increase in a 
similar way to the SERPS benefit she mightve otherwise received if she hadnt set up the 
plan. But that isnt the case.
The pension plan grows or reduces in line with the growth of the with-profits plan it is 
invested in, net of all charges. Therefore, the plan doesnt offer annual inflationary increases.
As such, I cant reasonably say that Prudential has done anything wrong by not applying any 
to Mrs Ps plan.
I acknowledge that Mrs P considers that Prudential has caused her distress and 
inconvenience. Prudential has agreed that she shouldnt have had the difficulties she faced 
when contacting it in December 2022 and January 2023. And has paid her £50 for the 
trouble and upset this caused. I cant reasonably ask it to do more than this, as Ive not 
found any evidence that it did anything else wrong. 
I do recognise Mrs Ps strength of feeling about her complaint. And I appreciate that shell be 
disappointed with my decision to not uphold her complaint about the plan being mis-sold. But 
I dont think the plan was unsuitable for her at the time of advice. So Im not asking 
Prudential to take any further action. My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman