DRN-1201815
 
Complaint
Mr W complains that Nationwide Building Society should not force him to use a card reader 
to authenticate himself when he is using its internet banking system.
Background
Mr W has a current account with Nationwide. He uses internet banking to operate his 
account and make payments. He tried to make a payment to his credit card account from his 
current account but didnt complete the transaction because he was asked to enter a one 
time passcode. The one time passcode could be created using his card reader. He says that 
he was able to complete the same transaction a short time later and wasnt asked to enter a 
one time passcode. He complained to Nationwide about this. He said he shouldnt have 
been asked to enter a one time passcode since this was a regular transaction. He also said 
that it was inconvenient to have to carry a card reader around and that Nationwide was 
infringing his human rights by forcing him to use a card reader.
Nationwide investigated his complaint. It said that the credit card reference Mr W had 
entered when making the first payment did not correspond to its records. For that reason, as 
a security measure, Mr W had been asked to enter a one time passcode to authorise the 
transaction. When he had repeated the transaction the card reference he entered did 
correspond to the one held on Nationwides records and that was why he hadnt been asked 
to enter a one time passcode.
Nationwide also said that it required its customers to use a card reader when using internet 
banking as a security measure to protect its customers from fraud. It said that it did permit 
certain exceptions to this but only where it was satisfied that the customer was incapable of 
using the card reader. Since Mr W was capable of using a card reader the exception did not 
apply to him.
Mr W was not satisfied with the response from Nationwide and so he complained to our 
service. Our investigator looked into his complaint. He said that Nationwide could ask its 
customers to use a card reader to authorise payments. He had looked at the reasons why 
the first payment had required a one time passcode to be entered. In his view Nationwide 
had been able to provide a reasonable explanation for this. He also said although Mr W 
preferred not to use a card reader he didnt fall within the exception that Nationwide had set. 
He said that our service couldnt ask Nationwide to alter its procedures or change the level of 
service it offered to its customers. In the circumstances he didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Mr W disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaintAt the outset I want to make it clear that this decision deals only with the issues Mr W has 
raised about having to use a card reader himself. I wont be dealing with other issues which 
Mr W has mentioned in relation to someone else, which will be dealt with separately.
There are two issues which Mr W has raised about having to use a card reader. 
Mr Ws first issue is about what happened when he tried to make an online transfer from his 
current account to his Nationwide credit card account. This was a regular transaction which 
he had carried out before. On this occasion, he was asked to enter a one time passcode 
from his card reader. But, when he tried to do the same transaction a few hours later he 
wasnt asked to enter a one time passcode. He says that this shows how ineffective the 
security measures are and it makes a mockery of Nationwides security systems.
I can understand why Mr W wouldve been surprised when he was asked to enter a one time 
passcode for a regular transaction. And, I can also understand why he would find it difficult 
to see why he wasnt asked to enter a one time passcode when he carried out the same 
transaction just a few hours later. So, Ive looked at the audit trail for both of the transactions 
that Mr W has referred to.
I can see that the credit card reference used on the second payment request is different to 
the credit card reference used on the first payment request. Nationwide says that the credit 
card reference on the second payment request corresponds with Mr Ws credit card details 
and that is why it didnt need to ask him for a one time passcode. Mr W doesnt accept this 
explanation. He says that he entered the same details each time. 
Having reviewed the audit trail evidence, Ive seen that the card reference entered on the 
first transaction didnt correspond with Mr Ws credit card details. So Im satisfied that this is 
what happened here. Nationwides systems triggered a requirement for further 
authentication. Nationwide says that the extra authentication is to protect its customers from 
fraud when they make payments online and Im satisfied that in these circumstances it was 
fair and reasonable to ask for further authentication.
Mr Ws second issue is that he thinks Nationwide shouldnt force him to use a card reader at 
all when he is using its internet banking system. He says that its inconvenient to have to 
carry a card reader around and its an infringement of his human rights. He says that 
Nationwide should offer him an exception from its policy. 
Ive looked at Nationwides procedures for its internet banking. I can see that, when logging 
in, the customer is required to enter certain personal or memorable information. After this the 
customer is asked to enter a one time passcode, which can be generated by a card reader. 
Sometimes, the customer might be asked to enter a one time passcode even after they have 
logged into the system. This might happen where Nationwides systems identify an unusual 
payment request and so additional authentication is required. Nationwide says that its 
procedures are designed to protect its customers from fraud when using its online banking 
system.
Nationwide also says that its systems and procedures are designed to make sure that the 
person logging into its internet banking systems has been properly authenticated. Thats in 
line with recent rules and guidelines around payments and authentication. Its a 
consequence of any process like this that it will, on occasion, cause a degree of 
inconvenience in some circumstances. But, thats not to say that Nationwide shouldnt take 
these steps, as its important for businesses to have procedures like these  as they are in a 
customers best interests. So while this may have caused Mr W some inconvenience, I dont 
think Nationwide was wrong to have used that procedure here. Ive also thought about what Mr W has said about how inconvenient it is to have to carry a 
card reader around with him. But, whilst it may be inconvenient I dont think its an onerous 
obligation. Mr W has confirmed he is able to use the card reader without difficulty and 
Nationwide offers an alternative to using a card reader. The customer can have the one time 
passcode sent to a personal mobile phone if they dont want to use a card reader. So, Im 
satisfied that Mr W has been offered a suitable alternative to having to carry a card reader.  
Mr W says that Nationwide should except him from its policy to have a card reader. 
Nationwide does offer exceptions to customers who arent able to use a card reader or a 
mobile phone. I think that its fair and reasonable for Nationwide to have an exceptions policy 
to assist customers who are unable to use these devices. But Mr W can use a card reader or 
a mobile phone. So, if Mr W wants to use its internet banking systems, he will also have to 
use the systems it has put in place to help him do so safely and securely. I dont agree that 
Nationwide should be required to except him from its policy. 
Ive taken everything into consideration here, including everything Mr W has said about how 
this has made him feel and his concerns around these procedures. But I havent seen 
anything to suggest that Nationwide has treated him unfairly in the circumstances here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint against Nationwide Building 
Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
 
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman