DRN-4273534
The complaint
Miss S has complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as (Halifax) acted unfairly by 
continuing to apply charges to her account when she was in financial difficulty. 
What happened
Miss S held an account with Halifax with a £250 overdraft facility. Miss Ss account was 
moved to collections in January 2021.
Miss S complained to Halifax that the charges applied to her account were unfair as she was 
struggling financially. 
Halifax said all charges were applied to Miss Ss account correctly in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. But Halifax agreed it couldve done more to support Miss S and 
agreed to refund charges totalling £95.80 representing the period from January 2022 as this 
is when her account shouldve been closed. It also compensated Miss S £70 for distress and 
inconvenience.
Miss S was dis-satisfied with this and brought her complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that Halifax acted unfairly when 
it continued charging overdraft fees from January 2021 as by this point Miss Ss account had 
been moved to collections and she no longer had money in other account to service the 
overdraft and Halifax ought to have known she was in financial difficulty. 
Halifax agreed to settle Miss Ss complaint in-line with our adjudicators recommendations 
and said it would:
Refund all charges from when Miss Ss account went into collections on 30 January 
2021 totaling £90.02.
The refund would be used to reduce the outstanding balance of the overdraft debt of 
£154.20 and that Miss S would need to arrange to repay the remaining debt or await 
contact from its agent.
Any negative information presently or subsequently recorded will be backdated as 
though the process started on 30 January 2021. This would mean the default 
applied would be backdated to 20 April 2021 (within the usual notice period of 3 to 6 
months).
Miss S doesnt wish to accept this and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I hope that Miss S wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed her complaint in the 
way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on 
what I consider to be the crux of the complaint - that being the charges applied to Miss Ss 
account were unfair when she says she was in financial difficulty. Our rules allow me to do 
that. And having carefully considered everything, I think that what Halifax has already agreed 
to do to put things right for Miss S is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have.
So where a business allows a consumer to use a credit facility and continues to apply 
charges when it should have realised the credit facility was unsustainable, wed typically 
expect it to put the consumer in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further 
interest and charges on that credit. This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the 
interest and charges added to any credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it 
was unsustainable. 
In this case I think once Miss Ss account had been moved to collections it ought to have 
been clear she wasnt managing her overdraft and was having difficulty paying it back and 
with Halifax continuing to apply charges to her account it was making her financial situation 
worse. 
Halifax has agreed to settle Miss Ss complaint in-line with this finding and Miss S will be 
refunded all of the interest, fees and charges applied to her account from when it entered 
collections in January 2021. 
I understand Miss S is unhappy with this and wants all overdraft charges applied to her 
account amounting to around £400 refunded and to be compensated for the stress and 
anxiety she has suffered. 
Halifax wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Miss S if it applied any interest, fees 
and charges to Miss Ss account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to have been aware Miss S was experiencing financial difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where Halifax didnt treat Miss S fairly and 
reasonably. And I dont think that Halifax did treat Miss S unfairly or unreasonably before 
Miss Ss account was moved to collections. I say this because despite writing to Miss S on a 
number of occasions asking if she needed assistance, Miss S never got in touch with Halifax 
to let it know she was having financial difficulties. 
And while I sympathise with Miss S and I accept her personal circumstances may have 
made getting in contact with Halifax difficult - and I dont wish to trivialise what shes said  
nonetheless, Miss Ss bank statements alone werent enough to suggest that Halifax ought 
to have realised she might have been experiencing financial difficulty prior to it transferring 
her account to collections. 
Miss S may argue not seeing or maintaining a credit balance was in itself an indication that 
she was struggling. But Miss Ss overdraft limit was relatively modest at £250 and the 
account was receiving regular credits which were enough to bring the overdraft balance right 
down. I also note when credits were received in, Miss S transferred the same out to another 
of her accounts that held at times enough to repay the overdraft had she chosen to do so. So, in these circumstances and prior to Halifax being made aware of Miss Ss personal 
situation, I dont think that it was unreasonable for Halifax to proceed with adding the 
interest, fees and charges it did in light of how Miss Ss account was being used before her 
account was moved to collections. 
So bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what Halifax has already agreed to do to put 
things right for Miss S is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case and Im not 
requiring it to do anything more. As this is the case, its up to Miss S to decide whether she 
now wishes to accept Halifaxs offer.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Bank of Scotland plc has already 
agreed to do to put things right for Miss S is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
case. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 September 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman