DRN-3656337
The complaint
Ms H has complained that TSB Bank plc wont refund a withdrawal where she says the cash 
was taken back into the machine before she could take it.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with the case, so Ill summarise things in brief.
In 2021, Ms H requested £200 at a cash machine. She explained that the notes were sucked 
back in before she could take them. However, the £200 still debited her account. Ms H then 
withdrew £10 at the same ATM, explaining she hoped this would free the stuck notes. But 
she said she only received the £10, and the £200 remained in the machine out of reach.
TSB checked the cash machines records with its owner, and concluded that the cash had 
dispensed correctly.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
found that, based on the evidence, there wasnt anything to substantiate that any cash had 
been taken back  it really did look like the cash had been given to Ms H correctly.
Ms H asked for a final decision, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I understand that Ms H feels very strongly about the ATMs owner. But this case is 
against TSB as her bank, not the ATMs owner. As our investigator explained, we cannot 
consider her points about the ATMs owner as that falls outside of our jurisdiction. So in this 
case, I will only consider what TSB did in dealing with Ms Hs dispute.
According to the ATMs electronic records, Ms H put in her card and PIN and asked to 
withdraw £200. The withdrawal was approved, and the £200 was dispensed in exactly 
correct notes. Theres nothing to indicate that the cash was taken back in, and the machines 
internal balance reduced by exactly £200. According to the records, the machine did not 
experience any errors, and the £200 was dispensed to Ms H successfully, which matches 
the receipt she got.
People were able to use the machine without any issues both before and after the £200 
withdrawal attempt. Indeed, Ms H used the machine successfully herself shortly after, to 
withdraw the £10. The cash machine does not appear to have had any problems at the time.
If the ATM had sucked the £200 back in, then Id expect it to have had £200 or so of extra 
cash in it afterwards. But when the cash machine was later checked for balancing, it 
balanced properly with no extra money in it at all. This also supports that the cash was 
dispensed and was not taken back in.
I have taken into account all of Ms Hs testimony, and I am aware that ATMs can sometimes 
suck cash back in if one doesnt pick it up in time. But if that happens, it would be reflected in 
the records. Whereas here, the records show that Ms H asked for £200, the cash machine 
gave it out, and the machines cash reserves reduced by £200, with no extra money left 
inside when it was later checked. I have not got any objective evidence which substantiates 
that the cash got taken back in, whereas I have substantial evidence that the cash was 
properly dispensed. So based on the evidence and the balance of probabilities, I do not have 
a fair basis on which to tell TSB to refund the withdrawal. This is a difficult message for me 
to give, and I know its a difficult message for Ms H to receive. But given the evidence I have 
and the balance of probabilities, Im unable to reasonably reach any other conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms Hs complaint in this case.
This final decision marks the end of our services involvement in the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman