DRN-2541766
The complaint
Miss H and Miss J complain that ERGO Reisevericherung AG has turned down a medical 
expenses claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
As Miss H received treatment abroad and has been the main representative in this 
complaint, for ease, Ive mainly referred simply to her within this decision.
What happened
On 31 March 2019, Miss H took out a travel insurance policy online through a broker. During 
the online sale, she told ERGO that she didnt have any medical conditions and that Miss J 
had high blood pressure. The policy was to cover a trip they were taking around Asia. Cover 
under the policy started on 8 September 2019 and ended on 7 April 2020.
Miss H travelled abroad as planned. Unfortunately, on 9 March 2020, she was taken to 
hospital suffering with symptoms of meningoencephalitis and she was admitted for 
treatment. She got in touch with ERGOs medical assistance team to make a claim on her 
travel insurance policy.
ERGO looked into the claim. Originally, the treating hospital recorded that it had prescribed 
Miss H with a drug which it said was to treat her for withdrawal symptoms following a fit, 
although shed refused to take it. It later issued Miss H with a new record, because the 
hospital accepted that it had been prescribed by mistake. ERGO requested a copy of Miss 
Hs medical records for the two years before she took out the policy. 
It noted that Miss H had suffered a seizure in October 2017, following the mis-use of a 
prescription drug. It also noted that in October 2017, a neurologist had referred to Miss H 
buying supplies of prescription drugs from the internet and taking large doses for a year and 
that the seizure had been put down to being secondary to drug dependency.  It also felt the 
GP records supported this diagnosis. And it also noted that Miss H had been taken to A&E 
following two accidental injuries to her head in April 2018 and January 2019. So ERGO 
concluded that Miss H hadnt accurately declared her medical history when shed taken out 
the policy. It said that if shed done so, it would never have offered her any insurance cover. 
It also felt that Miss H had been reckless when she answered its medical questions during 
the online sales process.
Miss H was unhappy with ERGOs decision and she asked us to look into her complaint. She 
accepted that she should have declared the seizure she suffered in October 2017, but that 
she hadnt deliberately omitted this information.
Our investigator didnt think that Miss Hs complaint should be upheld. She considered the 
relevant law  the Consumer Insurance (Disclosures and Representations Act) 2012 and 
whether ERGO had fairly decided that Miss H had made a qualifying misrepresentation 
under the act. She felt the medical evidence suggested that Miss H did have a diagnosis of 
drug dependency and so she felt it was fair for ERGO to rely on that evidence when 
considering her claim. She considered the medical screening question Miss H had been 
asked about her health at the point of sale had been clear and that she ought to have been 
prompted to tell ERGO about her medical conditions. She thought it was fair to ERGO to 
conclude that Miss H had been reckless when she answered the medical screening 
question. And as ERGO had shown it wouldnt have offered any cover if Miss H had told her 
it about her diagnosis, she thought it was fair for ERGO to turn down the claim and retain the 
premium Miss H had paid.
Miss H disagreed. She provided detailed submissions, which Ive summarised. She strongly 
refuted the suggestion that she had a drug dependency. She maintained that shed mis-used 
a drug following a knee injury and had suffered a seizure. She acknowledged that she hadnt 
told ERGO about the seizure in 2017, the head injuries and the knee injury. But she 
considered that the misrepresentation had been careless and so she felt that ERGO should 
apply the remedy available to it under the act in these circumstances  either to refund the 
premium shed paid or to pay her claim proportionately. Shed contacted the broker whod 
told her that as her drug-misuse had been accidental and due to her knee issue, she 
wouldnt have needed to declare it. And the broker had provided her with a quote which 
showed it wouldve offered her cover, which is at odds with what ERGOs told us.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Miss H, because I know how strongly she feels 
about her complaint, I think ERGO has treated her fairly. Ill explain why.
When Miss H and Miss J took out the policy online, they were asked information about 
themselves, their trip and their medical conditions. ERGO used this information to decide 
whether or not to insure Miss H and Miss J and if so, on what terms.
ERGO says that Miss H didnt correctly answer the questions she was asked during the 
medical screening. This means the principles set out in the Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosures and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) are relevant. So I think its fair and 
reasonable to apply these principles to the circumstances of Miss Hs claim. 
CIDRA is designed to make sure consumers and insurers get an appropriate remedy if a 
policyholder makes what is called a qualifying misrepresentation under the Act. A qualifying 
misrepresentation is when a consumer fails to take reasonable care to answer an insurers 
questions correctly and provides inaccurate information. 
First, when considering whether a consumer has taken reasonable care, I need to consider 
how clear and specific the questions asked by the insurer were. So Ive looked carefully at 
the medical questions Miss H was asked during the online sale. ERGOs provided me with a 
copy of its sales process. Miss H and Miss J were asked:
For each traveller named on this policy, please select Yes if they:
a) Have in the last two years, suffered from any medical or psychological conditions and 
for which theyve received treatment, been prescribed medications, attended any 
consultations, investigations or check-ups.
This screen also includes a warning that if a policyholder doesnt declare all of their 
conditions, they may not be covered for medical expenses abroad.Miss H and Miss J were asked to answer yes or no to this question. Miss J answered yes 
and declared high blood pressure. Miss H answered no and so didnt go on to go through a 
medical screening.
ERGO says that Miss H shouldve answered yes to this question. It considers that Miss H 
shouldve declared drug dependency; her seizure in October 2017 and the two head injuries 
she suffered in April 2018 and January 2019. So Ive looked carefully at Miss Hs medical 
records to decide whether I think it was reasonable for ERGO to reach this conclusion.  I 
need to make it clear that Im not making any finding on whether Miss H did have a drug 
dependency  thats not my role. My role is to look at the available medical evidence and 
consider whether it was fair for ERGO to rely on it when assessing her claim.
Miss Hs GP surgery provided ERGO with a copy of Miss Hs medical records from 1 March 
2018 only, which appears to be around the time she joined the practice. So I dont have a 
copy of her full records dating back to 31 March 2017  which wouldve been the two-year 
period before the policy was taken out.  I can see that on 21 March 2018, a journal note has 
been made which states: unspecified opioid dependence  14 October 2017. It seems that 
following Miss Hs seizure in October 2017, her driving licence was revoked.  The GP has 
noted in May 2018 that a neurologist stated that Miss Hs seizure was secondary to drug 
dependence. The GP has also noted that the A&E letter from the time was coded as drug 
dependence. Another GP has also recorded, on 11 May 2018, that Miss Hs records show 
she had been buying drugs off the internet and inhaling ether vapour after her seizure. He 
noted that there is evidence of sustained misuse.
Ive also considered a letter from a consultant neurologist dated 15 June 2018. He referred 
to the fact that Miss H had told him that the seizure had happened due to excessive doses of 
codeine and strong painkillers on that day and that otherwise, shed only taken those drugs 
as prescribed and in line with the recommended doses. He went on to say:
This was not my recollection of what you previously told me. I have referred to my records of 
what you told you told me on 24 October 2017. As noted in my clinic report of that day you 
stated you had been obtaining supplies of analgesics without prescription on the internet and 
that you had been taking large doses for a year. You also stated that you have been 
overusing prescription medication. The consultant also said that hed spoken to Miss Hs GP 
who said that Miss H had told him the same thing.
Based on the available medical evidence, I dont think it was unfair for ERGO to conclude 
that Miss H had had a diagnosis of drug dependency  given this was recorded in her GPs 
records and seems to have been the diagnosis the consultant recorded after her seizure. Its 
clear that Miss H did receive treatment for the linked seizure during the two years before she 
took out the policy and she had a consultation with the neurologist during this timeframe too. 
The medical records also show that Miss H attended A&E twice in April 2018, having 
suffered a head injury and then nausea and then undergoing a CT scan of her head.  She 
also visited the emergency department in early February 2019  around six weeks before 
taking out the policy  having suffered a head injury. Again, she underwent a CT scan. 
Again, its clear that these consultations and investigations took place during the two years 
Miss H was asked about during the online sale. 
Additionally, Miss H has told us about a knee injury she thinks she ought to have declared. 
And I can see from her records that on 18 April 2018, Miss H visited the GP with foot pain 
and was prescribed painkillers and told to elevate her foot.
Based on all of the available medical evidence, I think it was reasonable for ERGO to 
conclude both that Miss H most likely knew about these diagnoses and that she shouldve disclosed them during medical screening.
So I think its clear these conditions do fall within the scope of ERGOs question. And 
considering everything, I think ERGOs question was clear enough that Miss H shouldve 
been prompted to tell it about them. I appreciate Miss H feels that the seizure and head 
injuries were past conditions, so she didnt think she had to disclose them. But the question 
doesnt simply refer to whether or not a policyholder has a pre-existing condition. It 
specifically refers to any conditions a policyholder had within the two years beforehand  
including treatment, consultations, investigations etc. The medical evidence shows Miss H 
underwent at least consultations and investigations during the relevant timeframe and I think 
the question ought to have prompted her to disclose these or to get in touch with ERGO to 
clarify if her conditions were relevant.  
Overall, I think Miss H did make a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA. So Im 
satisfied that ERGOs shown that its entitled to apply the relevant remedy available to it 
under the Act. ERGO thinks Miss H deliberately or recklessly sought to mislead it about her 
health. Ive thought carefully about this and considered what Miss H has told us. But I do 
think the question is clear enough that even if Miss H didnt accept the diagnosis of drug 
dependency, she ought to have declared the seizure and its cause. I think this wouldve led 
to ERGO asking her further questions which were likely to elicit the information it needed to 
know. And I also think she ought to have declared her visits to A&E  especially given one of 
those visits happened only around six weeks earlier. So based on all Ive seen, I dont think 
this was an unfair conclusion for ERGO to reach.
CIDRA says that in cases of deliberate or reckless misrepresentation; an insurer is entitled 
to treat the policy as if it never existed, refuse any claims and keep the premium a 
policyholder has paid. This is what ERGO has done in this case. Ive seen underwriting 
evidence which shows me that in Miss Hs case, if itd been aware of her medical history, it 
would never have offered her a policy. So I think it was reasonable for ERGO to apply the 
remedy available to it under the law.
I appreciate Miss H was able to later obtain a quote from the broker and that she declared 
her seizure, the fact it was linked to mis-use of strong painkillers and other injuries. However, 
during the quote process, Miss H told the broker that she didnt have a diagnosis of drug 
dependency and it appears that the quote was based on a one-off incident of drug-misuse. 
As Ive explained though, Miss Hs medical records do make reference to a diagnosis of drug 
dependency. So I think its most likely that if Miss H had told the broker about how her 
doctors had coded her mis-use, cover still wouldve been declined.
All in all, while I sympathise with Miss Hs position, because its clear that shes been left 
substantially out of pocket, I dont think ERGO acted unfairly by relying on the available 
medical evidence to turn down her claim and void her policy. This means Im not directing it 
to do anything more.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H and Miss H 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman