DRN-3903518
The complaint
Miss H complains about the poor level of service provided by The Prudential Assurance 
Company Limited (Prudential) in connection with her pension plan. She says that 
Prudential failed to return phone calls and provided inaccurate information about the 
financial adviser recorded as the servicing agent for her plan.
What happened
Miss H had a pension plan with Prudential with a selected retirement date in June 2022. In 
November 2021, Prudential sent a wake-up letter to Miss H. It sent a reminder letter in        
April 2022. In response, Miss H phoned Prudential to discuss her plan and obtain more 
information about her options. During those discussions, Prudential told her that a financial 
adviser was recorded as being the servicing agent for her plan and that she was paying an 
ongoing adviser charge in connection with this  it provided the name of the financial adviser 
to Miss H. Following this, Prudential didnt return phone calls to Miss H to discuss her plan, 
as it had promised.
Miss H didnt take any benefits from her plan. As a result, the selected retirement age was 
extended by five years to June 2027. Prudential wrote to her on 3 June 2022 to confirm the 
extension in selected retirement age. The letter also confirmed that Miss H could take 
benefits from her plan at any time if she changed her mind.
This complaint
Miss H said she was unaware of any financial adviser being linked to her plan or that 
charges were apparently being deducted from the value of her plan in connection with this. 
She was concerned about the charges. She was also unhappy that Prudential had failed to 
return phone calls. Prudential later confirmed that it had made an error and that no adviser 
charges were being deducted from the value of Miss Hs plan. She complained to Prudential. 
She said, in summary, that it had:
provided inaccurate information about the name of the financial adviser recorded as 
the servicing agent for her plan;
provided inaccurate information about the deduction of adviser charges from the 
value of her plan; and
failed to return phone calls, as promised; 
She said that these errors and the delay in getting accurate information pressured her into 
making an uninformed decision regarding what to do with her plan. She was unhappy that 
Prudential had extended the retirement date of her plan by five years to June 2027. To put 
things right, she requested that Prudential let her revisit her decision about what to do with 
her plan.
Prudential upheld in part Miss Hs complaint. It rejected the part of her complaint about the 
name of the financial adviser recorded as the servicing agent for her plan. This was because 
it was satisfied that it had provided accurate details about this to Miss H (it was the same 
financial adviser who had originally sold the plan to her). However, Prudential accepted that 
it had provided a poor level of service to Miss H for the following reasons:
It had failed to return phone calls to her, as it had promised; and
It had provided inaccurate information regarding adviser charges being deducted 
from her plan  it incorrectly told Miss H that adviser charges were being deducted 
and remitted to the servicing agent when this wasnt the case, but it was satisfied it 
had provided correct information to Miss H shortly afterwards in April 2022.
To remedy the matter, Prudential apologised and offered to pay Miss H £150 compensation 
in recognition of the trouble and upset caused by failing to return phone calls and providing 
inaccurate information about adviser charges. In its final response letter of 12 May 2022, 
Prudential noted that Miss H was then in the process of choosing a retirement option for her 
plan and acknowledged its errors may have caused a delay, impacting her ability to make a 
decision. To resolve this, it stated that if Miss H withdrew benefits from her plan within the 
following 60 days it would carry out a calculation and pay any compensation if it was 
established its errors had caused a delay and financial loss.
Miss H didnt accept Prudentials response to her complaint and so referred the matter to this 
service. Our investigator didnt think Prudential needed to take any further action for these 
reasons:
He was satisfied that Prudentials previous offer of £150 compensation to Miss H  
for failing to return phone calls and for the provision of inaccurate information about 
adviser charges  was fair and reasonable and so didnt think it needed to do any 
more regarding these elements of her complaint. He was also satisfied that 
Prudential had provided correct information about the name of the financial adviser;
He was satisfied that Prudential had issued a wake-up letter and reminder to Miss H 
within the regulatory timelines before the selected retirement age under the plan and 
so, in his opinion, she had sufficient time to make an informed decision regarding her 
options, particularly since Prudential had given her accurate information about the 
financial advisers name and charges in April 2022, several weeks before the 
selected retirement age. So he didnt think this element of her complaint should be 
upheld; and
He thought Prudential had made a fair offer to carry out a loss assessment and pay 
any additional compensation for any delay caused by its errors if Miss H withdrew 
money from her plan within 60 days of its final response letter. But since she didnt 
withdraw any money within that timeframe, he didnt think it was necessary for 
Prudential to pay additional compensation regarding this element of her complaint.
Miss H didnt accept our investigators assessment and provided additional comments in 
response. These largely repeated her previous comments. Our investigator considered                     
the additional comments but wasnt persuaded to change his view. Since agreement couldnt 
be reached, this complaint has been referred to me, an ombudsman, to review and decide. 
This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules, 
guidance and good industry practice at the time. Ive also carefully considered the 
submissions made by Miss H and Prudential. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, Ive made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words Ive 
looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide 
what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
This service
At the outset I think its useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, into the position 
they wouldve been in had the problem not occurred.
My findings
Id like to clarify that the purpose of this final decision isnt to repeat or address every single
point raised by Miss H and Prudential. So if I havent commented on any specific point, its 
because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. Ive considered all the 
evidence afresh. Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator for 
these reasons:
In November 2021, Prudential issued a wake-up letter to Miss H to tell her that she 
was approaching the selected retirement age under her plan in June 2022. It issued 
a reminder letter in April 2022. The purpose of those letters was to provide a 
summary of the options available under the plan from Miss Hs selected retirement 
age in June 2022. Prudential issued those letters within the regulatory timescales. So 
Im satisfied that it didnt make any error regarding issuance of the wake-up letters. In 
the reminder letter, Prudential stated that it would extend the retirement age under 
the plan by five years if Miss H didnt make a decision  and since she didnt take any 
benefits from her plan at that time, Prudential extended the retirement age.
In April 2022, Miss H phoned Prudential to obtain more information about her 
options. Despite what she says, I havent seen any evidence that Prudential provided 
inaccurate information about the name of the financial adviser recorded as the 
servicing agent for her plan. But theres no dispute that Prudential failed to return 
phone calls to Miss H and provided inaccurate information about adviser charges 
being deducted from her plan. I think Prudentials offer of £150 compensation in 
respect of these errors is reasonable bearing in mind that it provided accurate 
information  that no adviser charges were in fact being deducted from the value of 
her plan  shortly afterwards in April 2022. Therefore, accurate information was given 
to Miss H several weeks before her selected retirement age under the plan. So I think 
she had sufficient time to make an informed decision. I dont think these errors 
prevented Miss H from making an informed decision about her retirement options.
Notwithstanding this point, in its final response letter issued on 12 May 2022, 
Prudential gave Miss H an additional 60 days to make a decision about whether to 
withdraw benefits from her plan at that time  and if she did, it promised to carry out a 
calculation and pay any compensation if it was established its errors had caused a 
delay and financial loss. I think that was a fair offer. Miss H decided not to take 
benefits at that time and so no loss assessment calculation was carried out. As a 
result, Prudential extend the retirement date of her plan by five years to June 2027, 
as it said it would do so in the wake-up reminder letter. I cant reasonably find Prudential responsible for Miss H deciding not to take benefits from her plan within 
that 60-day window. And so I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to uphold 
Miss Hs complaint and direct Prudential to unwind the extension of the retirement 
age under her plan or to carry out a loss assessment calculation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint or make any award against The 
Prudential Assurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 May 2023. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman