DRN-3373765
The complaint
Ms A complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Ms A applied for a loan online with Santander in February 2020, which was eventually taken 
out in April 2020. The loan was for £7,600 over a term of 48 months. The purpose of the loan 
was recorded as debt consolidation and her monthly repayments were around £241. Ms A 
says at the time she was earning around £1,250 per month and was already struggling to 
pay her current account overdraft on two other bank accounts, along with payday loans from 
other lenders.
Ms A says that if checks were made thoroughly, Santander should have known that she 
could not afford to pay her loan. She says, among other things, that her repeated use of 
loans and credit was an indicator that she could not afford the loan.
Ms A says that she would like a refund of all interest and charges she paid on the loan and 
so complained to Santander.
Santander responded saying they believe the loan was affordable for the wages Ms A 
submitted. They say Ms A said her income was £1,368 and her outgoings were £725, 
leaving her with a surplus of £643. They say, as the monthly instalment for the loan taken 
out was £241.27, the loan was affordable for Ms A.
Ms A, unhappy with Santanders response, referred her complaint to our service. Our 
investigator found that Santander didnt need to do anything further. He explained that 
following credit checks that Santander had completed, they tried to gain a better 
understanding of Ms As income and expenditure. He said that Santanders credit checks 
showed outstanding credit balances of around £5,000 and they hadnt acted unreasonably in 
relying on this information. He also said that he was satisfied that the checks completed 
were proportionate and the loan was affordable.
Ms A disagreed with our investigators view. She says the sum owing to creditors at the time 
the loan was approved was over £10,000. She also says she used money from the loan 
taken out with Santander to pay off her existing debt and money owing to her family. This 
complaint has now passed to me to decide on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why below.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
 including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. Ive considered 
this approach while deciding Ms As complaint.
Santander needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. This means it needed to carry 
out proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms A could afford to repay the amount it was 
lending. A proportionate check is dependent on a number of factors including  but not 
limited to  Ms As particular circumstances (e.g. her financial history, current situation and 
outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost 
of credit obtained.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do 
more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the amount lent was high, or the 
information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired credit history  suggested the 
lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers ability to repay. Ive carefully 
thought about what this means for Ms As case.
In this case, Santander provided Ms A with a loan for £7,600 in April 2020. This loan had an 
APR of 24.9% and the total amount repayable of around £11,580 was due to be repaid in 48 
monthly instalments of around £241.
Santander says they agreed Ms As loan after she provided details of her monthly income 
and expenditure. They say they cross-checked this against information on a credit search 
they carried out on Ms A and from payslips Ms A provided. All of this showed that Ms A 
would be able to make the repayments she was committing to. On the other hand, Ms A 
says Santander should have known that she could not afford to pay her loan if they had 
completed their checks correctly.
Ive carefully thought about what Ms A and Santander have said.
Santander has provided me with their records of the loan application as well as the checks 
they completed. Having reviewed the online application which was submitted, I can see Ms 
As monthly salary recorded as £1,368, which is broadly similar to the income on Ms As 
payslips around the time the loan was taken out. Santander say that as her income was 
validated from her payslips, the underwriter agreed to the personal loan being taken out. 
This suggests to me that Santander didnt just rely on what they were told as they asked Ms 
A to provide details of her income.
Bearing in mind the loan being taken out was to consolidate debt, and the credit search not 
showing anything too alarming, I dont think it was unreasonable for Santander to rely on the 
payments being affordable as, on the face of things, they did appear to be. Ms A believes 
her outstanding credit was much higher than the outstanding balance of around £5,000 that 
her credit checks shown at the time. But the checks I have seen show outstanding credit of 
around £5,000 and so, I dont think it was unreasonable for Santander to have relied on this 
information. 
Santander say that Ms A provided details of her expenditure in her application. And from the 
figures given and some estimated, alongside the monthly repayment on the loan of around 
£241, Santander say the affordability ratio they relied upon was within an acceptable 
threshold to be approved. I can see the expenditure considered was around £970 and this 
appeared reasonable given what Ms A had told them.
I accept that it is possible Ms As actual circumstances arent reflected in the information 
gathered and that she feels the loan was unaffordable. Its also possible that Santander 
might have decided that Ms A wouldnt have been able to repay if they had considered her bank statements. But Santander could only make their decision on the information they had 
available to them at the time. 
Its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold this complaint in circumstances a lender did 
something wrong. And, in this case, I dont think Santander did anything wrong in deciding to 
lend to Ms A.
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Santander treated Ms A 
unfairly or unreasonably when providing her with this loan. And as this is the case, Im not 
upholding Ms As complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Ms A. But I hope 
shell understand the reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have 
been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman