DRN-1998673
The complaint
Mr M complains about National House-Building Councils handling of claims under his 
buildings warranty. 
What happened
Mr M has a buildings warranty with National House-Building Council (NHBC) which covers 
his home.
Mr M has had a number of issues with his home and has made approaches to NHBC in an 
attempt to resolve them. Theres a long and complex history here, but I dont need to set it 
out in detail. Mr M and NHBC are both very well aware of the background.
Mr M has made two relevant complaints to NHBC about the way theyve responded to him 
raising issues with them about the building of his home.
He complained to NHBC about work carried out to rectify problems with his roof, including a 
dip in the roof ridge. Mr M says the work hasnt been completed satisfactorily.
And he complained that NHBC had offered him a cash settlement to resolve other issues 
with the home.
NHBC offered £400 in total to Mr M to reflect the inconvenience hed experienced, but they 
said the issues with the roof had been resolved satisfactorily and they maintained that they 
were entitled to offer a cash settlement for the other work.
Mr M wasnt happy with this response and complained to us. Our investigator looked into it 
and didnt think NHBC had done anything wrong.
Mr M disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to understand the nature of the warranty Mr M has because this has a bearing 
on what we can and cant consider when we look at his complaint.
The Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules in the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) handbook 
set out what complaints we have the power to consider. DISP 2.3.1 says we can look into a 
complaint if its about a regulated activity.
Providing insurance is a regulated activity. But not all parts of the NHBC warranty can be 
classed as insurance.
The warranty contract makes it clear that in the first two years of cover the builder is 
responsible for dealing with any problems with the property. At this stage NHBC gets 
involved only if things cant be resolved between the customer and the builder.
Importantly, what NHBC offer at this stage is a mediation service only. It is not a regulated 
insurance activity. The warranty states that NHBCs responsibilities as an insurer dont begin 
until year three.
So, if NHBC provides a resolution service within the first two years  as it did in the case of 
Mr Ms roof  we have no power to intervene (unless NHBC choose to take over the repairs, 
which they didnt when it came to the problems with Mr Ms roof). 
And if, as part of the resolution service, NHBC inspect the property and conclude that the 
builder complied with their technical requirements, we cant question or comment on that 
decision.
In terms of Mr Ms complaint, NHBC carried out an inspection as part of their resolution 
service, after remedial work had been carried out by the builder. They concluded that the 
issues with the roof were satisfactorily resolved and their technical requirements were met.
Its not for us to comment on that. Its not something we can look into, for the reasons set out 
above. Mr M may not think thats fair, but we cant act outside our statutory powers. And 
even if we did offer an opinion, any outcome we proposed would have no traction  it 
wouldnt be binding on NHBC.
NHBC did take responsibility for some of the other repairs to Mr Ms home. Primarily to do 
with door frames and snagging issues. So, we can look into the second part of Mr Ms 
complaint against NHBC.
Mr Ms issue here is that NHBC have offered a cash settlement instead of arranging for the 
remaining repairs to be carried out by their own contractors.
As I understand it, some repairs had been carried out by NHBCs contractors, but Mr M was 
unhappy with the results. At that point, those contractors refused to remain involved.
I can see from the information provided by NHBC that they tried to engage other contractors 
to complete the work, but without success. And, at that point, they offered a cash settlement 
to Mr M.
On this point, the warranty says:
We will pay you the cost of any work that is required. Alternatively we may at 
our option arrange to get that work done at our expense.
So, its clear to me that NHBC are entitled to offer a cash settlement if they wish, in 
accordance with the terms of the warranty.
Im aware that these issues have been on-going now for some considerable time. And Im 
aware of the inconvenience Mr M has suffered as a result. 
Whilst Mr M has my sympathy, and whilst I know he will be disappointed, I cant conclude 
that NHBC have acted unreasonably in this case. In coming to that conclusion, Ive taken into account the compensation already offered to 
Mr M. Ive borne in mind that NHBC tried to find other contractors to do the work. And Ive 
looked at the wording of the terms set out in the warranty. 
Im also aware that NHBC have offered an uplift to the case settlement to take into account 
Mr Ms time and effort in arranging the work. And that theyve offered to consider any quotes 
he can provide which may show that the work will cost more than their original estimate.
Mr M said in response to our investigators view that he thought we ought to insist that 
NHBC change the wording of the warranties so that they dont have the option to cash settle 
as and when they wish.
Thats a matter for the regulator  the FCA  rather than us. Were here to try to resolve 
individual complaints. And I dont think theres anything inherently unfair towards Mr M in the 
way the policy is worded. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman