DRN-3722002
The complaint
Mr D and Miss R complain that they were deemed liable by The National Farmers' Union 
Mutual Insurance Society Limited trading as NFU Mutual (hereafter NFU) to pay their own 
conveyancing costs after making a claim on a legal expenses policy. 
NFU had agents handle the legal expenses claim but Ill simply refer to NFU as theyre 
responsible even though they delegate out the claim handling function.
What happened
Mr D and Miss R were involved in a legal dispute for which they received cover under the 
legal expenses policy. Ultimately, an agreement was reached with the defendant, and a 
Tomlin Order was issued by the Court.
However, Mr D and Miss R dont think its fair that they should be held responsible for the 
conveyancing costs of selling the property, which was an agreed term of settlement. 
Additionally, Mr D and Miss R consider it unfair that they were also expected to find solicitors 
to conduct said conveyancing. NFUs position is that the conveyancing costs were not part of 
the legal expenses claim and so werent covered by the policy.
In summary, our investigator didnt think NFU had done anything wrong. She said it was 
explained to Mr D and Miss R that a Tomlin Order is a conclusion of a dispute. The 
subsequent sale was not in dispute and so NFU was correct in not looking to cover 
conveyancing costs. Such costs were necessary whenever a sale of the property is made, 
and as no further cover was available, NFUs decision was fair.
Mr D disagreed setting out why in a detailed response. In summary, hes extremely unhappy 
with the panel solicitors and considers them to have acted negligently, principally regarding 
an issue with a Statutory Declaration and acting in what he considers a threatening way vis a 
vis dropping or threatening to drop him and Miss R as clients. Mr D also sets out why he 
considers NFU acted unfairly in siding with the panel solicitors. Ultimately, Mr D believes his 
legal expenses policy should cover conveyancing costs to sell the property 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NFUs legal expenses policy covers Mr D and Miss Rs legal costs for specific events. Under 
the policy legal costs include all reasonable and necessary costs chargeable by the panel 
solicitors on a standard basis. So, the central question is whether conveyancing costs are 
reasonable and necessary costs in dealing with the legal dispute.
Theres a detailed and complex background to the legal action but in line with our remit to 
resolve disputes quickly and with minimal formality, I wont be commenting on every issue 
raised. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to the parties, but I will focus on what is the crux of 
the dispute.
Mr D and Miss R received insurance cover for a legal dispute they were involved in (nothing 
to do with conveyancing). Before a scheduled Court trial, mediation took place and the 
parties agreed terms of settlement, which were particularised in a Tomlin Order. 
A Tomlin Order records the terms of settlement (in a schedule) agreed between the parties 
to a dispute and the proceedings are stayed. This brings the dispute to a conclusion pending 
implementation of the terms of settlement. If the terms of the Order arent or cant be 
implemented the matter can be taken back to the Court. 
Mr D has been very particular in how hes framed the complaint he wanted us to look at, but 
we have an inquisitorial remit that enables us to look beyond the initial complaint and more 
at the circumstances in totality.
Mr Ds position is that the conveyancing costs in selling a property, an agreed term of 
settlement, should be covered by his policy. Under the policy, where a claim is settled NFUs 
cover ends. As terms of settlement had been agreed between the parties, Im satisfied it was 
fair in this case for NFU to refuse cover for the conveyancing costs. Neither the 
conveyancing nor its costs were part of the legal dispute that Mr D was involved in with the 
defendant. Rather the conveyancing costs were a necessary part of the property sale Mr D 
and Miss R had agreed to as part of the settlement terms, and unless and until theres a 
legal dispute about the conveyance itself, Im satisfied that NFU has no liability under the 
policy for such costs. 
If the Tomlin Order isnt complied with, and further litigation arises then thats a matter Mr D 
would need to raise with NFU under a separate claim for consideration. 
I appreciate the challenges Mr D says he faced in finding a solicitor to instruct for the 
conveyancing, but Im not persuaded that this is NFUs fault or responsibility. NFU gave 
Mr D and Miss R legal representation to the point settlement terms were agreed and thats 
where its liability ceased. Issues with the solicitors conduct would need to be raised through 
the solicitors ombudsman scheme1. Equally, any issues with the barrister can be raised 
through that professions relevant body2.
It's apparent from Mr Ds latest response that hes very unhappy and I can appreciate why. 
The central legal dispute that formed the basis of litigation, and for which he received cover 
under the policy, was not to do with a conveyancing process and as such, theres no policy 
cover to pay conveyancing costs that Mr D and Miss R are liable for when selling their 
property.
Additionally, the policy gives NFU discretion to end cover where the panel solicitor refuses to 
continue acting for an insured person with good reason. Mr D has one version of why he 
thinks the solicitors wanted to come off record, and the solicitors another perspective. Its 
apparent that the relationship was difficult to say the least and I dont criticise NFU for basing 
its opinion on the information received from panel solicitors. It wasnt in dispute that the issue 
related to litigation costs funding where the indemnity limit was realistically insufficient. As 
such, panel solicitors were seeking further steps from Mr D. Im making no determination on 
the merits of the funding / indemnity issue other than it existed and was a causal factor of 
why the panel solicitors indicated they might come off record. Im aware Mr D considers the 
main issue was to do with his view of their conduct. Nonetheless, Im satisfied either would 
be sufficient for NFU to have considered ending cover. 
Ive indicated in this decision the potential Schemes Mr D can contact to have solicitor and 
1 The Legal Ombudsman
2 The Bar Standards Boardbarrister conduct issues investigated as theyre not entities we have jurisdiction to consider.
In summary, for what I can look at in terms of NFUs conduct I dont find them at fault for 
refusing to cover conveyancing costs or not being involved in the appointment of 
conveyancing solicitors to act for Mr D and Miss R.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Miss R 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman