DRN-3535526
The complaint
Mr W complains about the quality of a new motorcycle that was supplied through a hire 
purchase agreement with BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMW). 
What happened
In March 2021 Mr W acquired a new motorcycle through a hire purchase agreement with 
BMW. The cash price of the motorcycle was £18,939.43. An advanced payment of 
£4,027.47 was made which meant that the total amount financed on this agreement was 
£14,911.96 payable over 36 months.
Mr W explained that due to the national lockdown restrictions that were in place because of 
the Covid-19 pandemic, he didnt use the motorcycle much before September 2021, which is 
when Mr W said he noticed the engine management light (EML) had come on.
Mr W said he brought the motorcycle to a mechanic where the fault was described as 
relating to an exhaust valve. Mr W says the fault was reset by the mechanic however the 
EML returned soon after he started using the motorcycle again.  
Mr W said he arranged a home visit from a manufacturer engineer who diagnosed the same 
issue as the mechanic and required the motorcycle to be taken into the dealer for repair. Mr 
W said it was around two weeks before the dealer could look at the motorcycle, so he used it 
during that period where the issue with the EML remained intermittent.
Mr W explained that hed lost confidence in his motorcycle and in BMW, so asked that he be 
able to reject it. Mr W said the dealer offered him the market value of the motorcycle, which 
they advised was £16,000 at the time. Mr W said when he received the motorcycle back 
from the dealer, he arranged with another franchised dealer to part exchange it so he could 
get himself out of the agreement.
Mr W says the motorcycle wasnt fit for purpose and believes it was unacceptable that he 
paid £3,948.50 in total for the short time he had it.
BMWs system notes show that Mr W complained to them on 1 October 2021. The notes 
also say that Mr W requested a rejection of the motorcycle as he didnt think it was fit for 
purpose due to an issue that the dealer wasnt able to rectify.
BMW sent us a copy of a discharge letter dated 15 November 2021 confirming the 
agreement had been settled. BMW also sent us a copy of their final response to Mr Ws 
complaint, dated 30 November 2021. 
BMWs initial findings were that the agreement was settled by the dealer, so they considered 
the complaint closed, however after clarification from Mr W that hed sold it on to a different 
franchised dealer, BMW advised that they couldnt take Mr Ws complaint any further as he 
was no longer the owner of the motorcycle. They said they wouldnt be able to gather any 
diagnostics or inspections to consider whether it was of satisfactory quality.
Unhappy with their decision Mr W brought his complaint to this service for investigation. Our 
investigator gave their view that BMW hadnt acted unfairly as Mr W had sold the motorcycle 
before they could investigate the complaint further, and so didnt ask them to do anything. 
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr W asked that his complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Mr W complains about a hire purchase agreement. Entering into consumer credit contracts 
like this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied we can consider Mr Ws complaint about 
BMW. BMW is also the supplier of the goods under this agreement, and is responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract 
to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for 
purpose and as described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods need 
to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
So, it seems likely that in a case involving a vehicle, the other relevant circumstances a court 
would consider might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the 
vehicles history. 
My starting point is that BMW supplied Mr W with a brand-new motorcycle with a cash price 
of nearly £19,000. With this in mind, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would 
expect there to be no issues with its quality; and would expect it could be used free from any 
issues for a considerable period of time.
From the information provided I think its likely there was a fault with the motorcycle. I 
recognise there are no diagnostics or engineers reports to confirm what the issue was, 
however BMW confirmed in their system notes that the dealer had contacted them to advise 
that theyd ordered an exhaust valve cable which they believed would repair an EGR fault. 
Im also persuaded by what Mr W has explained which is consistent with what BMW have 
recorded in their system notes. Having considered its likely the motorcycle had a fault, Ive 
considered whether it was of satisfactory quality at the time of supply. 
Mr Ws description of events detailed that hed noticed the EML had illuminated intermittently 
whilst he was using the motorcycle, which I acknowledge had made him concerned about 
the condition of the motorcycle and for his safety while using it. However, Mr W said he first 
noticed the issue around six months after being supplied the motorcycle. I acknowledge Mr 
W says he didnt have much use of the motorcycle due to the covid-19 national lockdown, 
however Ive seen no evidence of the mileage in September 2021 to show the level of usage 
from Mr W at that point.Mr W gave no indication that the mechanical performance of the motorcycle was impaired or 
affected, which I recognise in certain circumstances could suggest the nature or severity of a 
fault. And Ive seen nothing to say that the EML determined when the issue started. In 
addition Mr W nor BMW have provided evidence from the mechanic or dealer, for example in 
the form of a report, diagnostics, a job card or email confirming the exact nature of the fault 
or when the fault was likely to have started. 
Having considered that I dont have enough evidence to say when a fault occurred, or 
specifically what the issue was; and as the motorcycle is no longer in Mr Ws possession or 
available for any expert inspection or diagnostic, Im not persuaded that it wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr W. So, I wont be asking BMW to do anything 
in relation to this.
Mr W also complained about the poor service he received from BMW. Mr W said he was 
shown very little interest in resolving the matter and that he felt forced into the decision that 
the motorcycle had to be moved on. I acknowledge Mr W is disappointed with the 
experience he had whilst using the motorcycle. However, besides what Mr W has said, Ive 
seen no evidence that BMW treated Mr W unfairly during the sales process or at any other 
time, so Im not persuaded that they acted unreasonably towards Mr W and so I wont be 
asking them to do anything in relation to this.
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint against BMW 
Financial Services(GB) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman