DRN-3843682
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Lloyds Bank PLC will not refund two payments made to a holiday 
company, which Ill call T. She says that it did not book the holiday as she had requested 
and did not accept her cancellation of it.  
What happened
In March 2021 Mrs R tried to book a group holiday by telephone through T. She says that 
her call was cut off but that she then received a booking confirmation, indicating that the 
deposit of £2,000 had been taken from her Lloyds credit card. Mrs R says that the booking 
details were not correct, and she sent an email to T the following morning, saying:
Good morning
I made a booking with you last night and after an hour of being on the phone I was cut off My 
email containing the booking details came through after i had paid a £2000 deposit and after 
I was cut off. Some of the booking details are not as requested. Please contact me as soon 
as possible to rectify this
Mrs R says she received no response and followed up with further emails, as well as 
attempting to contact T by telephone, without success. 
On 2 April 2021 she wrote by email to T:
I have attempted to contact you since I made my booking and paid £2000 deposit on 
16.03.21.Tonight i eventually got through on the phone and once I had explained about the 
wrong flights being booked by yourselves and being charged for a "free" transfer,  your 
agent disconnected my call. I need to speak with someone urgently please. 
On 22 April 2021 she received the following email: 
Dear,
Thank you for your e-mail. Please be informed that, contact with the lead passenger email 
address.
Regards, 
Customer Support
Mrs R replied:
Hello
I am the lead passenger and i have not heard from you. The attachment has no content. 
Please confirm you have received my cancellation due to lack of communication re: issues 
with booking.
Regards 
On 26 April 2021 T responded:
Thank you for your e-mail.
Please be informed that your holiday is still live. Flights and accommodation are still live If 
you would like to cancel the holiday please contact to the customer support number 
[xxxxxxxxxxxx]. If you wish to cancel your holiday, your flights will be at 100% non 
refundable
Mrs R says she tried to call the number provided but was unable to get through. 
In May 2021 Mrs R received an email from T indicating that her concerns had been resolved. 
She replied to question how that could be so, since nobody had contacted her, even though 
she had requested a refund of her deposit and a transcript of her telephone booking. 
On 18 July 2021 Mrs R received a further email from T. It said:
Thank you for your e-mail.
Please be informed, as we can see your flights are in live, if you wish to cancel your holiday 
they will be cancellation charges.
For any further queries please contact our customer support number [xxx xxxx xxxx].
Regards,
Customer Support  
In the meantime, Mrs R contacted Lloyds and asked it to refund the £2,000 deposit. The 
bank sent a request for a refund through the chargeback scheme. Initially, T did not respond, 
and a refund was made. Later, however, T requested the payment again, along with the 
balance of £2,475. Lloyds took the view that a further chargeback request was unlikely to be 
successful, since there was no evidence that T had agreed to a refund. 
Mrs R did not think this was fair, but Lloyds was satisfied it had handled the refund requests 
correctly. It did however acknowledge that it hadnt always communicated as well as it 
should have done, for which it offered Mrs R £75. 
Mrs R did not accept the banks offer and referred the matter to this service, where one of 
our investigators considered what had happened. He thought it was reasonable of Lloyds not 
to have taken the chargeback request any further. He did not believe either that there was 
enough evidence to support a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The 
investigator did not recommend that Mrs Rs complaint be upheld. Mrs R did not accept the 
investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the case.    
I did that and, because I was minded to reach a different conclusion from that reached by the 
investigator, I issued a provisional decision. In that decision, I said I thought that T had not 
passed the correct information to the suppliers of the individual elements of the holiday and 
had therefore breached its contract with Mrs R. Having made the error, it had then not taken 
sufficient steps to resolve the situation. Because Mrs R had used her credit card to pay for 
the holiday, I thought that it was equally liable with T and should refund the payments made. 
Mrs R accepted my provisional conclusions. Lloyds asked for more information about the 
error, along with evidence of Mrs Rs attempts to resolve matters with T and the individual 
suppliers. Mrs R was unable to provide very much evidence, explaining that most of her 
contacts had been by telephone and that she had not received written responses in many 
cases. It appears however that the initial problem was that the wrong flights had been 
booked.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Chargeback 
Chargeback is a process by which certain card transactions can be challenged. It is 
operated by the card schemes (in this case, Mastercard) and will often lead to a refund 
where, for example, a payment is duplicated or has not been authorised, where goods or 
services were not provided, or where a refund has been approved by a merchant but has not 
been made. 
It is however a largely administrative process. That means that if there is evidence that a 
card payment has been approved and goods or services provided, it will often be 
unsuccessful for the cardholder. 
There is no legal or regulatory requirement for a card issuer to make a chargeback request, 
but we take the view that it is usually good practice to do so where there is a reasonable 
prospect of success. 
In this case, the initial chargeback request was successful. That however was because T did 
not respond to the banks request, not because the bank or Mastercard had examined the 
merits of Mrs Rs claim against T. Once T took the payments again, however, I think that 
Lloyds was justified in taking the view that T would not handle a further refund request in the 
same way it handled the first one and was, therefore, unlikely to be successful. It was 
therefore reasonable for the bank to decline to make a further request. 
Section 75
One effect of section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is that, subject to certain 
conditions, a customer who pays for goods or services with a credit card and who has a 
claim for breach of contract against the supplier of those goods or services can bring that 
claim against the card issuer as well as the supplier. 
In this case, the payment was made to T. T was not the supplier of the holiday; that was to 
be provided by a combination of the airline, the hotel and an airport transfer business. The 
booking form included:
[T] is at all times acting as an agent on behalf of the supplier(s) of the services specified on 
this payment summary. Your contract is with the supplier(s) and their terms and conditions 
apply. Your booking is also governed by our terms and conditions, available on our website 
or upon request. 
The terms and conditions on Ts website explained that T would take bookings on behalf of 
the customer and make bookings with the relevant suppliers  airlines, hotels, excursion 
operators and providers of other services. That was therefore the basis of Mrs Rs contract 
with T  that T would make the booking she had requested and pass on payment to the 
relevant suppliers (presumably having deducted its own fees). By making the booking, Mrs R 
would enter into separate contracts with the individual suppliers. 
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, Mrs Rs contract with T was to be read as including a 
term that T would act with reasonable care and skill. That was not a term that could be 
excluded by the published terms and conditions. In my view, acting with reasonable care and 
skill included recording correctly the booking details provided by Mrs R. Indeed, making the 
booking with the correct details was, along with paying the suppliers, the core of Ts 
obligations to Mrs R. Mrs Rs complaint about T is that it did not take down the correct details and therefore made 
errors in making the booking. It then made the situation worse by not addressing her 
concerns when they came to light. 
Mrs R has provided only limited information about the errors in the booking, and T has not in 
its correspondence with her suggested that it did, in fact, record the correct details. The only 
record I have of Mrs Rs telephone call when she made the booking is her own account of it. 
I do note however that she asked T to provide a call recording, but it did not do so. 
I do note however that Mrs R has been consistent  from her first contact with T  in saying 
that the details were not as requested. T had the opportunity to address that, but did not do 
so, instead referring Mrs R to a telephone line which she was not able to use, sending 
emails which ignored her cancellation request and which in some cases were meaningless. 
It is possible of course that the error or errors in the booking form were in fact Mrs Rs; Ts 
transcript or recording of the call might shed some light on that. My current view, in the 
absence of any evidence to the contrary, is however that T probably took down the details 
incorrectly and failed to check fully with Mrs R before confirming the booking. In doing so, its 
likely that it was in breach of contract. 
Whether Mrs R could cancel the individual elements of the booking depended on the terms 
and conditions of the individual suppliers. I note that T said that the flights were not 
refundable, and I think thats likely to have been the case. The position of the hotel in regard 
to cancellation is not clear, but many hotels allow cancellation as long as it is done 
sufficiently far in advance. Cancellation fees often increase closer to the date of the booking. 
Mrs R had, I think, made it clear by April  six months ahead of her booking  that she 
wanted to cancel, but T did not address her request. 
By not addressing the cancellation request, therefore, T may have increased the level of any 
cancellation fee due. Whether or not it did, the question would not have arisen if the booking 
had been correct in the first place. 
I am satisfied too that Mrs R has not used the booking or any part of it. Had she done so, it 
seems to me that T would have known that, since the airline and the hotel would have had a 
record.   
It is of course not for me to decide whether Mrs R has a claim for breach of contract against 
T. What I must decide is how her complaint about Lloyds should be resolved. I am required 
to do that by reference to what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
And in deciding whats fair and reasonable I must have regard to, amongst other things, any 
relevant law. Relevant law in this case includes the relevant parts of the Consumer Credit 
Act and the Consumer Rights Act. 
In my view, there is a strong argument that T was in breach of its contract with Mrs R, in that 
it did not properly record the details of the holiday she wanted to book. It then failed to 
address her cancellation requests. In the circumstances, it would be fair of the bank to 
refund the two payments made to T. In my view, Lloyds could have addressed the refund 
request more effectively than it did and might have been able to obtain a partial refund at 
least of the hotel costs. It should therefore also pay Mrs R £250 in recognition of the further 
inconvenience to which she has been put.            
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that, to resolve Mrs Rs complaint. Lloyds Bank Plc 
should refund the payments of £2,000 and £2,475 made to T. So that any resulting interest and charges are also refunded, Lloyds Bank Plc should backdate the refunds to the date of 
payment. Lloyds Bank Plc should also pay Mrs R £250 in recognition of the inconvenience to 
which she has been put .   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman