DRN-3805235
The complaint
Ms S complains that Bankfoot Financial Services Ltd (BFS) advised her to transfer two 
cash ISAs to a Stocks and Shares ISA in 2016 and 2017 respectively.
What happened
In July 2016, Ms S contacted BFS to ask for their help to drawdown her tax-free lump sum 
from her employers group personal pension. The complaint about her pension advice has 
been dealt with in a separate complaint.
At the time Ms S had a cash ISA with Santander worth around £15,600 with a fixed interest 
rate. This was about to mature shortly on 1 August 2016. The new interest rates on her 
account were 0.25% for sums under £10,000 and 0.75% for sums above.
BFS recommended her to transfer to a stocks and shares ISA once her cash ISA had 
matured.
In April 2017, she was advised to invest another lump sum of £15,000 she had available into 
her stocks and shares ISA. No adviser fees were incurred for this. Ms S issued a cheque 
over the amount to BFS.
In September 2017, she was recommended by BFS to transfer another cash ISA with 
Santander worth around £74,000 to her stocks and shares ISA.
All her money in the stocks and shares ISA was invested in a cautious fund with Ms Ss 
attitude to risk being recorded as lowest medium (4 out of 10).
Ms S complained to BFS saying she was told by the adviser having two ISAs was illegal. 
She says later found out this was incorrect and whilst she could only contribute to one ISA 
per year, she could have kept her cash ISAs. She says she would have preferred to do that.
Our investigator upheld her complaint in part. He thought the advice to transfer her first ISA 
was suitable. At the time Ms S still had a larger cash ISA and some NS&I bonds which would 
mature in 2018, so she had the capacity to take some risk with these funds. And the interest 
rates offered on the matured ISA were low.
However, he thought the transfer of her second, much larger, cash ISA in 2017 was 
unsuitable. He said he didnt see any evidence that Ms Ss attitude to risk was reassessed 
since the previous year. And having talked to Ms S, he considered her risk attitude had likely 
changed by 2017. She was only about six months away from her planned retirement at that
point and wanted her funds to be available for larger ad hoc expenses and emergency 
funds. He thought she didnt really want to take any risk with her money. Also, he didnt think 
she had the capacity for loss to put all her money in investments which were affected by 
market risks. He also noted that the money held with one provider exceeded the FSCS 
compensation limit at the time which exposed her to additional unnecessary risk if the 
provider went into default.
He asked BFS to compare the value of Ms Ss stock and shares ISA with a benchmark of 
the average rate of fixed rate bonds.
BFS didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision not upholding Ms Ss ISA complaint and asked both parties 
for any further comments they might have.
BFS provided no further comments.
Ms S re-iterated that she didnt want to transfer her cash ISAs to stocks and shares ISAs 
and that the adviser did this without her consent. She said her plan had been to transfer her 
smaller ISA when it matured in August 2016 into her other cash ISA. She said she didnt 
want to take the risk of stocks and shares. She also explained that it had been easy in the 
past to make contributions to her ISAs with Santander as she could just do it in branch. With 
her new ISAs she needed to phone and complete forms which was complicated. Shes 
unhappy she had to pay adviser fees for over £1,000 for the two ISA switches in 2016 and 
2017.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I carefully considered Ms Ss comments, however she didnt provide any information I had 
not already considered when I issued my provisional decision. I remain satisfied that the 
advice she received regarding her ISAs wasnt unsuitable for her.
Ms S said that she didnt agree to most of BFSs recommended transactions and wasnt 
aware of them until they happened. However, in her complaint about the ISA transfers she 
said BFS told her she wasnt allowed two cash ISAs which indicates this transfer was 
discussed. She also issued a cheque of £15,000 which I think she unlikely wouldnt have 
issued if she didnt know where this money would be invested.
I dont know what exactly was discussed and whether Ms S was given incorrect information. 
I appreciate Ms S feels strongly that she paid fees for something she didnt want. However, 
based on the evidence available there isnt enough for me to say the adviser acted against 
her wishes at the time. So I focussed on whether I thought the advice to transfer her cash 
ISAs was suitable in her circumstances.
I agree with the investigator that the transfer of Ms Ss cash ISA in 2016 (as well as a top up 
a few months later) was suitable. Her interest rate on the cash ISA was about to drop to low 
levels and she could reasonably expect higher returns in a stocks and shares ISA. It was 
invested in a relatively cautious portfolio invested in with profits funds which was designed to 
smooth returns and protect investors from significant short-term fluctuations. And Ms S had 
significant amounts of money in her other cash ISA and an NS&I bond, so I think she had 
the capacity to absorb small losses.
Ms Ss second fixed rate cash ISA matured in June 2017 and so her interest rates would 
have also dropped. So a review was in her interest and like I said above I think the prospects 
for higher returns in a stocks and shares ISA were reasonable. Her funds were also still 
accessible if she needed them.
I appreciate Ms S was a year closer to retirement and it seems no new fact find or attitude to 
risk assessment was completed. However, whilst I agree her attitude and capacity for loss were relatively low, I think the investment chosen for Ms S was still suitable to provide 
growth on her funds during her retirement and providing a better option to outpace inflation 
than a cash ISA whilst still being relatively cautious. So I think overall the recommendation to 
transfer to a stock and shares ISA was reasonable in the circumstances.
I would like to note that even if I upheld this complaint and asked BFS to do a redress 
calculation its very likely it would show that Ms S was better off by transferring from a cash 
ISA (even when taking into account the adviser fees charged). 
I agree with the investigator that it wasnt prudent to put all Ms S money with one provider 
and therefore exceeding FSCS limits. I note Ms S previously held more than the protected 
limits with Santander, so all her funds were already not protected. However, when advising 
her, BFS should have taken this into account. The compensation limit has now increased to 
£85,000. And as Prudential is a large provider and still trading, Ms S hasnt lost out.
My final decision
I dont uphold Ms Ss complaint about her ISAs.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman