DRN-3172955
The complaint
 Mr M complained about Arrow Global Limited. Arrow had pursued Mr M for debts and a 
default which werent his, and after a previous final decision from this service, Arrow paid Mr 
M compensation and corrected his credit file. 
Some months later, Mr M checked his credit file and found that Arrow had once again 
reported the incorrect information to the credit reference agencies. 
 
What happened
 In February 2021, this service issued a final decision upholding Mr Ms complaint against 
Arrow. Arrow had pursued Mr M for debts and a default which werent his. Mr M accepted 
our final decision, which made it legally binding. In line with the decision, Arrow paid Mr M 
£250 compensation and removed the incorrect adverse information from his credit file.
But in June 2021, Mr M checked his credit file and found that there was a marked drop in his 
credit score. He saw that the reason was that Arrow had again reported the incorrect credit 
file information against his name. He sent us a copy, which showed that Arrow had recorded 
a default and an outstanding balance. This had been newly recorded on 25 April. 
Mr M contacted us. He said that Arrow had admitted it had made a mistake, but months later 
was still causing him problems. He was now looking for a loan to buy some land, but Arrows 
mistake was preventing him from doing so. He said he needed Arrow to resolve this. 
As an outcome, Mr M said hed like the business to acknowledge its mistake, apologise in 
writing, and pay him compensation for the stress and financial problems it continued to 
cause him. He said he believed that Arrow had a disregard for the people with whose data it 
was entrusted, and for the problems that its flagrant misuse of data was causing people.
Our investigator contacted Arrow. On 16 June, it acknowledged receipt, said it had a 
backlog, and would be back in touch when it had heard from its credit file team. The 
investigator chased Arrow a number of times after the eight weeks allowed for a business to 
respond to a complaint. But Arrow didnt acknowledge or send any substantive reply.
So the investigator issued her view. She said that because Arrow hadnt replied, she couldnt 
know why it had re-started reporting against Mr Ms credit file. She upheld Mr Ms complaint 
and said that Arrow should:
- contact the credit reference agencies, to remove the adverse credit reporting from Mr 
Ms file, and explain that the account hadnt belonged to Mr M;
- pay Mr M a further £250 compensation for the trouble and upset it had caused Mr M.
Mr M accepted the investigators view. But Arrow still didnt reply. So Mr Ms complaint was 
passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I can understand why Mr M is so frustrated and annoyed that Arrow have again reported the 
incorrect default and debt information against his credit file. He said that Arrow did remove it 
after the previous final decision from this service. So its clear that Arrow actively reported it 
again  its not an omission from what they had to do following the previous final decision.
Ive also looked at Mr Ms credit file, and I can see no other defaults, or other detrimental 
information, on it. So its more likely than not that it is this default and debt information which 
is responsible for causing Mr M problems in his applications for a loan to buy land. 
This would be particularly frustrating when Mr M would have thought that the problem had 
been resolved months earlier.
So I uphold Mr Ms further complaint against Arrow.
As Ive set out above, as an outcome, Mr M said hed like the business to acknowledge its 
mistake, apologise in writing, and pay him compensation for the stress and financial 
problems it continued to cause him. Ideally, Arrow will acknowledge its mistake and 
apologise to Mr M in writing. But unfortunately an order to apologise rarely results in a 
genuine apology. 
I consider that Arrow should pay Mr M compensation for the frustration, inconvenience, and 
annoyance which it has caused him. Theres no dispute about the debt and default  it was 
previously determined that this wasnt Mr Ms, but someone with a similar name. So I can 
see no valid reason why Arrow should have re-reported this incorrect information. I accept 
that as well as the frustration, its more likely than not that Arrows repeated error has also 
caused Mr M difficulties with his applications for a loan. I find that £250 compensation is fair 
and reasonable. 
My final decision
  My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I order Arrow Global Limited to:
- contact the credit reference agencies to remove the adverse credit reporting from Mr 
Ms file, and explain that the account had never belonged to Mr M;
- pay Mr M £250 compensation for the additional trouble and upset which its error has 
caused Mr M. For the avoidance of doubt, this is in addition to the £250 
compensation which was ordered in the previous final decision which I understand 
Arrow Global Limited paid to Mr M. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman