DRN-2823174
The complaint
Mr S complained that an arrangement hed made with Bank of Scotland plc trading as
Halifax to miss payments on his mortgage for two months has affected his credit file. He told 
us that had a significant impact on his plans for a property investment business.
What happened
Mr S was made redundant in early 2019, and agreed with Halifax that he wouldnt pay his
mortgage for two months. He referred to this as a payment holiday. He said that Halifax
didnt warn him this would impact his credit file, but he said Halifax had recorded what he
called a default on his credit file for February and March 2019.
Mr S said he was starting a property investment business, and the marks Halifax had left on
his credit file meant he couldnt arrange a mortgage for a property. He said he had to leave
the business as a result of this.
Halifax said the impact of the payment arrangement that Mr S had entered into was
explained to him over the phone, and then set out in a letter confirming the offer of an
arrangement, which it sent him on 21 January 2019.
Halifax thought the arrangement had been recorded in the wrong way on Mr Ss credit file,
so it said it would change that, and paid him £50 to apologise. Then it said this wasnt wrong
after all, and it paid him a further £50 for this mistake.
Halifax hasnt defaulted Mr Ss debt. It has put missed payment markers on Mr Ss credit file.
It wouldnt remove them.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Mr S was warned
about the impact that the arrangement would have on his file.
Mr S said he wasnt warned. He said that he had enough money in his bank account to pay
his mortgage, and he wasnt in any financial difficulty at the time. So he wouldnt have
entered into this arrangement if hed been warned how it would affect him.
Mr S wanted this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for
a final decision.
My first provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold
it. This is what I said then:
Mr S has told us he took a payment holiday on his mortgage. But not all agreements
with the lender to pause payments are a payment holiday. The terms for a payment
holiday are set out in Mr Ss contract with Halifax. If Mr S had qualified for a payment
holiday under the terms of his mortgage, then I would not have expected this to show
on Mr Ss credit file.
But Mr S didnt get a payment holiday. Im satisfied that the balance on Mr Ss
mortgage was too high, in relation to the value of his home, for him to qualify for a
payment holiday under Halifaxs criteria. Instead, Mr S entered into a payment
arrangement with Halifax.
I know that Mr S and Halifax had agreed that he wouldnt pay for a couple of months.
But the arrangement Mr S entered into was made outside of the terms of Mr Ss
mortgage with Halifax. And when someone stops paying, in a way that isnt foreseen
in the mortgage terms, then its usual for that to show on someones credit file.
Halifax has been clear that the impact of a payment arrangement would have been
explained to Mr S over the phone, when he set up this payment arrangement. But it
hasnt been able to provide a copy of this call for me to listen to. Without being able
to listen to this call, I dont think I can assume that this was explained clearly to Mr S.
Particularly as Mr S appears to have consistently referred to this arrangement as a
payment holiday, and it wasnt.
Halifax has also said that if Mr S had paid a little more than half of his monthly
payment on his mortgage for two months, then no arrears would have been reported,
and he wouldve been able to avoid any impact on his credit file.
Halifax has suggested that Mr S wouldve been told this on the call he had to set up
the payment arrangement, but theres nothing at all in the notes made at the time to
support this.
So I dont think that its likely that Mr S was told this. And I think its likely that if Mr S
had been given this advice, he wouldve preferred to make two smaller monthly
payments, and avoid any impact on his credit file.
When it was responding to Mr Ss complaint, Halifax said that its letter to Mr S
confirming the offer of a payment arrangement, dated 21 January 2019, contained a
number of paragraphs warning him about the impact of this arrangement on his credit
file. It reproduced the following, which it said was in this 21 January letter 
Your credit file may be impacted
It's important that you understand that if you fall behind with your payments,
your credit file will be updated to show that your account is in arrears. It's
normal for us to notify the credit reference agencies in this way. This may
affect your ability to borrow money in the future, not just with us, but also with
other banks, building societies, mobile phone operators and other credit
providers.
I agree that this is a clear warning about the impact of a payment arrangement on a
credit file. But Halifax has also sent us its letter of 21 January. And this paragraph
just isnt in there. Theres no other clear warning in that letter about the impact this
payment arrangement would have on Mr Ss credit file either.
Considering the evidence Ive seen so far, I dont think that its likely that Halifax
clearly and fully warned Mr S of the impact a payment arrangement would have on
his credit file. And I dont think its likely that Halifax offered Mr S the alternative that it
mentioned later, of paying just over half his monthly payment.
We know that Mr S had enough money to cover his payments for February and 
March. He just wanted to keep hold of his capital, if he could. He paid off all thearrears promptly when the payment arrangement ended.
I think if Halifax had warned Mr S of the impact a payment arrangement would have,
and had told him he could pay just over half his monthly payment with no impact on
his credit file, then he wouldve chosen to make that payment. And he wouldnt have
marks on his credit file as a result of this arrangement.
For that reason, I think that Halifax should now remove the adverse marks it recorded
on Mr Ss credit file as a result of this arrangement.
Mr S said that these missed payments had a significant effect on him. He told us that
he had to leave his business because of the marks Halifax put on his credit file,
which were preventing the business from getting a mortgage.
Mr S sent us his credit record, which helpfully shows how the three major credit
reference agencies are reporting his credit file. I can see that all three of these show
two missed mortgage payments recorded by Halifax in February and March 2019.
But thats not the only issue on Mr Ss credit file. An account closed in March 2018
had two late payments before it was closed.
This credit report also shows credit searches on Mr Ps file from late July 2019.
Records at Companies House show Mr S left a limited company that he had been
part of, in late 2019. He said he did that because marks on his credit file were
preventing his company from getting a mortgage. But there are no searches visible
on his credit file from mortgage providers in the months prior to this.
I dont think its clear that the marks Halifax placed on Mr Ss credit file did have an
impact on Mr Ss business.
I also note that Mr S appears to have set up another business, in broadly the same
area, in summer 2020. That again suggests to me that Mr S hasnt seen the marks
on his credit file as preventing him from pursuing this area of work.
For those reasons, Im not able to decide here, on the evidence I have, that it was
solely the marks that Halifax put on Mr Ss credit file that prevented him from working
with the business he left in late October 2019. So I dont think Halifax has to pay
compensation for the loss of Mr Ss career, because I dont think it caused that.
But I do think Halifax made mistakes here, and put marks on Mr Ss credit file that
wouldnt have been there if hed been given the right information by Halifax. So, in
addition to removing those marks, I think Halifax should pay Mr S compensation for
the trouble and upset its actions have caused. My provisional view is that Halifax
should pay Mr S £200 for that.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted. Both sides replied.
My second provisional decision
When Halifax replied to my first provisional decision, it said it had now found the call 
recording that it had previously told us it was unable to provide. It felt that this provided 
significant fresh evidence. I listened to this call, and considered the other additional evidence 
Halifax sent. And in the light of this, I reached a different conclusion. So I issued a second 
provisional decision, saying that I no longer thought this complaint should be upheld. This is 
what I said then:In addition to sending us the call recording, Halifax also sent us the letters it had sent 
to Mr S. It said that there mustve been some confusion about that.
Halifax had said to Mr Ss representative that page 2 of its letter of 21 January and 
page 2 of its letter of 2 March 2019 both contained a clear warning about the impact 
of a payment arrangement on a credit file. Id reproduced that warning in my 
provisional decision, and said it wasnt on page 2 of either of those letters.
Halifax now says that there were attachments with both letters. And the attachment 
to the January letter included warnings.
The January letter does refer to enclosures. Halifax sent us a copy of those 
enclosures. They dont include the warning I reproduced in my provisional decision 
above. But they do say that if Mr S is paying less than the contractual monthly 
payment, and less than the interest due on the debt, then his account will accrue 
arrears. It also says that If we currently provide information to Credit Reference 
Agencies, this will continue and reflect your payment record. Although this is rather 
less clear than the warning Halifax said it had given to Mr S, it does mean that 
Halifax had taken some steps to warn Mr S about the impact this arrangement would 
have on his credit file.
The March letter also included enclosures, and Halifax said that it was this letter that
included the warning Ive reproduced above. As that letter was only sent when Mr Ss
payment arrangement was coming to a close, that didnt help Mr S.
Halifax also said that, having listened to the call it had with Mr S, it thought Mr S 
definitely didnt want to spend any of his savings on covering his mortgage in the 
coming months. And it said that the situation he was in wasnt suitable for a payment 
holiday for one-off circumstances. He didnt have any guarantee of future income, 
and looking at his statements since, his available balance decreased, and he went 
into overdraft a couple of times.
Halifax felt that Mr S was fully aware of the impact on his credit file, and he had the 
option to use his savings or redundancy money, and chose not to do that.
I dont think thats quite right. I dont think Mr S had appreciated that the agreement 
he was reaching with Halifax was likely to prevent him from obtaining further lending 
in the near future. And Mr S told Halifax in January 2019 that he had an upcoming 
source of income, from a property which was shortly going to be ready to let. But hes 
told us that rental was conditional on a mortgage of the renovated property. Mr S 
found that the markers Halifax put on his credit file meant his fledgling business 
couldnt get a mortgage, and he had to leave the business.
So the question I need to answer, having considered the additional evidence that 
Halifax has provided, is whether it was Halifaxs fault that Mr S didnt realise what he 
was doing, by not paying his mortgage for two months, would prevent him from 
obtaining further lending.
Ive listened to the call where Mr S set up this arrangement. I can hear that Mr S 
wanted to explore changing his mortgage to interest only, but Halifax wouldnt do that 
because he didnt have any way to pay back the capital when the mortgage ended. I 
think that, in the circumstances I can hear Mr S describing on this call, it was 
reasonable for Halifax to say it wouldnt change Mr Ss mortgage to interest only.Halifax did then discuss a payment holiday with Mr S, and Mr S turned that down 
because he said hed need an arrangement for longer than two months. Halifax also 
said later that he didnt qualify for a payment holiday, which is what Id said in my 
provisional decision.
Mr S entered into a zero-payment plan for two months, and it was clear from the call 
that he was hoping to extend the arrangement or set up a new arrangement after 
that.
Halifax explained to him that this arrangement would put his mortgage in arrears for 
two months, and it repeatedly said this may affect your credit file. Whilst that isnt a 
very strong warning, it is a warning. And it was repeated on the call.
I also think its worth mentioning that Mr S hadnt indicated on this call that he was 
planning on borrowing to support his business. So, in the context of the information 
Mr S had given Halifax, I think the warning it gave him was appropriate. And we now 
also know that the warning was repeated in the letter Halifax sent Mr S confirming 
the payment arrangement.
I dont think Mr S had realised the impact that this arrangement, and the resulting 
missed payment marks on his credit file, would have. In response to my provisional 
decision, he told us more about the consequences that this had for him. But those 
consequences are only something I can consider if I think that what went wrong was 
Halifaxs fault. And, having considered the additional evidence Halifax has supplied, I 
no longer think that. Im sorry to have to tell Mr S that I no longer think this complaint 
should be upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision.
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax said it had nothing to add. Mr S said it was good to know that Halifax could now find 
call recordings. He said hed spoken to Halifax a number of times, after that first call, 
because he wanted more information about the two months break. He said he remembered 
that every time he called each advisor had a different perspective on the break. He said it 
was very confusing; on a phone call he remembered an advisor telling him that as long as he 
paid at the end of the break, it wouldnt affect him or his credit rating, and thats when he 
thought it would be okay.
Mr S said it was very confusing and unclear at the time because every Halifax advisor was 
giving him different information each time.
Mr S also said that the end of the two months he didnt receive any call or letter about the 
money he needed to pay back. He called Halifax to make the payment at the end, and he 
thought that if he paid in time his credit file wouldnt be affected.
Mr S wanted Halifax to find the other call recordings in this case, and see what happened.
Mr S said that after he found the marks on his credit file, he called Halifax immediately. But 
he had to call Halifax again and again because every advisor was telling him different things. 
He said he was told Halifax needed to change the marks on his credit file because it had made a mistake, and it paid him £50 for that. But then it said it couldnt take the marks off 
and it paid him a further £50 for that mistake. 
I note that Mr S says now that there were a number of calls on which he was given advice 
about how his credit file would be affected by his missed mortgage payments. That doesnt 
seem to me to be suggested by the evidence Ive previously received in this case.
Although Halifax said originally that it wasnt able to find a recording of the call Mr S made on 
17 January, it has always accepted that a call was made on this date, and it sent us notes it 
had made of this call. Halifax has already told our service that it has no other record of any 
relevant calls made prior to Mr Ss complaint. 
And I note that Mr S doesnt appear to have made any mention of other calls on which he 
got advice about the effect of his missed payments on his credit file, in any of the 
representations he made to our service, until now. I think its likely that, if Mr S had also 
relied on what hed been told in other calls, he wouldve mentioned this to our service as part 
of his complaint.
Ive also listened again to the call Mr S had with Halifax on 17 January. Theres no 
suggestion on this call that Mr S has discussed his options with Halifax before this. The 
agreement he reached, for two payments to be missed, was set up on this call, and 
confirmed in a letter sent out to Mr S within a few days. So I think its the explanation here, 
and in the letter that followed, which is key. 
For those reasons, I still think that the call on 17 January is the key call for this case. Mr S 
has also said that he didnt receive the letter Halifax sent to him after his arrangement was 
finished, but I dont think this, or Halifaxs later mistakes about whether it would amend or 
remove the marks, affected his decision in January to go ahead with the plan he entered 
into. And I think the total amount of £100 that Halifax made to Mr S provides a fair and 
reasonable resolution to the mistakes Halifax made about whether it could or couldnt amend 
Mr Ss credit file when he complained.
So Im sorry to have to tell Mr S that I havent changed my mind. I still dont think this 
complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman