DRN-4067837
The complaint
Mr K complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC dealt with an international money 
transfer.
What happened
Mr K says he made an international transfer from his Barclays account to an account in India 
in September 2022. He says the payment did not arrive in the account in India and he wasnt 
given any information about what took place from Barclays. Mr K would like the issue 
investigated and says he was caused embarrassment as well as damage to his reputation. 
He says there may have been a security issue with Barclays systems and that his account 
may have been targeted.
Barclays accepts it didnt tell Mr K that he could have traced an international payment. It 
initially said it couldnt explain what took place.
Mr K brought his complaint to us, and our investigator upheld it in part. The investigator 
didnt think Barclays had explained what took place and didnt think Mr K had received 
appropriate service from Barclays. The investigator recommended Barclays pay £75 
compensation but explained what our role was and that an investigation was not something 
we could order into exactly what took place.
Barclays has agreed to pay the compensation and says it has now carried out a further 
investigation. It says the payment was cancelled due to Indias regulations on payment 
details as the transfer didnt contain required information.
Mr K doesnt accept that view and in summary says he doesnt want compensation but 
would like to know if his account was targeted as well as receiving a full explanation. He 
says Barclays failed to tell him why the transaction details were missing when he called and 
maintains that he believes there may have been security bug.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Barclays has made a fair and 
reasonable compensation offer. I appreciate Mr K would like a more detailed investigation 
into what happened and why, but we are not Barclays regulator. So, its not our role to carry 
out such an investigation or order Barclays provide us, for example, with the results of any 
internal reviews it may have carried out. And I make clear I have not seen any evidence from 
either side to this complaint that Mr Ks account was targeted as he suggests or why that 
should have happened.
There is no dispute that Mr K made the transfer and I accept he would have been concerned 
when the money did not arrive in the recipients account. I also accept that when Mr K 
contacted Barclays, he should have been told such transactions could be traced and that he 
wasnt provided with appropriate information. I can also see that Mr K contacted Barclays 
again after the initial call to it. I appreciate Mr K says he is not interested in compensation, 
but Im satisfied Barclays offer is appropriate for that part of the complaint. I dont think Mr K 
suffered any financial loss and that it likely he was able to make the transfer by other means.
It is not clear why Barclays couldnt tell Mr K exactly what took place with the transfer as it 
has now provided information that it was cancelled due to Indias banking regulations about 
transfer information. But Im satisfied that Mr K now has details about the transaction 
problem. In those circumstances it is difficult to see what else Barclays can now do. I have 
made clear there is no evidence of Mr Ks account being targeted and its not our role to 
order an investigation into the events. I have not seen any evidence of a security problem as 
Mr K suggests may have taken place. 
Overall, Im satisfied Barclays ought to have communicated far more appropriately with Mr K 
than it did but that its fairly offered appropriate compensation. I accept Mr K will have 
unanswered questions about what took place and why. But those are questions that this 
service and decision cant answer, as much as I appreciate Mr K would like to know why 
Barclays systems didnt have a record of the true position when he initially called.
Putting things right
Barclays should pay Mr K £75 compensation if he wishes to accept this decision. I will leave 
it to Mr K to decide that as I can see he has made clear that compensation wasnt the 
outcome he was looking for.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order Barclays Bank UK PLC to 
pay Mr K £75 compensation. Mr Ks acceptance of this decision would be in full and final 
settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman