DRN-4334617
The complaint
Miss G has complained about how U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill (UKI) settled a 
claim under a home contents policy.
What happened
Miss G contacted UKI to make a claim following a flood in her home. UKI assessed the claim 
and offered a settlement for some of the damaged items. Miss G complained to UKI about 
the amount of time it took to settle the claim. UKI accepted there had been delays. It offered 
£600 compensation. This service also considered what had happened and said what UKI 
had offered in response to Miss Gs complaint was reasonable.
Miss G also complained to UKI about the amount it offered to settle the claim, as she said it 
didnt include a large number of items that had been damaged. When UKI replied, it said 
Miss G had disposed of a number of items, so it had been unable to consider them as part of 
the claim.
When Miss G complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He 
said UKI had offered a reasonable settlement for the claim, as many items had been 
disposed of by Miss G. He said UKI didnt need to offer anything further.
As Miss G didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 8 August 2923. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
My decision is only about the claim settlement offered by UKI. Im not considering the issues 
that were part of the previous complaint, although Im aware of what happened.
Miss G has said UKIs settlement for the claim didnt include a large number of items 
damaged by the flood. UKI has said the items werent available for inspection as they had 
been disposed of. It said this breached the terms of the policy and it wouldnt offer settlement 
for those items.
Ive checked the policy booklet. This said:
For any claim you must:
 Give us any relevant information and evidence that we ask for, including proof of ownership 
or value of the lost or damaged item and written estimates for repair. You will have to do this 
at your own expense.
 Allow us (or our appointed suppliers) to access or inspect the damaged items and/or 
property.
UKI explained to Miss G its concerns about the vinyl records she was claiming for. It said 
Miss G had provided two loss lists that contradicted each other. It said Miss G had only listed 
144 vinyl records 10 months after the loss and nine months after she provided UKI with the 
original loss list. It said it only covered the loss of 10 records because that is all the assessor 
saw on their visit. So, Ive looked at this.
Miss G first reported the claim on 12 October 2021. UKI provided this service with an email 
that showed that on 25 October 2021, Miss G sent UKI a loss list that included a large 
number of vinyl records. So, I think it was inaccurate for UKI to say that the first time Miss G 
reported a large number of damaged vinyl records was 10 months after the loss.
Ive also looked at UKIs notes of the claim and the visit reports. When Miss G first spoke to 
UKI about the claim, UKIs notes said Miss G said she had a large vinyl record collection. 
Miss G explained that workmen had cleared the water and thrown away a large number of 
items, which included a lot of the vinyl. A few days later, UKI spoke to Miss G again. During 
that conversation, UKIs notes showed it asked about the vinyl records and that Miss G said 
she only had a few and the covers and sleeves were stuck together. When the loss adjuster 
visited, she took a photo of some damaged vinyl records and UKI later said it would cover 
the cost of 10 records.
UKIs notes said that in August 2022, Miss G told UKI she had finally unpacked some boxes 
and found all the damaged vinyl albums. She also said a UKI contractor had been out that 
morning to inspect the damage in her home again. UKI provided this service with the video 
from the contractors visit. This showed a large number of vinyl records and the person 
carrying out the assessment also referred to them. Following this, UKI wrote to Miss G in 
response to her first complaint and said it had asked its validation team to complete a full 
review of the entire claim. It said it was pleased to learn of the visit that had taken place and 
that another company had been in touch about appointing a restoration company to inspect 
the vinyl, as well as Miss Gs other items. I note that the purpose of the visits as described in 
the letter seemed to be based on Miss G telling UKI this. Looking at UKIs notes, the second 
company seemed to be appointed to view the furniture and the first company was appointed 
to photograph the rest. 
When the second company visited, its report focussed on the furniture but said The 
assessor also noted damage to a [] laptop, books and some vinyl records. Please can you 
attend to these items. I asked UKI about this. It said the company had taken no photos of 
the items and that the items hadnt been seen as it wasnt part of UKIs instructions, but the 
customer had referred to the items being damaged, which was why they had been added to 
the report. Even if I accept that as correct, the first company took a video that showed the 
vinyl records. UKI had said it would review the whole claim and it also confirmed to this 
service that the company acted as its eyes so took videos for UKI. However, I havent 
currently seen evidence that UKI fully reviewed the claim for the vinyl records, despite it 
saying it would do so. When it sent its concerns to Miss G in October 2022, it didnt seem to 
have noted that Miss G first submitted a long list of vinyl records in October 2021 or the 
reason Miss G gave in August 2022 for why she now had the records or the video taken by 
one of its contractors. I dont think UKI has shown that it fairly assessed this part of the 
claim.
UKI also declined to deal with a claim for damaged living room furniture. When it challenged 
Miss G about some of the claim, it asked why there were now solid oak items on the list, 
although it didnt say what these items were. Looking at the loss list, this was a sideboard 
and a cabinet. In the photos taken at the first visit, I can see two items that appeared to be a 
sideboard and cabinet. When the video was later taken for UKI, this showed a sideboard and 
glass cabinet in the living room, although there was only limited comment in the video about 
whether there was any visible damage. There was also a coffee table and a lamp table on 
the loss list and these were also shown in the video. I cant see that UKI referred to the 
tables when it raised its concerns with Miss G, but it also doesnt seem to have settled the items. Based on what Ive seen, I dont currently think UKI has clearly shown why it didnt 
consider the furniture in the living room.
Miss G said she was also concerned that UKI hadnt paid for a rug. This was listed on the 
first loss list and I havent currently seen anything that said Miss G was told why this wasnt 
covered as part of the claim. Miss G later claimed for a carpet shampooer as well and, 
again, I cant see that UKI provided a reason for not dealing with this. 
Miss G has also said that UKI offered a settlement for the carpet and then withdrew it. The 
carpet wasnt an item raised by UKI when it sent its concerns to Miss G. Ive seen evidence 
that Miss G was claiming for the carpet and raised concerns about getting a settlement for it. 
Based on what Ive currently seen, Im not persuaded UKI has fairly or clearly dealt with this 
part of the claim.
Im aware UKI raised concerns about why Miss G sent a new loss list many months after she 
first submitted the claim. Miss G said she was told by the person at UKI who was dealing 
with her complaint to submit a new loss list. UKI told this service that it hadnt said this. 
However, UKI didnt provide evidence to show that its explanation of what was agreed was 
more reliable than Miss Gs. Ive looked at UKIs note of what was discussed and this didnt 
say one way or the other whether Miss G was asked to send a new list. However, given the 
person at UKI dealing with the complaint had committed to getting the whole claim reviewed, 
in my view, Miss Gs account of what was discussed doesnt currently seem inconsistent 
with UKI discussing the claim and suggesting she provide a new loss list.
Based on what Ive currently seen, Im not persuaded UKI fairly considered this part of the 
claim or that UKI has properly explained to Miss G why it hasnt settled these items. So, I 
think UKI needs to assess the claim for the living room furniture, carpet, rug and carpet 
shampooer and either settle the claim for some or all of these items or give Miss G a clear 
reason why it wont do so.
Miss G also claimed for a laptop. UKI was concerned that Miss G had originally said some 
workmen had disposed of the laptop following the flood. Several months later, Miss G told 
UKI the laptop had been found in rubble at the end of the garden. UKI told Miss G that at its 
first visit, photos had been taken of the end of the garden and this didnt seem to show any 
boxes. It asked Miss G to respond to its concerns, but wasnt satisfied that its concerns were 
addressed. UKI was also concerned that Miss G had changed the list of books she was 
claiming for from some music-related and fiction books to cookery books. Looking at the list, 
I can see that the two lists provided a few months apart listed different books. I can 
understand that UKI was concerned by these issues and that it didnt think it had received a 
satisfactory explanation for the changes.
Miss G also claimed for a wardrobe. In the initial claim list, it was a four-door wardrobe and 
in the revised list, sent several months later, it was listed as a six-door wardrobe. UKI was 
also concerned that the wardrobe was later disposed of before a contractor was able to 
inspect it. Im aware wardrobes were inspected when UKI first visited. A wardrobe also 
seemed to be at the property, although in the garden, when the company visited to video 
items. However, when another company visited to inspect the furniture, Miss G said the 
wardrobe had been stolen from the garden. So, I can understand that UKI was concerned by 
inconsistencies in the description of the wardrobe and it then not being available.
Miss G also said she told one of the companies that there were three damaged DVDs. I 
didnt see these listed on either of the loss lists or referred to in the visit reports. So, I 
currently think it was reasonable that UKI didnt deal with them as part of the claim.Based on what Ive currently seen, I think it was reasonable for UKI not to deal with the 
laptop, wardrobe, books or DVDs and I dont intend to require it to do anything in relation to 
these.
Ive also thought about compensation. UKI told Miss G it would review the whole claim 
again. From what Ive seen, it didnt do that. It settled some items, declined others and there 
were other items it didnt seem to consider, despite them being listed as part of the claim. I 
also dont currently think UKI clearly explained its reasons for not settling some parts of the 
claim. So, I currently intend to say that UKI should pay Miss G £200 compensation for the 
impact on her of how it dealt with the claim review.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 5 September 2023. Both parties responded before that date. I have summarised their 
responses below.
Miss G sent a letter that she said confirmed UKI had said it had arranged to assess the vinyl 
records and everything else. She described that when the assessor visited that he sat on the 
floor and went through each vinyl record and looked at them for at least half an hour. The 
assessor also took photos of the wooden furniture, including laying on the floor to take close 
ups of the stained wood. She also queried whether I was saying UKI should settle the part of 
the claim for the vinyl records and explained the impact the claim had on her mental health.
Miss G explained that the laptop was found in its original box inside another box that was in 
a rubble bag. There were other rubble bags on the other side of the fence. When the fence 
was built the landlord came with a trailer and started to fill it with rubbish, which included 
parts of the wardrobe together with the rubble bags. When she noticed the trailer, she saw 
the rubble bag and found the laptop. She then contacted UKI to say it had been found. She 
said it was also inspected by UKIs contractor.
UKI replied to my provisional decision and said it was unable to offer settlement for the vinyl 
records. It said when the claim was registered that Miss G had advised most had been 
disposed of. When UKIs surveyor visited a few weeks later, Miss G also said the records 
had been disposed of. It said the second list I referred to was only provided 10 months later. 
It listed 141 records, not 144 as stated by Miss G. The records being recovered raised 
concerns as UKI had previously been advised they had been disposed of by the landlord. It 
had requested evidence of the records and Miss G provided photos but none of these were 
timestamped. So, it had concerns about the images. It requested the original images, but to 
date, these had not been received.
UKI also said it was concerned Miss G had said she had been replacing items, which 
resulted in her owing £10,000 - £12,000. UKI was unable to say these werent the items 
bought as replacements. But the main concern was how Miss G was able to obtain the 
records several months after she said they were disposed of. It suggested there was a 
pattern with Miss G that once UKI confirmed it had disposed of items that Miss G would then 
find the items, such as the laptop.
UKI confirmed it had cash settled the claim for the carpet. It said Miss G had chosen to 
shampoo the carpet of her own accord. At the time, UKI was under the assumption the 
landlord was dealing with the carpet. As it had now offered settlement for the carpets, it 
didnt feel that paying for them to cleaned was something it should pay for as it hadnt 
instructed Miss G to do this. For the living room furniture and rug, Miss G hadnt included 
these in the original loss list. They were in the second loss list provided 10 months later. It 
didnt consider these as it didnt receive a satisfactory response on why they hadnt been 
included in the original list. However, so long as Miss G still had the items, UKI said it would instruct a supplier to visit and view the damaged items and provide an accurate settlement, 
so long as there is evidence to show water damage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my provisional decision. 
Ive considered all of the responses provided, even if I dont comment on them here. I should 
also note that I confirmed to Miss G that the letter she sent was the one I referred to in my 
provisional decision.
Im aware of UKIs concerns about Miss G changing her account of what happened to some 
of the items. I was aware of this when I made my provisional decision. I considered each 
item individually and looked at all the evidence available to me in order to make what I 
considered to be a fair decision for each item.
I remain of the view that UKI still doesnt need to deal with the claims for the laptop, 
wardrobe, books or DVDs. I note for the wardrobe that Miss G has now said her landlord 
took parts of it away, which is different to what she previously told UKI. But Im aware Miss G 
was particularly concerned about the laptop. Ive considered the further information Miss G 
provided. However, this still doesnt address UKIs concern that there didnt seem to be 
boxes at the end of the garden when its surveyor visited, but the laptop was later found 
there.
I note UKI has said it will assess the furniture, which I think is an appropriate way forward. It 
has also said it has settled the carpet. For completeness, I have left it in the list of items for it 
to consider further. But if the settlement has already been paid, it doesnt need to do 
anything further on this.
UKI has also explained why it wont settle the carpet shampooer. I remain of the view that it 
still needs to assess it. As far as Im aware, it hasnt discussed it with Miss G and I think it 
needs to get her explanation of why she used a carpet shampooer and then decide whether 
it should make a settlement.
In terms of the vinyl records, I remain of the view that UKI needs to consider these further. 
Ive looked at what it said in response to my provisional decision. I was already aware Miss 
G initially said they had been disposed of and only later said she had found them. Although 
UKI has queried the second loss list and the photos provided by Miss G, it still doesnt seem 
to have taken into account that the records were listed on the first loss list and that a 
company it sent to act as its eyes also took video footage showing a lot of vinyl records, 
albeit sometime later. The company visited as part of UKI saying it would reassess the claim. 
Im still not persuaded UKI has shown it fairly considered this part of the claim based on all 
the evidence available to it.
I remain of the view that £200 remains an appropriate level of compensation.
Putting things right
UKI should assess the claim for the vinyl records, living room furniture, carpet, rug and 
carpet shampooer and either settle the claim for some or all of these items or give Miss G a 
clear reason why it wont do so. It should also pay Miss G £200 compensation.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is upheld. I require U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill to:
assess the claim for the vinyl records, living room furniture, carpet, rug and carpet 
shampooer and either settle the claim for some or all of these items or give Miss G a 
clear reason why it wont do so.
Pay Miss G £200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman