DRN-1942886
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that because Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) changed its online 
transaction page, he transferred money into an account by mistake which he cant now 
withdraw.
What happened
Mr K had five accounts with Nationwide - a FlexAccount, a FlexBasic Account, two Smart 
Junior Individual Savings Accounts (JISA) and an Instant Access Savings Account. All five 
were displayed on his online banking dashboard and he regularly transferred money from his 
FlexAccount to his Basic Account to cover his bills.
Mr K completed a transfer from his FlexAccount but accidentally put the money into one of 
the JISAs instead of his Basic Account. He only realised his mistake when his bills werent 
paid. Mr K asked Nationwide to move the money from the JISA back to his current account, 
but it refused because Her Majestys Revenue and Customs (HMRC) prohibited it. He 
explained that because of ill health he hadnt been aware of his mistake, and he complained 
that it was Nationwides fault for changing the online page layout. Nationwide asked HMRC 
whether the money could be withdrawn considering Mr Ks health problems, but it rejected 
the request.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that Nationwide had put enough 
warnings in place to alert Mr K to the transfer he was making, and it couldnt be held 
responsible for the rules in place to stop him withdrawing the money. Our investigator also 
thought Nationwide had done enough to alert all its customers to the changes it made to the 
online pages.
Mr K didnt agree. He thought that Nationwide hadnt considered his health issues and he 
thought it shouldve done more.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I genuinely sympathise with Mr Ks situation, and I recognise the frustration he must 
feel with the day to day difficulties he experiences, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. 
Ill explain why.
Firstly, as explained by our investigator, I cant ask Nationwide to change the way it operates 
its online banking. So Ive focused on whether Nationwide responded fairly to Mr Ks 
complaint and whether it shouldve done any more than it did to prevent his mistake or to 
help correct it.
Nationwide changed the way customers accessed online banking around the time Mr K 
made the transfer to the JISA. Before making the changes, Nationwide notified its customers 
by email, and included a demo with further messaging on its Internet Bank. Ive seen copies 
of the messaging and Im satisfied that Nationwide made enough attempts to ensure its 
customers were prepared for the changes. 
Nationwide confirms that changes to the Quick Transfer were made five years before, and 
nothing had changed more recently. Ive seen the communication Nationwide sent for the log 
in changes and, although it cant provide the evidence from five years ago for the Quick 
Transfer, I have no reason to doubt that it sent the same type of communication when it 
changed the transfer screens. That said, given the change was five years ago, I dont think it 
has any bearing on this complaint because Mr K wouldve used the service before.
So, whether the log in or the transfer screen was the cause of concern for Mr K, I dont think 
Nationwide did anything wrong in the way it handled the changes. It notified Mr K through 
appropriate channels in the months leading up to the changes, and provided the opportunity 
to see the screens before he used them. I wont be asking Nationwide to do anything in 
respect of this point.
Mr K says that by putting his savings account below the JISA on his dashboard, Nationwide 
hasnt done all it could to prevent a mistake such as his. Ive looked at the transfer screens. 
Mr Ks five accounts are in three separate, headed boxes  current accounts, JISAs, and 
savings account  and they appear in that order on his screen. The transfer Mr K wanted to 
make was from his FlexAccount at the top of the list, to his Basic Account which was the 
second account in the list and in the same headed box. He transferred the money to the 
JISA which was in the next box, titled JISAs, and below his current accounts. 
I understand that if his savings account was immediately below his current accounts, Mr K 
mightve transferred his money to his savings rather than the JISA. I can see why he thinks 
that. But I dont think Nationwide has done anything wrong by putting the accounts in the 
order it has.
On completing the transfer to the JISA, a warning box appears which says to check the 
details because the transfer is to a JISA and the money cant be withdrawn until the child is 
18 years old. It clearly states the name of the account the money is moving from and to, and 
the childs name is included on the JISA. Mr K wouldve then needed to tick the box to 
confirm he knew the funds couldnt be withdrawn, followed by a button to confirm he was 
sure about the transaction. In summary, before completing the transfer, Nationwide gave Mr 
K three warnings, two of which required action by him, and enough information to see what 
transaction he was making. Given the number of steps needed to complete the transaction 
to the JISA, I dont think Nationwide did anything which contributed to Mr Ks mistake.
Ive looked at the transaction Mr K completed. In doing so, Ive seen that he completed a 
number of transfers the day before and on the same day from his FlexAccount to his Basic 
Account. This is the type of transfer he meant to do when he moved the money into the 
JISA. But it shows that Mr K was aware of the correct process for the transfer, and the 
onscreen differences when making the transfer to the JISA shouldve alerted him to the 
mistake he was making.
Ive thought about what Nationwide did when Mr K asked it to reverse the transaction and I 
dont think it couldve done any more. It explained why it couldnt move the money back - 
HMRC rules prohibit withdrawal from a JISA except in specific circumstances and Mr Ks 
circumstances didnt meet the criteria. Ive looked at the response HMRC sent to Nationwide and checked HMRCs website - Nationwides explanation is correct. So I cant ask it to 
reverse a transaction which would go against HMRC rules.
Finally, Ive looked at whether Nationwide did, or didnt do something which couldve helped 
him manage his online account better after he explained about his health issues. I think 
Nationwide went beyond what might be expected when Mr K questioned HMRC rules. It 
contacted HMRC and asked whether it could withdraw the funds Mr K put into the JISA, 
explaining that his health issues contributed to his mistake. HMRC rejected its request and 
Ive seen the response from it confirming that position.
I can see that Nationwide also referred Mr Ks complaint to its Specialist Support Team after 
he explained about the effects his ill health had on him. Unfortunately, because of the nature 
of Mr Ks symptoms, Nationwide couldnt make any adjustments which would help prevent a 
similar mistake happening again. Ive thought carefully about what Mr K said, but I havent 
seen anything which leads me to think Nationwide failed to consider his ill health when 
investigating his complaint.
In summary, I understand that Mr K thinks its too easy to complete a transaction by mistake 
because of the online page layout. But, having looked at the steps needed to complete the 
transfer to a JISA, I dont agree. I appreciate the mistake left Mr K in a difficult position, but I 
dont think its fair to hold Nationwide responsible.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman