DRN-2917106
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) are unable to provide him with a Plus 
or Premium account.
What happened
Mr W was in a repayment plan for a personal loan, he completed this plan and moved to 
paying normal monthly repayments on the loan. Monzo has explained that its customers are 
ineligible for a Plus or Premium account whilst they are on a repayment plan. But due to an 
error in Monzos system, Mr W remains ineligible for the Plus or Premium account despite 
him no longer being on a repayment plan.
Mr W complained to Monzo about this. Monzo explained that this error was due to be fixed, 
but it could not say when this would happen. It paid Mr W £135 to reflect the distress this 
matter caused and for the way it handled Mr Ws complaint. 
One of our adjudicators looked into this complaint already and they explained that we could 
not force Monzo to change its system and that the £135 was sufficient.
Mr W did not agree with this and therefore this complaint was passed to me to issue a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, although Im aware this will disappoint Mr W, I think that what Monzo has 
already done is sufficient. I will explain why.
Ultimately both parties agree that something has gone wrong. So, all it remains for me to do 
is decide if, what Monzo has done to rectify this matter, is enough. Generally, this service 
aims to put a consumer back into the position that they wouldve been in, had the complaint 
event not occurred. In this instance though, this is not possible as the error in Monzos 
system has not been rectified. Also, I cant require Monzo to alter its systems or punish or 
fine Monzo because it is unable to fix the issue, as this is not within the powers of this 
service. 
I cant see that Monzos system error has caused Mr W an actual financial loss, instead only 
a loss in expectation. So I need to consider whether the amount paid to Mr W for the distress 
this matter has caused is enough. I have carefully considered this and I think that what 
Monzo has paid to rectify this matter is broadly in line with what I wouldve recommended 
had they not already done so. So I dont required it to do anything more. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I think that what Monzo has already done to rectify this 
matter is reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman