DRN-2331925
The complaint
Mr D complains that Zenith Insurance plc failed to take appropriate care of personal items 
which were in his car whilst they were dealing with a car insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr D had a car insurance policy underwritten by Zenith. He made a claim after a fire in the 
engine.
The car was recovered and delivered to a garage, where it was stored until collected by 
agents Zenith had appointed to assess the damage (Ill refer to them as C).
The car was eventually written off. There was some discussion between Mr D and Zenith 
about who would break up the car, but this was in the end carried out by Zeniths agents. Mr 
D was also unhappy with Zeniths valuation of the car and the settlement they offered him.
Mr D told Zenith he had left items in the car and asked for these to be returned before the 
car was broken up. 
Zenith said both the garage and C had inspected the car when it was delivered to them and 
neither had found any items in the car.
Mr D wasnt happy with this and complained to Zenith. He wants them to refund the cost of 
the items he says were in the car and were lost. 
Zenith said theyd done all they could to help Mr D and werent going to pay for the items he 
said were in the car, so Mr D brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think Zenith had done anything wrong.
Mr D disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The fire in the car was on 1 August 2019. On 4 August 2019, Mr D visited the car  before it 
was taken by C  and removed a trailer and childrens car seats.
We have an email trail between Mr D and Zenith about the claim. It begins 16 August 2019, 
when Mr D chased progress on the claim.
Until September 2019, the exchange was primarily about what would happen to the car and 
then the valuation of it once it was clear it needed to be scrapped.
On 18 September 2019, Mr D advised Zenith there are items in the car that needed to be 
returned, including car spares. 
On 8 October 2019, Mr D told Zenith there are a number of tools and spare parts in the car.
On 24 October he asked Zenith what was happening about his personal items, in value 
totalling around £400.
On 15 November 2019, he told Zenith there were items in the car including  as well as tools 
and spare parts  two jackets (worth £350); an iPad (£300), two pairs of sunglasses (£500), 
clothes (£25), and a dash cam (£50). The total value of the listed items is £1,575.
Mr D has said those items were in the boot and in the footwells of the car. Hes said he 
couldnt get in the boot at the time of the fire. He says he didnt have time to go through the 
car and pick up the items when he visited the car on 4 August 2019, despite their value. Im 
assuming he also didnt notice they were missing at the time.
Zenith asked both the garage and C whether they were aware of the items. Both have 
procedures they follow when cars are delivered to them, which include listing and 
photographing any items which have been left inside. Both said there were no such items 
when the car was delivered to them.
I should say that the items arent covered by the car insurance policy and Zenith have no 
obligation under that policy to pay for them. Mr D is alleging that Zenith didnt take 
appropriate care to safeguard the items whilst the car was in the hands of their agents and 
so should now pay him the cost of replacing them. 
Im very sorry Mr D had this unfortunate and frightening experience with his car whilst he and 
his family were travelling in it. And I know Mr D will be disappointed with my decision but, 
having taken all the evidence and information into account, I cant conclude that Zenith have 
acted unreasonably or unfairly towards him.
Zenith did try to trace any items that may have been in the car. And their agents have 
appropriate processes and procedures for dealing with such items. Both the garage and C 
say there were no items in the car by the time it got to them.
Given all the available information, its not unreasonable for Zenith to take that to be true. If 
there were items left in the car, then it appears theyve been stolen. Mr D may wish to report 
that to the police.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman