DRN-1447531
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) didn't contact her sooner to 
inform her of her account arrears. This has affected her credit file and her ability to get a 
loan.  
What happened
Ms B opened a Flex Plus account in November 2018. She has told us she forgot to set up a 
standing order to pay the £13 monthly fee and then didnt use the account for several 
months. As a result, it went into arrears. She says she wasnt contacted by the bank until 
their collections department sent her a letter in May 2019, informing her of the account 
arrears. At this point she arranged to repay the balance due. A few weeks later, Ms B says 
she tried to get a personal loan and a mortgage, but these were declined because of the 
effect the arrears had had on her credit file. She complained to Nationwide saying that while 
she was aware it was her responsibility to make the payments to her account, she thought 
Nationwide couldve brought it to her attention sooner and therefore prevented it from 
escalating. 
Nationwide said that she wouldve been sent statements which clearly show the balance and 
fees, until she opted to go paperless in May 2019. They did however, as a good will gesture, 
agree to refund some of the fees that she had paid. Ms B says that she didnt receive any 
statements so brought the complaint to us. 
An investigator here looked at the complaint but didnt think that Nationwide had done 
anything wrong. Ms B didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me to make a final 
decision. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator, for broadly the same reasons.
I sympathise with the situation Ms B found herself in, especially as she is trying to obtain a 
mortgage and says she has always had a good credit score before opening the account with 
Nationwide. However, when someone sets up an account, it is ultimately their responsibility 
to ensure that they manage and monitor the account. 
Ms B says the first contact she had from Nationwide was in May 2018 when she received 
the letter informing her about the account being sent to collections. However, from looking at 
the submissions provided from Nationwide, I can see that statements were being sent to her 
home address between January and May 2018, when she opted to go paperless. I dont 
dispute that Ms B didnt see the statements, but Im satisfied they were sent and correctly 
addressed. Nationwide have also said they sent Ms B a text message in January 2018, 
informing her of her account balance, but she didnt respond. 
Nationwide have refunded £139 worth of charges and have paid £25 in compensation for a 
poor explanation of how the fee structure works. I think that this is reasonable of them to do. However, while I can fully understand the frustration Ms B will be feeling, Nationwide have a 
duty to provide a true and accurate reflection of the account to the credit reference agencies. 
This is in line with the terms and condition of the account. If the account goes overdrawn, it 
can impact the customers credit file.
Nationwide have confirmed that it was only the balance that was reported to the credit 
reference agencies, and that the account was only reported as in arrears for the months of 
March and April 2019. Theyve also confirmed that they completed a credit file amendment 
once the account was back in a positive balance. 
 My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2020.
Sarah Green
Ombudsman