DRN-3551612
The complaint
Mr M complains that the information given to him when taking out motor insurance with My 
Policy Ltd (My Policy) was insufficient, resulting in the policy not meeting his needs.
What happened
Mr M took out a motor insurance policy with My Policy via a price comparison website. He 
says he was misled as he wasnt aware he was taking out a telematics policy which limited 
the annual mileage to 2,000 miles, with any additional miles incurring an extra cost. Mr M 
says that when he asked to cancel the policy he was told this would cost £75.
Mr M was unhappy about this and complained to My Policy. My Policy said it supplied terms 
and conditions for its telematics policy and its website required a customer to confirm they 
had read and understood them before buying the policy. These terms and conditions were 
also available for Mr M to read after hed taken out the policy. My Policy said the comparison 
website is a separate entity to My Policy and gave Mr M details of how to contact it if he felt 
its website was misleading.
Mr M wasnt happy with this response and complained to this service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. He said that whilst he accepted that the front page of the comparison 
website didnt contain all the policy information, Mr M would have had to go through, and 
agree to, subsequent screens which did. The investigator also said the policy documents 
were available to Mr M before the policy started and he could have cancelled the policy then 
without incurring any charges.
Mr M wasnt happy with what the investigator concluded, so his complaint has been passed 
to me. Mr M wants the policy cancelled with no cancellation fee.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Telematic or black box motor insurance policies involve a device being fitted to the 
policyholders vehicle which records information and feeds it back to the insurer. The 
information recorded typically includes speed, manner of driving and miles driven. In cases 
like Mr Ms, a telematic device is used to record the miles driven and the insurer compares 
this with the estimated yearly mileage stated by the policyholder. If the actual miles driven 
are more than the estimate, an extra charge is incurred. This service expects insurers who 
provide telematics policies to be clear with the insured what information is collected and how 
it might affect current and/or future premiums.
Mr M says he entered his estimated mileage on the comparison website as 2,000 miles per 
year, although he says his actual mileage was likely to be 7,000. The price comparison 
website came up with a number of suggested options, including My Policy. The policy with 
My Policy was based on an annual mileage of 2,000 miles as inputted by Mr M. 
Mr M accepts that within the terms and conditions of the policy the limitations and restrictions 
were stipulated. However Mr M says that he didnt read the terms and conditions at the time 
as he felt the information should have been clear on the website.
My Policy has provided screenshots of the screens Mr M would have had to pass through to 
take out the policy. One of the screens says:
By clicking below you confirm that you have read and understood all of the information, 
including the terms & conditions and agree a Telematics smart box must be fitted to my 
vehicle.
There is then a button saying I agree which must be clicked to proceed.
Another screen says:
Please confirm that you understand:

You must purchase Top-Up miles if your annual miles run out.
And a button saying Yes I understand must be clicked to proceed.
After Mr M took out the policy online, the policy documents were made available to him via 
My Policys online dashboard. This was more than two weeks before the commencement 
date of the policy, so I think there was time for Mr M to read them and make sure the policy 
met his needs. If it didnt, he could have cancelled before the policy started without incurring 
a cancelation fee. 
Mr Ms insurance policy documents with My Policy made frequent references to the mileage 
allowance. For example, the Telematics Car Insurance Terms and Conditions said:
Your premium is significantly influenced by the number of miles you consume during the 
lifecycle of your policy as your initial premium is typically calculated based on the annual 
mileage you declare at the outset
If your predicted mileage is likely to exceed the monthly average amount of miles (this is 
based on the amount you declared as your annual mileage) you must top up your mileage 
allowance to enable your policy to continue
Should you exceed your annual mileage allowance and not purchase additional mileage 
(top-up miles) within 7 days your policy will be cancelled.
The terms and conditions also set out the cancellation fees to be paid if the policy is 
cancelled after it has started.
The insurance proposal sets out the annual mileage as 2,000 miles. 
This service expects consumers to take reasonable steps to ensure that any insurance 
policy they take out meets their needs. I think that all the relevant information was available 
to Mr M and I cant agree that he was misled by My Policy. So I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable for Mr M to be able to cancel the policy without incurring a cancellation fee. My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. So I wont be asking My Policy 
Ltd to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman