DRN-3650936
The complaint
Mr H complains that MetLife Europe d.a.c. (MetLife) has unfairly refused part of a claim he
made on his personal accident insurance policy.
What happened
Both parties know what happened, so I wont go into detail here. In summary, Mr
H damaged his hand in an accident, and needed hospitalisation and extensive surgery. This
included removing some of his right little finger.
Mr H has a policy with MetLife that pays certain benefits if an accident causes injury or
permanent disability. MetLife accepted Mr Hs claim and paid benefits relating to broken
bones and his hospital stay. It wouldnt pay the benefit due for the loss of an entire finger
because it says Mr Hs injuries dont meet the terms and conditions of the policy.
Mr H complained to no avail, and one of our investigators then reviewed the complaint. He
thought the evidence provided by Mr H showed he had lost all use of his finger even though
it hadnt all been removed. He thought it wasnt fair for MetLife to rely on the literal
interpretation of the terms and conditions when the impact of the injury was the same as if
the finger had been entirely lost.
MetLife acknowledged that the effect of the injury might be the same as if Mr H had lost his
entire finger, but remains of the opinion that it need not meet the claim, as it doesnt fall into
the precise terms and conditions of the policy. Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint because I didnt think MetLife need meet the 
claim in full. I thought the terms and conditions of the policy made it clear that to qualify for a 
payment Mr H needed to have lost the entirety of his finger, and the evidence he sent us, 
including photos, didnt confirm this. So I didnt think MetLife had unfairly refused this part of 
the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MetLife has nothing further to add.
Mr H points out that his injury complies with two out of the three key words used in the 
relevant part of the policy  in that his finger is severed and the damage is permanent. I do 
have every sympathy for the injury Mr H suffered. But his injury doesnt meet all three parts 
of the relevant terms and conditions. And Met Life is entitled to apply all of the terms and 
conditions when deciding if it need meet a claim. Mr H also talks about how the policy might 
be interpreted if the injuries were different. I appreciate his argument, but I can only decide a 
complaint based on the particular circumstances of that complaint. 
Mr H has also pointed out that MetLifes initial refusal to pay part of his claim was based on 
an incorrect medical report. Im satisfied MetLife has assessed Mr Hs claim fairly based on 
all the available evidence, even if some of that was provided after its initial decision. 
I note Mr Hs comments about my explanation of the different policies available and the 
varying levels of cover they provide. I didnt intend to add to any confusion. I was trying to 
highlight the fact that some policies provide more cover than others, and the criteria MetLife 
used when deciding whether to meet the claim. But I dont think that affects my ability to 
reach a fair conclusion.
In summary, MetLife has to meet a claim that meets the criteria laid out in the policy. Im 
satisfied that its applied the relevant criteria fairly, and Im not persuaded I should change 
my provisional findings.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman