DRN-1178707
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with the settlement amount U K Insurance Limited offered them 
under their car insurance policy after their car was written off.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ss car was written off in June 2019 in an accident that wasnt their fault. UKI 
initially valued their car at £1,700. When Mrs S said she was unhappy with this, UKI 
increased its valuation to £1,900.
Mrs S remained unhappy with UKIs offer, so she brought her complaint to us. She doesnt 
think its right shes been left out of pocket for a no fault claim when she was insured 
comprehensively. She thinks the meaning of market value in her car insurance policy is 
misleading. She wants UKI to increase its valuation to £2,200 (which is what she paid for a 
replacement car), to pay her the various costs shes incurred in finding another car and to 
compensate her to the distress and inconvenience its caused her.
The investigator who looked at Mr and Mrs Ss complaint didnt uphold it. He thought the 
policy terms and conditions were clear and he didnt think UKI should increase its valuation.
Mr and Mrs S disagree and so their complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. I know this will 
disappoint them but I hope the reasons Im about to give help them to understand why Ive 
reached this conclusion.
To start with, I should say my role isnt to place a value on Mr and Mrs Ss car. Instead, its to 
decide if UKI has acted fairly and reasonably in reaching the settlement offer its given them.
My starting point is Mr and Mrs Ss car insurance policy. This says UKI will not pay more 
than the market value of Mr and Mrs Ss car at the time of the accident (less any excess that 
may apply). And it says market value means the cost of replacing Mr and Mrs Ss car with 
another of the same make and model and of a similar age and condition at the time of the 
accident.
Mrs S says the valuation UKI has given wont cover what its cost her to replace the car on a 
like-for-like basis, meaning shes out of pocket. And she says this is without taking into 
account the time and costs of finding another car. She doesnt think the policy wording 
makes the meaning of market value clear enough and so she thinks its misleading.
The definition of market value that UKI used in Mr and Mrs Ss policy is one thats standard 
and widely used in the motor industry. And I think its meaning in Mr and Mrs Ss policy 
documents is reasonably clear. So I dont uphold their complaint about their policy wording.
Turning to the valuation, we think the fairest way for an insurer to decide the market value for 
a car is to look at the main motor industry guides (including Glasss, CAP and Cazana). We 
think these are persuasive because their valuations are based on nationwide research and 
likely sales figures. The guides dont have access to actual retail selling prices but they use 
advertised prices and auction prices to work out what likely selling prices wouldve been.  
I can see UKI gave Mr and Mrs S its final valuation of £1,900 based on that given to it by 
Glasss.
Our investigator also got valuations from the main motor industry guides. These were: 
Glasss: £2,200 and CAP: £1,743 (the figure he got from Cazana was much lower, so he 
discounted it). 
Establishing the pre-accident replacement cost of a car isnt an exact science. But looking at 
the evidence Ive got, its clear the valuation UKI gave Mr and Mrs S was within the range 
our investigator also got. So, based on our research, I cant say UKIs settlement offer of 
£1,900 was unfair or unreasonable. I think it takes into account the specification of             
Mr and Mrs Ss car and is in line with the terms of their car insurance policy.
Ive taken into account all of Mrs Ss comments on this complaint. But they dont change my 
findings. I believe UKI has already paid Mr and Mrs S its settlement amount. It follows that I 
dont think UKI needs to do anything else. 
Mr and Mrs S say theyve paid more for their replacement car than the settlement amount 
they got from UKI. And I can see theyd have the inconvenience and costs associated with 
finding a new car. This must be frustrating in the context of an accident that wasnt their fault. 
But since  for the reasons Ive given - I dont think UKI did anything substantially wrong in 
dealing with their claim, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to ask to it pay these 
costs.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman