DRN-3208407
The complaint
Mr P complains on behalf of the estate of his late father, that AXA Insurance UK Plc have 
unfairly declined his claim on the estates home insurance policy.
Mr P has been represented by a third party through this complaint, but for ease of reading 
Ive just referred to Mr P. All references include the actions of his representative. 
What happened
Mr Ps father had a home insurance policy for a property he owned and rented out. Mr P had 
power of attorney for his fathers financial and property affairs, so handled matters relating to 
the property. In early 2019 Mr Ps father sadly died, and his estate was left to his wife  Mr 
Ps mother. Mr P also had power of attorney for his mother, so he has remained the 
representative throughout the claim and complaint. 
In November 2018 the tenant of one of the flats at the property made Mr P aware of 
overflowing drains. Mr P arranged for an emergency engineer to attend and clear the drains. 
However soon after this, the tenant advised that basement had flooded. Mr P arranged for 
the basement to be pumped out and for the drains to be unblocked and replaced.
Mr P notified AXA of the claim in early 2019. It appointed a loss adjuster, but due to date 
changes requested by Mr P, they didnt attend until March 2019. At this time, all work had 
been completed to fix and replace the drains. 
AXA initially accepted the claim, but asked Mr P to provide additional information about the 
cause of the leak and the repairs, in order to validate it. 
Mr P provided a scope of loss and invoice from a contractor. Costs amounted to around 
£29,000 which AXA deemed excessive. It also had concerns about the invoice as it 
appeared to be issued by a company that been dissolved in 2017. It asked for further 
evidence of the issue that had been repaired but Mr P wasnt able to provide anything 
further.
AXA subsequently appointed a specialist investigator to look into the claim further. Mr P was 
unhappy with this as he didnt think it was necessary. He made a complaint about it to AXA, 
which wasnt upheld.
Based on the outcome of the investigations, AXA declined Mr Ps claim. It said it didnt have 
enough information to successfully validate the claim and therefore Mr P hadnt shown an 
insured peril had occurred. 
Mr P didnt think this was fair. He said he had done enough to show there had been an 
escape of water which is covered under the policy and had evidenced the cost of the repairs. 
He made another complaint. 
AXA didnt uphold the complaint. It said its investigations hadnt been able to determine an 
insured peril as the evidence suggested the damage wasnt consistent with a one off event 
as Mr P had described. However it offered a total of £150 compensation for delays 
progressing the claim and dealing with the complaint.
Unhappy with its response, Mr P brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought AXA had acted 
reasonably in saying an insured peril hadnt been proved, due to the lack of evidence of the 
cause of the flood.
Mr P didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an insurance claim is made, its first for the insured to prove there has been an 
insured peril. Thats an event that is covered under the policy. Its then for the insurer to 
either accept the claim or prove an exclusion applies. 
Here, AXA has said that Mr P hasnt done enough to show there was an insured peril. I need 
to decide if its acted fairly and reasonably. 
Mr P has said that he has provided evidence of the damage that was caused, so has proved 
there was an escape of water which is an insured peril. 
Ive considered this and I agree that it isnt in dispute that there was a flooding incident at the 
property. However in order to show there is an insured peril, the insurer will need enough 
information to validate the claim. This includes determining the cause of the problem. As 
without this, it isnt able to conclude which peril the claim would fall under or that it has met 
the conditions of the policy in order for cover to apply. 
It is also important to validate the claim, as if the cause isnt clear, then the insurer will be 
unable to say whether cover is accepted or whether an exclusion applies. Even if a peril is 
clear.
Here, while Mr P has shown there was a flood at the property, he hasnt provided AXA with 
any evidence of the cause of it. Nor has he shown why the repairs that were carried out were 
necessary. Usually an insurer will validate the claim during the first visit  when it will be able 
to inspect the damage for itself. 
In this case, by the time the claim was reported and the loss adjuster appointment had been 
arranged, all the damage had already been fixed so there was no evidence of the original 
problem.
When repairs have already been carried out, insurers will usually request additional 
evidence to show the damage before it was fixed. This may be from CCTV investigations of 
drains or photos of the damage when it was first discovered. And I can see this what AXA 
has done here. However while Mr P has provided copies of invoices for the work carried out, 
there is nothing to show the original cause of the problem. There are many different reasons 
why these repairs may have needed to be carried out  some would be covered under the 
policy, but some wouldnt. And as AXA hasnt been able to assess this, I dont think it has 
acted unfairly by not accepting the claim. As it hasnt got enough evidence to show whether 
it would be covered or not. Further, the repairs that were carried out were extensive  an entire replacement of foul and 
surface water drainage. And the cost was much higher than AXA expected based on the 
description of the problem Mr P gave. So as it has doubts about the claim, I think it is even 
more vital that further evidence is provided. 
Further, it lays out the obligations of the insured in the policy as follows:
Insureds Duties
1) In the event of DAMAGE loss of RENT or any accident or INJURY which may give rise to 
a claim the Insured shall
i) notify the Insurer(s) as soon as reasonably practical
iii) deliver to the Insurer(s) at the Insureds expense information evidence or assistance as 
required including details of any other insurances covering the PROPERTY accident or 
INJURY such information to be provided
Im satisfied that Mr P hasnt provided sufficient information to evidence the loss. For this 
reason I think its reasonable that AXA hasnt accepted his claim. And I wont ask it to do 
anything further.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P, on behalf of 
the estate of the late Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman