DRN-3864764
The complaint
Mr L complains about the advice given by NTM Financial Services Ltd (NTM) to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme with British Steel 
(BSPS) to a personal pension arrangement. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and 
believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ls employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). The PPF acts as a lifeboat for insolvent DB pension 
schemes, paying compensation to members of eligible schemes for their lifetime. The 
compensation levels are, generally, around 90% of the level of the original schemes benefits 
for deferred pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ from the original scheme. 
Alternatively, members of the BSPS were informed they could transfer their benefits to a 
private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement included that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Ls employer would be set up  the BSPS2. The RAA was signed and 
confirmed in August 2017 and the agreed steps were carried out shortly after.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a time to choose letter which gave them 
the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere.
Mr L was concerned about what the recent announcements by his employer meant for the 
security of his pension, so he sought advice. NTM says Mr L was referred to them by a third-
party, although it doesnt have any more details. But in any event, Mr L met with NTM in 
November 2017 and it completed a financial planning questionnaire with him to gather 
information about his circumstances and objectives. Amongst other things, this recorded that 
he was 50; he was single with one non-dependent child; he worked full-time and earned 
around £32,500; he owned his own home with an outstanding mortgage of around £50,000 
on a remaining term of 10 years; he had no other assets or liabilities; and while he had a 
surplus income each month this was used to support his family, so he didnt save any 
money. NTM also carried out an assessment of Mr Ls attitude to risk, which was deemed to 
be balanced.
On 28 November 2017, NTM issued a suitability letter setting out its recommendation. One 
of the key things it set out here was the result of a discussion about Mr Ls desire to retire at 
age 60 on an income of £1,000 a month. NTM said that this wasnt practical. It said this was 
because Mr L didnt join the BSPS pension for 20 years, so this left a significant income 
shortfall to close. It said it was agreed to consider 65 as a suitable alternative to 60.
NTM then summarised Mr Ls objectives of wanting to take action to maintain the income 
from the DB scheme at age 65, maintain access to flexible benefits and avoid the restrictions 
imposed by the PPF. It said Mr L had accepted that retirement at 65 is more likely than at 
age 60, but he wanted the ability to access then although he expected it was unlikely. It also 
said access to the highest level of tax-free cash at age 55 was a priority, although the exact 
use wasnt set.
NTM recommended that Mr L transfer his pension because: he was being moved to the 
PPF; moving to the PPF would result in a reduced income, while transferring would allow 
him to maintain his income, there was the potential to provide higher benefits; the BSPS2 
had the lowest benefits of all three options available; it would provide better lump sum death 
benefits for his daughter; and it would offer higher tax-free cash and the flexibility to delay 
taking an income. 
Mr L accepted the recommendation and some time afterwards around £54,500 was 
transferred to his new personal pension.
Mr L complained to NTM in 2022 about the suitability of the transfer advice. Mr L said he 
was deeply concerned that hed received unsuitable advice and because hed lost financial 
stability and security, he was concerned about what the future held.
NTM didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. In addition to setting out a timeline of the events leading 
up to the time to choose exercise, in summary it said that Mr L wanted to retire at age 60, or 
as close to this age as possible, on an income of £12,000 a year. It said Mr L had the best 
opportunity to achieve this due to the recommendation made. It said the transfer offered the 
ability to use flexible benefits to allow Mr L to close the income shortfall between receiving 
his state pension. It said Mr Ls principal priority was for the welfare of his family over his 
own income need and to ensure his family received death benefits. And while this conflicted 
with the advisers duty to ensure Mr L had the best opportunity to retire on a suitable income, 
it said it believed the advice best met these conflicting objectives  better than the alternative 
of moving to the BSPS2 or the PPF.
Mr L referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our investigators 
looked into this complaint and upheld it. They said the advice wasnt suitable. They said the 
growth rates required to match Mr Ls DB scheme benefits meant he was likely to receive 
lower benefits overall at retirement as a result of investing in line with a balanced attitude to 
risk. And they said there wasnt anything about Mr Ls wider objectives to justify a transfer. 
They said Mr L wanted to access his tax-free cash at the earliest opportunity, but they didnt 
think using them to repay his mortgage early and pay for his daughters wedding could be 
deemed essential. They said NTMs cashflow modelling wasnt based on him accessing a 
lump sum at 55, so it was possible his fund would be depleted much sooner meaning his 
primary objective of wanting to leave funds to his daughter might not be met anyway. They 
said while it was clear Mr L had strong feelings about what he wanted from his pension and 
NTM challenged some of them, it nevertheless still recommended the transfer. They said if 
things had happened as they should have, Mr L wouldve likely opted to join the BSPS2.
While NTM indicated it would issue a response to the investigators findings, nothing was 
received. So, because it is assumed that NTM disagrees, the complaint was referred to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of NTM's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, NTM should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ls 
best interests.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
The transfer value analysis (TVAS) report, that NTM was required to carry out by 
the regulator, said that the critical yield - how much Mr Ls pension fund would need 
to grow by each year in order to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme  was 
9.38% to match the full pension hed have been entitled to under the scheme at age 
65. Or to match the maximum tax-free cash and reduced pension the scheme would 
provide at that age, was 7.82%. To match the full pension the PPF wouldve paid 
from 65 the critical yield was 6.74% and to match the tax-free cash and reduced 
pension the PPF wouldve offered, it was 6.35%.
Despite the fact it was known by the point NTM instructed the TVAS that continuing 
in the BSPS in its existing form wasnt an option for Mr L, the analysis was based on 
the BSPS benefits. And NTM didnt undertake any analysis of the benefits hed have 
been due under the BSPS2, even though details were available  Mr L wouldve 
received his time to choose information by this time. I think it shouldve done. 
In any event, given what we know about the BSPS2, I think the critical yields to 
match the benefits the BSPS2 wouldve provided from age 65 were likely to be 
between those of the BSPS and the PPF.
Given Mr Ls recorded balanced attitude to risk, the discount rate of 4.3% for 16 
years to retirement and the regulators middle projection rate, I think Mr L was always 
likely to receive pension benefits, from age 65, of a lower value that those hed have 
been entitled to under the BSPS2 or the PPF by transferring and investing in line with that attitude to risk. And given what the TVAS noted about the critical yields for 
retirement at age 60  these were significantly higher at 10.18% and 8.93% based on 
a reduced pension through the BSPS2 and PPF respectively  I think Mr L was even 
more likely to receive lower benefits than either the BSPS2 or the PPF offered, if he 
retired early.
For this reason alone, I dont think a transfer to a personal pension arrangement was 
in Mr Ls best interests.
NTM recorded in the suitability report that Mr L wanted access to the highest possible 
tax-free cash at age 55 and this was a priority for several reasons, including paying 
down his mortgage, supporting his family and making home improvements. It also 
said the exact use wasnt set, but Mr L would access the funds and continue to work.
While NTM noted that in accessing funds early this would impact Mr Ls income and 
its sustainability, it nevertheless still went ahead with the recommendation to transfer. 
But it wasnt NTMs role just to put in place what Mr L mightve thought he wanted or 
sounded like a good idea. Its role was to advise him on what was in his best 
interests. But I dont think this meant a transfer was in his best interests.
The information recorded at the time of the advice indicated Mr Ls mortgage was 
affordable  nothing suggests that Mr L was either behind or struggling to meet the 
repayments. In fact, NTM recorded he had a surplus monthly income. Also Mr Ls 
mortgage term was 10 years, which meant it would be repaid by the time Mr L came 
to retire. So I dont think giving up his guaranteed pension benefits to reduce a debt 
that he could afford, was in his best interests.
Mr L might have wanted to access his pension benefits early to pay for his daughters 
wedding and make some home improvements. But I dont think these were essential 
or compelling reasons for NTM to have recommended the transfer. NTM didnt record 
how much Mr L wanted to spend on these things. But, given Mr L was working and 
he would likely do so for at least another 10 to 15 years, NTM shouldve explored the 
reasonable alternative option of Mr L borrowing the money instead. I dont think it 
shouldve encouraged Mr L to transfer his guaranteed pension to achieve things. 
Overall, as Mr L had no immediate plans to stop working (indeed the advice was that 
Mr L should wait until 65 to retire) and he didnt have a pressing need to clear his 
mortgage because it appears it was affordable, and his other potential plans cant 
reasonably be deemed essential, I dont think transferring to obtain flexibility and the 
ability to access a lump sum and defer taking an income, was in his best interests.
Mr Ls original desire to retire early at 60 on an income of £12,000 a year was rightly 
deemed not practical by NTM because his income need simply couldnt be met - so it 
was agreed that 65 was a more suitable alternative. 
For this reason I dont think its necessary for me to engage with the arguments NTM 
put forward in its final response letter as to how the transfer could better meet Mr Ls 
objective to retire at 60 when this wasnt the advice Mr L was ultimately given.
NTM said the transfer would provide Mr L with the ability to take a higher income 
from age 65 to 67 and cover his income shortfall over this two-year period. But I think 
Mr L couldve likely met his income need by retaining his DB scheme benefits. At age 
65 Mr L was entitled to a pension under the existing BSPS of around £3,600. This 
wouldnt have met Mr Ls need of £12,000 in full. But Mr L was contributing to his workplace defined contribution (DC) scheme. And while the contribution rate wasnt 
recorded by NTM, based on my experience, they were typically between 10-20%. 
NTM documented that it believed at age 60 Mr Ls DC scheme could be worth just 
under £73,000  so by age 65 likely more. I think Mr L could accessed these benefits 
flexibly to supplement his DB scheme income to meet his retirement income need, at 
least until his state pension became payable. I think this was a more appropriate way 
for Mr L to meet his income needs in retirement rather than risking his guaranteed 
and escalating pension to do so. 
NTM recorded that Mr Ls priority was to look after his family over his own needs and 
that he wanted his daughter to benefit from the lump sum death benefits available 
through a personal pension  any action to deny his pension being paid to his 
daughter was recorded as being unacceptable to him. But again, NTMs role wasnt 
simply to facilitate what Mr L wanted. The priority here was to advise Mr L about what 
was best for his retirement. And while I can see the adviser said as much in the 
advice paperwork, they recommended the transfer anyway to meet Mr Ls objective.
While the CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump 
sum, the sum remaining on death following a transfer was always likely to be 
different. As well as being dependent on investment performance, it wouldve also 
been reduced by the income Mr L drew in his lifetime. And so may not have provided 
the legacy that Mr L may have thought it would. 
If Mr L had wanted to leave a legacy for his family, NTM couldve explored life 
insurance as an alternative. Reference was made to a whole of life policy for a sum 
assured for the amount of the transfer value, which appears to have been discounted 
on the basis that a transfer would better achieve things. But I disagree. Mr L had 
surplus income, so I dont think affordability was an issue. But it could also have 
considered cover on a term assurance basis, which was likely to be cheaper. But 
there's little evidence NTM did so.  
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the 
likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr L. I dont think that insurance was 
properly explored as an alternative. And ultimately NTM should not have encouraged 
Mr L to prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through a personal 
pension over his security in retirement. 
Mr L may have legitimately held concerns about how his employer had handled his 
pension and the prospect of entering the PPF. But it was NTMs role to objectively 
address those concerns. At the time of the advice, all signs pointed toward the 
BSPS2 being established. But even if not, the PPF still provided Mr L with 
guaranteed income and the option of accessing tax-free cash. Mr L was unlikely to 
improve on these benefits by transferring. So, entering the PPF was not as 
concerning as he mightve thought, and I dont think any concerns he held about this 
meant that transferring was in his best interest.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Ls best interest to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension at this time, particularly when he 
had the option of opting into the BSPS2. And I also havent seen anything to persuade me 
that Mr L wouldve insisted on transferring, against advice to remain in the DB scheme  he 
had little investment knowledge or experience and given he felt it necessary to be 
accompanied by a member of his family for the advice meeting, nothing suggests to me that 
he possessed the requisite confidence or skill to do so. So, Im upholding the complaint as I 
think the advice Mr L received from NTM was unsuitable for him.I can see the investigator also recommended an award of £200 for the distress and
inconvenience the matter has caused Mr L. So Ive also thought about whether its fair to 
award compensation for distress and inconvenience - this isnt intended to fine or punish 
NTM  which is the job of the regulator. But I think its fair to recognise the emotional and 
practical impact this had on Mr L. Taking everything into account, including what Mr L has 
said about the concern he now feels about the future and that I consider Mr L is now at the 
age when his retirement provision is of greater importance to him, I think the unsuitable 
advice has caused him distress. So I think an award of £200 is fair in all the circumstances.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the NTM to put Mr L, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr L would most likely 
have remained in the occupational pension scheme and opted to join the BSPS2 if suitable 
advice had been given. 
NTM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
NTM should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr L and the Financial Ombudsman Service 
upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what NTM based the 
inputs into the calculator on.
For clarity, while Mr L accessed his tax-free cash in 2021, he has not yet retired. And while 
Im mindful he did access this early and before the DB schemes normal retirement age, I 
dont think this is persuasive evidence that he wouldve done so had suitable advice been 
given and hed remained in the DB scheme. My understanding is that Mr L is still working 
and he has no immediate plans to retire at present. So, compensation should be based on 
the schemes normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's 
guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ls 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, NTM should:
calculate and offer Mr L redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr L before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr L receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr L accepts NTMs offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr L for the calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ls end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr L as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, NTM may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Ls likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require NTM Financial 
Services Ltd to pay Mr L the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
NTM Financial Services Ltd pays Mr L the balance.
NTM Financial Services Ltd should also pay Mr L £200 for the distress and inconvenience 
this matter has caused.
If Mr L accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on NTM Financial Services 
Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr L can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr L may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman