DRN-4049033
The complaint
Mr N complains that The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc (TMW) declined his Buy To Let (BTL) 
mortgage application, due to what he says are unsubstantiated concerns that he will use the 
money for property development. Mr N wants TMW to lend him the money, at the old rates.
What happened
Mr N said TMW had declined his mortgage application based on false facts. He said hed 
been affected financially, and had found this all very stressful. He wanted TMW to give him 
the BTL mortgage he had applied for, at the interest rate he could have achieved in July 
2022, when the application was made. 
TMW said it had declined Mr Ns application because it was concerned about what he would 
use the money for. It said his application included a considerable amount of capital raising, 
on top of the money he would need to purchase the property he was planning to buy. TMW 
said Mr N also owned a separate property, which was standing empty, and had been for a 
very long time. TMW thought that was likely to be because hed always intended to develop 
the plot. Hed obtained planning permission to knock that property down, and replace it with 
two houses on the same plot. TMW said it was concerned that Mr N would use some of the 
money he was asking to borrow, to fund that development work. 
TMW said it could see that Mr N had done some development work in the past. And it had 
turned down a similar remortgage application from him twelve months ago, because of the 
same concerns. TMW said it doesnt lend to property developers, it considers that lending to 
be higher risk than lending to prospective landlords for BTL properties. TMW didnt think it 
had made a mistake in this instance, and it wouldnt change its mind. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She noted that TMW had 
turned down lending to Mr N before, for the same reasons. And TMW was still concerned 
that he would use the money to fund his property development now. 
Our investigator said lenders are entitled to decide which applications they want to approve, 
and to make their own decisions about levels of risk they dont want to accept. Here, TMW 
had shown us it doesnt lend to developers, because of concerns about the level of risk this 
lending poses. And its underwriters had declined to lend to Mr N, for these reasons. 
Our investigator said we werent able to tell TMW that it should have a greater appetite for 
risk, in this case. She didnt think TMW had acted unfairly, so she said she wouldnt ask it to 
do any more.
Mr N replied to disagree. He said he had a long history of buying properties to rent out, 
which is his focus and source of income. He said he had no history at all of property 
development, and there was nothing for TMW to base its concerns on. He showed us that 
the house hed wanted to buy with a mortgage from TMW had since been purchased, and 
was now rented out. 
Our investigator didnt change her mind. She said she couldnt agree that TMW had acted 
unfairly or unreasonably. Mr N wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so 
it was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion as our investigator.
Mr N applied to TMW for a BTL mortgage for the purchase of a new property. I dont think 
theres any doubt Mr N intended to purchase the specified property, and to let it out, and I 
note he has now done so. But Mr Ns application for that BTL mortgage also included a very 
sizeable amount of additional funding. TMW said lending like this, to someone who also 
owned a vacant property with current planning permission for demolition and redevelopment, 
ran the risk that some of the money would be used to fund the development of Mr Ns other 
property. 
As our investigator said, broadly speaking, TMW is entitled to decide for itself that lending 
falls outside of its appetite for risk. And its been clear that lending for development falls 
outside of its risk appetite. 
Whilst Mr N does have an established business as a BTL landlord, he has also owned a 
vacant property for a long time. More recently, hes obtained planning permission for the site. 
He initially told TMW he intended to sell the property with planning permission, but I 
understand it isnt being marketed, and Mr N now says that hes going to renovate it for a 
family member. In these circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable or unfair for TMW 
to say that it had concerns that Mr N might use some of the money he wanted to borrow for 
development, and that, because of this, lending to him fell outside of its appetite for risk. 
I know Mr N will be disappointed, but I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to 
ask TMW to overturn this decision. And that means his complaint wont be upheld.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2023. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman