DRN-4031346
The complaint
Miss F and Mr M complain Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited handled their home 
insurance claim poorly.
Miss F and Mr M have been represented for the claim and complaint. For simplicity Ive 
referred to the representatives actions as being those of Miss F and Mr M. The same 
applies to the actions of RSAs agents. 
What happened
In December 2020 Miss F and Mr M claimed against their RSA home insurance policy. Their 
home had been damaged by river flood water. RSA arranged for the property to be dried. It 
paid Miss F and Mr M a cash settlement so they could arrange for their own contractors to 
do reinstatement works.  
Miss F and Mr M now feel RSA failed to adequately strip out and dry their home. So they say 
reinstatement works were done in vain. They say the property needs to be stripped out, 
dried and reinstated again. They want RSA to cover these costs. In addition they complain 
RSAs cash settlement was too low. RSA doesnt accept it failed to dry the property. Nor 
does it agree the settlement is too low.  
In December 2022 our investigator recommended RSA arrange for an independent 
assessment of the adequacy of the drying  and that it follow that reports recommendations. 
RSA didnt agree to the investigators findings, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
In June 2023 I issued a provisional decision. As its reasoning forms part of this final decision 
Ive copied it in below. In it I explained why I didnt intend to require RSA to pay anything 
extra or do anything differently for Miss F and Mr M. I also invited them and RSA to provide 
anything further they would like me to consider before issuing this final decision. RSA didnt 
provide anything. Miss F and Mr M sent in a detailed response.
What Ive provisionally decided and why
Miss F and Mr M have made several complaints to RSA. As this is an informal 
service Im not going to respond here to every complaint point they have raised. 
Instead Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues. But I would like to 
reassure both that I have considered everything provided.
Key to Miss F and Mr Ms complaint is their concern their home wasnt adequately 
dried by RSA. They have provided various technical reports they feel support their 
position. The findings of those reports, and RSAs, are well known by those involved. 
So Im not going to set them out here.  
Miss F and Mr M want RSA to cover the costs of the current reinstatement work to be 
stripped out, the property dried and then reinstated. For me to fairly require RSA to 
do that Id need to see persuasive evidence that it most likely failed to dry the 
property adequately first time around  and that theres some resulting detriment to 
Miss F and Mr M. Our investigator was persuaded, by various reports, that the floor 
wasnt fully dried. But I dont think theres enough to show that.  
RSAs provided a drying certificate from its contractor. It says the correct approach 
was taken during the drying process. Miss F and Mr M question this and the 
certificates validity. 
Ive considered the various reports produced after its issue. There are a few test 
results that support Miss F and Mr Ms position  showing the possibility of excess 
moisture in a location or two. RSA dispute the validity of these results. Its provided 
its own test results showing acceptable moisture levels.  
Ultimately, Im more persuaded by RSAs testing and its responses to Miss F and 
Mrs Ms reports. Ultimately theres just not enough to persuade me the property 
wasnt dried properly  and that it would be reasonable to require RSA to cover the 
significant costs involved. For the same reasons Im not persuaded it would be 
reasonable to require it cover the cost of an independent assessment  and any 
reinstatement costs that may result from damage necessary for such an inspection. 
If Miss F and Mr M wish to arrange and cover the costs of their own inspection and 
testing, Id expect RSA to consider any resulting report.  
In addition to the drying issue, Miss F and Mr M feel the cash settlement paid by RSA 
was inadequate. RSA denies this  saying instead Miss F and Mr M failed to manage 
reinstatement work and costs effectively. 
Ive considered everything Miss F and Mr M have provided on this issue  including 
their own costed schedule of works and spreadsheets of their incurred costs. Ive 
also seen RSAs costed schedule for works for the settlement. The two schedules do 
come in at very different individual items and total costs. 
But I havent been able to compare these costs to those incurred by Miss F and 
Mr M. Unfortunately they have recorded costs incurred mainly by payments to 
different trades  rather than by individual work item. 
Overall, based on what Ive seen so far, I cant fairly say RSAs settlement was 
inadequate. So I dont intend to require RSA to pay any extra. I will consider anything 
further Miss F and Mr M provide in response to this provisional decision.  RSAs 
offered to meet with Miss F and Mr M (and their representative) to discuss what has 
been spent and what remains outstanding. I think this is a fair proposal.
Finally Miss F and Mr M have asked that we instruct RSA to remove its current loss 
adjuster from from the claim. I dont intend to do that. I cant see the firm or individual 
loss adjuster has acted in such a way that would make unreasonable for it or him to 
continue with the claim.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss F and Mr M provided a lengthy response to my provisional decision. It provides a 
detailed summary of events, concerns and their arguments. Much of this had been provided, 
and considered, already. The response also refers to various reports I had considered 
before issuing my provisional decision. As this is an informal service, Im not going to respond here to every point Miss F and Mr M 
made. Instead Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues. But I would like to 
reassure them that Ive considered everything provided.
My provisional decision explained I wasnt persuaded RSA most likely failed to dry the 
property adequately first time around  and that theres some resulting detriment to 
Miss F and Mr M. Their response referred to reports already considered. It also made some 
new points. 
However, none of this has changed my position. I accept its possible RSAs agents didnt 
follow industry best practice or standards at all points. However, the key consideration is 
whether the property was adequately dried before reinstatement. There just isnt enough 
technical evidence to persuade me it wasnt  or that excess moisture is an ongoing issue. 
Im still more persuaded by RSAs testing and its responses to Miss F and Mr Ms reports. 
So I still dont think it would be reasonable to require RSA to cover the significant costs 
involved in repeating some of the work already undertaken.
For the same reasons Im not persuaded it would be reasonable to require RSA cover the 
cost of an independent assessment  and any reinstatement costs that may result from 
damage necessary for such an inspection. 
In my provisional decision I said I hadnt been persuaded RSAs cash settlement was 
inadequate. Miss F and Mr M responded with a few different points. These included the 
failure to properly dry the property causing secondary damage and additional costs. Ive 
already said Im not persuaded of that.
Miss F and Mr M also focused on the role of RSAs loss adjuster in the calculation of the 
settlement. Essentially, they feel as they are complaining about its actions, reliance on its 
input or opinion creates a conflict of interest. They feel the loss adjuster has been 
discredited  and so an independent surveyor should be drafted in for an opinion. 
I explained in my provisional decision that I wasnt persuaded the loss adjuster should be 
removed from the claim. Im of the same opinion now. I accept Miss F and Mr M have a 
difficult relationship with it. But I dont agree that a complaint about its actions means its 
opinions or data should be disregarded  or that RSA cant reasonably rely on it. Neither do I 
agree, having considered Miss F and Mr Ms response, that its performance on the claim 
means its opinions or assessments are invalid.   
Miss F and Mr M complain there hasnt been an independent assessment of the damage 
RSA agreed to cover. But Ive made an independent assessment of the cash settlement 
proposed by RSA for the buildings side of the claim. When doing so Ive considered 
everything it and Miss F and Mr M provided  including Miss F and Mr Ms concerns about 
how the claim was handled by RSAs agents, their own expenditure records and costed 
schedule of works from both parties. 
What Ive seen hasnt been enough to persuade me RSAs settlement is unfair or 
unreasonable. Neither do I feel it would be reasonable to require the appointment of an 
independent surveyor or other third-party. But if Miss F and Mr M wish to appoint one Id 
expect RSA to fairly consider any resulting report or recommendations. 
Miss F and Mr M have said the settlement for their contents claim hasnt been agreed. As far 
as Ive seen that aspect of their claim hasnt been the subject of a complaint, that RSA has had an opportunity to respond to. So I havent considered it here. Should Miss F and Mr M 
have co concerns about this they should raise it with RSA in the first instance. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to pay 
anything extra or to do anything differently. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman