DRN-3173315
The complaint
Mr E complains that Lloyds Bank PLC provided him with unsuitable advice about the 
opening of a personal pension plan, and the subsequent investment of those pension 
savings.
What happened
The advice that Mr E received was provided by Black Horse Financial Services. That firm 
forms part of Lloyds, so it is Lloyds that is responsible for the advice that was given to Mr E, 
and for dealing with his complaint. For ease, in this decision, I will refer to Lloyds as the 
responsible business throughout. And Mr E has been assisted in making his complaint by a 
claims management company. But, again for ease, in this decision I will generally refer to all 
communication as having been with, and from, Mr E himself.
The events that Mr E is now complaining about took place more than 25 years ago. So it is 
understandable that some of the relevant information might be missing or unclear. Lloyds 
records indicate that it met with Mr E on at least two occasions, in August and 
September 1995, to discuss his pension savings. Following those meetings Mr E agreed to 
open a personal pension plan, and invest his pension savings into the Pensions Managed 
Fund. Mr E ended his contributions to the pension plan in September 2009.
Recently Mr E has complained that Lloyds advice meant that his pension savings were 
invested in a single fund without appropriate diversification. He says that lack of 
diversification meant that there was an unnecessary concentration of risk. And he says that 
he was exposed to increased investment costs, with the compounded effect over time 
becoming a significant drag on the performance of his pension investments.
Lloyds didnt agree with Mr Es complaint so he brought it to this Service. The complaint has 
been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that there was sufficient 
diversification in the single managed fund to mean that Lloyds recommendation was 
suitable for Mr Es circumstances at the time. And although, with the benefit of hindsight, 
other investment approaches might have produced better returns, he didnt think Lloyds 
recommended approach had been inappropriate. So he didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld.
Mr E didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr E and by Lloyds. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
I think I should first consider the recommendation that Lloyds gave to Mr E to open a 
personal pension plan. As I said earlier, given the time that has elapsed, some of the 
documentation supporting that recommendation is no longer available. Or, given the different 
regulatory requirements at the time, it is possible that the sort of analysis and explanations 
we would normally expect to see now, were not formally recorded.
When he met with Lloyds, Mr E was self-employed. So he didnt have access to an 
occupational pension scheme. He was aged 51 and married, and told Lloyds that he 
expected to retire at age 65. So it seems to me entirely reasonable that Lloyds would advise 
Mr E that he should consider making provision for his retirement. And given the lack of an 
occupational pension scheme, taking a personal pension plan would seem to be an 
appropriate recommendation.
Mr E has said that all of his contributions shouldnt have been invested in the Managed 
Pension Fund. I agree that diversification is (and always has been) important and is 
generally regarded as good investment practice. While losses can still result, diversification 
reduces risk. Spreading money across different types of investments and asset classes 
means, if one holding performs poorly in the prevailing economic circumstances, others may 
do better and so the risk of an overall loss is reduced. So I can see the argument that 
investing in a single fund may not be prudent. But it will depend on the fund itself. 
The published information about that Fund showed that it invested directly in UK and 
overseas equities, fixed interest, gilts, and property, to spread the investment risk. I think 
how the Fund was structured, with the stated risk category of low/medium achieved by 
holding a very broad range of different investments and asset classes, indicates that it was 
diversified.
The policy schedule that was provided to Mr E showed details of the charges that would 
need to be paid. In the first two years those charges (through the unit allocation rates) would 
be higher - to meet the costs and expenses of setting up the plan. I think the charges were 
adequately disclosed and Mr E could have queried them before he went ahead with the plan. 
I dont think the charges were unreasonable or out of line with what other providers would 
have been charging at the time for similar products.
Mr E says that due consideration should have been given to low cost index funds. And that 
actively managed funds rarely sufficiently over perform to make up for the higher costs and 
that its not possible to identify, in advance, those managers who will deliver sufficient out 
performance. But I think that, when taken to its logical conclusion, that would mean that no 
investor would ever select actively managed funds over lower cost funds. Opinions will differ 
as to actively managed funds. Such funds can deliver performance that, after fees are paid, 
beats the market, even if research shows that relatively few actually achieve that 
consistently.I further note whats been said about a portfolio of 50% UK Equities and 50% UK Bonds as a 
comparison to illustrate that Mr E has suffered a loss. It is likely, with the benefit of hindsight 
of over 25 years since the sale, to be possible to identify a different investment strategy that 
would have performed better. But the issue isnt whether an alternative fund or mixture of 
funds would have delivered a better result  its whether what was recommended was 
suitable. For the reasons Ive explained above, I think the Managed Pension Fund was 
suitable for Mr E.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr E. The illustrations he received 
when he first took out the plan indicated it would be worth far more when he retired than was 
achieved in reality. But those illustrations were based on guidance set by the regulator 
showing a range of potential investment returns. Unfortunately those estimates havent 
mirrored reality  and annuity rates have also fallen significantly. Both of these factors have 
had a big impact, meaning that the benefits provided by personal pensions are lower than 
might reasonably have been anticipated when they were sold.
But, taking everything into account, I think that it was reasonable for Lloyds to recommend 
that Mr E take out a personal pension plan in 1995. And I think the investment fund that it 
advised him to use to invest his pension savings was appropriate given his circumstances 
and likely attitude to risk. I dont think that Lloyds needs to do anything further in relation to 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman