DRN-2232871
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that Homeserve Membership Limited continued to take payments for a 
home emergency policy for several years after he cancelled it.
What happened
Mr T took out a home emergency policy for his home. When Mr T moved out of the house 
and rented it out, he didnt cancel the policy. He made a claim on the policy in 2013 and was 
told that it wasnt a landlords policy so needed the be cancelled. However, in 2019, Mr T 
realised that the direct debit was still being taken from his bank account.
Mr T complained to Homeserve and said that he wanted six years of premiums refunded, as 
the policy wasnt valid and hadnt been cancelled when he asked for this to happen. 
Homeserves Collections Department decided that no refunds were due, but Homeserve 
offered him £30 compensation for the inconvenience caused by his complaint.
Mr T complained to this service. Our investigator partially upheld the complaint because 
Homeserve didnt cancel the policy. However, he thought Mr T could have noticed earlier 
that he was still paying the premiums. He said that Mr T should be refunded 50% of his 
premiums.
As Homeserve did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 4 September 2020. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I was planning to partially uphold the complaint. I said:
I asked Homeserve for more information about the claim in 2013. Homeserve no longer has 
the call recording from when Mr T phoned to register the claim. However, it provided the call 
notes. These didnt include any reference to a conversation about Mr T being a landlord or 
that the policy should be cancelled.
I also asked Homeserve what happened when it identified that a landlord had a 
homeowners policy. It said that the claim would normally be honoured and the customer 
would be transferred to the Administration Department to amend the policy, as the Claims 
Department was unable to do this. However, where there was an ongoing claim, the policy 
needed to remain live in order to process it. The policy would then need to be cancelled, via 
a manual intervention, after the claim was closed. When a policy was cancelled, Homeserve 
would then stop collecting the premiums.
Mr T said he thought he told Homeserve he was a landlord during the phone call in which he 
made the claim and that as part of the discussion he asked for the policy to be cancelled. 
However, he couldnt now remember the details of the call.
Given the amount of time that has passed, it isnt that surprising that there is a lack of 
records or clear recall of what happened. So I need to make a decision about what I think is 
most likely to have happened based on the limited information available. On balance, I think 
that in 2013 Mr T did discuss with Homeserve that he was a landlord and that the policy 
therefore needed to be cancelled. This is because Mr T doesnt seem to have had any 
contact with Homeserve after that date and so it isnt clear to me how else he could have 
known that the policy wasnt valid for a rental property. In addition, Mr Ts explanation of 
what Homeserve told him about honouring the claim is consistent with what Homeserve said 
it would do if it found that a landlord had a homeowners policy. Again, it isnt clear to me 
how Mr T would have known this if it wasnt discussed in the 2013 phone call. So I think it is 
most likely that the conversation did take place as described by Mr T.
So the next issue is why the policy wasnt cancelled. Again, with limited information 
available, I need to decide what I think was most likely to have happened. Based on what 
Homeserve said, it seems that, as it honoured the claim, it wouldnt have been able to cancel 
the policy until the claim was closed. A manual intervention was then required to cancel it. 
Given that Homeserves notes dont say that the policy needed to be cancelled, this meant 
that when the claim was closed it was unlikely that anyone at Homeserve would have been 
aware that the policy should then be cancelled. As a result, I think Homeserve didnt cancel 
the policy and continued to collect the premiums.
The next thing to consider is the premiums that were paid after Mr T thought that he had 
cancelled the policy. Mr T didnt receive the renewal documents sent by post each year 
because these were being sent to the rental property address. However, monthly direct 
debits were being taken from Mr Ts bank account and he was also sent an email each time 
the policy renewed, which he thinks might have gone to his junk mail. So I think that there 
were a number of opportunities for Mr T to have noticed that the policy was still in place and 
that he was still paying premiums. Im aware that Homeserve provided evidence that Mr T 
opened a renewal email in 2018, so by that stage I think there is good reason to think that Mr 
T should have been aware that the policy was still in place and could have cancelled it at 
that point.
So thinking about all of the above, I currently think that it is most likely that in 2013 
Homeserve told Mr T that the policy needed to be cancelled but that as there was no note of 
this on the records, this didnt happen when the claim was closed. However, I also think that 
Mr T could have noticed earlier that the policy was still in place to ask for it to be cancelled - 
and that by the time of the renewal notice being sent in 2018 that he should have known the 
policy was in place, as he opened an email about it, even if he doesnt remember reading it. 
On that basis, I intend to partially uphold this complaint about Homeserve because I think it 
should have cancelled the policy in 2013 and stopped taking the premiums. But I also think 
that Mr T contributed to the premiums being taken for as long as they were. As a result, Im 
minded to say that Homeserve should refund 50% of the premiums paid from the date that 
the policy should have been cancelled in 2013, in line with its normal policy on stopping 
taking premiums where a policy is cancelled, to the date that the policy renewed in 2018, as 
Mr T opened the email telling him this was going to happen. I think that this most fairly 
reflects the role of both parties in cancelling the policy.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 4 October 2020.
Mr T said that he didnt open any emails from Homeserve or else he would have realised 
that the policy was still live. The only one he opened was the latest renewal notice, 
irrespective of what Homeserves records showed.
Homeserve clarified that it would only cancel a policy if this was requested by the customer. 
Normally it would just transfer a customer onto a landlord policy. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im still of the same view as in my provisional decision that this complaint is 
partially upheld. Im grateful to both parties for providing further clarity on their positions, but 
thinking about what happened in this case and the likely reasons for this, the points raised 
don't cause me to change my view.
Putting things right
Homeserve should refund 50% of the premiums paid from the date that the policy should 
have been cancelled in 2013, in line with its normal policy on stopping taking premiums 
where a policy is cancelled, to the date that the policy renewed in 2018, as Mr T opened the 
email telling him this was going to happen. I think that this most fairly reflects the role of both 
parties in cancelling the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is partially upheld. I require Homeserve Membership Limited to:
Refund 50% of the premiums paid from the date the policy should have been cancelled 
in 2013, in line with Homeserves policy on when it would normally stop taking premiums 
where a policy is cancelled, to the date that the policy renewed in 2018.
Pay 8% simple interest on the refunded premiums from the date on which the premiums 
should have stopped being taken to the date the money is paid.
If Homeserve Membership Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr T how much its taken 
off. It should also give Mr T a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman