DRN-3969097
The complaint
Mr Hs complaint is about a mortgage he has with Barclays Bank UK PLC. He is unhappy 
that, due to delays, the interest rate product hed wanted was no longer available. 
What happened
Mr H had an existing mortgage with Barclays which was on a fixed rate of 2.09% until 
31 January 2023.
He wanted to arrange a new interest rate product and on 1 September 2022 Barclays 
changed its rules to allow customers who had less than 150 days left to run on their existing 
preferential rate product to book a new rate (previously customers had to be within 90 days 
of the end date of the existing rate).
The first appointment was booked for 13 September at 1.30pm which was due to be a 
meeting in branch. Mr H has said he booked a branch appointment (rather than one that 
would be carried out over the phone) as that is what he had previously done, albeit his 
previous mortgage adviser had since left so he was meeting with someone new. The 
booking note for that appointment says Wanted to come in Branch.
On 6 September the branch mortgage adviser emailed Mr H saying:
I have tried to call you regarding your mortgage appointment but there was no answer, I 
need to cancel your appointment as I have a meeting all day next Tuesday. If you wish to 
rebook, can you please call me on [mobile number]
As part of our investigation Mr H said about the email i never saw this email as i was abroad 
without access to my emails and when i attended the appointment a day after retuning from 
abroad i then found out it had been cancelled.
On 13 September the mortgage adviser booked a further appointment for Mr H for 12pm on 
23 September. An email confirmation of the appointment was sent out, which Mr H has 
recently provided a copy of to our service. The booking note for that appointment says 
Advised rate switch face to face in [branch name].
Mr H missed this appointment as he turned up at the branch at 2pm instead. He said this 
was due to the fact hed written 2pm down on a piece of paper, and when he turned up at 
that time the mortgage adviser wasnt available as she didnt work afternoons.
The final appointment was booked on 30 September by the branch mortgage adviser, 
however this time the appointment was with Barclays telephone team. That appointment 
was booked for 7 October at 12.30pm. Mr H successfully applied for a new rate in that 
appointment and a complaint was raised about the delays leading to Mr H now having a 
higher interest rate product.
Barclays didnt uphold the main thrust of the complaint, although it offered £150 
compensation for the length of time Mr H said hed had to wait to get through on the phone 
before being cut off.
Mr H referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our Investigators 
considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend it be upheld.
Mr H didnt accept the Investigators conclusions and so the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand there has been confusion about whether or not Mr H could have applied online 
for a new rate and it seems he could have done so, but there was a specific way the 
application had to be made using a link that Barclays would provide. 
In the call on 7 October Mr H said the branch adviser said he could apply online and that 
hed watched the video about how to apply but had been unable to do so. Unfortunately, we 
cant now replicate what Mr H saw and what he did, but Ive no reason to believe if hed used 
the right link (which Mr H didnt say he hadnt been provided with when discussing it on 
7 October) and followed the steps correctly that an application wouldnt have been 
successful. If the process didnt work at all then Barclays would have been made aware of 
that fact due to all its other customers who wanted to apply online also reporting they were 
unable to do so. I dont know what went wrong for Mr H or why, but I dont think this 
complaint turns on this point anyway. Ill explain why.
Although Barclays cancelled the first appointment Im satisfied it did so giving plenty of 
notice. The adviser tried to call Mr H first so the appointment could be rearranged, and when 
she was unable to get hold of him she sent an email giving her mobile number so he could 
call to rebook. That email was sent one week before the appointment was due. Whilst it is 
unfortunate the appointment had to be rearranged, things come up and sometimes that has 
to happen.
Whilst Mr H has said he didnt see the email as he was abroad without access to his emails 
until a day before the appointment, that isnt the case. Mr H has provided copies of his plane 
tickets and those show his return flight was on 6 September; the same day the email was 
sent which was a week before the appointment had been booked for (which was 
13 September). It is unfortunate that Mr H didnt read that email and return the advisers call 
as had he done so it is likely the appointment could have been rearranged much sooner than 
it was.
Instead, Mr H said he turned up to the (cancelled) appointment on 13 September and at that 
time a new appointment was booked for 23 September. Thats supported by the information 
weve received from Barclays. Unfortunately it seems Mr H wrote down an incorrect time for 
the second appointment as he attended the branch at 2pm when the appointment had been 
booked for 12pm. Mr H has provided us with a copy of the appointment confirmation email 
he received and that clearly states 12pm as the appointment time so Im unable to hold 
Barclays liable for Mr H missing that appointment.
There is a dispute about what happened next, with Mr H originally saying there was no other 
appointment before 7 October, but later saying there was a telephone appointment booked 
for 29 September I did have a telephone appointment on the 29th & the person that i spoke to on that day advised me that she could not do the rate switch as she thought it was just a 
general mortgage enquiry & didnt have time.
But the only record of a call on 29 September was an incoming call from Mr H to Barclays 
where he disconnected the call after less than two minutes. Whereas if this was a phone 
appointment like Mr H said it would have been an outgoing call of longer than that. 
When our Investigator asked Mr H about that he said I think the purpose of the call on the 
29th of Sept may have been due the misunderstanding that occurred of the missed 
appointment thinking it was 2pm / not at 12pm. So was probably looking to rebook but 
disconnected the call due to being placed in a queue with a long wait time. However, Im not 
a 100% sure as it was over a year ago.
It appears from Barclays records that the successful telephone appointment (of 7 October) 
was booked by the branch for him on 30 September, so that ties in with what Mr H said 
above, in that he disconnected the 29 September call due to not wanting to wait in a queue, 
and then perhaps he contacted the branch the following day to book the 7 October 
appointment.
Since the summer of 2022 more people were looking at preferential rate products as there 
had been a steady increase in the Bank of England base rate, with a 0.50 percentage point 
increase on 4 August and then another on 22 September. By late September 2022 lenders 
were experiencing an unprecedented number of calls. This was as a result of a mini-budget 
by the then Chancellor of the Exchequer which had taken place on 23 September 2022, and 
which threw the financial markets into turmoil and had a knock-on effect on mortgage 
interest rates. 
Consequently, large numbers of customers whose interest rate products were due to expire 
tried to secure a new product before mortgage interest rates increased any further which led 
to longer wait times for appointments, both in person and over the phone.
Overall, whilst I acknowledge Mr Hs frustration, Im not persuaded Barclays did anything 
wrong. There was no mortgage offer for the 3.39% five-year rate, because by the time Mr H 
had a successful appointment with Barclays that rate had been withdrawn. Simply selecting 
a desired product is not the same as making an application for it. With a fixed-rate product, 
the bank borrows a fixed amount in the wider markets so it can lend that money to 
customers at a particular rate of interest. Individual customers apply for a tranche of these 
funds and once all the tranches have been applied for, the product is withdrawn. 
I fully acknowledge that Mr H is unhappy that, by the time he spoke to Barclays, the rate he 
wanted was no longer available. But overall Im not persuaded Barclays is at fault, or is 
under any obligation to offer the 3.39% five-year fixed rate product to Mr H. Whilst Barclays 
cancelled the first appointment, it gave a weeks notice of that and asked Mr H to get in 
contact with the mortgage adviser to rearrange. He didnt do so. Mr H didnt attend the 
second appointment as he got the time wrong. And then the third appointment led to a 
successful application being made. The delay in getting a rate was as a result of events 
outside the control of Barclays, and so Im unable to find that the bank has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably.
Whilst I have sympathy for the situation Mr H found himself in, I dont consider that Barclays 
did anything wrong in relation to this matter.
Finally, Mr H said that he experienced long hold times and was disconnected. However, 
Mr H has been unable to provide an itemised call log to show these calls, and Barclays call 
records only show one call in from Mr H which is the under two-minute call I referenced earlier. As Mr H hasnt been able to provide evidence to support the length of time he was on 
hold, or that calls were disconnected, and the evidence we have from Barclays only shows 
one incoming call (of under two minutes), I simply cant award any compensation for this 
point.
That said, Barclays has already made an offer to pay £150 to settle this part of the 
complaint. I dont know if that offer is still available, so Mr H should contact Barclays directly 
to discuss it if he now wishes to accept this.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint, and I dont think Barclays Bank UK PLC needs to do anything 
to settle it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman