DRN-3004814
The complaint
Miss T is unhappy that Lloyds Bank plc (Lloyds) allowed her to increase her overdraft limit 
when she was struggling with managing her finances.
What happened
Miss T increased the overdraft on her account several times over the years, up to a 
maximum of £2,400. She says that Lloyds shouldnt have allowed her to increase her limit to 
this level because her spending should have suggested to Lloyds that she was having 
difficulties managing her money. Miss T thinks Lloyds should have stepped in to offer her 
help to get her account back under control. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Ts concerns and didnt think Lloyds had done 
anything wrong or treated Miss T unfairly. Miss T disagreed and so the complaint was 
passed to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And 
Ive referred to this when deciding Miss Ts complaint. Having considered everything 
provided, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ts complaint. Ill explain why. 
Lloyds needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
that Lloyds needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether 
Miss T would be able to repay what she was being lent before providing any credit to her. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income 
was low or the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the 
greater the risk of it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial 
difficulty. So wed expect a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a 
customer irresponsibly. 
Ive looked closely at Miss Ts bank statements and the information Lloyds would have 
considered when approving any overdraft limit increase. Lloyds has said Miss T passed its 
credit checks for the level of overdraft she was given, and that what shed told it about her 
income and expenditure suggested that she would be able to manage the overdraft limits 
she was given. And given the credits going into Miss Ts account, I dont think that it was 
unreasonable for Lloyds to conclude Miss T would be able to repay the additional funds 
within a reasonable period of time. I can also see that she did regularly clear her overdraft 
balance when her salary was paid in, and that Miss T regularly transferred money out of this 
account into other accounts (including a savings account). This suggests that she had 
adequate income to not only service her overdraft but also to set aside funds for future use. 
With this in mind, I dont agree that Lloyds increased Miss Ts overdraft limit unfairly or 
irresponsibly.
That said, even though Miss Ts overdraft limit wasnt increased irresponsibly, Lloyds still 
wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Miss T if it applied any interest, fees and 
charges to her account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to have been aware, that she was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive 
considered whether there were instances where Lloyds didnt treat Miss T fairly and 
reasonably. 
I dont think that Lloyds did treat Miss T unfairly or unreasonably though. Miss T has said 
that her excessive spending should have suggested to Lloyds that she was having difficulties 
managing her money. But looking at her statements I dont think theres anything that should 
have given Lloyds particular cause for concern. And while I accept that Miss T was using her 
overdraft regularly, the amount being credited to Miss Ts account each month didnt indicate 
that there was no reasonable prospect of her seeing a credit balance at any stage either. 
Indeed, the overdraft was regularly repaid by Miss Ts wages or by other credits to the 
account from external sources. 
I accept that this doesnt mean that Miss T wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. But there 
isnt anything in the transactions in themselves which ought to have alerted Lloyds to any 
potential financial difficulty. So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable 
for Lloyds to proceed with adding the interest, fees and charges it did or that should have 
prompted Lloyds to contact Miss T to ask if she needed help  beyond the standard letters 
that Lloyds sent out when a payment was returned unpaid.
 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Miss T, but Im satisfied that Lloyds didnt 
do anything wrong by increasing Miss Ts overdraft limit when she asked it to, and that there 
was nothing that should have prompted Lloyds to contact Miss T directly about her financial 
circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman