DRN-4427471
The complaint
Mr B complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) failed to process a change of 
bank account details for his pension. And they continued to pay Mr Bs pension payments to 
a closed bank account. 
What happened
In June 2023 Mr B completed an Amendment Form as he wanted to change the bank 
account into which his regular pension payments were made from Aviva. 
Aviva wrote to Mr B the following month to let him know that they couldnt verify the bank 
details hed sent them for his new account. Aviva asked Mr B to send them a bank 
statement, welcome letter or passbook relating to his account. 
The letter said bank statements must be dated within the last three months and show Mr Bs 
name, sort code, account numbers and include a minimum of five days worth of 
transactions. 
Mr B sent Aviva a copy of his bank statement. Hed redacted certain sections of the 
statement, which included the account balances and transaction amounts. 
Aviva wrote to Mr B on 31 July 2023 to say they were unable to accept documents that were 
redacted in any way. The letter noted that Aviva would continue to pay Mr Bs payments into 
the account details they already held on file. 
Mr B later phoned Aviva to discuss why they werent able to accept the documentation he 
provided. During the call Aviva explained the reason for the rejection was because Mr B had 
redacted parts of the bank statement hed sent them. Mr B wasnt willing to send Aviva any 
further documentation. 
Aviva treated Mr Bs phone call as a complaint. In responding to the complaint, Aviva said 
they had a duty of care to their customers. They also had to comply with anti-money 
laundering and fraud regulations. Aviva said amendments or redactions to a statement could 
not be accepted due to the regulations that are in place to protect customers money.
Aviva also set out the details they needed from Mr B to satisfy their requirements. 
Mr B brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt think Aviva had done 
anything wrong. He said it was reasonable for Aviva to ask for an unredacted statement, and 
thought theyd been clear in their requirements for Mr B to do so. He also said that 
regardless of Mr Bs request to change his bank details, hed seen no evidence that Mr B 
had asked Aviva to stop making payments to his old account. So, he didnt think they were 
wrong to continue doing so. 
Mr B disagreed with our investigators opinion. He also sent Aviva a letter from his bank 
account provider confirming that Mr B had several accounts with them. However, Aviva were 
still unwilling to accept this letter as it wasnt a bank statement that met the requirements set 
out in their previous letters. 
Mr B remained unhappy with our investigators opinion and felt hed complied with Avivas 
requirements with his latest letter, but his change of details still hadnt been accepted. So, 
the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why. 
The role of our service is to resolve complaints impartially, we dont regulate businesses, 
which is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. That means I cant tell Aviva or other 
financial businesses to change administrative procedures. 
But I can take into account any relevant law and wider industry practice when deciding 
whether Aviva treated Mr B fairly and reasonably in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered what happened here and the points made by Mr B, I dont think Aviva 
treated him unfairly or unreasonably. I say that because I wouldnt expect Aviva to release 
any funds before they were satisfied that it was being sent to the correct person and they 
held legitimate bank details for that person. 
Businesses like Aviva are highly regulated and are also expected to comply with legislation. 
They can also face significant penalties if theyre found to have inadequate policies and 
processes in place to protect their customers money. Many of the rules they must follow 
dont prescribe exactly how a business should operate. So, Aviva are able to make 
legitimate business decisions in order to make sure theyre compliant with the various laws 
and regulations. 
That means that those processes may differ from other businesses. So, while I can 
appreciate Mr Bs frustrations that Aviva have different requirements to other regulated 
businesses hes a customer of, that doesnt mean Aviva has acted unreasonably.
I think Aviva was reasonably seeking to protect both Mr B and themselves from possible 
fraud by wanting to adequately confirm the bank account details to which he wanted 
payment to be made. I understand Mr B concerns about privacy, but the bank statement he 
provided was redacted and didnt provide the information Aviva reasonably considered to be 
required for anti-fraud and anti-money laundering checks.
I understand Mr B has concerns about the security of his personal data. However, Aviva is 
required to treat Mr Bs personal data as confidential and process it securely under the 
Data Protection Act. And Ive seen no evidence that Mr Bs data would have been at risk if 
he were to send an unredacted statement to Aviva. 
In their communications with Mr B, Aviva were clear on what their requirements were. The 
final response letter included clear requirements, noting that Mr B needed to provide a bank 
statement without any details obscured showing at least five days of transactions. 
The letter Mr B sent Aviva following our investigators opinion wasnt a bank statement and 
didnt contain the required information. So, I dont think Aviva acted unfairly by saying it still 
hadnt satisfied their requirements. Ive also seen no evidence that Mr B asked Aviva to stop paying his regular payments into 
his previous bank account. And Aviva specifically noted in their letter of 7 July 2023, that 
their intention was to carry on making the payments to the account for which they already 
held details on file. So, I think Aviva acted fairly in continuing to make payments to that 
account having said they would. 
My final decision
Taking account of everything Ive said above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman