The complaint
Mr S is unhappy Quickly Finance Limited trading as Fast Track Reclaim (FTR) won't refund 
the fee it's charged him for a successful payment protection insurance (PPI) claim after it 
said it would.
What happened
In 2016 Mr S signed a letter of authority (LoA)  instructing FTR to act on his behalf to look 
into any PPI claims he might have. In April 2016, FTR  submitted the LoA to Mr S's lender.
Mr S's lender did identify accounts that had PPI and compensated Mr S for the mis-selling of 
them. But for his account, ending *9004, his lender said they couldn't find a PPI policy. In 
October 2016, Mr S paid FTR's its fee for his successful claims.
In July 2019, Mr S's lender got back in touch with both him and FTR to say they'd given the 
wrong response in 2016. They said account ending *9004 did have PPI, and compensated 
Mr S for this.
In August 2019, as the claim was now successful, FTR sent Mr S an invoice for its success 
fee of 25% plus VAT.
On 27 August 2019, Mr S complained to FTR about the fee it was charging. But later paid 
the fee as he said FTR kept asking him for the payment, and said it might begin legal 
proceedings.
But FTR in response to Mr S's complaint, told him on 10 September 2019, he shouldn't have 
paid the fee as it said it hadn't submitted the PPI claim for this account. Mr S was told the fee 
would be refunded. But on 26 September 2019 FTR changed its response and said Mr S did 
have to pay the fee as it had submitted his PPI claim to his lender in April 2016.
Mr S wasn't happy with FTR's response and said FTR had given him a poor service, 
and he'd felt harassed into paying its fee. Mr S referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said FTR could charge its success fee. But should pay Mr S £50 for the 
trouble and upset caused by sending him conflicting information. And a further £50 as she 
didn't think it was fair to contact Mr S late at night.
Mr S didn't agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I'm partially upholding this complaint. I'll explain why.
DRN-1270454In March 2016, when Mr S signed the LoA he instructed FTR  to be his sole representative 
to look into any PPI claims he had with his lender. And agreed that:
" this letter of authority relates to all policies and/or agreements and/or bank accounts that I 
have with your company throughout my complete history."
So I'm satisfied Mr S had authorised FTR to submit the LoA in April 2016 for any accounts 
he had with his lender. And in July 2019, when Mr S's lender said it had reviewed his 
account *9004, the letter said FTR had acted on Mr S's behalf when the claim was made.
The letter went on to say they'd been wrong in saying there wasn't any PPI on this account 
when there was. And refunded Mr S for this. I can understand Mr S's frustration at being 
asked by FTR to pay a fee given the time that had elapsed. But  I'm satisfied the claim was 
submitted by FTR and if Mr S's lender hadn't made the mistake in 2016, the refund to Mr S 
would have been made then. 
The agreement Mr S had with FTR was on a No win No fee basis. This means 
FTR charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they 
actually did. So, any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. Where a 
claim was successful, FTRs fee may be more or less than the value of the work they 
actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement.
And in July 2019 Mr S's claim for account ending *9004 was successful, so I think FTR can 
charge its success fee.
The Financial Guidance and Claims Act 2018 (the Act) required the Claims Management 
Regulator to introduce a fee cap for PPI claims. The fee cap came into force on 10 July 
2018. From this date, claims management companies couldn'tt legally charge a success fee 
of more than 20% plus VAT. But this wasn't introduced retrospectively. Although Mr S didn't 
get his compensation until after the cap was introduced If his lender had investigated his 
claim correctly in 2016 his award would have been made then. I can't hold FTR responsible 
for the error made by Mr S' lender. So, I'm satisfied it can charge its success fee of 25% plus 
VAT.
Mr S has said he felt harassed into paying FTR its fee. I can see FTR told Mr S when he 
complained in August 2019 that its collection activity would continue. And this activity would 
be by telephone, letter, email and text message. Mr S was sent several emails, some late in 
the evening and letters asking for the fee to be paid. And  2 September 2019 he was told if 
he didn't pay within 24 hours
" your case will be passed to Debt Recovery where legal action may commence".
Mr S paid the fee. While  I don't think its unreasonable for FTR to pursue a fee it's entitled to. 
I do think FTR should have considered suspending its collection activity. 
Particularly considering the time that had elapsed between the LoA being submitted in 2016 
and the award being made in 2019. Added to which Mr S was disputing the fee. But instead 
it caused Mr S the  trouble and upset of receiving emails late in the evening and the worry of 
possible legal action being taken. I think our investigator was fair and reasonable in saying 
£50 should be paid to Mr S for this.
FTR did at first agree to uphold Mr S's complaint, and he expected his payment to be 
refunded. But this didn't happen. But as I've outlined above, FTR did submit the LoA in April 
2016 and the claim was successful. So I can't say FTR was wrong in changing its position. 
But I agree with our investigator, for Mr S to be told he had to pay the fees when he thought they would be refunded would have been upsetting. And I think FTR should have made sure 
about what it had done before giving Mr S an expectation that wasn't correct.  
Our investigator said FTR should pay Mr S £50 for the trouble and upset this had caused.  
And I think this is fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
I think Quickly Finance Limited trading as Fast Track Reclaim can charge it success fee of 
25% plus VAT. But should pay Mr S, for the reasons above, £100 for trouble and upset. 
My final decision
I'm partially upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2020.
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman