DRN-3949631
The complaint
Mr L complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund money he lost after falling 
victim to a scam.
What happened
In 2022, Mr L posted an advert online looking for someone local to do some maintenance 
work on his home.
Mr L says he had three responses, which included a response from a tradesperson Ill refer 
to as J. Mr L says that all three responses provided a similar quote for the work he wanted to 
be done, but he found J to be the most professional. Mr L says he looked at Js profile on a 
social media site used by locals in his area. He says there were positive comments from 
people J had completed work for, J was a member of local tradesperson groups on the site 
and also had pictures posted of work hed done.
Mr L says he exchanged multiple messages with J via Whatsapp and once theyd agreed the 
work to be done - J sent him an invoice. Mr L was asked to pay upfront for the scaffolding 
costs and for the materials being used in the work. However, he was told that this would be 
deducted from the final bill. J also told him that a work guarantee would be provided by his 
insurance broker.
Mr L sent the initial payment of £1,140 for the materials and scaffolding on 27 January 2022. 
A few days later J got in touch with Mr L and told him the insurer wouldnt provide cover 
unless 50% of the jobs total value was paid upfront, he said this was because the total cost 
was less than £5,000. J said that on receiving the additional payment from Mr L he would 
send the insurance documents. 
On 4 February 2022 Mr L sent the second payment of £210. Both of the payments were 
made from Mr Ls Monzo account and had the payee as T.
The work was due to be started on 28 February 2022, but no one turned up at Mr Ls 
property. Mr L tried to contact J but he didnt respond to messages or answer the phone, so 
Mr L got in touch with Monzo and raised a fraud claim.
Ultimately J never turned up at Mr Ls property, didnt complete any work and didnt return 
any of Mr Ls funds.
When Mr L raised the fraud claim with Monzo on 28 February 2022, they let him know they 
would contact the receiving bank to try and recover his funds. 
On 2 March, Monzo contacted Mr L and let him know no funds were recovered. In error they 
also told Mr L that his fraud claim had been closed. Monzo realised their mistake and 
contacted Mr L on 7 March saying a dispute team was looking into his fraud claim and 
apologised that they hadnt correctly explained what would be happening. 
Ultimately Monzo declined to refund Mr L the funds he lost but apologised for incorrectly 
saying his fraud claim was closed and paid him £25 compensation. Mr L wasnt happy with 
Monzos response, so he brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into his complaint and partially upheld it. They felt Monzo should pay 
£100 compensation for the distress caused by the poor service Mr L received from them. 
However, the investigator didnt recommend that Monzo refund Mr L for the £1,350 saying 
Mr L didnt havent a reasonable basis for believing that J was legitimate.
Monzo disagreed with the investigators opinion, saying they felt the award of £100 was too 
high in the circumstances. Mr L also disagreed with the investigators opinion, saying that the 
£100 wasnt adequate for the level of stress he was caused. Mr L also feels Monzo 
shouldve given him more advice and guidance when making the payments to J.
As the case couldnt be resolved it was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Monzo arent a signatory to the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) but 
have agreed to adhere to the provisions of the Code. The CRM Code requires firms to 
reimburse customers who have been victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like 
this, in all but a limited number of circumstances. 
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*:
The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that 
the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or service; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate. 
 * There are further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code, but they dont apply to this case.
Having reviewed the case, I agree that Monzo can rely on this exception to reimbursement 
for the following reasons:
The invoice that J sent Mr L wasnt professional and didnt contain the type of 
information that Id expect from a genuine tradesperson. There was no company 
name, no contact information for a company or J, no company logo or branding and 
no terms and conditions other than saying that payments was due within 15 days. 
While Mr L had been dealing with J who would be doing the work, he was asked to 
make a payment to an account in the name of T. He didnt question why the account 
name didnt match Js name.
Mr L says he saw positive comments on Js social media profile, I cant see that Mr L 
contacted any previous customers of J to check the quality of his work or their 
satisfaction with the work done. And, while there were pictures posted on Js profile 
of work he was supposed to have done, there was nothing to prove that this was his 
work.
Other than looking at Js profile on one social media website, Mr L didnt do any other checks to ensure that J was who he said he was, was qualified to do the work he was 
quoting for, or check what online information was available about him or his 
company.
Mr L didnt ask any questions with regards to an insurer not providing cover based on 
the upfront payment, which I think shouldve concerned him. Also, he didnt ask for 
any information about the insurer, what they would be insuring and what protection 
he would be given.
Taking all of these points into consideration as a whole, rather than on an individual basis, 
Im not satisfied Mr L had a reasonable basis to believe that J was legitimately who he said 
he was. I think there were enough red flags that Mr L shouldve taken steps to verify the 
authenticity of the person he was dealing with before making the payments. 
But Ive also considered whether Monzo met the standards set for them under the CRM 
Code. 
In this case, the first payment Mr L made was for £1,140. Based on the size of the payment 
and Mr Ls previous account usage, Im not persuaded that Monzo shouldve identified an 
APP scam risk and therefore they werent required to give an effective warning. Also, the 
second payment was for a lower amount of £210 and was paid to the same payee as the 
first payment, so Im not satisfied the second payment warranted an effective warning either. 
On that basis, Im satisfied that Monzo have met the standards set for them, so Mr L isnt 
entitled to a refund under the CRM Code.
I can see that Monzo contacted the bank Mr L sent his money to promptly on being made 
aware of the scam. Unfortunately, they were unable to recover any funds as they were 
removed within three days of the second payment being received  meaning that no funds 
remained when Mr L reported the scam two weeks later. So, Im satisfied Monzo took 
appropriate steps to try and recover Mr Ls funds from the receiving bank.
Mr L asked Monzo to contact the receiving bank and try and remove the freeze from Js 
account, so J could refund him. However, Monzo is only required to contact the receiving to 
try and recover any part of Mr Ls funds that were still in Js account at the time he reported 
the scam and credit Mr L with any funds recovered. Monzo wouldnt be involved in any 
decision made by the receiving about the action they took on Js account after receiving a 
fraud report. Nor would I expect Monzo to try and mediate with the receiving bank or discuss 
the actions theyd taken. Also, its most likely that J asked Mr L to do this with no intention of 
returning any of the money. Having considered everything, Im satisfied that Monzo acted 
reasonably in telling Mr L that they couldnt influence any decision made by Js bank in 
relation to Js account and that they wouldnt contact the receiving bank with Mr Ls request.
 
Mr L is unhappy with the level of service hes received from Monzo and says hes 
experienced a large amount of distress as a result. Having reviewed the chats Mr L had with 
Monzo, I can see that he was incorrectly told that his fraud claim had been closed and that 
Monzo didnt clearly explain to Mr L what the next steps would be in handling his claim. Mr L 
has told us that he has an existing health condition which was exacerbated by the stress 
hes experienced, and I do think Monzo have caused additional stress to Mr L by providing a 
poor level of service. But, importantly, I cant hold Monzo liable for the distress caused to   
Mr L as a result of falling victim to a scam. Considering the level of service Mr L received 
from Monzo, I think the £100 compensation recommended by the investigator is fair.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr L and realise that losing this money has had a serious impact on 
him financially and on his health. But, for the reasons given above, Im cant fairly ask Monzo 
to refund him the money he lost to the scam.Putting things right
To put things right Monzo Bank Ltd should pay Mr L £100 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint against Monzo Bank Ltd and require 
them to compensate Mr L as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman