DRN-3197674
The complaint
Ms C (through a representative) has complained that S.D. Taylor Limited trading as Loans at 
Home (LAH) didnt carry out proper affordability checks before it provided her with lending.
 
What happened
Ms C took 10 loans from LAH between May 2004 and December 2009. A summary of her 
borrowing, based on the information provided to us from LAH can be found below:
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly repayment 
amount 
1 £324.00 20/05/2004 21/07/2005 50 £10.00
Break in lending
2 £250.00 05/07/2007 22/05/2008 41 £10.00
3 £600.00 26/07/2007 25/12/2008 50 £20.00
4 £250.00 22/05/2008 05/03/2009 41 £10.00
5 £600.00 25/12/2008 05/11/2009 52 £20.00
6 £250.00 05/03/2009 10/12/2009 41 £10.00
7 £157.00 02/07/2009 26/03/2015 35 £5.00
8 £250.00 06/08/2009 04/06/2015 41 £10.00
9 £600.00 05/11/2009 written off 52 £20.00
10 £250.00 10/12/2009 24/11/2016 41 £10.00
The cost per week column is the individual cost per loan per week. Where loans overlapped 
the cost per week will be greater. 
LAH has told us that Ms W had some problems repaying her final 4 loans and it told us that it 
wrote off the balance due for loan 9  this was likely a combination of outstanding capital 
and interest. 
Following Ms Cs complaint, LAH issued its FRL on 29 January 2021. It explained that she 
had made her complaint too late about all of her loans, so it didnt investigate Ms Cs 
complaint further.  
 
Unhappy with this response, Ms Cs representative referred the complaint to this Service. 
One of our adjudicators looked at Ms Cs complaint. The assessment was split into two 
parts. 
In the first part, the adjudicator concluded loan 1 couldnt be investigated because it was 
taken out before this type of product fell within this Services jurisdiction. But she did 
conclude that, this Service could investigate loans 2  10 because she couldnt see a reason 
to suggest that these loans had been complained about too late. Therefore, these loans 
were referred to this Service on time. 
 
In the second part, the adjudicator considered whether any of the loans should be upheld. 
She hadnt seen enough to say that LAH had made an error early on in the lending 
relationship and so she didnt uphold loans 2 - 4. 
But the adjudicator thought loans 5 - 10 should be upheld. She concluded that by loan 5 the 
pattern of lending had become harmful to Ms C. So, LAH shouldnt have approved these 
loans.   
Ms Cs representative acknowledged the adjudicators findings. 
LAH didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. In its response to the adjudicator LAH 
didnt focus on the merits of the case, instead it focused on whether this Service had the 
jurisdiction to consider loans 2  10. In summary it said:
It disagreed with the approach this Service had taken with this case.
The approach is at odds with other, more recent complaints LAHs parent company 
had received. That being aware of arrears ought to have been sufficient to have 
raised a complaint and to start the clock on the three year element of the time rule. 
LAH provided examples of cases where this approach had been taken. 
In this case, LAH told this Service Ms C received arrears letters in 2009 and then 
multiple pre-default and default letters in 2010 and 2017. Finally, Ms C was contacted 
by LAHs pre-litigation team in 2013 due to continued non-payment. Ms C, after each 
contact would then make some payments before stopping again. 
LAH says, all of this contact was more than three years before Ms C raised her 
complaint. And so, in line with the example cases it provided shows this case is 
outside of this Services jurisdiction. 
The adjudicator has disregarded LAHs points about jurisdiction and the regulations 
this Service must follow. 
No evidence has been provided as to why this case is in this Services jurisdiction 
and as such, LAH hasnt given this Service approval to consider these loans.  
The adjudicator went back to LAH and explained why its comments didnt change her mind. 
She also explained LAH hadnt provided copies of the arrears or default letters, so she 
couldnt say what information had been provided to Ms C. But she didnt think, based on 
what she had, that the contact about the debt and repayment problems , was enough for Ms 
C to be aware, or that she ought to have been aware, that LAH may have done something 
wrong.  
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
Why I can look into some of this complaint
Its worth saying, that this Service can only consider complaints about this type of lending, if 
the act that is being complained about occurred after 6 April 2007. In this case, loan 1 was 
taken out and repaid before this date. 
This means, like the adjudicator said, that Im not able to look at or consider what happened 
when loan 1 was granted. Instead, Ive gone on to consider whether this Service can 
consider what happened when loans 2  10 were granted. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments provided by Ms C and LAH to 
decide whether we are able to look at loans 2 -10. Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator  that I have the power to consider loans 2  10. Ill explain 
why. 
The rules I must apply say that, where a business doesnt agree, I cant look at a complaint 
made more than six years after whats been complained about. Or if later, more than three 
years after the complainant in this case, Ms C knew, or ought to really have known they had 
reason to complain. This is set out in Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R and can be found online 
in the FCAs Handbook. 
Its clear loans 2 to 10 were complained about more than six years after they were taken. 
However, Ive not seen anything to persuade me Ms C was aware or ought to have been 
reasonably aware more than three years before she raised this complaint, that she had 
reason to complain. 
LAH has said that when Ms C experienced repayment problems and received arrears letters 
in 2009 and (pre)default letters in 2010 and 2017, these shouldve caused her to realise, she 
had reason to complain. But I dont think this is enough in this particular case to demonstrate 
that.
I say this because whilst experiencing repayment problems and therefore struggling to repay 
the lending would no doubt have led Ms C to realise there was a problem (in terms of her 
financial difficulty), Im not persuaded this would have (or ought to have), in itself, made her  
aware that these problems were caused by LAH doing something wrong when it agreed the 
loans.
And I havent seen anything else to persuade me that Ms C was or ought to have become 
aware earlier of cause to complain more than three years before they complained. 
So, like our adjudicator, I think loans 2 to 10 were raised within the time limits I need to apply 
and that I do have the power to consider these loans Ms C was given. Ill now go on and 
consider whether or not I think all the loans complained about were lent responsibly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the time the loan was provided.
LAH needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate and / or reasonable checks to make 
sure Ms C could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages 
of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that LAH should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms C. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeatedrefinancing may signal that the borrowing had become or was becoming
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to say that LAH was required to establish whether Ms C 
could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all mean for Ms Cs complaint.
Loans 2 to 4
The adjudicator didnt uphold Ms Cs complaint about these loans. Ms C (or her 
representatives) didnt disagree with the adjudicators findings, so I no longer think these 
loans are in dispute. 
But I have kept in mind these loans when thinking about Ms C overall lending relationship 
with LAH.  
Loans 5 - 10
I havent looked in any detail about whether the checks for loans 5 - 10 were proportionate 
and Ill explain why below. 
It looks like, based on what I understand LAH to have taken at the time each loan was lent it 
may have asked Ms C about her income and expenditure. But, LAH hasnt been able to 
provide this Service with the information it gathered, possibly due to the amount of time that 
has passed since these loans were approved. 
But, in addition to assessing the circumstances behind each individual loan provided to 
Ms C, LAH also needed to consider the overall pattern of lending and what unfolded during 
the course of its lending relationship with Ms C.
Having looked at the overall pattern of LAHs lending history with Ms C, LAH should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful, at the 
time it provided loan 5. I say this because:
By loan 5 it was just over 17 months into the lending relationship with Ms C indebted 
to LAH for the entire time. And, by this point Ms C now had two loans overlapping. In 
my view, Ms Cs loan history up until this point was a clear indication that her 
underlying financial situation didnt seem to be improving. 
Ms C, up to this point, had showed signs that when a loan had been repaid a new 
one was taken out on the same day, for example loans 4 and 5. LAH ought to have 
realised it was more likely than not Ms C, on these occasions, was having to borrow 
further to effectively cover a long term financial need. To me, this is an indication of 
her indebtedness not being sustainable.From loan 5 onwards Ms Cs pattern of taking new loans shortly after a previous loan 
had been repaid continued and she continued to have up to three loans running at 
the same time. 
Ms C showed no meaningful decrease in the amount she borrowed. Indeed, the 
longer she borrowed the more her commitments went up, and by loan 10 she was 
paying LAH £45 per week. I think its most likely this consistent pattern of borrowing 
over the period showed that Ms C didnt just have a short-term cash-flow problem but 
was probably supporting regular living expenses or other financial commitments over 
a longer term.
By the point of loan 10, Ms C was making a commitment to make repayments to LAH 
for almost another year, after already being indebted for the last 3 years. The amount 
of time that Ms C spent indebted to LAH meant that she was in effect servicing a debt 
to LAH over an extended period of time.
The above further reinforces my view these loans were unsustainable, because Ms C 
went on to have significant repayment problems. It took Ms C nearly 6 years to repay 
loans 7 and 8 and nearly 7 years to repay loan 10.  
I think that Ms C lost out when LAH provided loans 5 - 10 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Cs indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit over an extended period and;
the number of loans and time in debt was likely to have had negative implications on 
Ms Cs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these 
high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im also intending to uphold the complaint about loans 5 - 10. Ill go on to set out 
what LAH should do to put things right.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress LAH should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what
might have happened had it not provided lending from loan 5, as Im satisfied it ought to
have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Ms C may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Ms C in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Ms C would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce LAHs liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.LAH shouldnt have given Ms C loans 5 - 10. 
A. LAH should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms C towards interest, 
fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything LAH may have already refunded.
B. LAH should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs W 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms C originally made 
the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. LAH may  if it chooses to  use the total of A plus B to repay any principal it has 
written-off for loan 9.
D. LAH should pay any remaining refund to Ms C. If there is no refund left and still a 
balance outstanding made up of written-off principal, it would not be fair for you to 
pursue this further. 
E. The overall pattern of Ms Cs borrowing for loans 5 - 10 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from 
Ms Cs credit file. 
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LAH to take off tax from this interest. LAH
must give Ms C a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Ms Cs complaint in part. 
S.D. Taylor Limited should put things right for Ms C as directed above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman