DRN-3386857
The complaint
Mr A complains that NewDay Ltd (NewDay) has refused to refund payments he made to 
XMarkets using his NewDay (Debenhams) Mastercard credit card.  Mr A says that XMarkets 
were operating a scam and stole his money.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
Mr A says:
He came across an advert for XMarkets via social media.   This appealed to him as 
he had an interest in trading and Xmarkets advertisement,  promised easy and 
passive profits because the broker would trade on my behalf and take a commission 
from profits.
They were very smart and knew, how to push their victims for investment - promised 
big profits before Christmas and the possibility to withdraw my funds at any time. I 
decided to make the first initial investment of 5,000 GBP.
He did not know his brokers name, as he was told that all his trades were being 
conducted by Xmarkets professional brokers.
As I saw, how my account growing up in a couple of days, they bombarded me with 
phone calls and emails, proposing to make another investment to multiple my profits. 
Unfortunately, I didn't realize that all this was just a scam and I made a couple of 
more investments to their platform, hoping to get my funds with profits back, as by 
that time it was more than 200,000 GBP on my account.
After unsuccessful attempts to withdraw his funds, he did some research online and 
discovered XMarkets operated a scam.
Mr A made payments to XMarkets using his NewDay (Debenhams) Mastercard credit card.  
The payments in dispute are as follows:
£5,000 (16 November 2018)
£5,000 (12 December 2018)
£4,750 (14 December 2018)
£5,000 (8 January 2019)
oTotal: £19,750
Mr A asked NewDay to try to recover his money.  As this did not happen, he raised a 
complaint which he referred to our service.
NewDay told our service, amongst other things, that it is unable to process chargeback 
claims for trading of any kind, as it is not covered under the relevant scheme rules.  It 
explained that it is unable to consider that a deposit made for trading can or should benefit 
from this protection; deposits, it says, are not purchases.  NewDay added Mr A was 
responsible for his payments to Xmarkets as an investment and should have researched the 
company prior to making payment, as there is ample information about Xmarkets online.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and upheld it.  He thought had 
chargeback claims been processed, there would have been no reasonable prospect of 
success through Mastercards chargeback scheme due to the nature of Mr As claim.  
However, he argued that in his view, Mr A did have a valid claim for misrepresentation and 
breach of contract under section 75, so he suggested NewDay refund Mr As money.
Mr A accepted the investigators findings, but NewDay has not responded.
Because of this, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
On 3 March 2022, I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint.  For 
completeness, I repeat my provisional findings below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the complaint should be upheld.  But for different reasons to those 
put forward by the investigator.  I will set out my reasons below.
For the avoidance of doubt, based on the evidence before me, I am satisfied that Mr A has 
established a valid claim for breach of contract and misrepresentation under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  Therefore, I am of the view that a claim under section 75 for 
either action mentioned would likely succeed.  However, taking into account the particular 
circumstances of this case  I have considered whether NewDay should have processed the 
payments to XMarkets in light of what was known about them, rather than consider a claim 
under section 75.
Banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) have duties to protect customers 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large 
transactions to guard against money laundering (see below).  But when simply 
executing authorised payments, they do not have to protect customers against the risk of 
bad bargains or give investment advice  and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has 
confirmed that a fraud warning would not constitute unauthorised investment advice (see its 
predecessors 2012 consultation paper on investment fraud, below).  So, the first question to 
resolve is whether this particular retailer/trader was actually a fraudster. 
I am satisfied that XMarkets were not carrying out legitimate binary-options trades but were 
instead dishonestly defrauding customers, e.g. by not actually making trades/bets with the 
money received from clients but simply manipulating their online trading platform to show 
purported gains  with initial token pay-outs  in order to induce further investments from 
victims such as Mr A.  In the absence of evidence to the contrary, I have concluded 
this because: 
a)In 2018, binary-options, forex and CFD traders operating in the UK were required to 
be regulated by the FCA  whereas XMarkets were not.  Nor were they regulated or 
licensed in any other jurisdiction so far as I am reasonably aware.  This indicates 
they were operating illegally, probably with dishonest intentions.  Legitimate firms 
tend to comply with regulatory requirements.b)The FCA published a warning about XMarkets in February 2018  more than a 
month before Mr A made his payments to XMarkets in November/December 2018 
and January 2019.  Further, there are two warnings about XMarkets placed on the 
Investor Alerts Portal of the International Organization of Securities Commissions 
(IOSCO).  One in April 2018, and the other in January 2019; the former warning 
being placed on the Investor Alerts Portal more than a month before Mr As 
payments.
c)There are several reports in the public domain  e.g. foreign press and online forum 
 stating that XMarkets were scammers.  This hearsay is not in itself sufficient 
evidence of fraud.  But in the context of known regulatory facts, it may fairly and 
reasonably be regarded as circumstantial evidence that helps build an overall picture 
of scammers dishonestly seeking gains at the expense of others.
Unusual or uncharacteristic activity 
NewDay is aware of our general position on PSPs safeguarding and due-diligence duties 
to protect customers from the risk of financial harm due to fraud.  We have published many 
decisions on our website setting out these principles and quoting the relevant rules and 
regulations.  It is unnecessary to rehearse them again here in detail. 
It is common ground that the disputed payment was authorised by Mr A for the purposes of 
the Payment Services Regulations (the Regulations), in force at the time.  This is because 
they were made by Mr A using the legitimate security credentials provided 
to him by NewDay.  These must be regarded as authorised payments even though Mr A 
was the victim of a sophisticated scam.  So, although he did not intend the money to go to 
scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his account, Mr 
A is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I 
consider NewDay should fairly and reasonably: 
Have been monitoring accounts  and any payments made or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams; 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things).  This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
 
First, regulated firms ought reasonably to take notice of alerts about traders published by 
the FCA and/or IOSCO.  As long ago as June 2012, the FCAs predecessor indicated  in 
its consultation paper entitled Banks Defences Against Investment Fraud: detecting 
perpetrators and protecting victims  that it was good industry practice for firms to build up 
an updated watch-list of types of scams and potential perpetrators; and regularly to share 
timely and detailed intelligence with other banks, UK and overseas regulators, the police, 
etc.  Whilst the regulator gave no specific timings, it is not unreasonable in my view to 
expect an international bank to update its watch-list and communicate internally to staff within, say, one month of an alert being posted by the FCA and/or IOSCO.  In my 
judgment, such alerts should automatically trigger alarm-bells  and lead to the payment 
being paused  pending further enquiries (and a possible scam warning) to the payer. 
In Mr As case, there were several warnings about XMarkets placed on the IOSCOs 
Investor Alerts Portal (as set out above)  some of these warnings were placed more than a 
month before Mr As payments to XMarkets.  It is not unreasonable to expect a large firm 
that regularly updates its internal alerts to include information about payees who had tried 
to carry out regulated activities without permission.  I accept that the warning did not 
specifically relate to binary-options trading; and it did not necessarily follow from the nature 
of the warning in isolation that these were fraudsters.  Given the timing of the alert relative 
to Mr As payments, I think NewDay ought to have automatically blocked it; as it had a fair 
chance to update and communicate its watch-list between the warning being published and 
the payment being made.  NewDay had constructive if not actual notice that the payee 
might not be a legitimate merchant  therefore, it would have been reasonable for it to have 
properly questioned Mr A before processing all the payments in order to satisfy itself that all 
was well. 
If NewDay had fulfilled its duties and carried out due diligence by contacting Mr A and 
asking suitably probing questions, there is no reason to doubt that he would have 
explained what he was doing.  In such circumstances, whilst NewDay had no duty to 
protect Mr A from a bad bargain or give investment advice, it could have invited him to 
check whether the payee was regulated by the FCA.  It could have also explained its own 
customer experiences with merchants like XMarkets in that customers would often be 
prevented from withdrawing available balances.  After all, at that time, there was 
information in the public domain  which a bank ought to have known even if a lay 
consumer ought no  about the very high risks associated with binary options including 
many warnings of potential fraud (e.g. Action Frauds June 2016 warning; the European 
Securities and Markets Authoritys July 2016 warning; the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
consultation paper of December 2016; and the Gambling Commissions December 2016 
scam warning that an unlicensed operator is likely operating illegally, and so forth). 
There is no evidence that NewDay intervened in the disputed payments before agreeing to 
process them, when I think it ought to have.  It was a missed opportunity to intervene.
Causation 
 
If NewDay had asked Mr A what the payments were for and the basic surrounding 
context, it is likely he would have fully explained what he was doing and that everything 
had been done over the phone and online with the merchant.  NewDay did not need to 
know for certain whether Mr A was dealing with a fraudulent binary options trader or 
investing in a legitimate (albeit highly speculative) product; reasonable grounds for 
suspicion are enough to trigger a banks/firms obligations under the various regulations 
and principles of good practice.  I consider there were such grounds here and, therefore, 
that NewDay ought reasonably to have provided a scam warning in light of all the 
information then known to financial professionals about the risks associated with 
unregulated, overseas binary options.  
If NewDay had given a warning, I believe that Mr A would have paused and looked more 
closely into XMarkets before proceeding.  There is no evidence that he was willing to take 
high risks or had a history of speculative investments or gambling.  It seems more 
probable that Mr A would have made further enquiries into binary-options scams and 
whether or not XMarkets regulated in the United Kingdom or abroad. He could have 
discovered they were not and the various regulatory warnings about the risk of binary-
options/forex scams (see above).  I am also satisfied that Mr A would have had concerns that the payments were being made to a company other than Bitcoin.  In other words, I am 
satisfied that a warning from Mr As credit card provider would probably have exposed 
XMarketss false pretences, causing him to stop trading and preventing the losses. 
Contributory negligence 
 
Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still take 
responsibility for their decisions (see s.1C(d) of our enabling statute, the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000).  I do not place too much weight on general but arcane information 
in the public domain for reasons previously alluded to about the information imbalance 
between financial professionals and ordinary consumers.  
In this case, I do not think that Mr A was to blame for what happened.  That is, he did not 
foresee the risk of this sort of harm or any harm.  I do not think Mr A could have foreseen 
the risk that the company he was dealing with was a scam.
 
Therefore, in the circumstances, I do not think it would be fair to reduce compensation on 
the basis that Mr A should share blame for what happened.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr A responded to say he agreed with my provisional findings and was happy with the 
outcome.  However, NewDay has not responded
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Mr A agreed with my provisional findings, but NewDay has not responded  I see 
no reason to depart from them.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.  I therefore 
direct that NewDay Ltd:
Pay Mr A all the money he lost (totalling £19,750)  within 28 days of receiving 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision; plus
Interest (less any tax properly deductible)  either (i) at the simple rate of 8% per 
year on the payments from the date they were paid to the date of settlement; or (ii) if 
the account accrued interest because the relevant statement balances were not paid 
in full, interest should be paid at the rate actually charged for the payments from the 
date Mr A reported the fraud to NewDay Ltd.
Should an outstanding balance be owed on Mr As credit card account relating to the 
payments to Xmarkets and/or interest on these payments, NewDay Ltd is entitled to 
repay this balance first from the settlement outlined in the bullets above. 
If NewDay Ltd deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award, it should 
provide Mr A with the appropriate tax deduction certificate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman