DRN-4312742
The complaint
Mr Hs complaint about Scottish Widows Ltd (Scottish Widows) is comprised of a number of 
parts. The first relates to a single payment made into his pension which was not actioned in 
a timely manner. 
The second point of complaint relates to lack of functionality in the new website which has 
impacted the ease with which it is possible to actively manage funds in his pension portfolio. 
Mr H also complains about an error in part of Scottish Widows website resulting in the 
estimated summary of his pension at retirement being misleading. He complains that this 
has affected his plans for retirement and caused him distress.
Scottish Widows offered a payment to Mr H to reflect the inconvenience caused. Mr H is 
unhappy with the total amount offered.
What happened
Mr H made a payment into his pension with Scottish Widows on 6 October 2022. Mr H 
identified this and on 19 October, following a call from Mr H, Scottish Widows applied the 
payment to his policy. The reason for this delay is unknown. A financial loss calculation was 
carried out, and it was found that Mr H had been financially disadvantaged by the delay. The 
payment was reworked to ensure that the policy was put into the position that it would have 
been in if the payment had been applied correctly at outset. Mr H is satisfied with what 
Scottish Widows has done in this respect and is also satisfied that other payments have 
subsequently been made without issue.
At around the same time, Scottish Widows made a number of changes to their website. Mr H 
found the new website difficult to use as it had removed some elements of functionality that 
he had previously found useful. Late in 2022, Mr H began to use the Estimate my Pension 
calculator within the website to start to plan for his upcoming retirement.
The date that Mr H called Scottish Widows to investigate the missing payment was 
considered by them to be the first point of complaint. Following this first complaint, on 20 
December 2022, Scottish Widows issued a final resolution letter which acknowledged their 
error, confirmed that they had carried out a financial loss calculation and taken steps to 
ensure that Mr H was in the position he would have been in if the payment had been applied 
correctly to the policy.   
On 8 February 2023, Mr H emailed Scottish Widows following a telephone call with the 
complaint handler and explained that his complaint was in two parts  one related to the 
single payment not having been actioned in time and the other related to a lack of 
functionality within the new website. However, he also added the point that he had recently 
identified a flaw with the website which erroneously estimated the amount of pension 
available to him at age 60. Specifically, it showed a headline figure for the amount of annual 
income and tax-free cash Mr Hs pension was projected to produce which was too high 
because the annual income figure was actually based on no tax-free cash being taken. He 
enclosed screenshots to support his case.
Scottish Widows responded to this on 13 February, offered Mr H £100 in respect of the error 
with the single premium paid into his pension and advised that he would be issued with a 
projection quote in respect of his pension while waiting for Senior Leadership to review his 
concerns relating to the discrepancies in the estimate of his pension. Mr H did not accept 
this offer. 
On 19 February, Mr H acknowledged the email of 13 February and requested an update on 
the issue he had highlighted with the online calculator. He had not received the projection of 
pension benefits at that time, but reiterated the impact that the errors with the pension 
calculation had had on his planning for retirement.
Mr H emailed Scottish Widows again on 21 February having received the projection. He 
stated that this was not what he had expected, which had further eroded his confidence he 
had with Scottish Widows in the management and administration of his pension and wished 
this error to be added to his file.
Scottish Widows emailed Mr H on 22 February 2023. In this email, they stated that the issue 
relating to the Estimate my Pension section of the website had been passed to Lab 
specialists who would be able to clarify whether there is an error with the functionality of the 
website. Due to Mr H having raised another issue (relating to the projection sent), the 
previous offer of £100 was increased to £150. Again Mr H did not accept this offer as the 
issue relating to the calculator within the website had not been resolved. 
Following the investigation into his complaint relating to the Estimate my Pension website 
errors, Scottish Widows sent an email to Mr H on 1 March confirming that the Lab had 
identified the error on the website, for which they hoped a fix would be in place by the end of 
March 2023. 
Mr H responded to this on 5 March, again reiterating his complaint in relation to the website 
error, and the impact that this had had on his expectation for his retirement. He stated that 
he felt the offer of £150 in recognition of the distress and effort in getting a resolution was 
inconsistent.
On 10 March, Scottish Widows sent an email and two letters to Mr H. The letters, both dated 
the same date, appear both to be complaint responses to Mr H relating only to the Estimate 
my Pension error. Both letters uphold Mr Hs complaint, however one offers £150 and states 
that a cheque for £150 was being sent to Mr H, the other does not include a monetary 
amount. Mr H confirms that he has received a cheque for £150. 
In their email to Mr H dated 10 March, Scottish Widows covered all three of Mr Hs 
complaints points (the functionality of the website, the single premium delay and the 
Estimate my Pension issue), confirmed that they considered the complaint to have been 
fully resolved and stated that they believed the offer of £150 was suitable for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Mr H was not happy with this, and referred his complaint to this service. Having investigated 
the complaint, the investigator came to the view that the compensation already paid was fair 
and reasonable and in line with what she would have recommended. She found that Mr H 
had not suffered financial loss and the compensation already paid reflected the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Mr H did not agree with this outcome. He pointed out that in the first complaint response he 
was offered £100 in relation to the delay in applying his single payment to his pension, which 
was increased to £150 in February 2023 due to poor customer service. He was subsequently offered £150 in relation to the Estimate my Pension error which suggested 
that if he had complained separately, the cumulative payment to him would have been £300. 
Scottish Widows did not agree with this, and confirmed they felt that £150 was appropriate. 
As the parties did not agree, the case has been referred to me for a decision.
Provisional findings
I issued my provisional decision on 11 August 2023. It said:
Mr Hs complaint included a number of elements; however through their ongoing 
communications with Mr H, it appears that Scottish Widows have resolved the issues that 
led to the complaints. The remaining complaint point is whether the £150 total compensation 
paid to Mr H was fair.
The first compensation amount offered to Mr H was £100 in respect of the delays in applying 
his payment to his pension. The complaint resolution issued at that time also included 
reference to the functionality of the new website. They offered to send Mr H projections, 
however Mr H identified that they were not what he had expected, and as a result of this, the 
offer of compensation at that time was increased to £150. At that time, the Estimate my 
Pension issues had not been concluded or a resolution reached.
Mr H has reiterated a number of times the difficulties that the errors on the website in relation 
to the calculation of his estimated pension, and the distress and frustration this has caused 
him. Although it would be reasonable to expect the Scottish Widows website to be accurate, 
I dont think its errors have caused Mr H to have lost out financially. The headline figures 
quoted were estimates and presented as such. So I think Mr H should, reasonably, have 
realised that he couldnt make significant financial decisions off the back of them and that 
some further interrogation of the numbers, and careful thought, would be needed before any 
such decisions were made. And thats exactly what did happen  Mr H queried the numbers 
and realised the headline figures were misleading. And, as far as I can tell, Mr H didnt make 
any significant financial decisions off the back of what he initially saw. So whilst I recognise 
the distress and inconvenience Mr H suffered when he realised his retirement income wasnt 
as high as he had initially been led to believe (a point I will return to shortly), Im satisfied 
there isnt a financial loss that Scottish Widows should compensate him for. 
Scottish Widows investigated and identified the error, which appears to have been rectified 
as a matter of priority. They have acknowledged they were at fault, and Mr H was paid £150 
in recognition of the inconvenience and distress caused. I believe that this is appropriate, 
and is in line with what this service would require them to pay. 
Having considered all the information available, I agree that it appears that the first offer of 
£150 was made to Mr H prior to having been provided with an outcome relating to his 
complaint in relation to the Estimate my Pension website issue. On 10 March 2023 Scottish 
Widows wrote to Mr H stating Thanks for getting in touch about the Estimate my Pension 
error. I agree and want to put things right. The letter referred only to the Estimate my 
Pension error and offered Mr H £150 in respect of the website issue. 
It therefore appears that the two offers were made independently of each other as they 
related to different elements of dissatisfaction. I therefore think it fair and reasonable that 
both should be honoured to reflect the different, and cumulative impact these mistakes have 
had. I therefore direct Scottish Widows to pay Mr H £300 in total to reflect the inconvenience 
caused. Mr H has confirmed that he has already received £150, therefore Scottish Widows 
should pay Mr H a further £150. Responses to my provisional decision
I have received responses from both parties in relation to my provisional decision. Mr H has 
confirmed that he has no further points to raise. Scottish Widows reiterated their position that 
their previous offer was to cover all points raised and have not included any further points or 
information for consideration.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having taken into account the responses from both parties, I see no reason to change my 
decision. So I remain of the view I set out in my provisional decision  my findings as set out 
above should be considered as my final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct that Scottish Widows Ltd 
should pay a further amount of £150 to Mr H to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Joanne Molloy
Ombudsman