DRN-3655455
The complaint
Mrs M complains about Nationwide Building Society.
She says that Nationwide didnt do enough to protect her from becoming the victim of a 
scam and would like it to refund the money she has lost.
What happened
Mrs M had previously been involved in an investment between 2015-2018  unfortunately 
the business she invested in went into liquidation and Mrs S wasnt able to retrieve the 
money that she had invested.
After this, a Facebook support group was created for individuals that has also lost money 
from their investments which Mrs M joined.
Mrs M was contacted by an individual through Facebook who explained that they had been 
able to recover their funds through a business called P. 
Mrs M checked the Facebook and Twitter account of the individual who contacted her and 
was persuaded that they seemed genuine, and then accessed a link provided to her and 
input her information.
Mrs M was then contacted by P, and after some communication was eventually persuaded 
to purchase cryptocurrency from B in order to facilitate the recovery of her lost funds from 
the liquidated business. Mrs M made two payments from her Nationwide account  one for 
£250 and one for £4,350.
Mrs M was then contacted by the police  and realised that she had been the victim of a 
scam.
She complained to Nationwide  but it didnt uphold her complaint. She then brought her 
complaint to this Service. Our Investigator looked at her complaint  but didnt think that it 
should be upheld.
Mrs M asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint, so it has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint for materially the same 
reasons as our Investigator. I know that this will be disappointing for her, so Ill explain why.
Was Mrs M the victim of a scam?
I dont think that it is in dispute her that Mrs M has been the victim of a scam  this has been 
confirmed by the action the police took when they visited her at home.
Did Mrs M authorise the payments?
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Mrs M isnt liable for payments 
she didnt authorise, unless she failed with gross negligence or intent to comply with the 
terms of the account or keep her personalised security details safe.
Mrs M has accepted that she authorised the payments in question here. I understand that 
Mrs M had been tricked by the scammer into instructing Nationwide to make the payments  
but while Mrs M never intended the payments to go to the scammers, this doesnt change 
the fact that she authorised them and is therefore presumed liable for the loss in the first 
instance.
Recovery of the payments Mrs M made
After the payments were made, I wouldnt reasonably expect Nationwide to do anything 
further until it had been notified there was a scam.
Mrs M made her payments by debit card so the only recourse for potential recovery of the 
funds for the payments made by debit card would be via the chargeback scheme. 
Chargeback is a process by which disputes are resolved between card issuers (here, 
Nationwide) and the merchant (here, B).
However, a chargeback in these circumstances would unlikely have been successful. This is 
because B is a legitimate company and provided the services that Mrs M had requested of it 
 the purchase of crypto and subsequently moving that crypto onto a wallet of Mrs Ms 
choosing. What happened after that crypto was successfully moved is therefore a separate 
matter  and so a successful chargeback would likely never have been possible  and so I 
dont think that these payments were recoverable once they had been made.
Should Nationwide have prevented the payments in the first place?
I can only uphold this complaint if I think that Nationwide reasonably ought to have 
prevented some or all of the payments Mrs M made in the first place  therefore preventing 
the loss before it happened.
Mrs M authorised the scam payments in question here  so as Ive explained above, she is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
That said, as a matter of good industry practice, Nationwide should have taken proactive 
steps to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there is a 
balance to be struck: banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to 
act in their customers best interests, but they cant reasonably be involved in every 
transaction.
Taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and what I consider having been good industry practice at the time, I consider
Nationwide should fairly and reasonably:
Been monitoring accounts  including payments made and received  to counter 
various risks including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism 
and preventing fraud and scams;Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud
I wouldnt have expected Nationwide to intervene with the payment Mrs M made of £250 to 
B  it was of was of relatively low value  and not that unusual for Mrs Ms pattern of regular 
spending.
However, when Mrs M tried to make the payment of £4,350, Nationwide blocked the 
payment and spoke with her about it on the phone.
Nationwide has provided a recording of the call that took place. Having listened to the call, I 
think that Nationwide questioned Mrs M about the payment appropriately  but Mrs M wasnt 
honest with the answers she gave in response to its questions.
Nationwide asked Mrs M several times if she had been contacted by anyone and persuaded 
to make the payment, or if there was any other party involved, and if she had been told by 
anyone to lie about the purpose of the transaction she was trying to make. Mrs M told it that 
it was her who had decided to make the payment, on her own, and that she had a full 
understanding of what she was doing. But this wasnt an accurate account of what had 
actually been happening.
Nationwide also warned her about the risks involved with crypto  and that it had seen a high 
number of individuals who had been scammed and lost money. Mrs M confirmed that she 
understood, but that she still wanted to make the payment. 
So, I dont think that Nationwide could have done any more than it did, and it didnt miss an 
opportunity to stop Mrs M making the payments. I also dont think that Nationwide could 
reasonably have concluded Mrs M had fallen victim to a scam, based on the information she 
gave it.
I do have a great deal of sympathy for Mrs M  she has been the victim of a cruel scam, 
which took advantage of her desire to recoup her losses from a previous bad investment  
and I know that she was coached and manipulated into not being honest with Nationwide 
when it questioned her about the payment. 
However, the loss suffered is ultimately caused by the scammers themselves  not 
Nationwide. And I cant ask Nationwide to refund this loss when I think it questioned Mrs M 
appropriately about the payment, and provided meaningful warnings  as far as it reasonably 
could  and Mrs M chose to disguise the truth and ignore what it had said.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Claire PughOmbudsman