DRN-2914931
The complaint
This is a complaint that AXA France IARD mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
Miss M. AXA didnt actually sell the policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. So Ill 
refer to it as the seller. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2002 alongside a store credit account. 
Miss M was sold the policy at the same time that she applied for the account in the shop.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Miss M disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive considered what Miss M has said, but Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. Ill 
explain why. 
The form, which Miss M filled in and signed, does set out the PPI as a choice, which you 
make by signing in the Protecting your Account box. Miss M has said it was made clear to 
her that she would not get the credit account and a shopping discount unless she took the 
PPI. However, especially as this took place almost 20 years ago, I cant be sure how well 
Miss M has remembered the details of what happened  I would need to have reasonable 
evidence before I could fairly say AXA did something wrong in this way. On balance, I dont 
have strong enough evidence to say AXA didnt give Miss M a fair choice.
It doesnt seem that AXA recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable for Miss Ms 
individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her circumstances. It 
would have been for Miss M to decide whether it was suitable.
However, AXA did need to give Miss M clear and fair information, so she could make an 
informed choice. And I dont have clear evidence it did do this properly  at least the 
information on the form itself wasnt full enough, and I dont know what other information was 
given to Miss M. So Ive thought about whether better information is likely to have made a 
difference. But in Miss Ms circumstances at the time, even if shed been given all the 
necessary information, I dont think its likely to have made a difference to her decision. (This 
is assuming she was given a genuine choice, which I accept she says didnt happen  Ive 
explained my thinking on that issue, above.) I say this because its fairly likely that the PPI 
could have paid out for longer than her full employer sick pay, and the savings she says she 
had,  lasted. And it would have been in addition to any employer sick pay or redundancy 
pay. Also it doesnt look like shed have been affected by any of the significant exclusions in 
the policy. So, overall, the PPI is likely still to have seemed potentially useful, and better 
information probably wouldnt have made a difference to whether or not Miss M took the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman