DRN-2037994
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) gave incorrect advice 
which led to them being mis-sold a mortgage endowment policy.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs L took out a mortgage endowment policy in 1991. They said they were given 
advice by appointed representatives of Aviva. Mr and Mrs L said they thought the 
endowment policy would cover their mortgage and that they didnt discuss what would 
happen if it didnt perform well enough to achieve this amount.  
Aviva has said that because of how long ago the plan was sold, and surrendered, it has 
limited information available. It asked Mr and Mrs L if they could provide any policy 
information, such as a policy schedule, illustrations and/or any letters  but they werent able 
to provide anything. 
Our investigator considered this complaint. She said there was insufficient evidence to 
conclude that Aviva has done something wrong. But Mr and Mrs L remained unhappy so the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I know this may come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs L, I dont uphold this 
complaint  and Ill explain why.
Aviva accepts that its responsible for the sale of the policy. And it holds some information 
about the policy itself: the start date, the maturity date, the sum assured and the surrender 
value. But all this confirms to us is that there was a policy  and thats not in dispute here. 
The complaint thats been brought to us, however, is about the advice that was given at the 
time of the sale. 
But, because of the amount of time that has passed, neither party has any written evidence 
from the time of the sale. This is understandable  I cant reasonably expect either party to 
have information about a sale that happened almost 30 years ago. But this, alongside quite 
limited recollections from Mr and Mrs L, means there isnt sufficient information to safely say 
what happened during the sale. 
Mr and Mrs L have suggested they werent made aware of the risks and have said that they 
were told that endowment policies were the in thing. But I havent been given much more 
detail than this. Looking at the available evidence, Im not persuaded that I have enough to 
conclude that Aviva did something wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman