DRN-4190749
The complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc did not treat him fairly when he wanted to make an 
international transfer to a family member based abroad. 
What happened
On 15 June 2022, Mr B instructed HSBC to transfer PHP 2,000,000 to a family member who 
was resident abroad. Mr B says the family member intended to pay interest at a rate of 5% a 
year. Mr B instructed HSBC to make that transfer in pesos, rather than sterling. He received 
a message to say the funds would be received by his family member within four days. HSBC 
then debited £31,790.86 from his account.
The funds were not received by Mr Bs family member. Between 21 June 2022 and 1 July 
2022, Mr B made various calls to HSBC, but he says HSBC told him the funds could not be 
traced.
On 1 July 2022, Mr B visited an HSBC branch. He said he was told the transfer had been 
rejected and he would receive the funds back in four days. That same day, HSBC wrote to 
Mr B to say that it had sent the payment as instructed. However, as his family members 
bank had closed its account with HSBCs correspondent bank, it was not possible for the 
payment to be processed. HSBC said it was in the process of returning funds to Mr Bs 
account and said it was currently experiencing delays. HSBC offered to pay £100 to Mr B in 
compensation.
The funds were not returned to Mr B and so on 8 July 2022, he complained to this service. 
Mr B says HSBC assured him that the funds would be returned to him on 22 July 2022. 
Nothing was received.
Mr B said that his family member no longer wanted to borrow money from him, so he had 
lost out on interest payments from them. He also said that he had lost almost £2,000 
because of HSBCs error. He thought HSBC should pay £31,790.86 back to him.
On 27 July 2022, HSBC replied to our investigator and said the return of funds was taking 
longer than expected due to a high volume of requests. It offered to pay 8% interest on the 
funds from 25 June 2022 up to the date Mr B got his money back.
On 28 July 2022, HSBC refunded £29,658.85 to Mr Bs account, which was significantly less 
than had been debited from his account on 15 June 2022. Mr B did not think this refund was 
fair. His refund had been calculated as at the exchange rate on 28 July 2022. Mr B thought 
HSBC should pay back the same as had been debited from his account. Mr B also thought 
this service should tell HSBC to pay him £375,000 in compensation, along with further 
interest.
Our investigator looked at all of this and thought HSBC should do more than it had to put 
things right for Mr B. Our investigator said that HSBC should change the date the exchange 
rate was calculated from and pay a further £100 to Mr B in compensation. In total, our 
investigator thought that HSBC should pay Mr B a further £1,107.72 than had already been 
refunded.
Mr B did not accept that view and so the matter was passed to me for an ombudsmans 
decision. I asked our investigator to make some more enquiries about a SWIFT message 
that appeared to have been received by HSBC in the UK on 16 June 2022 informing it that 
Mr Bs transaction had failed. HSBC told our investigator that it had received this message. 
I then issued a provisional decision in this matter. I said: 
When Mr B signed up for an account with HSBC, both he and HSBC agreed to be 
bound by the accounts terms and conditions. In respect of sending money 
electronically in a currency that is not sterling, the terms and conditions state:
If the payment is returned to us or we cant make it for any reason, well 
reverse it using the exchange rate at that time. The exchange rate might have 
changed. So the amount we pay back may be more or less than we originally 
took from your account.
Exchange rates can change frequently and unpredictably. What the term and 
conditions mean in practice is that if a non-sterling transfer is made from Mr Bs 
account and then something happens to stop the transfer being successfully made, 
theres no guarantee that hell get the same money back. If Mr B wanted to be sure 
he got the same money back if there was a problem, it would have been necessary 
to make the transfer in sterling.
By the time Mr Bs refund was processed, the exchange rate had changed. So, Im 
satisfied that HSBC acted within its terms and conditions when it paid Mr B less back 
than had been debited from his account on 15 June 2022.
That said, I also have to consider whether HSBC has applied its terms and conditions 
fairly. Id also expect HSBC to have returned Mr Bs funds within a reasonable time. 
And in this case, my provisional view is that I dont think it did. I say this because Mr 
B made the initial transfer from his HSBC account on 15 June 2022.
On 16 June 2022, HSBC received a SWIFT message from its correspondent bank 
stating that Mr Bs transaction had been cancelled, that the file had been closed and 
that no further action would be taken. It is not clear what action, if any, was taken by 
HSBC in respect of this SWIFT message.
On 1 July 2022, HSBC was able to tell Mr B that the funds had been located. 
However, there seems to have been some confusion because it appears HSBC then 
sent several SWIFT messages to chase the transfer and request cancellation, even 
though the file with the correspondent bank had already been closed. During this 
time Mr B was becoming very concerned about the whereabouts of his funds. HSBC 
told our investigator it accepts its continued chaser messages to have been an error.
I understand HSBC would usually expect funds to be returned to Mr B within four to 
seven working days from 16 June 2022. However, funds were not returned to Mr B 
until 28 July 2022. No specific reason appears to have been given for this delay save 
for HSBC having a high volume of requests.
I said above that Id expect Mr Bs funds to have been returned within a reasonable 
period of time. As four to seven working days is the usual time it would usually take 
for funds to be returned, I think such a timeframe would have been reasonable in this 
case. However, it took six weeks for Mr Bs funds to be returned to him.
During that time, Mr B appears to have been caused some worry, particularly 
between 16 June and 1 July 2022 when HSBC was apparently unable to explain 
what had happened to his funds. I accept that during this time, Mr B was very worried 
about whether his money could be traced and if or when it would be returned to him. 
The amount of money in question was significant and I can see why the prospect of 
this money going missing caused Mr B some considerable concern. Mr B appears to 
have been put to a fair amount of inconvenience in making various calls to HSBC to 
chase his funds and visiting a branch to find out what had happened in his case.With all of this in mind, I think HSBC needs to take action to put things right for Mr B.
I havent been provided with HSBCs exchange rate figures for the whole period of 
four to seven working days after 16 June 2022. But our investigator said that HSBC 
should refund Mr B as the exchange rate was at 25 June 2022. At that time, HSBCs 
exchange rate was 65.7964571. I think that is reasonable given that this is roughly 
the midpoint of the four to seven working days. I also agree with our investigator that 
it is reasonable for HSBC to pay 8% simple interest from this date to be calculated up 
to the point Mr B got his money back.
Our investigator said that he thought HSBC should pay £250 to Mr B to compensate 
him for the trouble and upset he was put to in chasing this matter. However, I think 
Mr B was put to some considerable inconvenience here and it is clear that he was 
very worried and concerned about where his money was. It took several calls, a visit 
to an HSBC branch and several weeks before the money was returned. With that in 
mind, I think HSBC should pay £500 in total to compensate Mr B for this.
As I said above, Mr B said that he thought HSBC should pay £375,000 and 
considerable interest in compensation. He believed HSBC had acted fraudulently and 
negligently in its dealings with him. Mr B said that he had lost work and his health 
had been very significantly affected because of HSBCs alleged actions. Mr B told us 
that hed had to travel abroad to improve his health. He also said his family members 
had also seen a deterioration in their health because of HSBC.
To be clear, it is not within the remit of this service to determine whether HSBC has 
acted fraudulently or in a criminal manner  that would ultimately be a matter for a 
criminal court.
That said, it may be reassuring for Mr B to know that I have seen no evidence to 
suggest that HSBC acted maliciously or fraudulently in its dealings with him. There 
was a delay in Mr Bs funds being returned to him, which HSBC appears to accept 
was an error. I know Mr B feels very strongly, but I cant in any way reasonably say 
that HSBC set out to deliberately or fraudulently cause Mr B a financial loss.
There was a suggestion that Mr B thought HSBC had not been upfront because it 
said that the reason the transfer failed was because his family members account had 
been closed. I can see Mr B went to some efforts to show that the family members 
account was still open. I need to clarify that what HSBC said was that the family 
members bank had closed its account with HSBCs correspondent bank and thats 
why the transfer couldnt be completed  it didnt say that the family members 
account had been closed.
Mr B said that HSBC should not have accepted his transfer in the first place if it knew 
the family members bank had closed its account. However, I understand it is the 
responsibility of the receiving bank to update such payment instructions and so I 
cant say HSBC is at fault in that regard.
I am sorry to learn that Mr B has a number of medical conditions. I can see that he 
says HSBC is responsible for the onset and deterioration of these conditions. 
However, I havent seen enough evidence for me to find that HSBC was the sole 
cause for the onset or severity of the conditions Mr B told us about. That said, I do 
recognise that the delay in returning Mr Bs funds would have likely caused him some 
worry. And Im provisionally satisfied that the additional compensation I set out above 
is fair compensation for that.
Mr B also told us about health problems suffered by his family members, which he 
said HSBC was responsible for. However, in considering the rules that apply to this 
service, I couldnt make an award for difficulties caused to Mr Bs family members 
even if it could be established that HSBC was at fault in that regard.Mr B said that hed lost out financially because of HSBCs delays because his family 
member no longer wanted to borrow money from him and hed lost their interest 
payments.
He also said hed lost an investment opportunity in addition to that. I havent been 
provided with any documentary evidence as to the interest Mr B says his family 
member was going to pay. And I havent seen anything to reasonably suggest HSBC 
was the sole cause of Mr B losing out on an investment opportunity. With that being 
so, I cant find that HSBC should pay compensation for these things.
I know Mr B will be disappointed with my decision, but HSBC appears to have acted 
within its terms and conditions when it refunded less to Mr B than had been debited 
to his account on 15 June 2022. Thats because the exchange rate had changed. 
There were some delays on HSBCs part and I intend to tell it to put things right...
HSBC responded to say it accepted my provisional decision. 
Mr B did not accept my provisional findings. By way of brief summary, he reiterated his view 
that HSBC had acted fraudulently. He also provided two letters ostensibly from his family 
member. The first letter was dated 14 June 2022 requesting a loan of 2 million pesos to be 
repaid over five years with an annual interest rate of 5%. The second letter was dated 28 
June 2022 whereby the family member appears to be withdrawing the loan request. Mr B 
also provided some screenshots of a text conversation between him and the family member. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not persuaded to depart from my provisional findings. Ill explain why. 
I know Mr B feels strongly that HSBC has acted fraudulently. But I said in my provisional 
decision that it was beyond the remit of this service to determine whether there had been 
any fraud. My view remains that I havent seen anything to suggest HSBC deliberately set 
out to deprive Mr B of money. 
Ive carefully considered the documents Mr B provided ostensibly from his family member. I 
note there are some inconsistencies in these documents compare to the information Mr B 
gave to us earlier in his complaint. 
For example, I say this because the letter Mr B provided from his family member appears to 
show that the investment opportunity was withdrawn on 28 June 2022. However, I can see 
that in documentation sent to our service earlier in the complaint that Mr B was still trying to 
send funds to the family member in July 2022. If the investment had been withdrawn in June, 
it is not entirely clear to me why Mr B would still be seeking transfer of the funds in July. 
Mr B also said the screenshots he provided showed that the family member required the 
funds by 27 June 2022. The screenshots have been translated into English and from the 
information I have seen, I can see there was discussion about Mr B saying the family 
member should receive funds by 27 June 2022. But I havent seen anything in that 
interaction to indicate a business opportunity, or that such an opportunity would be 
withdrawn if funds were not received by 28 June 2022. 
With all of this in mind, I remain satisfied that HSBC needs to put things right for the reasons 
sent out in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
To put things right, HSBC must: 
Calculate the refund of PHP 2,000,000 to Mr B as at the exchange rate on 25 June 2022, which was 65.7964571. HSBC will then need to deduct the £29,658.85 already 
paid to Mr B from the amount it will now owe.
Pay simple interest* on Mr Bs funds from 25 June 2022 up until the date Mr B gets 
or got that money back. The rate of interest is 8% per year. 
Pay £500 to Mr B to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience I have 
identified above. I understand £100 may have already been paid to Mr B in this 
regard. If that is the case, HSBC may deduct that amount from what it will now owe 
Mr B.
* If HSBC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give Mr B a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
My final decision
I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to put things right as I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman