DRN-2012676
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T say Santander UK PLC treated them unfairly when it didnt extend the term of 
their interest only mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T had an interest only residential mortgage with a term expiring in mid-2018. Mr 
and Mrs T say Santander didnt give them enough time to sell the property. They had to evict 
an elderly tenant.
Santander said Mr and Mrs T breached the terms of the mortgage by letting out the property 
without consent. Santander also said Mr T had told it they could repay the mortgage by 
selling investments but didnt want to do so due to tax implications.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said Santander was 
entitled to decide whether to offer a term extension.
Mr and Mrs T didnt agree. Mr T says hes now sold the property under pressure from 
Santander and lost about £40,000.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs T took out their mortgage with Santander on the basis theyd repay it when the 
term expired. There are circumstances in which fairness requires that a lender offers a 
customer options other than to repay their mortgage when it expires. I dont think thats the 
case here.
The term of Mr and Mrs Ts interest only mortgage expired in May 2018. Santander wrote to 
them several times about this, from mid-2017. And Mr and Mrs T took out a mortgage 
product in late 2015 that said the mortgage term would end in May 2018. So I think they 
were aware of this.
Mr and Mrs T let the property without Santanders consent, in breach of the mortgage terms. 
Santander became aware of this in 2015 and wrote to them about how they could apply for 
consent to let the property and the conditions that would apply. It also made them aware 
there would be a fee and theyd have to choose a buy to let product. Mr and Mrs T didnt 
apply for consent to let. They told Santander the tenant was there temporarily and would 
leave the property. They took out a residential mortgage product. However, it seems Mr and 
Mrs T continued to let the property.
I appreciate that having a tenant in the property might have meant there were difficulties with 
the sale, and possibly with re-mortgaging with another provider. But I dont think its fair to 
say that Santander was responsible for this.
Mr and Mrs T knew the mortgage term would expire in May 2018. They had time to plan how 
to repay the mortgage, including how theyd communicate with their tenant about what was 
happening.
And Mr T told Santander they had enough funds to repay the mortgage. He intended to sell 
investments to raise the funds. He later said he didnt want to do this due to the tax 
implications.
In the circumstances, I think it was reasonable for Santander to ask Mr and Mrs T to repay 
the mortgage. I dont think it treated them unfairly when it didnt agree to extend the term.
Mr and Mrs T sold the property in mid-2020. Mr T says hes lost £40,000 due to pressure 
from Santander. I assume Mr T means by this that he sold the property for less than hed 
hoped. But I dont think its reasonable to say that Santander is responsible for the price at 
which Mr and Mrs T agreed to sell the property. Particularly as the sale happened about two 
years after the mortgage term expired.
For the reasons Ive given, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Santander to pay 
compensation to Mr and Mrs T.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2020.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman