DRN-3172811
The complaint
Mr D complains that Santander UK Plc unfairly dealt with a claim he made under section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (S75).
What happened
In October 2019 Mr D was considering how to progress his career and was referred to a 
consultancy company that provided specialist courses. Mr D had a face to face meeting to 
discuss options and was provided with a prospectus for an executive programme. 
After reading the prospectus, Mr D sent an email querying whether he would be accessing 
the specialist consultants who were listed in the prospectus as contributors to the 
programme in some capacity or other over the duration of the programme.
Mr D decided to proceed and selected a particular payment option to undertake the course. 
He paid a total of £5,880 using his credit card with Santander. Mr D says that the prospectus 
was the only material pertaining to the course that he was provided with and that there were 
no additional terms and conditions. However, the consultancy company says that on page 
25 of the prospectus there was a link that states Click here to view our Terms of Business. 
Once clicked this link opens a new window and the terms can be seen including the charges 
that will apply if the course is cancelled.
Mr D started the course and undertook one to one sessions and workshops. It was during 
one of his personal sessions in January 2020, that Mr D raised with his personal tutor if he 
would have direct access to the specialist consultants listed in the prospectus. The tutor, 
having checked the position, informed Mr D that for at least three of the named consultants 
there would be additional costs for direct access. Mr D says he was shocked and 
disappointed to hear this as he had raised this issue before paying for the course.
Mr D made a complaint to the consultancy company and a meeting was arranged to discuss 
the matter in February 2020. Mr D says that at that meeting it was clarified that to directly 
access at least three of the specialist consultants there would be additional costs. Mr D also 
says that he was made an offer of a partial refund by the director although that was later 
withdrawn.
Mr D followed this meeting with an email asking that confirmation be given as to who on the 
list of specialist consultants would incur extra costs for direct contact, for alternate ways in 
which he could complete the programme or end the course and have his fees refunded. Mr 
D says he didnt receive any response to this email from the company.
Mr D made a claim under S75 to Santander for the course fees to be refunded on the 
grounds that the course had been misrepresented to him. Mr D said that despite his 
enquiries the consultancy company hadnt informed him there would be additional costs 
though it clearly knew this. He said that if he had known about the additional costs from the 
start, he wouldnt have selected the course and that he had been misled.
Santander declined Mr Ds claim. It said having reviewed the evidence supplied by Mr D and 
by the consultancy company, it disagreed that the course had been misrepresented to him. 
Santander said that the prospectus didnt set out that the specialist consultants would 
provide any mentoring or tutoring.
Mr D was unhappy at Santanders decision and challenged it. Santander reviewed its 
decision but didnt change its view.
Mr D complained to this service. Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ds complaint 
should be upheld. He said that this was a bespoke course that was adapted to fit each 
participant but there was no commitment set out in the prospectus to provide every resource 
and activity that was described.
Mr D disagreed with our investigators view. He said that he didnt think it was clear from the 
prospectus that additional support wouldnt be offered by the named specialist consultants. 
He also said that the consultancy company have never provided him with clear information 
about what was and wasnt included in the course.
As the parties were unable to agree the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The general effect of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is that if a consumer has 
paid for goods or services with a credit agreement such as a credit card and they have a 
claim against the supplier of those goods or services for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract, they are given a like claim against the credit provider which here is Santander.
My role is to decide whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably in its response to Mr Ds 
claim. Ive seen that Santander assessed evidence from both Mr D and from the consultancy 
company before reaching its decision that the course hadnt been misrepresented to Mr D. 
But Mr D feels very strongly that he was misled about the content of the course and that the 
course provider has been deliberately evasive as to what was being provided for the price 
hed agreed to pay.
For a misrepresentation to be found then Santander would need to be satisfied that an 
untrue statement of fact had been made to Mr D and that statement had induced Mr D to 
enter into the contract.
Ive seen Mr D had a face to face meeting with a director of the consultancy company after 
which he was supplied with the prospectus. I havent seen that during this meeting it was 
agreed that direct access would be provided to the specialist consultants named in the 
prospectus who would be contributing to the programme as required. Mr D followed this 
meeting up with an email enquiry which asked whether he would be accessing all of the 
resources outlined on page 23 of the document you sent me in some capacity or other over 
the duration of the programme?
I havent seen that this email was answered and although Ive seen that Mr D also says he 
raised this question personally I cant see that an answer was given to that enquiry either. 
Im aware that at the meeting in February 2020 with the director of the consultancy company, 
Mr D had again asked what was and wasnt included in the course. I think this shows that its 
unlikely Mr D had actually been told that direct access to these specialist consultants was 
part of the course and included in the fee was paying when hed signed up for the course. I also think when looking at the wording of Mr Ds email enquiry, that this isnt clearly asking 
whether there would be direct access to these individuals as he uses the phrase in some 
capacity or other. Nor does it ask if there would be an additional cost incurred if direct 
access was sought by him. 
I think the prospectus sets out that this course is designed to be flexible and will be adapted 
for the needs of each participant. I think its reasonable to consider that not all of the 
activities and resources in the prospectus would necessarily be provided to every participant.
Mr Ds complaint specifically concerns the lack of direct contact with the list of specialist 
consultants who are set out in the prospectus as contributors to the programme. Mr D 
discovered that to have direct access to some of those named, he would incur additional 
costs to the price hed already paid for the course.
Looking at the page in the prospectus which sets out the names of those involved in the 
course. This provides a named individual who would be contributing and acting as the 
programme mentor, but it doesnt state that the others named would also act in any 
mentoring role. It also said that the specialist consultants would contribute as required in a 
number of areas such as profile building and reputation building. I think the use of the term 
as required means that they may have an input into the course programme and as their 
input isnt specified, I think its reasonable to assume that it wouldnt necessarily be by direct 
contact. I dont think I can reasonably say that the prospectus sets out any untrue 
statements as to the courses content.
So, looking at the evidence I think Santander acted fairly when it assessed the information 
and reached a conclusion that there hadnt been a misrepresentation as to the course 
content made to Mr D which induced him to sign up for it. Ive also seen that when Mr D 
complained about his claim being declined, Santander reviewed that decision though it 
reached the same conclusion. I think Santander handled Mr Ds claim fairly and although 
Im aware this will be of a disappointment to Mr D. Im not upholding his complaint.
Mr D has raised that a partial refund was offered in February 2021, however I cant fairly 
hold Santander responsible for what was said by the consultancy company after Mr D had 
complained. Under the terms and conditions of the course Ive seen that if the course is 
cancelled within one month of commencement then 100% of the fee will be payable and 
therefore any proposed refund would be a matter for the course provider.
My final decision
For the reasons given above Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman