DRN-3781781
The complaint
Mrs W and Mr W complain about AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited and the 
settlement offer theyve received to settle their insurance claim. Mrs W and Mr W are also 
unhappy with the service theyve received throughout the claim process.
Mr W has represented both himself and Mrs W throughout the complaint process. So, where 
applicable, Ive referred to the actions taken and comments made by both Mrs W and Mr W 
as Mr W throughout the decision for ease of reference.
What happened
Mrs W and Mr W held a home insurance policy that was underwritten by AA. In September 
2021, Mr Ws property developed a leak from the bathroom which caused damage to both 
the bathroom and the lounge below. So, Mr W contacted AA to make a claim on his policy 
for the damage repairs.
AA accepted the claim, and instructed an independent surveyor, who Ill refer to as S to 
inspect the damage and compile a scope of works. At the same time, Mr W sought quotes 
from local contractors for the costs of the repairs.
Initially, AA provided Mr W with a cash settlement offer that fell well below the repair quotes 
Mr W had obtained. So, after some discussion, Mr W agreed to allow AAs own contractor, 
who Ill refer to as C to complete the repairs. But AA encountered difficulties contacting C 
to arrange a repair date, as well as the repair costs. So, after some delay, AA took the 
decision to provide Mr W with a cash settlement offer so he was able to source his own 
contractors to complete the repairs. But Mr W was unhappy with the settlement offer, as well 
as the service he received. So, he raised a complaint.
Mr W didnt think the cash settlement offer AA provided was fair, as it didnt cover the quotes 
hed received from his own contractors to complete the work. So, he wanted the cash 
settlement offer to be increased to cover the full quote hed received. Mr W also wanted to 
be compensated for the length of time the claim had taken to conclude, as hed been left 
with damage to his home throughout this time.
AA responded and upheld Mr Ws complaint in part. They accepted there had been 
avoidable delays during the claim. And they accepted the scope of works, and so the cash 
settlement offer they put to Mr W, had changed several times during the lifetime of the claim. 
So, they offered Mr W a total of £550 to recognise the inconvenience, upset and confusion 
hed been caused.
But they thought the final cash settlement offer they put to Mr W was fair, and in line with the 
terms and conditions of Mr Ws policy. So, while they accepted it didnt cover the total 
amount of the quote Mr W received, they didnt think they needed to do anything more for 
this aspect of the complaint. Mr W remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and initially upheld it. They thought the £550 AA 
offered for the delays and confusion created was fair. But they assumed AA had applied 
discounts to the cash settlement put to Mr W, which they didnt think was fair as Mr W hadnt 
been able to use C for reasons outside of his control. So, they thought AA should increase 
the cash settlement offer to cover the full quote Mr W received from his own contractor. And 
that AA should pay Mr W an additional £150 to recognise the additional upset Mr W had 
been caused. Mr W accepted this, but AA didnt. And AA confirmed no discounts had been 
applied to the settlement offer they made, which had been calculated from a national 
schedule of rates. So, they didnt think they should do anything more.
Our investigator considered this and changed their view. As AA had confirmed no discounts 
had been applied to the cash settlement offer, they thought AA had acted fairly as Mr W had 
been offered the same as what it wouldve cost AA to complete the repairs using C. So, our 
investigator didnt think AA needed to do anything more.
Mr W didnt agree with this. He was unhappy our investigators view had changed. And he 
was also unhappy this recommendation left him needing to cover part of the repair costs 
himself, as the settlement offer AA provided wouldnt cover his own contractors total invoice. 
As Mr W didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr W. I appreciate Mr W took 
out the policy with AA to assist him in a situation such as the one he found himself in. And I 
recognise Mr W expected the policy he held to cover the costs of any repair work in full, to 
ensure he wasnt left out of pocket. So, I can understand why Mr W feels as though AA have 
acted unfairly when offering a settlement offer that fails to cover the entire costs of the quote 
provided by his own contractor.
But for me to say AA should do something more than they already have, such as increase 
the cash settlement offer, Id need to be satisfied theyve done something wrong when 
calculating it. So, Id need to be satisfied they failed to act in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy Mr W held when doing so. Or, if I think they did, that they acted 
unfairly for some other reason. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive first focused on the main point in contention, which centres around the cash settlement 
offer AA have offered Mr W. I note this cash settlement offer is less than the quote Mr W has 
obtained to complete the work from his own repairer. So, Ive thought about whether this is 
fair.
Ive seen the terms and conditions of the insurance policy Mr W held which explain that, at 
AAs option, they will:
repair or rebuild the damaged part using our suppliers; or
Make a cash payment if you wish to use your own supplier
I can see that AA initially attempted to use C, their own supplier. But due to difficulties they encountered, they chose to offer Mr W a cash settlement to prevent any further delays to the 
claim. I think this was a reasonable decision for AA to take considering the delays and as AA 
were able to choose how to settle the claim, I think they acted within the terms of the policy 
when doing so.
The terms and conditions go on to explain that if we make a cash payment, we will only pay 
you what it would have cost us using our suppliers and therefore, the amount you receive 
may be lower than the cost charged by your suppliers. Ive seen the cash settlement offer 
AA have provided to Mr W is calculated using the national schedule of rates, as Id expect. 
And that this cash settlement offer represents what it wouldve cost AA to use C to complete 
the repairs. So, I dont think I can say the cash settlement AA have put forward is unfair.
I also think the terms make it reasonably clear that this settlement may be lower than the 
quotes Mr W obtained from his own repairer. So, while I do understand why Mr W feels 
unfairly treated, I think AA have acted in line with the terms of the policy Mr W held and so, I 
dont think they need to do anything more for this aspect of the complaint.
It's important to note the initial settlement Mr W has been offered by AA is less any excess 
and VAT. AA have confirmed any invoice Mr W has paid can be claimed back on the policy, 
up to the VAT that wouldve been paid using C, once Mr Ws repairer has completed the 
works. Again, I think this is both fair and reasonable.
Ive then turned to the other aspects of Mr Ws complaint. It's not in dispute that Mr Ws claim 
has taken longer than would be reasonably expected. And I can see AA have accepted there 
were avoidable delays created when they attempted to agree and approve the repair work C 
were intended to carry out. AA have also accepted the scope of works, and so the cost of 
the repairs, changed on several occasions which wouldve added confusion to an already 
frustrating situation. 
AA offered Mr W a total of £550 to recognise the inconvenience and upset these delays and 
the confusion caused Mr W. And I think this offer is a fair one, that falls in line with what I 
wouldve directed had it not already been made. I think it fairly compensates Mr W for the 
length of time his home has been left with damage, and the upset he wouldve been caused 
living with his property in this state. But I think it also fairly considers the fact Mr Ws home 
remained habitable and the fact I can see AA did make reasonable attempts to progress the 
claim, and the repairs, with C before ultimately deciding to offer a cash settlement to prevent 
any further delays. So, I dont think AA need to do anything more here.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr W was hoping for. And I recognise this leaves Mr W in 
a situation where he will likely need to contribute his own money to cover the full costs of the 
repair work. I want to reassure Mr W Ive considered this financial impact at length and this 
decision is in no way intended to disregard the impact this is likely to have, especially 
considering the cost of living crisis at this moment in time. But unfortunately, Im only able to 
direct AA to increase the settlement offer if I think its been calculated incorrectly, or unfairly. 
And I dont think it has on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs W and Mr Ws complaint about AA 
Underwriting Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 Josh Haskey
Ombudsman