DRN-3137271
The complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc trading as Post Office Financial Services (Post
Office Money) failed to collect direct debits to fund savings accounts he hold.  
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Mr C holds two savings account from the same Issue with Post Office Money. Mr C used a 
monthly direct debit instruction from another bank to make £1 payments to account ending 
2852 from October 2018 to January 2020.
In January 2020 Mr C used Post Office Moneys online system to enter a new direct debit 
instruction but subsequent payments were returned unpaid. Over the following months, Mr 
C tried to set up a number of new direct debit instructions but when Post Office Money tried 
to collect his payments they were returned by his bank.
Mr C used a separate direct debit instruction, claimed from a different bank, to make 
payments to another savings account, ending 2780, from the same issue. In January 2020, 
payments stopped being collected from Mr Cs bank.
Mr C complained to Post Office Money and it told him the payments were returned by his 
banks unpaid. Different reasons were given and Post Office Money didnt uphold Mr Cs 
complaint.
The issue was referred to this service and passed to an investigator. During the 
investigation, Post Office Money told the investigator that the problems Mr C has 
experienced with the collection of direct debits was likely caused because he has two 
savings accounts from the same issue. As a result, Post office Money says its systems 
were unable to collect Mr Cs payments.
Our investigator thought Mr C should raise this as a new complaint with Post Office Money. 
They also thought Post Office Money had dealt with Mr Cs complaint fairly and didnt ask it 
to do anything else. Mr C asked to appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has repeatedly asked Post Office Money for an explanation as to why his direct 
debits havent been paid. Post Office Money gave Mr C various reasons and referred him 
back to his banks. But neither bank could find a reason why the direct debits werent paid 
so that didnt help Mr C.
Post Office Money has now confirmed holding two savings account from the same issue 
number goes against the terms and conditions. As a result, Post Office Money says its 
systems have experienced problems collecting direct debit payments. Ive looked at the 
terms, and I can see they say customers should only have one account. Post Office 
Money says the systems issues have impacted its ability to collect payments and I accept 
thats likely the case. But Im not persuaded Post Office Money has dealt with Mr C fairly.
Mr C was trying to get to the bottom of the issue for several months before he referred the 
matter to this service. The systems information Post Office Money has provided shows Mr C 
keyed many replacement direct debit instructions to try and resolve the matter without 
success. In addition, Mr C contacted and raised complaints about his banks on the basis 
that Post Office Money didnt immediately identify the issue impacting his payments. Im 
satisfied Mr C has experienced a reasonable level of inconvenience here because Post 
Office Money wasnt able to quickly explain why his payments failed.
Our investigator thought Mr C should raise Post Office Moneys failure to tell him holding 
two accounts from the same issue was against the terms and conditions as a separate 
complaint. But I disagree as the issue directly relates to the outcome of this complaint and 
why direct debits werent collected. I appreciate Mr C mayve acted outside the terms, but I 
think Post Office Money shouldve been much quicker to identify what was happening and 
how it impacted his accounts.
Had Post Office Money identified the issue when Mr C first raised it he couldve taken 
measures to address the problem much sooner. Instead he was referred to two different 
banks and told Post Office Money could see no reason why his direct debit payments 
failed. Im satisfied Mr C has been caused unnecessary inconvenience in this case and 
that Post Office Money took too long to identify the issues affecting his account. As a 
result, I intend to tell Post Office Money to pay Mr C £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused in this case. In my view, that figure fairly reflects the delays and 
inconvenience Mr C experienced.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments or information they wanted 
me to consider before I reached my final decision. We didnt hear back from Mr C. Post 
Office Money responded to say it accepted the provisional decision. Post Office Money 
also reiterated that Mr C wasnt using the account as designed which had caused 
problems with his direct debits. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided new information for me to consider, I see no reason to change 
the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I still think the complaint should be 
upheld for the same reasons.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc trading as 
Post Office Financial Services to pay Mr C £100.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 Marco Manente
Ombudsman