DRN-2863435
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as T have complained that Society of Lloyd's (Lloyds) unfairly 
turned down their business interruption insurance claim after they were forced to close due 
to the Covid-19 pandemic.
Mrs B, a director of T, has brought the complaint on Ts behalf.
For ease of reading, reference to Lloyds will include anything done by the underwriters. 
What happened
T held a business interruption insurance policy with Lloyds. They claimed on their policy 
after they were required to close due to the Governments actions in response to Covid-19.
Lloyds said that, while the policy covered business interruption as a result of a notifiable
disease at the premises, T had closed as a result of the Government Act in response to the
national pandemic. As T hadnt indicated that there had been a case of Covid-19 at their
business premises which caused them to close, Lloyds turned down their claim.
T were unhappy with the response from Lloyds and brought the complaint to our service. 
They said theyd been required to close by the Government due to Covid-19. They believed 
Lloyds should cover their claim.
Our investigator looked into Ts complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought
Lloyds had turned down the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. He
thought the policy would only cover closure due to Covid-19 if there had been a case at
the premises. And as T hadnt identified a case of Covid-19 at the premises, the claim wasnt
covered.
T asked for an ombudsmans decision. They said many people were asymptomatic and it 
was difficult to know who had Covid-19 because there wasnt widespread testing. However, 
staff, customers and Mrs B all had symptoms of Covid-19. T also said there were a lot of 
people in the local area with Covid-19, including many people passing through the outside 
space which was also part of their premises. They said as Covid-19 doesnt have boundaries 
and was described as everywhere and unseen it was likely to have been on their premises. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on
Ts business. But I wont be upholding their complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
if Lloyds has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
when declining Ts claim.
The most relevant part of Ts policy covers loss as a result of:
Closure  of the premises by a competent authority due to:
a) an outbreak of any notifiable human infectious or contagious disease at the 
premises;
Premises isnt defined in the policy within the definitions section. But the definition of 
schedule states that the schedule specifies details of the premises. The schedule sets out 
Ts address next to the word premises. So, I think its reasonable to conclude that the 
premises refers to Ts address, including any outdoor area forming part of that address.  
For this extension to provide cover, the policy requires the closure of the premises to have 
been due to an outbreak of a notifiable human infectious or contagious disease at the 
premises. Covid-19 is a notifiable disease, so Ive considered the information I have to 
decide if I think its most likely there was a case of Covid-19 at Ts premises.
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the Government
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-19,
save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a policyholder will be able to produce a positive
test result, or conclusive diagnosis, from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to
demonstrate a case on the premises would, in my view, be unfair.
Its therefore necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other
evidence can be provided that supports, on the balance of probabilities, that there was an 
outbreak of Covid-19 at the insured premises prior to closure. 
T have indicated that Mrs B, staff and customers all exhibited some symptoms which could 
have been Covid-19. They have also said that Covid-19 was everywhere. But most people at 
the time didnt have Covid-19 and Mrs Bs testimony alone isnt enough for me to conclude 
that there was most likely someone at Ts premises with Covid-19. 
I have also considered Ts point that there were likely to be people walking through their 
outdoor area with Covid-19. But as T havent been able to identify a case of Covid-19 at their 
premises, I dont think the policy provides cover.
I appreciate my decision will be disappointing for T however, I dont think I can fairly require 
Lloyds to pay their claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman