DRN-3616622
The complaint
Mr A and Ms G have complained about poor customer service from Barclays Bank UK PLC 
in relation to their mortgage applications. To settle the complaint they are asking Barclays to 
compensate them for expenses incurred as a result of losing their new investment property 
purchase, legal expenses, lost benefit from missing out on the stamp duty holiday, lost 
property price inflation, loss of rent from the investment property they werent able to buy 
and compensation for distress and inconvenience.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 25 March 2022. All parties have a copy of that letter, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr A and Ms G being identified. Finally, Barclays 
has acknowledged it made mistakes so I dont need to analyse the events to decide if the 
bank is at fault. For these reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Briefly, Mr A and Ms G applied to Barclays to remortgage a buy-to-let (BTL) property in order 
to release funds to purchase an additional investment property. During the application 
Barclays noted that this was a freehold property split into self-contained units, which didnt fit 
Barclays lending criteria. Although the underwriters confirmed this to the mortgage team, it 
wasnt recorded on the system. As a result, Mr A and Ms G were led to believe the 
application could continue. It subsequently came to light that the application was outside the 
banks lending policy, but an exception was made to agree the application. 
Barclays requested information about the existing mortgage on the property, which was 
received in September 2020. 
Mr A and Ms G had lost the property they were hoping to buy, and had to find an alternative. 
Barclays needed information about this before it could proceed. The information was 
provided in October 2020. The valuation was received by Barclays on 12 November 2020.
However, the valuation  carried out by an independent surveyor was for about £100,000 
less than Mr A and Ms G thought the property was worth. This is because the surveyor had 
valued the total of the individual units, rather than the building as an entire dwelling. As a 
result, the interest rates available were not in line with what Mr A and Ms G had wanted. In 
addition, the mortgage product selected was capped at £500,000, which was almost 
£200,000 less than Mr A and Ms G wanted to borrow. 
Barclays accepts that it should have noticed this sooner and directed Mr A and Ms G to 
other products. Mr A and Ms G selected another product with a lending limit up to £1 million. 
The mortgage offer was issued on 11 December 2020. Due to an error by the bank in 
accidentally keying January 2020 instead of January 2021 on a document, the solicitors 
acting for the bank closed the file in error. As a result, completion on the mortgage was 
delayed until February 2021.
Mr A and Ms G complained about the poor service. Barclays acknowledged delays and 
mistakes, and offered compensation of £200 and a hamper. Dissatisfied with this, the 
complaint was brought to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An investigator looked at what 
had happened. He thought Barclays should pay compensation of £2,000, and reimburse 
expenses of £156. 
Neither Mr A and Ms G nor Barclays agreed with the investigators recommendations. Mr A, 
who has dealt with the complaint throughout, says that the appropriate compensation 
doesnt take into account the loss of the property they were in an advanced stage of buying, 
lost benefit from missing out on the stamp duty holiday, loss of rent of £9,000, and inflation in 
the property market which meant that the property theyd wanted to buy would have 
increased in value by about £25,000. 
Mr A and Ms G have told us that their original plan of buying another BTL property is on 
hold. They said they felt trapped by Barclays, as a result of which they felt they had no 
option but to proceed to completion on the mortgage.
Barclays said that, although the bank accepted it had made mistakes and caused some 
delay, the valuation wasnt completed until 12 November and so the application couldnt 
have proceeded until after that date. Barclays also said that there were times the bank was 
waiting for information, and so it wasnt responsible for any delays in this respect. The bank 
acknowledged the error with the date on the mortgage offer, which resulted in a further 
delay. Overall, Barclays thought compensation of £1,000 was more appropriate.
Provisional decision of 12 July 2022
I issued a provisional decision in which I reached the following conclusions.
Because Barclays has agreed it made errors, I dont need to analyse in depth what 
happened; I only need to decide what is fair compensation, and give my reasons for 
this. 
In this regard, Im satisfied Barclays made mistakes in relation to telling 
Mr A and Ms G in July 2020 that their application could proceed when it was outside 
lending policy. If Barclays had explained this at the outset, Mr A and Ms G might 
have gone elsewhere. However, Mr A has told us that in August 2020 he got a 
decision in principle from another high street bank which was far worse than the rates 
Barclays had to offer. In the circumstances, Im not persuaded there were better 
rates available. But in any event, in August 2020 Barclays agreed to make an 
exception to its lending policy to enable the application to proceed. 
This wasnt a residential mortgage, but a commercial loan, secured on a freehold 
property divided into rental units. As such, the lending criteria that apply arent the 
same as for residential mortgages, and for this type of loan there is usually a greater 
risk analysis undertaken than for a residential property. In the circumstances, Im 
satisfied that the information Barclays requested about the purpose of the mortgage 
to another lender secured on the property was reasonable. I note that this information 
wasnt received by the bank until September 2020. Barclays also needed confirmation of the new BTL property that was being 
purchased with the additional funds, and this information wasnt received until early 
October 2020. The valuation was carried out on 28 October 2020, and the surveyors 
report was received by Barclays on 12 November 2020. 
I appreciate Mr A and Ms G werent happy with the valuation. However, the 
surveyors are a separate business from Barclays. This means that Barclays isnt 
responsible for the actions of the surveyors. Im satisfied Barclays was entitled to rely 
on the professional opinion of the surveyor in relation to the valuation for mortgage 
purposes. The valuation affected the loan-to-value ratio for BTL properties, which in 
turn impacted on the amount Barclays was prepared to lend. But Im not persuaded 
Barclays did anything wrong in relying on the opinion of its valuer.
I also agree that Barclays should have spotted sooner that the product selected had 
a £500,000 cap. This caused some further delay, but a new product was selected 
about two weeks later, on 28 November 2020. 
There was also a mistake in the mortgage offer, which had an expiry date of January 
2020, rather than the correct date of January 2021. As a result, the solicitors acting 
for the bank closed the file. It wasnt until 15 January 2021 that the correct offer was 
issued, and the remortgage completed on 19 February 2021.
So overall, Im satisfied Barclays did make errors and caused delay, but Im not 
persuaded that the bank is responsible for all the losses Mr A and Ms G are claiming. 
There are many reasons why a property purchase doesnt go ahead. It appears from 
online records that the property Mr A and Ms G were going to buy hasnt been sold to 
anyone else in the last 12 months. Given this, I am unable to conclude that the 
transaction fell through purely as a result of delay on the part of Barclays.
It follows, therefore, that I cant award compensation for any notional or perceived 
losses claimed by Mr A and Ms G arising from a property they did not, in fact, buy. 
Given this, Im unable to uphold the claim for loss of rent, loss of profit for an increase 
in value of the property or missing out on the stamp duty holiday by not buying a 
property within that period.
Mr A and Ms G say they felt trapped by Barclays and had no option but to proceed 
with the remortgage, even though they have not in fact used the funds towards 
purchasing a new BTL property. I am afraid I dont agree. This was a commercial 
transaction, and it was open to Mr A and Ms G to withdraw from it at any time, if they 
felt it no longer suited their purposes. Barclays isnt responsible for them deciding not 
to buy another BTL property.
Mr A and Ms G have also complained about the way Barclays dealt with their 
complaint. However, complaint-handling isnt a regulated activity and so its not 
covered by our rules. Mr A and Ms Gs complaint that Barclays has breached the 
General Data Protection Regulation is also outside the scope of our rules, as it falls 
within the remit of the Information Commissioner, not the Financial Ombudsman 
Service.
In all the circumstances, Im not persuaded that an award of compensation of £2,000 
is justified in this case. I think the £1,000 offered by Barclays in response to the investigators findings is more appropriate and proportionate to the mistakes made by 
the bank. In relation to expenses incurred, the investigator asked Barclays to 
reimburse £156, but didnt specify what this related to. I think an amount of £300 is 
more appropriate, to cover the cost of any telephone calls, the £24 fee charged by 
the solicitor to re-open the file and any other incidental expenses. 
Responses to the provisional decision
Barclays accepted my provisional decision. Mr A, replying on behalf of both complainants, 
did not. He has reiterated points hes previously made, which I summarise below.
Barclays is responsible for a delay of at least 19 weeks;
as a result, they paid 5 months more interest at £460 per month on their original 
mortgage with another bank, amounting to £2,300;
therefore, they request the compensation is re-evaluated to take into account the 
excessive, unnecessary stress caused by Barclays unprofessional attitude as they have 
already detailed at length in their complaint, as well as the additional mortgage interest 
they paid.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the file again in its entirety, revisited my provisional conclusions and noted the 
points Mr A has highlighted  which he had already previously made, and which I had 
already taken into consideration. Having done so, Im not persuaded to depart from the 
findings reached in my provisional decision.
Ive noted what Mr A has said about the timeline, and that he believes Barclays is 
responsible for at least 19 weeks of delay. However, Im not persuaded, from my evaluation 
of all the evidence, that Mr As estimate of the delay  five months  is accurate. 
Its correct the application took longer than expected, but I dont think this was wholly 
Barclays fault. The timeline I have set out above shows how the application proceeded and 
that there were mistakes made by Barclays. But Im unconvinced these had the effect of 
causing a five-month delay, as Mr A believes. 
Thats because I cant find Barclays responsible for the purchase of the first property not 
going ahead. The second property wasnt found until late October, with the valuation 
received by Barclays a fortnight later. Although Barclays didnt initially realise that an 
incorrect product had been selected, that was quickly rectified. There was a months delay 
caused by Barclays incorrectly dating the mortgage offer. But there was no five-month delay 
that Ive been able to identify that was caused by Barclays.
Putting things right
Im not persuaded that Mr A and Ms Gs claim for £2,300 in overpaid interest is justified, 
because (as stated above), Im unable to find that the errors I can attribute to Barclays led to 
a five-month delay in completion of the mortgage. I think the compensation Barclays has 
agreed to pay of £1,000 for trouble and upset and £300 in expenses is proportionate to the 
delays,  distress and inconvenience caused and is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement I direct Barclays 
Bank UK PLC to pay the compensation set out above. I make no other order or award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Ms G to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman