DRN-2293334
The complaint
Mr S complains that Five Lamps Trading Ltd is still recording missed payments for a loan 
that he thought shouldve been defaulted several years ago.
What happened
Mr S told us that hed recently tried to get a mortgage, and discovered that a start-up loan 
hed taken out several years before was still on his credit file. It was being managed by a 
company called Five Lamps, and was showing as missed payments. Mr S said he thought 
that this loan was paid off. But if it wasnt, then he took out the loan so long ago that he 
thought a default ought to have been applied over six years ago, so this should no longer 
show on his credit file at all. 
Mr S has stressed that hed paid more over the last few years to keep an eye on his credit 
file than Five Lamps wanted him to pay for this debt. He said if hed known about it, he 
wouldve cleared it. But this debt didnt show on the credit refence agency hed signed up 
with, and hed only found out about it when he tried to get his mortgage.
Five Lamps has told Mr S it thinks this account defaulted on 27 October 2015. It said Mr S 
was under an obligation to tell it about any change of address, which he hadnt done. Five 
Lamps felt that the situation was complex, and the best thing to do was for Mr S to pay off 
the remaining debt, and Five Lamps could then show it as settled. 
After some discussion, Five Lamps accepted that it hadnt actually defaulted Mr Ss loan, 
and that it shouldve defaulted this debt in October 2015. It said it would amend his credit file 
to show a default on 27 October 2015. But it wouldnt remove the late payment markers it 
had placed on his credit file after this. 
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. He said that Five Lamps should 
remove the late payment markers on Mr Ss account after 27 October 2015. And it should 
pay Mr S £100 for the distress this problem had caused him. 
Five Lamps didnt agree. It felt that it had been Mr Ss responsibility to update his address 
with Five Lamps, and he hadnt done that. So Five Lamps wanted an ombudsman to 
consider this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
Five Lamps has agreed to show Mr Ss loan as defaulted on 27 October 2015. He last paid 
towards this loan in March 2015, so I agree that a default date of 27 October 2015 is 
reasonable. I think this reflects what shouldve happened at the time. I dont know if that 
change has yet been made to Mr Ss credit file. I will include this as part of my award, in 
case it hasnt yet been done. 
Like our investigator, I also think that Five Lamps should also remove the missed payment 
markers after this default date. A default is usually used to record that someone has stopped 
paying their contractual payments, to the extent that the lender is treating the contract as 
having been broken. I dont think its fair and reasonable for Five Lamps to record this default 
in October 2015, but still show that Mr S wasnt making his monthly contractual payments 
after this date.
I also think that Five Lamps should pay Mr S some compensation. But, like our investigator, I 
dont think that it has to provide compensation for Mr S not getting a mortgage for the house 
he wanted. Mr S has other debts, which he has told us he is paying off. And, if Five Lamps 
had done nothing wrong, Mr S would still have had a default on his credit file. So I cant be 
sure that, even if Five Lamps had done nothing wrong, Mr S would otherwise have been 
able to get a mortgage. 
I do think this matter has caused distress and inconvenience to Mr S. I think that our 
investigators suggested amount of £100 provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint, so thats what Ill award.
My final decision
My final decision is that Five Lamps Trading Ltd must  
amend Mr Ss credit file to show his loan as defaulted on 27 October 2015, if it hasnt 
already done so,
remove any and all missed payment markers for this loan after this default date, and 
pay Mr S £100 in compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman