DRN-3331912
The complaint
Mr W and Miss W complain that Sainsbury's Bank Plc (SB) caused delays to their 
mortgage application which led to the purchase of a property falling through. They were able 
to purchase an alternative property but have said that this caused them distress and they 
incurred additional costs.
What happened
Mr W and Miss W held a mortgage with SB. The mortgage had a fixed interest rate deal until 
September 2023, meaning if it was repaid within that time an early repayment charge (ERC) 
would be payable. However, this would be refunded if the existing mortgage deal was ported 
to a new property within six months of the mortgage being redeemed.
In 2020 Mr W and Miss W were looking to move house. They contacted SB in June 2020 
and said they wanted to port their mortgage, partially reducing their outstanding balance.
In their initial conversations with SB they explained theyd accepted an offer on their house 
and agreed a sale. And they had made an offer for a new property. SB gathered information 
about their financial situation but said it wouldnt proceed or provide advice until the 
purchase of their new property was agreed.
On 18 June 2020 Mr W and Miss W confirmed theyd agreed a purchase price for a new 
property. And a formal application was made. It was discussed during that call that a sale 
date had been agreed for their existing property. But Mr W and Miss W acknowledged the 
sale and purchase were not likely to complete simultaneously, and they had planned for this 
and would be staying in temporary accommodation, as the new property required 
renovation.
On 7 July 2020 SB requested additional information around income to support the 
application. At that point Mr W and Miss W mentioned that they were being pressured by the 
vendor for progress.
SBs underwriters decided they were satisfied the mortgage was affordable. The next stage 
was for a valuation to be carried out on behalf of SB. Mr W and Miss W paid a £365 
valuation fee.
Mr W made several calls to SB on 15 July 2020. He explained that the vendor was 
pressuring he and Miss W to arrange a date for the valuation that day, or theyd withdraw 
from the sale. He acknowledged this wasnt entirely reasonable but asked SB to do what it 
could. SB fast tracked the arrangement of the valuation and a date for this was set.
The sale of Mr W and Miss Ws existing property completed on 28 July 2020. They paid an 
ERC as part of the redemption.
On 29 July 2020 SB indicated, as it now had all of the information it needed including a 
satisfactory valuation, itd be issuing a mortgage offer the next day. But on 30 July 2020 SB 
contacted Mr W to say it needed written confirmation of his current, temporary 
correspondence address in order to send out the mortgage offer. This was because, as the 
sale of their previous property had now completed, it no longer had a valid address for him. 
SB failed to explain though that Miss W also needed to sign and confirm the new address.
Mr W sent a letter to SB by recorded delivery which was received on 31 July 2020. As it 
hadnt received written confirmation from Miss W of the new correspondence address it 
requested this on 3 August 2020  the next working day.
Mr W and Miss W complained about not having been told on 30 July 2020 that they both 
needed to provide this information to SB. They were concerned that the delay would lead to 
the vendors withdrawing from the sale.
SB acknowledged it had made an error when speaking to Mr W on 30 July 2020, apologised 
and offered them £50 for the upset caused. But it said it still needed written confirmation 
from Miss W of her correspondence address before it could issue a mortgage offer.
This was provided on 4 August 2020 and a mortgage offer was issued on 7 August 2020.
Mr W and Miss W have said that due to this delay, the vendor withdrew from the sale and re- 
marketed the property.
They made an offer on a different property, which was accepted. And a new application to 
port their mortgage was made. As part of this a new valuation was required, meaning Mr W 
and Miss W incurred another charge of £365. The mortgage application was approved, and 
the purchase of this alternate property was completed in November 2020, with the relevant 
portion of ERC being refunded.
Mr W and Miss W remained unhappy with SBs response to their complaint and asked our 
service to consider it. They said theyd been clear with SB that they needed the application 
to be completed promptly as the vendors had set them a short timeframe to complete. They 
said the error made by SB, and the delay caused, had directly caused the failure of the 
original purchase. They explained this had caused them distress and meant theyd incurred 
more costs than they shouldve done due to having to duplicate processes for their alternate 
purchase  in particular the £365 valuation fee and solicitors search costs. So, they wanted 
SB to cover these costs and increase the payment itd made for the upset caused.
One of our Investigators considered the complaint and felt it should be upheld. She thought 
SB should refund £365, to cover the cost of the second valuation, and pay £750 for the 
distress and other costs caused.
SB did not agree with the Investigators opinion. It said it didnt believe we could say with 
certainty that the short delay had caused the vendor to withdraw from the sale  and noted 
that the Investigator had acknowledged this in their opinion letter. So, it didnt think it was fair 
to hold it responsible to the extent the Investigator had recommended. It said it would now 
agree to pay £250 for the upset caused  which it felt was fair. As SB did not agree with our 
Investigators opinion, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I arranged to request some additional information. We asked Mr W and Miss W for some 
evidence, such as copies of correspondence between them, their solicitors, the vendors of 
the original property or their agents, to show that the short delay by SB at the end of the 
application process had caused the house purchase to fall through. But Mr W and Miss W 
were unable to provide copies of any correspondence showing this.
I issued a provisional decision earlier this month explaining that I thought the offer of £250 
now made by SB was fair, so I didnt intend to require it to do more. Below are extracts from my provisional findings, explaining why I thought this.
In order to uphold this complaint I have to establish, based on the evidence and information 
provided, that an error has been made by SB, what the impact of that error was and that the 
error has caused a loss.
Ive considered the whole application and all of the available evidence - including recordings 
of the conversations Mr W and Miss W had with SB over the course of the application, which 
Ive listened to.
Mr W and Miss W initially said they wanted to port their mortgage on 3 June 2020. An 
appointment was arranged promptly with an adviser just over a week later. But by that point 
they hadnt agreed the purchase of a new property, so the exact details of the proposed 
transactions were unconfirmed. SB said it needed these before it could assess an 
application  which I think is reasonable.
Mr W and Miss W had an offer accepted on a property on 18 June 2020 and spoke to SB the 
same day to provide details of this and for the application to be made. SB explained at that 
point that normal processing times for applications could be between 10-12 weeks. And
Mr W and Miss W raised no concerns with this.
As part of the application SB had to request supporting information about Mr W and 
Miss Ws income. It also needed to arrange a valuation of the property to ensure it was a 
suitable security. All of which I believe is reasonable.
A mortgage offer was produced and provided on 7 August 2020  just over seven weeks 
after the application was formally made.
Mr W and Miss W have said they informed SB that they were being put under a time 
pressure from the vendors and this needed to be dealt with swiftly. From the information 
provided the first time that this was discussed appears to have been on 7 July 2020. Mr W 
and Miss W did remind SB of the pressure they were receiving on several occasions. It 
doesnt appear though that a firm deadline date was ever set by the vendors  or at least this 
wasnt discussed with SB. Rather at each stage, after the underwriters had decided the 
mortgage was affordable, the vendors wanted the other relevant processes to be completed 
as a matter of urgency and said theyd withdraw from the sale if they were not.
I appreciate Mr W and Miss W felt under pressure and were keen for the matter to proceed. 
But SB was entitled to follow its relevant processes and determine if the lending met its 
criteria. SB wasnt responsible for creating the time constraints, it was clear about its usual 
processing times and it didnt agree at any point that the mortgage offer would be provided 
by a set date. I think SB did try and help and I can see it did treat the request as urgent on 
several occasions  most notably arranging the valuation of the property quickly. So, I think it 
did genuinely try to assist Mr W and Miss W with the issues they were having. And given that 
the mortgage offer was produced in just over seven weeks, I dont think the application on 
the whole was handled unreasonably.
SB did make a mistake when speaking to Mr W on 30 July 2020  and it has acknowledged 
this. And that was that it didnt make it clear that the written confirmation of the new 
correspondence address would need to also be signed by Miss W.
I know Mr W and Miss W were unhappy at having to provide this confirmation in writing at 
all. But SB is entitled to set its own processes and I cant say it has acted unfairly by 
requiring these to be followed. I also thought about whether SB shouldve requested details of the temporary address sooner than it did  as it seems to have been discussed at several 
times during the application that the sale and purchase were unlikely to be simultaneous. But 
SB didnt know when the mortgage offer was going to be issued. And until the sale of the 
existing property had completed, it didnt know for certain that it was going to need 
alternative contact details. So, I think its reasonable that SB didnt ask for this information 
sooner than it did.
SB explained on 30 July 2020 that it needed written confirmation of Mr Ws new 
correspondence address in order to send out the mortgage offer. Mr W sent a letter 
confirming this on 31 July 2020. But SB also needed confirmation from Miss W, so it 
contacted her on 3 August 2020  the next working day  to explain this. The relevant 
information was received on 4 August 2020. And a mortgage offer was then issued three 
working days later on 7 August 2020.
Had SB correctly explained that both Mr W and Miss W needed to sign the confirmation of 
address on 30 July 2020, this couldve been done within the same letter and the relevant 
information wouldve been received by SB on 31 July 2020. I think it is reasonable to 
assume that the mortgage offer wouldve taken the same amount of time to produce, so this 
wouldve been issued three working days later  on 5 August 2020. So, the impact of SBs 
mistake was that the mortgage offer was delayed by two working days.
Mr W and Miss W have said that this caused the purchase of the property to fall through and 
meant the costs theyd already paid in respect of this application  the valuation fee and 
some solicitors costs for searches  were lost. And this also caused them distress.
The valuation and solicitors costs, including searches, would always have needed to have 
been paid for the application to proceed. And there was always a risk that these could be 
lost  as the application couldve been declined or the seller couldve withdrawn at any 
stage, as they did do here. And while I dont doubt that the application process was stressful, 
I think a lot of the stress Mr W and Miss W experienced seems to have come for their 
interactions with the vendor. In their conversations with SB they acknowledged that it was 
the vendor putting pressure on them and on several occasions noted they were grateful for 
the level of service SB was providing.
But in any event, in order to hold SB responsible for this, Id have to be satisfied that the 
error it made, and the two working day delay, had caused the loss to be incurred  through 
the purchase falling through, when it wouldnt otherwise have done so.
While Mr W and Miss W have said this error caused the purchase to fail, they havent been 
able to provide any evidence to support this  such as correspondence from the selling 
agent, their solicitor or the vendors themselves setting out deadlines or the reasons for the 
contract being withdrawn. And given what Mr W and Miss W told SB during the course of the 
application about the vendors regularly changing demands, I think it is reasonable to say that 
the vendor doesnt appear to have been as committed to the transaction proceeding and 
mayve always intended to re-market the property. So, based on what Ive seen so far, I cant 
reasonably say that the error SB made, was the cause of the purchase falling through.
I do accept it wouldve been upsetting and frustrating for Mr W and Miss W to find out on 
3 August 2020 that theyd not been given all of the relevant information in the calls that had 
taken place several days earlier, on 30 July 2020. Particularly at what was already a 
stressful time. In response to our Investigators opinion, SB has offered to pay £250 for the 
upset it had caused. And in the circumstances, I think that offer is fair.
Responses to my provisional decisionI gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further information 
before I reached my final decision.
SB said it agreed with my provisional decision.
Mr W and Miss W said they were very disappointed with my provisional findings. They said 
that SB making an offer indicated it had made a mistake. And they didnt think it was fair that 
it was not therefore being required to cover their costs. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything again, as neither party have provided me with any additional 
information to take into account, Im not inclined to depart from my provisional findings. 
As I said in my provisional decision, although overall I think SB handled the application fairly 
and reviewed it promptly, at the end of the application process it did make an error, that 
caused a delay of two working days to the offer being produced. Which SB has 
acknowledged. So, there is no dispute that it did something wrong. But again, as I said in my 
provisional findings, Id have to be satisfied that this error caused a loss in order to fairly 
require SB to cover this. 
I acknowledge Mr W and Miss W have had to pay additional costs in relation to the alternate 
property they eventually moved to. But for the reasons I set out previously, I cant reasonably 
say what SB did wrong caused the initial house purchase to fail. And I havent seen anything 
that leads me to alter my conclusions on this point. So, I dont agree that what it did wrong 
caused these costs. And so, I dont think it would be fair to hold SB responsible for those 
costs.
The error made did cause Mr W and Miss W upset at an already stressful time. But I think 
the offer SB has now made  to pay £250 for the upset caused  is a fair way to address 
this.
My final decision
Sainsbury's Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay £250 to settle Mr W and Miss Ws 
complaint. For the reasons Ive explained, I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Sainsbury's Bank Plc should pay £250. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman