The complaint
Mrs C complains she was mis-sold PPI alongside a store card.
A retailer sold the policy, but the insurer, now called AXA France IARD, has accepted 
responsibility for the sale.
What happened
Mrs C applied for the PPI in 1999, at the same time as she applied for a store card. The cost 
of the PPI was charged to the account, so she would repay this extra cost with interest in line 
with the terms and conditions of the account.
Mrs C thinks the PPI was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint but didn't think it should be upheld. Mrs C didn't 
agree. The complaint has been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Cs case.
I've decided the policy wasn't mis-sold. I'll explain why.
I've first considered whether Mrs C knew she was buying PPI. Mrs C has told us the PPI was 
added without her knowledge. So I've thought about what Mrs C has said alongside the 
other information I've seen about the sale.
AXA has sent us a copy of the store card application form. I see that to apply for PPI, Mrs C 
needed to sign a box labelled "Account cover (only sign this box if you require Account 
Cover)". This box is signed. Other sections of the form, which allowed Mrs C to apply for 
other products or features of the card have been crossed out. So while I appreciate that 
Mrs C thinks PPI was added without her knowledge, I think it's more likely that she chose to 
buy it - even if, after all this time, she doesn't now remember this.
AXA didn't recommend this product - so it didn't need to check the policy was right for Mrs C. 
But it did need to make sure Mrs C got the information she'd need to work out for herself if 
she wanted it.
It's possible the information AXA gave Mrs C about the PPI wasn't as clear as it should have 
been. But Mrs C selected the PPI on the application, so she appears to have wanted this 
type of cover.  Based on what I've seen of her circumstances at the time it doesn't look like 
DRN-1141045she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have 
been useful to her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I'm 
not persuaded better information would have changed Mrs C's decision to buy the policy.
I've considered the other points Mrs C has raised. 
I recognise that Mrs C got some sick pay from her employer if she was off work sick - but 
this policy would have repaid 15% of the outstanding balance until the balance was repaid in 
full if she'd been off work sick or lost her job. And while I recognise that Mrs C says she 
could have relied on her husband's income to make the repayments if she'd lost her job, I 
don't think this would necessarily have been guaranteed to be available when Mrs C needed 
it.
So these points don't change my conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2020.
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman