DRN-4161259
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained about the decision made by Aviva Life Services UK Limited 
that their childs condition wasnt one covered by their critical illness policy.
What happened
In 2006, Mr and Mrs C bought a life and critical illness policy from Aviva.  The policy included 
critical illness for their children.
In late 2021, Mr and Mrs Cs child was hospitalised.  Following investigations, it was 
determined theyd most suffered a spinal stroke.   Mr and Mrs C made a claim on their 
policy.
Aviva declined the claim.  They said that stroke is defined in Mr and Mrs Cs policy as:
A cerebrovascular incident resulting in permanent neurological damage. Transient 
ischaemic attacks are specifically excluded.
So they concluded spinal stroke isnt covered.  Mr and Mrs C complained, but Aviva 
maintained their position.  So Mr and Mrs C brought their complaint to our service.  
Mr and Mrs C told us that Aviva had made various changes to policies since theyd bought 
theirs, which led them to believe they had cover for spinal strokes.  And they complained that 
their claim had not been handled by a dedicated Project Teddy team, which had added to 
their stress during the process. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and concluded Aviva didnt need to do any more 
to resolve it.  She was satisfied spinal stroke didnt meet the definition set out in the policy  
so it had been reasonable for Aviva to decline the claim.  And she said Aviva didnt have a 
dedicated Project Teddy team, but trained all their staff to handle claims involving children.  
So she couldnt say there had been any failing by them there.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree with our investigators view and provided a number of Avivas 
press releases to support their position that Aviva should extend the cover their policy 
provides.  Ive now been asked to make a final decision on the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.  I know this will be upsetting 
for them and Im sorry about that.  I hope it will help if I explain how Ive come to my 
decision.
In relation to the complaint about Project Teddy, Ive been provided with limited details about 
what this involves.  But, even if I had those, I cant dictate to Aviva which of their staff should 
deal with a claim.  Aviva have confirmed there is no specific team which should have dealt 
with the claim.
In relation to the claim decision, my starting point is the policy terms.  Ive quoted above the 
term which covers strokes.  That makes it clear that only cerebrovascular strokes  ie, 
relating to the brain and its arteries and veins  are covered.  So I dont think Avivas 
decision a spinal stroke isnt covered was unreasonable.  
I understand Mr and Mrs C dont agree with this and that cover was extended after they 
bought the policy.  Ive thought carefully about this.
No critical illness policy covers every serious condition.   And its true that, over the years, 
many insurers have done what Aviva did, and expanded the cover they offer.  The press 
releases Mr and Mrs C have sent us show Aviva expanded their cover and, in some cases, 
did so retrospectively.
But its up to Aviva if they choose to do this and to what extent.  Thats a business decision 
and not something I can say they should change.  I can see amongst the press releases Mr 
and Mrs C have sent us is one from July 2013.  This says Aviva are enhancing their critical 
illness cover for new customers and offering (for the first time in the United Kingdom) cover 
for spinal strokes.  
Nothing else Ive seen suggests this was further extended.  So I dont think it would be fair 
for me to say Aviva should provide cover over and above whats provided by Mr and Mrs Cs 
policy.  And that means I dont think Aviva need to any more to resolve their complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Cs complaint about Aviva Life 
Services UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman