DRN-3174577
The complaint
Miss P complains that Klarna Bank AB (publ) didnt close her credit account promptly and 
made a number of administrative errors with payments.
What happened
In January 2021, Miss P contacted Klarna to arrange to close her running account credit 
facility. She said that she had cleared her outstanding balance and wanted the account 
showing as settled on her credit file. Klarna explained that Miss P had overpaid her account, 
so it was now in a credit balance. This was because Miss P had made a payment by direct 
debit as well as a manual payment for the same amount. Klarna said it would arrange to 
refund the overpayment Miss P had made, as it couldnt close the account until the balance 
was zero. 
The overpayment was refunded to Miss P and the balance was reduced to zero by the end 
of January 2021. However, a further £2.78 of interest was added at the end of the statement 
period. 
Miss P contacted Klarna to query the interest charge. She was told this was interest that had 
accrued on the outstanding balance prior to Miss P clearing it in full. Klarna said that so long 
as Miss P paid off this interest charge, there would be nothing further to pay and the account 
could then be closed. 
Miss P made the payment but Klarna didnt apply it to her credit account. This meant Miss P 
had to make the payment a second time. Klarna then applied the first payment, resulting in 
Miss P having overpaid her balance once more, so the account still couldnt be closed. After 
contacting Klarna again the overpayment was refunded and the account was closed in 
May 2021. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She didnt think Klarna had 
provided clear explanations about what was happening with the account, nor did it process 
things quickly enough. She said it should pay Miss P £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience that was caused. 
Klarna didnt agree. It said that £80 would be more appropriate compensation. Miss P also 
didnt agree. She felt that £250 would be fairer given everything Klarna had put her through. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that Klarna ought to have provided a better level of service 
to Miss P when she tried to close her account. Whats left for me to decide is what an 
appropriate amount of compensation should be for the upset and inconvenience Klarnas 
actions caused. 
I note that the problems initially arose because Miss P overpaid the account, this wasnt 
something that was caused by Klarna. However, after that point, I think Klarna could have 
done more to have resolved things more quickly. 
Im not persuaded that Klarna were clear enough about what timescales would apply for the 
refunds to be made to Miss P in order to bring the account balance to zero. It also didnt tell 
her about the possibility of further interest being charged the following month which would 
delay the account being closed. Miss P was therefore understandably surprised to receive a 
further demand for payment  albeit of a small amount  in February 2021. This upset could 
have been avoided if Klarna had communicated more clearly with Miss P.
Miss P made the interest payment that was due and Klarna accepts it was their error that 
caused it not to be applied to the account, which in turn caused Miss P to make a second 
payment for the same value. Once Klarna located the missing payment, this further delayed 
the closure of the account because it once again didnt have a zero balance. So, I think 
Klarnas actions did cause unnecessary delays and inconvenience to Miss P. 
Lastly, I note that in April 2021 Klarna said it would process the account closure but didnt do 
so. In May 2021, Miss P had to once again contact Klarna before this was actioned. This 
was a further unnecessary and inconvenient step for Miss P to make. Ive also seen that 
Miss P expressed her concerns about what was being reported on her credit file a number of 
times and Klarna didnt provide adequate assurances or explanations of what was being 
reported. This clearly caused Miss P further unnecessary upset.  
Having considered all the circumstances of the complaint Im satisfied that Miss P was very 
frustrated with how Klarna were dealing with her requests and I dont think Klarna 
communicated with her clearly nor carried out the account closure as quickly as it could 
have. However, Ive also taken into consideration that Klarnas actions caused no financial 
loss to Miss P nor have I seen that its actions had any detrimental impact on her credit file, 
which is what she was concerned about. Therefore, Im satisfied that fair compensation for 
Klarna to pay for the distress and inconvenience caused to Miss P is £100.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Klarna Bank AB (publ) to:
Pay Miss P £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman