DRN-3406433
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a fixed sum loan agreement with 
Santander Consumer (UK) Plc was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
On 30 April 2021, Mr C was supplied with a used car through a fixed sum loan agreement 
with Santander. He paid a deposit of £500 and the agreement was for £9,800 over 48 
months; with monthly repayments of £241.81. At the time the car was around seven years 
old and had done 97,000 miles.
Mr C complained to Santander on 11 May 2021, because there was a problem with the 
timing belt and because he hadnt been provided with a full service history. Santander 
investigated the matter and, as a result, the supplying dealership provided some of the 
service records and agreed to replace the timing belt.
Mr C contacted Santander again on 24 August 2021 and let them know the turbo had failed 
and the diesel particulate filter (DPF) warning light was lit, indicating that the DPF was 
blocked. He said hed spoken to the dealership, but they said the car was outside of their 
three-month warranty, so they werent liable for any repairs. 
Mr C also said that he taken the car to a local mechanic and been told unknown work had 
been done to the DPF system, and the engine ECU remapped. But the mechanic didnt want 
to do any work in case it voided any potential warranty.
Santander arranged for an independent engineer to inspect the car. Who said that there 
were no problems with the car that were present or developing when the car was supplied to 
Mr C. So, Santander didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr C remained unhappy 
and brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said the evidence shows that there was no DPF present in the car when it 
was inspected by Mr Cs mechanic. And the service history shows that work was done to the 
DPF and exhaust system in 2019  almost two years before Mr C was supplied with the car. 
Whats more, the independent engineer confirmed that a car could reasonably travel several 
thousand miles without a DPF, before any problems became evident.
Given this, the investigator said that the car was supplied to Mr C without a DPF, which is 
illegal. So, he thought it was fair for Mr C to be able to reject the car. And Santander should 
cover his reasonable costs, refund his deposit and all payments made after 24 August 2021 
(when Mr C stopped using the car) plus statutory interest, and pay Mr C £500 for the trouble 
and upset hed been caused.
Mr C agreed with the investigator, but Santander didnt. They said that Mr C had acted 
unreasonably by refusing to bring the car back to the dealership on multiple occasions, so 
they could investigate and diagnose any faults. And the independent engineer stated that 
there were no faults present when the car was supplied to Mr C.
Santander also said that Mr C had unauthorised repair work done on the car, and they dont 
see why work that was done in 2019 has any bearing on the current issue, or why it should 
outweigh the expertise from the independent engineer. Furthermore, theyve said that Mr C 
shouldnt have the right to reject the car until theyve had the opportunity of repair.
Because of this, Santander have asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr C was supplied with a car under a fixed 
sum loan agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to investigate complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, 
Santander are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Santander can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified 
after the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Mr C to show it was present when the 
car was supplied. 
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr C took possession of it, and this made the car not 
of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask Santander to put this right.
Ive seen a copy of the report from the independent engineer, dated 20 September 2021, 
when the car had done 102,157 miles (about 5,000 miles since supply). This confirmed the 
following:
we can confirm that there does appear to have been work carried out to the exhaust 
system on this vehicle;
it does appear that there is excessive non-standard work carried out and there is a 
large amount of exhaust weld repair visible on top and along the length of the 
vehicles DPF;
the exhaust has been extensively worked on and will require removal to investigate 
the internals of the exhaust;
the vehicle does feel underpowered when driven;
it was noted the engine was hesitant on power up; and
 whilst the vehicle was under acceleration, there was a large plumes [sic] of black 
exhaust smoke and the rear exhaust pipe was heavy with thick black soot.Based on this, the engineer was satisfied there was a fault with the car but was unable to 
confirm if the AdBlue unit had been removed and/or the ECU remapped without further 
investigation. However, the engineer said that based on the evidence that is available to 
ourselves at the time of our inspection we do not consider the faults presented to have been 
present or developing at finance inception.
Whats more, when evidence of the DPF removal was provided to the independent engineer, 
they said the removal of the DPF could be a contributory factor to the issue with the vehicle, 
but the comments made in our previous documentation  are still applicable, as to whether 
the condition can be proved to have been present at the point of sale.
The vehicle could be driven with the DPF removed for some considerable time, if the engine 
management system was adjusted/modified to prevent the engine management system 
detecting that the DPF system had been deleted. The condition would normally affect the 
emissions and would normally become apparent in that form.
So, the crux of this matter is when was the DPF removed. As I understand it, its not illegal 
for a DPF to be removed, but it is illegal to drive a car once the DPF has been removed.
The service history shows that additional work was carried out on the DPF on 3 May 2019, 
when the car had done 74,645 miles. But the nature of this work isnt specified. Ill also seen 
an independent garages invoice dated 22 May 2019, for the regeneration of the DPF, at the 
cost of £60. If either of these works actually relate to the removal of the DPF, then the 
emissions would be affected from this date. 
The car was provided to Mr C in April 2021, and the advert confirms there was a full service 
history. However, the service history provided to Mr C by the dealership only goes up to 
2019. So, the paperwork for the service that shouldve taken place in 2020 is missing. And 
hasnt been provide by the dealership, even though theyve told Mr C it would be.
The publicly available MOT record shows that the first MOT was due on 16 June 2017, 
which would fit with the age of the car. And it indicates that the latest MOT expired on 3 
November 2021 i.e. the last MOT took place on 3 November 2020. However, the specific 
details for the MOTs  dates, mileage, any failure and advisory points - are all missing from 
the central database.
Assuming MOTs took place as scheduled, these wouldve been in June 2017, June 2018, 
June 2019, and fallen due in June 2020. But, because of the conditions imposed by the 
national lockdown, the June 2020 MOT test wouldnt have been required for a further six 
months i.e. by no later than January 2021. But it couldve been done sooner, which would fit 
with a MOT taking place in November 2020. 
So, the November 2020 MOT is the only one that took place after the last date any known 
work was done on the DPF. And, because the 2020 service record is missing, and the 
details of the MOT removed from the central database, this MOT certificate is the only 
documentation that would indicate whether there was an issue with the emissions at this 
point in time.
However, Mr C wasnt provided with the MOT certificate when he was supplied with the car. 
And, despite chasing the dealership for this, it hasnt been provided. I find it extremely odd that the full service history stopped shortly after the last work on the 
DPF, and the MOT details that would evidence there were no issues with the emissions 
(indicating that the DPF was still present) cant be provided / have been removed from the 
database. Based on this, and the evidence Ive seen, I consider it more likely than not that 
the DPF was removed before the car was supplied to Mr C and, as such, it was illegal for 
him to drive it.
Santander have said that they should have the opportunity to repair the car, rather than Mr C 
being able to reject it, as this is what the CRA allows. However, in this instance, I dont 
believe this should be the case. The CRA allows a single chance of repair when the car is of 
an unsatisfactory quality. And, from what Ive seen, this was taken up with the repair to the 
failed timing chain. Whats more, the dealership refused the option to attempt to repair the 
DPF, claiming it was outside of any warranty to do so. In addition to this, Ive also seen that 
the dealership has accused Mr C of using a disreputable mechanic to repair the car and 
made time limited offers to resolve the matter for less than Mr C had paid.
Given all of this, Im satisfied that in these circumstances, Mr C should be allowed to reject 
the car.
Putting things right
Mr C stopped using the car on 24 August 2021, when it was found that the DPF had been 
removed, as to continue to use it would be illegal. As such, I think its only fair that Santander 
refund all payments hes made since this date, as well as the tax and insurance hes paid as 
the car wasnt usable. Whats more, Mr C had a towbar fitted to the car, that hes no longer 
able to use, and he had to pay to have the faults on the car investigated after the dealership 
told him that it was out of warranty. And Santander should also refund these costs to Mr C.
So, Santander should:
end the agreement with nothing further to pay;
collect the car at no further cost to Mr C, if this hasnt already been done;
refund the £500 deposit Mr C paid;
refund all the payments Mr C has made after 24 August 2021;
upon receipt of proof of payments, refund the car tax and car insurance payments for 
this vehicle that Mr C has made after 24 August 2021, the cost of the towbar being 
fitted, and the costs Mr C has incurred on having the car investigated for faults;
apply 8% simple yearly interest on the refunds, calculated from the date Mr C made 
the payments to the date of the refund ;
remove any adverse information relating to this agreement from Mr Cs credit file; 
and
pay Mr C an additional £500 for the distress and inconvenience hes suffered as a 
result of being supplied a car that wasnt of a satisfactory quality and was illegal to 
drive in the condition it was supplied. 
HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Cs complaint and Santander Consumer (UK) Plc 
should follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman