DRN-4239924
The complaint
Mr A and Ms P complain that UIA (Insurance) Limited handled a claim on his home 
emergency insurance poorly.
Both Mr A and Ms P are named policyholders on their UIA policy, so any claim or complaint 
is brought by them both. But for simplicity, and because most of the information about the 
complaint has been provided by Mr A, Ill refer mainly to Mr A from here onward.
Mr As claim was handled by a third party company on UIAs behalf and most of his 
correspondence has been either with this company or directly with UIAs engineers. 
However, UIA is the policy underwriter, so the complaint is against UIA. Any reference to 
UIA in my decision includes its agents, including the claims handler.
What happened
Mr A had a UIA home emergency insurance policy. On 3 November 2021, he reported a leak 
from a pipe and asked UIA to arrange an emergency repair.
UIAs engineers attended on 4, 5, 9 and 17 November 2021:
4 November. The engineer replaced a copper pipe and other parts he thought might 
be leaking and advised Mr A to call UIA should the problem persist.
5 November. The engineer fitted new parts and found no leak.
9 November. The engineer replaced the cold water pipe. 
17 November. A second engineer made some repairs which finally fixed the leak.
Mr A complained to UIA. He was unhappy that:
The first engineer failed to fix the leak on his first three visits.
UIA charged him £38 before it agreed to send a second engineer.
The leak wasnt fixed until 17 November, two weeks after he reported it.
The second engineer said a repair carried out by the first engineer was unnecessary.
UIA didnt uphold the complaint. It said its engineers labour costs exceeded the policy limit, 
so under the policy terms Mr A was liable for the extra cost (£38.40, including VAT). It 
explained that the [leak] was difficult to diagnose due to the amount of condensation which 
was found in the pipe location. It said its first engineer went through a process of elimination 
to try to locate the leak. The second engineer was able to fix the leak based on the first 
engineers work.  
Mr A didnt accept this and brought his complaint to this service. Hes unhappy that he had to 
take time off work and was frustrated at having to call the engineers daily. He also told us 
about the disruption this had on his family. He wants UIA to refund the £38.40, as well as the 
cost of his phone calls. Hed also like UIA to compensate him for the time he had to take off 
work and the inconvenience UIAs handling of this caused him and his family.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr As complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied 
that the labour costs exceeded Mr As policy limit, and UIA acted fairly by charging him these 
extra costs. He was also satisfied that the second engineer attended at the earliest available 
opportunity. He didnt think UIA had treated Mr A unfairly.
Mr A disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to consider.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 15 June 2023. I said:
Mr As policy includes home emergency cover. Section E of the policy booklet (page 48) 
defines a home emergency as: A sudden unexpected event which clearly requires 
immediate remedial action in order to prevent damage or avoid further damage to the home 
and covers, among other things, the main heating system and plumbing/drainage. The same 
section also defines emergency costs, including contractors necessary labour up to two 
hours.
Mr As Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) summarises his emergency cover as: 
Emergency costs up to £1,000; including contractors call out charges, labour for up to two 
hours, parts and materials up to £100.
UIA says the repairs took 3 hours of labour and £43 worth of parts. Based on the evidence 
provided by both parties, I think its likely UIAs engineers did more than two hours work. So 
Im satisfied that Mr A was liable for one hour labour costs and UIA acted in line with the 
policy terms by charging him £38.40.
However, I understand why Mr A might have thought it was unfair to charge him before the 
leak was fixed. I also understand why he was unhappy that UIA told him hed have to make 
a complaint to get this refunded. And, given its engineers needed multiple visits to fix the 
leak, Im not persuaded it was fair for UIA to charge this. On balance, I think UIA should 
refund this fee, plus interest.
Mr A is particularly unhappy that it took a week between him paying the £38 (10 November) 
and the engineers final visit (17 November). UIA told us its engineer offered Mr A an 
appointment on the mornings of 14 and 15 November. It says Mr A declined the first 
because he advised that it had to be after 15.00pm, and the second because there was 
some confusion around this being suitable for the customer. Mr A says this isnt true and a 
morning appointment would have been better for him because he worked evenings. 
I think the evidence supports Mr A here for the following reasons:
The three previous appointments were all before 3pm.
The fourth and final visit on 17 November was before 2pm.
Theres no reference to Mr A rejecting these appointments anywhere in UIAs claim 
file. I also note that UIA didnt mention them in its final response to his complaint.
Given the situation, I think Mr A would have accepted the first appointment he was 
offered.
So I dont accept UIAs argument that Mr A was responsible for the delay arranging the final 
visit. I understand that UIA says the leak was difficult to locate. However, I dont think it was 
acceptable for UIA to expect Mr A and his family to be without water for over two weeks. I 
think Mr A had a reasonable expectation that his emergency cover would protect him from 
this sort of event. I think UIAs engineers should have fixed the leak much sooner.Im not persuaded that Mr A and his family were in any danger. UIA told us its engineers 
advised Mr A to shut off the water and this seems a sensible precaution to avoid further 
water damage. But theres no suggestion that this was a dangerous situation. I appreciate 
Mr A told UIA the leak was near electric sockets, but Ive not seen any evidence that it was 
necessary for Mr A to switch off his electricity. 
However, Ive no doubt this would have been a frustrating and stressful time for Mr A and his 
family. Three visits by engineers failed to stop the leak and there was a gap of over a week 
before the final visit. The family were without full access to water for two weeks despite 
having home emergency cover that Mr A might reasonably expect would deal quickly with 
this sort of problem. I dont think UIA handled the claim well enough, and I think it should 
compensate Mr A and Ms P for this. 
Ive considered what this service awards in similar situations. Having done so, I think UIA 
should pay Mr A and Ms P £250.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr A acknowledged my provisional decision but didnt have any comments.
UIA asked for more time to consider my provisional findings. I allowed this but UIA didnt 
respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party has commented on my provisional findings I see no reason to change 
my decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint for the same reasons set out in my 
provisional decision. I order UIA (Insurance) Limited to:
Refund Mr A £38.40, plus interest at 8% simple a year from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement.
Pay Mr A and Ms P £250 to reflect the distress and inconvenience its handling of 
their claim caused them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Ms P to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman