DRN-3126991
The complaint
Mr L complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) lost a payment that he made into his loan account. 
 
What happened
In June 2015 Mr L took out a fixed sum personal loan with BPF. The monthly repayments 
were £127.22.
In July 2020 he paid a £600 cheque in using a paying in slip sent to him by BPF, but in 
February 2021 when he requested a statement, Mr L noticed that the £600 hadnt been 
credited to the account. 
When he queried this, the bank noticed that there was an incorrect digit on the paying in slip 
that they had provided. 
This was the third time that money hadnt been correctly credited, having happened 
previously in 2016 and 2017. On the previous occasion, Mr L was paid £75 for trouble and 
upset and an interest adjustment was made. 
Mr L complained to BPF in February 2021. They provided a final response in March 2021. 
They apologised for the error and said that the £600 had now been located and applied to 
his account. However, they didnt apply an interest adjustment as the previous interest 
adjustment in 2017 had been incorrectly calculated as too high, and the adjustment this time 
was less than the error so there was no further adjustment. But they did send Mr L £75 for 
the poor service. 
Mr L was unhappy with this response as he said that he couldnt work out the interest 
himself and it didnt seem fair that they were offsetting interest from their previous mistake. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ls case. He thought that BPFs offer of £75 was fair.   
Mr L disagreed with our investigators view and has asked for an ombudsmans decision 
which is why it has come to me to review.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not upheld the complaint and I will explain my reasons below. 
I have looked at whether there is evidence that Mr L has been overcharged interest and 
thought about whether BPF have acted fairly and reasonably in this case. 
I asked BPF to provide me with the interest calculations they had used, and we shared these 
with Mr L. They have also provided me with account statements showing a breakdown of the 
payments made over the lifetime of the loan and all the account notes. 
The calculations show that the total amount of interest that was actually charged to Mr L 
over the lifetime of the loan was £3122.43. I have checked this against the account 
statements and I am satisfied that this is a correct calculation of the interest that was 
charged and paid by Mr L. 
BPFs second calculation shows what the correct interest charges would have been if all the 
lump sum payments that Mr L paid had been correctly credited on the dates they were 
actually paid. This calculation shows that if there had been no errors on the account, the 
total interest due over the lifetime of the loan would have been £3072.97, meaning that Mr L 
had been overcharged interest of £49.46 over the lifetime of the loan as a result of the three 
failures to credit payments when they were paid. 
 
In 2016/2017 when BPF failed to credit the first lump sum payment, they recalculated the 
interest that should have been due and credited Mr Ls account with two payments totalling 
£57.31 which they said was the refund of overpaid interest. However, it appears that these 
calculations were incorrect at the time and Mr L was recredited with too much refund of 
interest. I can see from the statements that the lump sums paid would not have significantly 
decreased the monthly interest due, and so I can see that this refund of £57.31 appears too 
high. 
As the total refund due of £49.46 is less than the £57.31 erroneously credited, it seems right 
to me that no further interest adjustment is due. I am satisfied that the calculations provided 
to me by BPF show that Mr L has had all the overpaid interest he should have.  
In terms of the distress and inconvenience caused by BPFs failure to credit the payment for 
the period July 2020 to February 2021, I note that they have already paid Mr L £75 and I 
think this is a fair payment, so I wont be asking them to do anything further. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint about 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance (BPF)
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman