DRN-3635627
The complaint
Mrs K complains that she was mis-sold a holiday club product and the credit facility used to 
pay for it. The facility was provided by Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, which trades 
as Barclays Partner Finance and which Ill refer to as BPF. Mrs K is represented by a 
claims management business, which Ill call P.
What happened
In February 2011 Mrs K and her husband bought a points-based holiday club membership 
from Diamond Resorts Tenerife Sales SL. They bought a total of 5,000 points at a price of 
£5,200. Of that, £4,160 was provided under a £20,000 running account credit facility 
provided at the same time by BPF to Mrs K. The credit facility recorded that the seller and 
credit intermediary was Diamond Resorts (Europe) Limited. BPF says that the account was 
settled later in 2011. 
In June 2018 P contacted BPF to say that the holiday club membership had been mis-sold. 
Initially, it did so on behalf of Mr K, but BPF noted that the credit facility had been in Mrs Ks 
sole name.
P said that the membership had been misrepresented or mis-sold in the following ways 
(which I summarise):
Mr and Mrs K had been that they  would receive a guaranteed yearly rental income 
which would cover the maintenance fees and provide a profit   
They were told the membership was exclusive  that is, its services were only 
available to members.
It was a breach of The Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts 
Regulations 2010 to take a lump sum payment. 
The sale was conducted in a way which did not comply with The Consumer Protection 
from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008. 
The membership was poor value; the same accommodation could be booked more 
cheaply online. 
Mr and Mrs K had not agreed to BPF paying commission to the seller.
P said that, because BPF had financed the purchase, Mrs K could bring a claim against it in 
the same way as she could bring a claim against the seller. In response, BPF said that it 
thought that any claims made against the seller of the club membership would be out of time 
and that accordingly it had no liability under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. P 
referred the matter to this service on behalf of Mrs K. 
One of our investigators considered what had happened but did not recommend that the 
complaint be upheld  for broadly the same reasons as BPF. The investigator also 
considered whether the credit facility created an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
same Act and whether BPF had ensured that the credit facility was suitable and affordable 
for Mrs K. 
P did not accept the investigators assessment that the complaint should not be upheld and 
asked that an ombudsman review the case. It described the investigators assessment as 
manifestly wrong. It also identified provisions of the sale contract which it thought were 
unfair and therefore unenforceable under the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts 
Regulations 1999. And it submitted a lengthy counsels opinion, largely commenting in a 
generic way on the operation of the Diamond Resorts group of companies and another 
timeshare and holiday club provider.
Ps response to the investigators assessment did not however address the main reasons 
why neither BPF nor the investigator thought the complaint should not be upheld  namely, 
that no concerns about the underlying sale had been raised until more than six years after it 
had taken place.        
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act  
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act, statements made by a supplier in relation to a 
transaction financed or proposed to be financed under pre-existing arrangements between a 
credit provider and the supplier are deemed to be made as agent for the creditor.  
In addition, one effect of section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act is that a customer who 
has a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to 
certain conditions, bring that claim against a credit provider. Those conditions include:
that the credit financed the contract giving rise to the claim, either in whole or in part; 
and 
that the credit was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the credit provider and the supplier. 
Credit includes the use of a running credit, such as that provided to Mrs K here. I note 
however that the seller and credit intermediary in this case was Diamond Resorts (Europe) 
Limited. That was therefore the company with which BPF had pre-existing arrangements. Mr 
and Mrs Ks contract was with a different company  Diamond Resorts Tenerife Sales SL. It 
is possible therefore that sections 56 and 75 do not apply at all in this case. I have however 
approached the complaint on the assumption that the two companies are sufficiently closely 
linked that the conditions Ive outlined above were met. 
Misrepresentation
Mrs Ks primary case is that the terms of the holiday club membership were misrepresented 
to her and that she has a claim against the seller because of that. And, because BPF 
provided finance for the purchase, she can bring that claim against it. I have therefore 
considered the likely outcome, were Mrs K to bring a claim against the seller.  
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
However, under the Limitation Act 1980 an action (that is, court action) based on 
misrepresentation cannot generally be brought after six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued. Any statements which might have induced Mrs K into the 
membership contract were made on or before 6 February 2011. She did not however raise any complaint with BPF until June 2018, more than seven years later. I think it very likely 
therefore that a court would conclude that any claim for misrepresentation was made outside 
the time limit in the Limitation Act. 
P has referred to what it considers to be breaches of certain regulations on the part of the 
seller. I am not persuaded however that those breaches  even if shown to have occurred  
would give rise to a claim against the seller. For example, a contractual term which is found 
to be unfair within the meaning of the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations is 
not enforceable against the consumer; it does not give rise to a claim for breach of contract. 
In any event, even if a breach of regulations did give rise to claims for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation, it seems likely that they too would now be out of time.   
I stress that it is not for me to decide whether any underlying claim is now out of time under 
the Limitation Act. Rather, I must decide whether the response of BPF to the claim under 
section 75 was reasonable. Given the real possibility that a court would say that the claims 
are time-barred, I think it was. 
Section 140A claims
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments.
The usual time limit for these types of claims under the Limitation Act is six years from the 
time the allegedly unfair relationship between the parties ended. Given that the credit facility 
was cleared in 2011, I think it likely that a court would conclude that any claim under section 
140A would now be time-barred as well.  
The complaint about suitability and the credit assessment
I have not seen anything here to suggest that the credit facility was not affordable or that it  
was otherwise not appropriate for Mrs K. I note that she only used part of the facility that was 
made available and that the amount she did use was repaid within less than a year. It does 
not necessarily follow of course that proper checks were carried out or that a £20,000 credit 
limit was appropriate. 
However, our own rules say that we cannot generally consider a complaint unless it is 
referred to us within six years of the event complained of or, if later, within three years of the 
date on which the complainant knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that he had cause 
for complaint. In my view, Mrs K would have known soon after she took out the facility if it 
was not appropriate or she could not afford to repay what she borrowed. 
I do not believe therefore that we have any power to consider this part of the complaint.   
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ks complaint and do not 
require Clydesdale Financial Services Limited to take any further steps to resolve it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Mike IngramOmbudsman