DRN-3825642
The complaint
Mr B is represented by a claims management company (CMC) in bringing his complaint. It 
says that Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited (Sun Life) mis-sold a 
Capital Builder Plan to Mr B in August 1993. 
What happened
The Capital Builder Plan was a unit-linked qualifying savings policy. Mr B chose a monthly 
premium of £25 with an initial sum assured of £5,640. He surrendered the policy in August 
2006 for £3,500.17.  
A complaint was forwarded to Sun Life by the CMC in October 2021. It said that the 
complaint was fourfold. The policy had been mis-sold because:
 
1. Mr B was in his early twenties, single and living in rented accommodation  there 
was a strong likelihood that his situation would change in the medium term, so for 
Sun Life to propose a 25-year inflexible policy was inappropriate;
2. Mr B didnt have any dependants, so the life cover within the policy was 
unnecessary;
3. there was no evidence of any other savings options being discussed with Mr B, such 
as tax-efficient savings options with greater flexibility;
4. half of Mr Bs investment was placed into an aggressive fund  and this exceeded his 
medium risk profile.  
In March 2022, Sun Life rejected the complaint. It said it took the view that the policy had 
been appropriate for Mr Bs circumstances at the time of the sale. Its adviser hadnt been 
required to document discussions about other alternative products, as the regulatory position 
at that time did not require it to do so. However, the adviser had completed a necessary fact 
find with Mr B. Sun Life also concluded that the inclusion of life cover was appropriate, as it 
was required to ensure the policy did not incur a tax liability for Mr B upon surrender. 
So, the CMC brought Mr Bs complaint to this service. It supplied evidence of complaints 
about Capital Builder Plans sold to two other customers in 1992, where Sun Life had upheld 
them. In those examples, Sun Life couldnt evidence that its adviser had fully explained the 
risks associated with the policies in a balanced manner, nor had the advisers held any 
meaningful discussions about alternative risk-free savings options with the customers. It also 
agreed life cover wasnt necessary. 
In both instances, Sun Life had returned the policy premiums in full, with interest at a rate of 
the Bank of England base rate +1%. The CMC said the same redress should apply to Mr B.  
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and felt it ought to succeed  albeit on a 
different basis than that put forward by the CMC. He took the view that the policy had been 
suitable to recommend to Mr B as it provided him the potential for savings growth. However, 
he disagreed that it had been appropriate to propose a policy with a 25-year term given the 
inflexibility and Mr Bs age at the time of the sale. 
Our investigator concluded that Sun Life ought to treat the policy as if a shorter ten-year 
extendable term had been selected, and recalculate the surrender value Mr B would have 
received in 2006. If this showed any financial loss, the difference should be paid to Mr B with 
interest of 8%.
Aside from a query regarding redress on other cases, the CMC said Mr B welcomed the 
complaint outcome. However, Sun Life did not agree. Whilst it didnt have any other 
comments to make, it asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at everything before me, I also believe this complaint should be upheld, on 
the same basis put forward by our investigator. Ill explain my reasons for reaching this 
conclusion below.   
I note that the CMC has supplied evidence of different complaints by other complainants 
about Capital Builder Plans, where Sun Life agreed they were mis-sold or wrongly advised. 
But those complaints are not relevant here; Mr Bs complaint is distinct and specific to him. 
No two complaints are factually identical, and I do not consider that other upheld complaints 
create any precedent on this complaint before me. Each complaint at this service will be 
addressed on its own merits and circumstances.  
The savings policy had a chosen monthly premium of £25, and was set up for a 25-year 
term. Life assurance was included to ensure any gains arising from the policy were exempt 
from income tax. 
It was recorded on the application that Mr B had wished to save for his future, and I do not 
believe the inclusion of a small proportion of life cover rendered the policy unsuitable for that 
purpose. I say that with particular reference to the fact that Mr B held no other life assurance 
at the time of the sale.  
I recognise that Mr B was only in his early twenties at the time of the advice, and he did not 
own any property or have any dependants. But that of itself doesnt mean the proposal for a 
savings policy was automatically unsuitable, merely because it was set up as a medium term 
or a long-term investment (at the choosing of the customer). 
The fact find documentation had set out how future financial plans were a consideration for 
Mr B. After the cost of his expenses was deducted from his net monthly salary, he had a 
recorded £860 of disposable monthly income. I therefore consider the premium was 
affordable for him  and I note it was the lowest possible premium for this type of policy, 
where set premiums could be selected from £25, £40, £50, £80 or £100 per month.  
I realise the CMC has submitted how the policy may be unsuitable for Mr B because of the 
risk rating of one of the two underlying investment funds (there was a 50/50 split across 
international and equity funds). However, Mr B was assessed in the fact find documentation 
as to his appetite for risk, and, in my view the documentation issued at the time gave Mr B 
sufficient information to make an informed choice regarding the investment.  
In the round, I do not believe the recommendation was unreasonable, merely because of Mr 
Bs age, circumstances or the underlying investment risk of the savings policy. There will be 
a point at which all investors undertake investment decisions for the first time and Im satisfied, on the balance of probabilities, that this policy was a suitable recommendation for 
Mr B to achieve his future savings goals. 
However, like our investigator, I do not believe the proposed policy term was appropriate in 
the circumstances. Whilst Mr B had a documented need for savings and no other cover or 
investments of this nature, he also had notable flexibility around his goals and aims; Mr B did 
not have any confirmed intent as regards property, his family, or other documented reasons 
for requiring a policy set up to mature just before he reached his 50s. It is clear that Mr B 
hadnt given consideration to a future savings or investment requirement over a long term, 
but rather, the medium term. This, in my view, is borne out by the surrender of the policy in 
2006.  
I agree with our investigator that the appropriate advice in these circumstances would have 
been a shorter term of ten years  with the option for review. This would have afforded Mr B 
a degree of reflection in 2003, by considering and revisiting his savings needs in his early 
thirties - at a time where his circumstances could have materially changed. I say that with 
reference to the fact the adviser had noted how Mr B had said he included property, 
marriage and children as future personal and financial aspirations. 
The fact find documentation allowed for terms of 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, or 40 years to be 
considered for medium to long term savings policies such as this Capital Builder Plan. Based 
on the evidence Ive seen, while I dont find the recommendation unsuitable, I agree that a 
medium term investment ought reasonably to have been considered for Mr B. Sun Life 
should therefore undertake a redress comparison with the surrender value Mr B received in 
2006, against the return he would have received if he had selected a shorter policy term.  
Putting things right
Sun Life ought to undertake a comparison on the return Mr B would have received if he had 
taken a medium term policy, extended to 2006  using the same monthly £25 contribution 
and the same level of risk ascertained in the fact find in 1993. 
If this comparison shows that the surrender value Mr B received in 2006 was greater, then 
no redress is payable. If a medium term extended policy would have produced a larger 
return, Sun Life must pay the difference to Mr B.  
If Sun Life considers it is legally obliged to deduct income tax from the interest paid, it should 
issue a tax deduction certificate with the payment. Mr B may be able to reclaim the tax paid 
from HM Revenue and Customs, if applicable.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited must pay Mr 
B the redress Ive set out above, with interest  if the redress comparison shows Mr B would 
have achieved a greater return on a medium term policy in 2006 than his 25-year policy. If 
Mr Bs surrender value exceeds that of the redress comparison, no award will be due. 
I make no other award or direction. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2023.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman