DRN-1619665
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that they were mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) by 
HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC).
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out a mortgage with HSBC in 1999. At the same time they were sold a 
PPI policy which wouldve covered the repayments on their mortgage for up to a year at a 
time if either of them couldnt work due to an accident, sickness or redundancy.
Mr and Mrs S say they didnt know the PPI was optional. They say it wasnt explained and 
they didnt need it.
The adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ss complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs S 
disagree, so their complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ss 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
HSBC has provided a copy of Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage application form and mortgage 
agreement. Neither makes any mention of PPI.  If the policy had been mandatory as Mr and 
Mrs S suggest I think it would have been mentioned there. 
HSBC has also provided a copy of Mr and Mrs Ss application form for the PPI. This makes it 
clear it is optional, by providing a choice of options whether to take it. Mr and Mrs Ss 
representative says Mr and Mrs S didnt fill out this form. But Mr and Mrs S signed it and 
they also signed a separate direct debit form for the premiums to be taken. The forms are 
very simple, so even if someone filled it out for them I think theyd have understood what 
they were agreeing to.
Im satisfied in light of the evidence available that Mr and Mrs S bought the PPI knowing they 
had a choice about it. 
HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs S so it needed to take reasonable steps to 
make sure it was right for them.
Looking at Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances at the time of sale I think the recommendation was 
suitable for them. I say this because:
 Mr and Mrs S were eligible for the policy and wouldnt have been affected by any 
terms which mightve made it more difficult for them to make a successful claim, such 
as those related to existing medical conditions or self-employment. 
Mr and Mrs S wouldve received some sick pay from their employers. But the PPI 
wouldve paid out in addition to the sick pay and for up to 12 months at a time  
which was longer than their full sick pay would have lasted.
Similarly, Mr and Mrs S were entitled to some redundancy pay. Again, the policy 
wouldve paid out in addition to this and for up to 12 months at a time.
The cost of the policy was comparable to other similar policies on the market at the 
same time. It was flexible as it could be cancelled or amended at any time without a 
financial penalty.
 
Its possible HSBC didnt give Mr and Mrs S all the information they needed about the policy. 
For example, the cost wasnt made clear at the point of application. But I dont think even if 
Mr and Mrs S had all the information they needed that theyd have made a different decision 
about buying the policy, because it was suitable for them in the way Ive already described 
and the cost was not unreasonable for the benefit provided.  
So I dont think Mr and Mrs S lost out as a result of anything HSBC might have done wrong.
My final decision
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint so it follows that HSBC UK Bank Plc doesnt 
have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman