DRN-2845317
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about the way Assetz SME Capital Limited have handled the 
investment they made on its crowdfunding platform. They say this has led to them losing 
over 50% of the original capital they invested. They arent happy with the steps Assetz took 
to recover the loan once it defaulted.
What happened
Assetz is a peer-to-peer (P2P) loan-based crowdfunding platform which allows investors to 
lend money to prospective borrowers in return for interest payments. An investor agrees to 
lend a proportion of the total loan a borrower is looking to borrow, and in return an investor 
receives interest on their loan part. 
The loan subject to the complaint was promoted in February 2014 by Assetz and drawdown 
on 25 March 2014. After this date it became available on the platform for investors to 
become lenders via the secondary market Assetz provided. Mr and Mrs G had some 
involvement with the loan before it reached the platform, but they first invested in the loan 
through the platform in April 2014. They made several further investments through the 
secondary market over the next six months with the last being in September 2014. At the 
end of September 2014, following a default in repayments, Assetz contacted investors in the 
loan to explain it was seeking a sale or refinance of the loan otherwise it would look to 
appoint receivers. Over the following months Assetz attempted to discuss recovery action 
and repayment of the loan from the borrower without success.  After a lender vote, receivers 
were appointed in April 2015 to recover funds by realising the security held on the property. 
Over the next few months, Assetz encountered further problems in attempting recovery 
action and little progress was made despite involvement of the receivers. Attempts were 
made to gain possession of the property through legal proceedings. In October 2015, a 
possession order was granted but this was appealed by the borrower. The appeal was 
granted, and a judgement was made that a trial was required to consider the concerns and 
allegations raised by the borrower. In December 2015, Assetz explained to lenders that due 
to the process involved it would be six to eight months before the trial commenced. The trial 
date was initially set for the summer of 2016.
In June 2016, Assetz informed lenders that a mediation attempt with the borrower had failed 
and it would await the trial. There were further delays in the legal process and the trial date 
was moved back by the court to between December 2016 and February 2017. In May 2017, 
Assetz updated lenders to say that it was successful in the trial and had been awarded 
possession of the property. There were further delays as the borrower attempted to gain the 
right to appeal but this was finally refused, and all legal avenues exhausted in September 
2017. But there were further delays in gaining possession largely due to the borrower not 
vacating the property and eviction proceedings being required. Possession was eventually 
obtained in November 2017 and the property was put on the market. 
Initially there were several interested parties in the property and an offer of below the asking 
price was made. A further higher offer was made (still below asking price) around February 
2018 but that didnt proceed due to the buyer not providing proof of funds. Assetz informed 
lenders that the condition of the property was poor, and a significant amount of expenditure 
required to make repairs. It said the propertys condition had deteriorated since previous 
valuations were undertaken. Over the following months in spring 2018, no acceptable buyer 
could be found. In April 2018, the property was put up for auction. The property sold at 
auction for £1.5 million  which was significantly less than it was valued at as part of the 
original 2014 loan promotion.
In a lender update in April 2018, Assetz explained that further costs were incurred after the 
previous owner attended the auction and caused a disruption. This prompted a need to have 
the property guarded until the sale completed.  This was a further contribution to the already 
high costs associated with the enforcement of the security on the loan. Assetz told lenders 
that given the security detail, the management time by the receivers, the legal input needed 
both in respect of the trial and receivership, the costs would be substantial and were 
expected to be at least £400,000. It said it would be pursuing the borrower for the shortfall. It 
also said it was unlikely it would be pursuing a professional negligence claim against the 
original valuer. It appreciated lenders concerns about the difference in the original valuation 
and what was achieved at the auction. But it felt the chance of a successful negligence claim 
would be incredibly difficult to achieve. Assetz explained it took this view after the receiver 
reported on the poor condition of the property, issues with the neighbours and those 
encountered during gaining possession impacting on the value.
In May 2018, Assetz informed lenders that approximately £900,000 would be available to 
distribute following the deductions of costs. And any further distributions will be dependent 
on the outcome of its pursuit of the borrower. It did say it considered the merits of a 
professional negligence claim against the original valuer but referred back to its previous 
comments on this. In September 2018, following a lender vote Assetz confirmed further legal 
action against the borrower to try and recover the remaining funds.     
Mr and Mrs G complained to Assetz about its handling of the loan. In summary they said:
Assetz failed to handle the default of the loan in the best interests of lenders, 
especially the fact that the security property was allowed to sell at auction for a 
fraction of its previously reported value.
Assetz didnt tell lenders about the critical issue about pursuing the original valuer 
before giving a voting option to cease pursuing the borrower  potentially cutting out 
an obvious and important avenue for recovery.
Assetz appointed the receivers who failed to recognise that property prices in the 
local area have increased significantly in the last five years, which would make initial 
valuation considerably higher as of today, not significantly less as per the marketing.
Assetz were determined to press ahead with the auction, rather than exploring other 
options which may have resulted in a far better outcome for lenders.
Assetz failed to provide full information on the unbelievably high costs associated 
with the recovery of the security. 
Assetz didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaints. Overall it said:
The earlier valuations of the property are historic - by some four years, so they cant 
be relied upon as an accurate reflection of the current condition of the property.
The receiver obtained the professional opinion of four separate agents who know and 
understand the local market and they have agreed with the current valuation. If they 
believed the property had the potential to achieve more by holding for a longer 
period, they would be happy to do that. They have explored various routes to achieve 
the highest value and come to the opinion that the property should be sold via 
auction. The reduction in value is largely down to the way the borrower has driven the 
property into the ground. Not just the condition of the property but the fact money is 
owed to various parties and has created hostility with neighbours.
Statistics of house prices provide an average across the board. It cant be applied to 
every property. There are various factors which impact on values in general. While 
house prices have increased, if the property itself has declined, then any general 
increase could not apply.
A lender vote on the receivers recommendation cannot be conducted in the way Mr 
and Mrs G suggests. Despite not being obliged to do so, Assetz have funded the 
substantial court costs and security costs to enable recovery of this loan. The 
receivers recommended a way forward based on the situation of the property and 
connected issues. 
Its website is clear regarding the risks of lending.
Mr and Mrs G referred their complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into the it but 
didnt find reason to uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs G asked for an ombudsman to reach 
a decision on the complaint. 
I issued a provisional decision in April 2021  I didnt uphold the complaint. This is what I 
said:
Mr and Mrs G first used Assetzs crowdfunding platform to invest in the loan in April 2014. 
The starting point is to look at what the parties agreed  under the platform agreement 
entered into by Mr and Mrs G. Ive also reviewed the loan agreement between Assetz (as 
the agent of the lending members) and the borrower. Ive considered all of the information 
provided by the parties but have concentrated my findings on what I believe to be the crux of 
complaint. 
Much of this complaint concerns Assetzs actions in relation to the administration of the loan, 
specifically surrounding defaulting the loan and recovery action. In that regard the most 
relevant part of the terms of the agreement between Assetz and Mr and Mrs G says:
10.              Administration of Loans
10.5 The Assetz Agent will provide regular information to Lending Members through the 
Website on the status of any Loans made by them, including amounts outstanding, capital 
and interest received, the amounts held in client accounts and any problems experienced 
with collecting amounts due from Borrowers.  Neither the Assetz Agent nor the Trustee will 
be liable for any delay (or any related consequences) in crediting a Lending Member's client 
account with an amount received under a Loan Agreement.
10.6 Subject to paragraph 11 below, each of the Assetz Agent and the Trustee shall have 
discretion in the exercise of any authority vested in it as agent and security trustee 
respectively in accordance with the terms of the Loan Agreement and the Security 
Documents.
11.              Default Procedures
11.1 If the Assetz Agent becomes aware of a default in the payment of any principal, 
interest or fee payable under any Loan Agreement or if it otherwise receives notification of 
an event of default under the terms of any Loan Agreement, it shall promptly:
(a) notify the relevant Lending Syndicate Members of the relevant circumstances; 
and(b) put together a suitably qualified default management team comprising a lawyer, 
an insolvency practitioner and any other professional deemed by the Assetz Agent to 
be required, whose task it shall be to produce a report on the default situation and a 
recommended course of action.
11.2 The Assetz Agent shall not implement any of the following proposed courses of action 
without having the consent or deemed consent of the relevant Lending Syndicate Members 
in relation to the proposal:
(a) the commencement of any enforcement action or legal process against a 
Borrower;
(b) the release of any security (save where the relevant Loan has been repaid in full);
(c) the issue of any waiver letter; or
(d) the restructuring of the Loan or security.
11.3 In relation to a proposed course of action, each relevant Lending Syndicate Member 
shall be deemed to have given its consent to such proposal if the Assetz Agent shall have 
arranged a poll of the relevant Lending Syndicate Members on the proposal and it shall have 
been approved by the majority who vote in that poll.
11.9 Calculations made by the Assetz Agent and/or the Trustee of monies due to Lending 
Members will be made available on request by the Lending Member within 14 days of such 
request.  Save as may be specified in any applicable intercreditor or priority document to the 
contrary, all monies arising from the enforcement of any Security Documents will be paid in 
the following order:
(a) first, to meet any costs incurred in respect of any enforcement action by the 
Trustee and/or the Assetz Agent and/or by any manager, receiver or administrator 
appointed by either of them;
(b) second, to meet the payment of any outstanding fees due to the Trustee and/or 
the Assetz Agent and any brokers or introducers in respect of the relevant Loan;
(c) third, to meet the payment of outstanding interest on the relevant Loan due to 
each Lending Syndicate Member;
(d) fourth, to repay the capital amount of each Loan Unit held by each Lending 
Syndicate Member on a proportional basis by reference to the percentage
the total number of Loan Units held by each Lending Syndicate Member.
I agree with the principle of the point Mr and Mrs G make about Assetz having a duty 
towards the lending members who invest on the platform. Essentially lending members 
appoint Assetz to act as its agent in relation to the loans they invest in. As the lending 
members agent, Assetz is responsible for carrying out the loan and administering it in line 
with the loan agreement  which includes any recovery action when loans default. The terms 
say Assetz should inform lenders of any default promptly and keep them updated of the 
relevant circumstances. It was also required to put together a default management team to 
report on the default situation and a recommended course of action. Assetz is also required 
to gain the consent of lenders before taking significant action such as enforcement or legal 
process against the borrower. 
 
Im satisfied Assetz did keep Mr and Mrs G and other lenders up to date with the 
performance of the loan  including when it went into default. It put in place a strategy for 
recovery that Assetz considered would gain the best result for lending members. 
Unfortunately, there was a protracted legal process that delayed and caused further costs. 
These factors clearly had an impact on what was able to be recovered for lenders. But from 
the information Ive seen, these issues were predominately caused by the behaviour of the 
borrower  which Assetz isnt responsible for. Ive reviewed the numerous lender updates 
that were provided over a number of years that started at the outset of the loan falling into 
payments problems and continue through to the possession and eviction legal proceedings. From these updates its clear that many challenges were faced during the recovery process, 
which ultimately hasnt led to lenders like Mr and Mrs G receiving a full return of their 
investment. I havent found that Assetzs actions contributed to any avoidable delays or the 
length of time it took realise the security. And while the costs that were incurred as part of 
the recovery process were high, Im satisfied that it isnt failings caused by Assetz that 
contributed to excessive costs. 
The information Ive seen indicates that Assetz did allow lending members to vote on agreed 
actions throughout the recovery process. This included the appointment of a receiver - a 
professional insolvency practitioner - to act on behalf of the lenders to realise the security. 
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs G did raise a concern about the nature of the description of 
the lender vote in July 2018  particularly that it didnt provide lenders sufficient information 
to allow them to understand the potential implications of the vote when considering the ability 
to pursue a negligence claim against the original valuer. I will cover the wider point of the 
negligence claim in more detail later in my decision  but I can see that Assetz agreed to 
revise its position and conducted a further lender vote to allow all lenders to consider the 
implications of their vote and the possibility of pursuing the original valuers. While this didnt 
fully satisfy Mr and Mrs Gs concerns, it became a moot point as the lender vote result was 
such that it didnt prevent a future claim being pursued. So, I dont find Assetz has done 
anything wrong here. And further, that its actions in that regard havent prejudice Mr and Mrs 
Gs position or could lead to a loss. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs G believe that Assetz had a duty to protect the interest of lending 
members. And I recognise Assetz had regulatory obligations after 1 April 2014. The 
Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Principles for Business (PRIN) set out the overarching 
requirements which all authorised firms are required to comply with. The most relevant 
principles here are:
PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly.
PRIN 2.1.1R (7) A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients 
and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
Assetz is also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the FCAs Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligations here are:
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client.
COBS 4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion 
is fair, clear and not misleading.
Mr and Mrs G disagree that Assetz has fulfilled its obligations to them and other lending 
members. Ive considered the points theyd made as part of my findings, but they havent led 
me to reach a decision to uphold the complaint and ask Assetz to do something. Ill explain 
my reasons why.  
Monitoring of property
Mr and Mrs G believe that Assetz should have done more to monitor the property in the 
initial stages to protect the value of the security  including checking the property was not 
being occupied and was being maintained in a good condition. They say Assetz failure to do 
this contributed to the reduction in value and the costs and time associated with the recovery 
of the security. With hindsight, I can appreciate why Mr and Mrs G feel closer monitoring would have meant the opportunity to prevent an escalation of the problems that developed. 
However, I need to consider whether Assetz has acted, or failed to act in a way that that it 
was required to, which caused Mr and Mrs G to suffer a loss. 
Ive reviewed the loan agreement. Firstly, I note that this confirms that the agent (in this case 
Assetz) is not obliged to monitor or verify how an advance is used. But the agreement does 
place requirements upon the borrower to keep to certain conditions  such as keeping the 
property in good repair and restrictions around letting and occupation. In particular I 
acknowledge the undertaking for the borrower to keep the property in good and substantial 
repair and condition to the reasonable satisfaction of the Agent.  It appears that the 
borrower didnt keep to all of these requirements  and this in turn contributed to the issues 
that later transpired. 
Ive considered in this situation whether Assetz has failed lending members, such as Mr and 
Mrs G by not acting in a way it was required to. In doing this, it is important to recognise that 
the loan agreement was a contract between the lending members (with Assetz as their 
agent) and the borrower. It wasnt an agreement to set out the Assetzs responsibilities 
towards the lending members. This relationship is set out in the Terms and Conditions for 
Lending Members that Ive seen along with the regulatory obligations both of which Ive 
described above. I havent seen anything within this that suggest Assetz had a monitoring 
responsibility in the way Mr and Mrs G describe or would take responsibility for the actions of 
the borrowers where the terms of the loan agreement were broken. During the period 
between the drawdown of the loan and until any payment issues arise, Assetzs role in the 
running the platform was essentially to monitor the payment by borrowers of interest and 
capital to the trustee for onward payment to lending members. Once a payment problem 
occurs, Assetz role then includes recovery action  as described previously.  I accept Mr and 
Mrs G may interpret things differently, but I dont agree the loan agreement placed an 
obligation on the lending members (or Assetz as their agent) to proactively monitor the 
condition of the property in the way they believe it did. 
While I havent found that Assetz was required to monitor the property in the way Mr and Mrs 
G suggest, I also havent found that this has led to any unfairness. I think it is a reasonable 
expectation that the parties to the contract will abide by them. And without a specific reason 
to question the terms were being followed by the borrower, I dont think it would be 
reasonable to expect Assetz to be checking in on every piece of security periodically. Except 
in the situation where this is expressly provided for in the relevant agreements  which I 
havent seen to be the case with this loan. Also given how quickly the loan defaulted and the 
borrowers subsequent actions after the default, its unclear how much difference quicker 
action would have made anyway.
  
Based on the circumstances and the terms that set the relationship between Assetz and Mr 
and Mrs G when lending on its crowdfunding platform, Im not persuaded that there is 
sufficient evidence to say there were failings by Assetz that contributed to the problems and 
costs incurred in the recovery process.   
Valuations and pursuing a negligence claim  
Mr and Mrs G has raised concerns about the value of the property as a security for the loan. 
As Mr and Mrs Gs invested in this loan after 1 April 2014, Assetz did have a regulatory 
responsibility to ensure that any information it provided to promote the loan after this time 
was clear, fair and not misleading for these investments. And it also needed to be satisfied 
that by approving the promotion and allowing its customers to invest in the loan, it would be 
acting in its clients best interests. Assetz has confirmed that the original February 2014 
credit report would have been available to Mr and Mrs G as part of the process for investing 
in the loan via the secondary market for their post 1 April 2014 investments. So, Ive considered this in light of the comments Mr and Mrs G has made about the original 
valuation.  
In order to satisfy itself of the fair, clear and not misleading information within the credit 
report, Assetz would need to carry out reasonable checks of the information within it. The 
credit report provides a valuation of the property and loan to value of 70% based on this. 
Assetz relied on an external valuer who was professionally qualified (as a member of the 
Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors) for this information. The credit report also refers to 
a recent valuation conducted on the property a few months earlier by a different surveyor, 
which also supported the same value. Taking the specific circumstances of this loan into 
account, I think the information Assetz received from two independent professionally 
qualified surveyors was sufficient to say it took appropriate steps in its due diligence to 
ensure that the information it provided on the value of the property wasnt misleading. So, I 
find that Assetz made a reasonable decision to rely on an expert to value the property, to 
ensure the credit report was clear, fair and not misleading. But I dont think this means it 
should be held responsible for the actions of the valuer. If there were failings in the valuation 
this would be the responsibility of the valuer (this point is covered later in my decision). Im 
satisfied Assetz has acted in a fair and reasonable way when considering its obligations to 
lending members like Mr and Mrs G.  
I appreciate that there is a clear difference between the valuation of the property when 
lending was initiated and what it sold for an auction during the recovery process. Mr and Mrs 
G has raised several points about this disparity  including information about house price 
movement in the area during the intervening period. Ive also reviewed the information in the 
updates Assetz provided about the property falling into disrepair, problems with neighbours 
and the impact on the difficulties faced with gaining possession had on the value.  
I understand the point Mr and Mrs G makes about even allowing for estimated costs of 
bringing the property back into repair, the value achieved at auction isnt close to the original 
valuation. For the purpose of what I need to decide in this complaint, I dont think it is helpful 
to speculate whether the original valuation was accurate or not. As explained above, I think it 
was reasonable for Assetz to rely on the professional opinion of the valuer when it promoted 
the loan. There are a number of factors that have been described by Assetz to account for 
how the property was valued during the recovery process  so I dont think its a 
straightforward set of circumstances. It appears to be accepted by everyone that the value of 
the property is only what someone is prepared to pay for it. In this case this was the value 
received at auction. 
In any case, the work to realise the security was undertaken by the receiver that was 
appointed. I dont find that Assetz is responsible for actions of the receiver in this respect  
Ill explain why.  As Ive mentioned, Assetz are agents of the lenders. So, where the 
individual lending members (or them collectively) cant take action in relation to the loan, 
Assetz does so for them or on their behalf. In the situation of this loan, an action it took was 
the appointment of the receivers (after a lender vote). Assetz wouldnt have carried out the 
receivers actions themselves (nor would the lending members  such as Mr and Mrs G). 
Assetz simply took the decision on behalf of lenders to appoint a professional insolvency 
practitioner to realise the security. 
I havent found that Assetz acted unfairly outside of the terms setting out its responsibilities 
to lending members during this process. It put forward the proposal to appoint receivers to 
lending members explaining it had taken legal advice and gave information on the benefits 
and costs of taking this action - in light of the situation of the loan. I find the decision to 
appoint receivers to handle the release of the security was a reasonable one which was 
approved by a majority lender vote. Ive also considered the points Mr and Mrs G has made about the value disparity being 
either because the property was sold too cheaply, or it was overvalued in the first place. And 
if the problem was with the initial value, then Assetz should have pursued the original 
valuers for the shortfall under their professional indemnity insurance. They believe this 
alternative action would have resulted in a better outcome for lenders. Assetz says it 
considered this and didnt rule out pursuing a claim, but it updated lenders as to why it didnt 
think pursuing this option was likely to produce a better result at the time. In short, it felt it 
didnt hold evidence of negligence to support a claim. As Ive explained, the terms of 
Assetzs platform agreement gave it discretion in how to act in administering the loans, 
subject to the specific provisions concerning default. Those provisions simply set out that 
Assetz was obliged to inform investors of such an event and gain their consent before 
pursuing particular courses of action. Assetz wasnt obliged under the terms to take a certain 
route simply because lenders preferred it. So, while I understand why Mr and Mrs G were in 
favour of pursuing a negligence claim, the fact this wasnt the action taken by Assetz doesnt 
mean it failed to act in their best interest.
Ive also considered whether Assetz has used this discretion in a fair and reasonable way. 
There are a number of reasons why the value of the property could have legitimately been 
higher when it was initially promoted on Assetz platform and yet it was sold for much less at 
auction, none of which mean the initial valuation or the efforts to sell were obviously 
negligent or substandard. Ultimately Assetz has discretion as the lending members agent 
whether to pursue a negligence claim. In order for me to determine that it had done 
something wrong - and to uphold this element of the complaint Id need to conclude it was 
unreasonable for it to decide not to pursue a claim. Im satisfied there is more than enough 
doubt based on the circumstances (and enough costs already accrued) to mean Assetzs 
decision not to pursue a negligence claim was a fair one. Overall, Im not satisfied Assetz did 
something wrong by not pursuing a negligence claim.  
Mr and Mrs G responded and disagreed with the provisional conclusions  specifically 
around the interpretation of the Assetzs responsibility to monitor the property. They provided 
further submission for me to consider. In summary they said:
- There is a specific condition of the loan agreement (by way of a property 
undertaking) whereby the agent, on behalf of lending members, has to ensure the 
borrower put and keep the security property in a good and substantial repair and 
condition to their satisfaction. Assetz knew the property was due to be put into a 
better state of repair quickly during the loan term (as set out in the credit report for 
the loan and reflected in the valuation) and therefore had a specific reason to ensure 
the repairing condition was being undertaken. The loan should have been put into 
default much sooner than it did and it is obvious that the sooner action was taken in 
this case the more valuable the property would have been, and the losses incurred 
would have been much less.
- It would be inconceivable to have such an important condition of a loan agreement if 
its purpose was not then upheld. If Assetz had carried out their obligation in this 
respect they would have seen the property falling into further disrepair very early on 
during the term of the loan and could / should have acted accordingly (i.e. insisted on 
immediate rectification and / or put the loan into immediate default and if necessary, 
sold the property at a far better price than that ultimately achieved). This gross 
negligence on Assetz part has resulted in considerable losses for lenders.
Assetz hasnt provided any further information for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I havent found reason to change the findings from those set out in my 
provisional findings.
I have again reviewed the loan agreement paying attention to the section relating to property 
undertakings. The start of this section sets out the position - it says The Borrower 
undertakes with the Agent, the Trustee and each of the Lending Syndicate Members, from 
the date of this Agreement and for so long as any amount is or may be outstanding under 
this Agreement, that it shall:.. This is then followed by a list of undertakings  which includes 
the condition of the property but also things like observing and preforming all requirements 
and regulations made by authorities.  By reading the various undertakings it is apparent what 
is being described relates to actions the borrowers is agreeing to adhere to  rather than 
obligations placed upon Assetzs as the lending members agent.
The specific condition Mr and Mrs G refer to is regarding the property being kept in good 
and substantial repair and condition to the reasonable satisfaction of the Agent.  Mr and Mrs 
G argue as Assetz was their agent in relation to the loan there was a duty for it to ensure the 
property was monitored. But I dont agree with their interpretation. I explain above this 
condition in the loan agreement was placed upon the borrower  so it wasnt a condition 
placed upon Assetz. I acknowledge the agreement does mention the state of the property 
should be to the reasonable satisfaction of the agent, but I dont agree that this means it 
clearly extends a responsibility that translates to Assetz having a close monitoring role. I 
havent seen sufficient evidence to persuade me there Assetz had a monitoring responsibility 
placed on it, in the way Mr and Mrs G describe. The loan agreement also contains a further 
statement that says The Agent is not obliged to monitor or verify how an Advance is used  
which again doesnt support Mr and Mrs Gs interpretation that Assetz had a specific 
monitoring responsibility. I appreciate Mr and Mrs G take a different view on this point, but 
on balance Im not persuaded by their arguments. 
I have noted the comments Mr and Mrs G make about closer monitoring leading to a 
different outcome for lenders  and losses would be reduced. While this may be the case, as 
I have reached a finding that Assetz wasnt required to closely monitor the property, this 
doesnt lead me to think it is responsible for the losses Mr and Mrs G describe.  And as Ive 
said previously, given how quickly the loan defaulted and the borrowers subsequent actions 
after the default, its less than clear to me that quicker recovery action would have made a 
significant difference.
In conclusion, my findings remain that the nature of investing in peer to peer loans does 
present a risk to lenders that borrowers default and a risk of losses where recovery action 
isnt able to return all capital and interest due. Having reviewed the circumstances of this 
loan and the relevant lender terms and conditions - I dont find that Assetz are responsible 
for the losses Mr and Mrs G have incurred  for the reasoning I describe above and that in 
my provisional decision. Ive find Assetz did act in and a fair and reasonable way when 
fulfilling its obligations to Mr and Mrs G under the terms of the lending member agreement 
they entered into when they invested on Assetzs platform. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman