DRN-1209660
 
Complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1998. Mr and Mrs S paid for the PPI 
with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered them both in case 
either of them was off work sick or lost their job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ss case. 
Having done that, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
I can see that Mr and Mrs S applied for the PPI separately to applying for the mortgage itself 
 the policy wasnt part and parcel of the mortgage. They signed and submitted an 
application specifically for PPI, as well as setting up a direct debit to pay for it. Ive not seen 
any evidence which shows that Mr and Mrs S were unfairly pressured into having PPI, nor 
have I seen any wider problems with Lloyds sales process from the time. So I think its most 
likely that Lloyds made Mr and Mrs S aware they had a choice about buying the PPI, and 
that they chose to take it at the time.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs S, so it had to check it was right for them. And 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it 
looks like Mr and Mrs S were eligible for the cover and werent affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations. The policy offered them more comprehensive cover than what they 
already had, and wouldve paid out on top of their existing benefits. Its worth bearing in mind 
that this mortgage was a very significant, long-term commitment, and if Mr and Mrs S had 
fallen behind on the payments they couldve lost their home. So it looks like the PPI couldve 
really been useful for them in protecting their home and providing some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs S about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
put them off. Here, it looks like Mr and Mrs S chose to take out PPI, which indicates they 
wanted this type of cover. As I explained above, Mr and Mrs S werent affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for them in case 
something went wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out in a claim. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr and Mrs S could cancel it 
at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to have 
put them off taking out the cover.
I understand that Mr and Mrs S have had refunds for other PPI policies, and I appreciate 
why theyve raised this point. But we look at each case on its own merits. And different 
policies worked in different ways, were suitable in different circumstances, were sold using 
different methods at different times, and so on. So even if one given policy was mis-sold, it 
doesnt necessarily mean that a different policy was, too.
Lastly, it looks like Mr and Mrs Ss policy was cancelled in the first month, before they owed 
Lloyds any premiums. This would mean they never actually paid anything for this policy. So 
even if I had found that it was mis-sold, it doesnt look like there would have been anything 
for Lloyds to refund.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 March 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman