DRN-3792448
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr M complain about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (LGI) and the 
decision to decline their insurance claim and avoid their insurance policy. Mrs M and Mr M 
complain about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (LGI) and the decision to decline 
their insurance claim and avoid the policy. Mrs M and Mr M are also unhappy that since 
taking this decision, LGI have chased them for reimbursement of a payment already made 
under the declined claim.
Mr M has represented both himself and Mrs M during the claim and complaint process. So, 
for ease of reference, Ill refer to any comments they made and actions theyve taken as 
made by either as Mr M throughout the decision.
What happened
In November 2021, Mr M took out a home insurance policy via a third-party online 
comparison website, who Ill refer to as X. This insurance policy was underwritten by LGI. 
In February 2022, Mr M contacted LGI to make a claim on the policy, after his roof became 
damaged and water was entering his property. Mr M was advised to continue with any 
necessary repairs, and that LGI would look to reimburse Mr M for the costs he incurred, 
which they arranged upon receipt of Mr Ms invoice.
But in March 2022, LGI spoke to Mr M again to request further information about his 
previous home insurance and any previous claims that had been made. Mr M confirmed hed 
made one claim in 2020. Following this information, LGI conducted an investigation and 
found Mr M had made three previous claims in the previous three years, despite stating no 
claims had been made at the inception of the policy. So, LGI declined the claim and avoided 
Mr Ms policy. They refunded Mr Ms premiums but used this to offset the amount Mr M had 
already been paid under the declined claim and made Mr M aware they were seeking 
reimbursement for the outstanding amount. Mr M was unhappy about this, so he raised a 
complaint.
Mr M didnt think LGI had acted fairly. He explained he had inputted his claim history into Xs 
website. And that LGIs own website didnt offer the ability to input this information again. So, 
he thought hed provided the correct information at the policy inception. And Mr M stated he 
hadnt received the policy documents from LGI and so, wasnt afforded the opportunity to 
realise his mistake and provide the correct claim history before he came to make his claim.
Mr M was also unhappy that LGI had told him to continue with the repair work, meaning hed 
incurred costs he wouldnt have done otherwise. And he felt hed made LGI aware of his 
previous claims verbally before LGI told him to continue. So, because of the above, he 
thought LGI should halt any further collection activity for the amount they had already paid. 
And he thought LGI should cover the costs of the rest of the repair work, while also reversing 
their cancellation and compensating him for the upset hed been caused.
LGI responded and upheld Mr Ms complaint in part. They thought their decision to decline 
the claim and avoid the policy was fair, as had Mr M declared his previous claims at the 
policy inception, they wouldnt have provided cover. And because of this, they thought they 
were fair to chase Mr M for reimbursement of the amount they had already paid, less the 
premium Mr M paid for the policy. But they did pay Mr M £150 to compensate Mr M for the 
loss of expectation and the number of times hed need to contact them proactively. 
Mr M challenged this response. And LGI issued a second response, where their view 
remained unchanged. But, to recognise the situation Mr M found himself in, and their 
acceptance that Mr M hadnt intentionally meant to mislead them, they paid Mr M another 
£200 as a gesture of goodwill. Mr M remained unhappy, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought the actions LGI 
had taken were fair and in line with the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). They were satisfied Mr M hadnt declared his previous 
claims. And they were satisfied if Mr M had, LGI wouldnt have provided cover. So, they 
thought LGI acted reasonably when avoiding the policy as if it had never been in place and 
because of this, they thought LGI were able to seek reimbursement of the amount they had 
already paid.
But they recognised Mr M was led to believe the claim would be covered initially. And they 
thought the compensation LGI had already paid to Mr M was a fair one that recognised the 
upset this caused Mr M. So, they didnt think LGI needed to do anything more. 
Mr M didnt agree. He felt whether or not he disclosed the claims at inception, hed made LGI 
aware verbally before hed incurred costs. And he explained he wouldnt have done this had 
LGI told him then that the claim would be declined. Our investigators view remained 
unchanged and so, Mr Ms complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact the complaint has had on Mr M. I appreciate he took out 
the home insurance policy with LGI to help protect him and his property in situations such as 
the one he found himself in. And neither I, nor LGI, are accusing Mr M of purposefully 
providing misleading information at the inception of the policy. So, I can understand the 
shock and upset Mr M wouldve felt when he was told the claim was being declined, and that 
hed need to report this cancellation as well as reimburse LGI for a payment they had 
already paid. Especially when his home still required further repair work at the time.
But I think its important to note that it isnt our services role to re-underwrite the claim as we 
dont have the expertise to do so. Instead, its my role to consider the actions LGI have taken 
and decide whether I think they were fair and reasonable. To do this, Ive thought about the 
rules set out in CIDRA, which also set out the actions a business can take where there is a 
qualifying misrepresentation.
But before doing this, I must be satisfied LGI were fair to decide there was a qualifying 
misrepresentation. Ive seen Mr M purchased his policy through X and so, he completed a 
series of questions on Xs website and this information fed into LGIs decision to provide the 
policy. I recognise Mr M believes he supplied his previous claims history. But LGI have 
provided me with an e-mail from X who confirmed there were no previous building or contents claims declared in the quote Mr M obtained through them. 
And Ive seen a screenshot of LGIs system which shows the answer of no to the question 
Have you or anyone currently living with you had any paid home insurance claims in the last 
three years. LGI have confirmed these questions, and their answers, were populated from 
the information given to them through the quote Mr M obtained through X. Ive also seen in 
Mr Ms insurance statement that under the question In the last 3 years, how many paid 
buildings insurance/contents claims have you, or anyone currently living with you, had? the 
answer 0 was listed for both the buildings and contents aspects.
But Ive seen evidence that shows me within the three years leading to the policy inception, 
Mr M had three home insurance claims paid, made up of one contents claim and two 
buildings claims. And Mr M hasnt disputed this. So, Im satisfied there was a qualifying 
misrepresentation at the policy inception as the information Mr M provided was factually 
incorrect.
Where there is a qualifying misrepresentation, CIDRA then sets out the actions an insurer 
such as LGI can take, depending on the severity of the misrepresentation. In this situation, 
LGI have determined Mr Ms misrepresentation to be careless, meaning Mr M failed to take 
reasonable care to ensure the information he provided was correct. I think this is a fair 
determination, as I dont think there is enough evidence to suggest Mr M purposefully failed 
to provide the correct information on a knowing basis.
So, where there has been a careless qualifying misrepresentation, CIDRA states an insurer 
can avoid a policy and refuse all claims where they can show they wouldnt have offered the 
policy, had they have been in receipt of the correct information at the point of inception. Ive 
seen LGIs underwriting criteria and Im satisfied had Mr M declared all three claims paid 
within the previous three years, LGI wouldve refused to provide the policy. So, I think LGI 
have acted fairly when avoiding the policy.
And CIDRA explains in this situation, LGI are entitled to take necessary action to leave Mr M 
in the position he wouldve been, had the policy never existed. So, in this situation, Mr M 
wouldnt have received a payment from LGI for part of his declined claim and so, I think LGI 
have acted fairly when seeking reimbursement for this.
But under this same scenario, Mr M wouldnt have paid the policy premium, had the policy 
never existed. So, CIDRA outlines that LGI should refund the premium to Mr M. I can see 
LGI have done this by offsetting the premium amount against the amount they are seeking to 
claim back from Mr M. And I think this is reasonable as Mr M will still receive the financial 
benefit of this, as it results in him owing less to LGI. So, because of all the above, I think LGI 
have acted in line with CIDRA and so, I cant say theyve done anything wrong when 
considering their actions against this.
But for completeness, Ive also thought about whether LGI have acted unfairly in any other 
way. Mr M thinks they have, as he thinks LGI led him to believe the claim would be accepted 
and so, he incurred costs he wouldnt have. But on the calls where Mr M says he declared 
the claims, Ive listened to these and Ive heard no evidence of Mr M declaring three claims. 
On both calls, he declares one. And as per LGIs underwriting criteria, had only one previous 
claim have been paid in the previous three years, they wouldve still offered the policy and 
so, Mr Ms claim would still have been accepted. So, I dont think I can say LGI acted unfairly 
here.
But I do recognise in the initial claim call, Mr M was told he could look to repair the issue and 
seek to recoup these costs. So, I do think Mr Ms expectations were set as the claim would 
be accepted. While I dont think the handler at the time had any reason to assume Mr M had misrepresented on his policy, and so, I wouldnt expect this to inform the advice they gave, I 
do recognise why Mr M would look back at this and feel it was misleading.
LGI have also recognised this, and paid Mr M a total of £350 to recognise this by way of a 
compensatory payment and a good will gesture. I think this payment is more than what I 
wouldve recommended and so, I wont be looking to add to this amount.
I also recognise Mr M feels LGI failed to provide him with his policy documentation and so, 
he couldnt check his statement of insurance to ensure the information was correct. And that, 
if he had, he wouldve corrected this. But I can see these documents were sent to Mr M at 
the address he provided and so if these werent received, I dont think this was the fault of 
LGI.
And even so, I think Mr M also held partial responsibility to ensure he held his policy 
documentation and I cant see that he chased for a copy of these until the days before he 
raised a claim. And even then, I dont think I can be satisfied Mr M wouldve declared all 
three claims as I havent seen evidence of him doing so when questioned by LGI in phone 
calls during the claim investigation. 
Finally, I understand Mr M feels that, if LGI had explained their intention to avoid his policy 
due to the previous claims, he wouldve cancelled it beforehand to ensure he didnt need to 
report this cancellation to future insurers. But this wouldnt have been an option to Mr M as 
by this time, LGI wouldve already been aware a misrepresentation had taken place and so, 
Mr M would also have needed to declare the policy cancellation and voidance moving 
forwards.
So, because of all of the above, I dont think LGI need to do anything further on this 
occasion. But I recognise LGI are looking to recoup a significant amount from Mr M and Id 
expect them to act positively and sympathetically to Mr Ms situation and so, look to agree an 
affordable way of repayment moving forwards.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs M and Mr Ms complaint about Lloyds 
Bank General Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman