DRN-2978229
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Usay Business Limited (Usay) mis-sold them a private medical 
insurance policy. 
What happened
In 2012, Usay sold Mr and Mrs G a joint private medical insurance policy provided by an
underwriter which Ill call V. The policy was recommended by Usay as an alternative to
Mr and Mrs Gs previous private medical insurance policy, on the basis that it offered a
similar level of cover at a lower price.
Mr and Mrs G subsequently made a complaint to V about the increasing cost of their
premiums over a number of years. V agreed to move Mr and Mrs G to individual policies and
their monthly premiums reduced.
In 2020, Mr and Mrs G complained to Usay. They said they thought their policy had been
mis-sold to them for various reasons.
Usay responded to Mr and Mrs Gs complaint and said it didnt think the policy had been
mis-sold. As Mr and Mrs G remained unhappy, they brought their complaint to the attention
of our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened but didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so the complaint was passed
to me.
I made my provisional decision about Mr and Mrs Gs complaint in July 2021. In it, I said:
Mr and Mrs G brought a separate complaint to us about V and an ombudsman at this 
service has already made a final decision about the matter. When reaching my provisional 
decision, Im only considering Usays actions.
Ive read all the extensive submissions that both Mr and Mrs G and Usay have made in this
case, but I wont be addressing every individual point raised  nor am I obliged to. Instead,
Ill be focusing on what I think are the key issues.
Mr and Mrs G now acknowledge that Usay explained at the point of sale that the premiums
payable for both individuals on a joint policy would be impacted by one claim. However,
Mr and Mrs G say the effect of this on the premium charged for the policy wasnt explained
to them and the advisor who sold the policy didnt understand how the no claims discount
scale element of the policy worked. Mr and Mrs G also say Usay didnt explain to them that
a joint policy could only be split in the event of a divorce or the death of one of the persons
insured. Therefore, Mr and Mrs G feel the policy was mis-sold to them.
In addition, Mr and Mrs G say Usay should have sought to obtain the best renewal quote for
them when the policy renewed every year.
The sale of the policy
This was an advised sale by Usay. This means that under industry guidelines set out by the
Financial Conduct Authority, Usay needed to take reasonable care to ensure the policy was
suitable for Mr and Mrs Gs demands and needs. This included taking into account factors
such as the level of cover, the cost of the cover and any relevant exclusions, excesses,
limitations and conditions.
Ive listened to a copy of the telephone calls which took place when Usay sold Mr and Mrs G
this policy. Usay said the cover for the policy year 20122013 would be cheaper under the
policy underwritten by V than under Mr and Mrs Gs previous private medical insurance
policy. This was correct.
Usay also told Mr G that if he took out the policy provided by V (which operated on a no
claims discount scale) it would be more beneficial to him and Mrs G than their previous
policy (under which their premiums had still gone up when they hadnt claimed). This was
also correct  but only if Mr and Mrs G made no claims under their policy with V.
Mr and Mrs G did subsequently claim under their policy with V in 2012, 2013, 2014 and
2015, so they didnt remain on the same 65% no claims discount scale as when they
started the policy  they instead moved down the discount percentage scale. When this
policy was sold, Usay couldnt predict what claims Mr and/or Mrs G might make under the
policy in the years ahead.
Mr and Mrs Gs previous policy wasnt based on inflation only  it was based on a
community rating system which meant that premiums were based on all claims made across
the insurers entire book of business in certain age categories rather than on individual
policyholders claims. Usay explained this to Mr G during one of the sales calls in March
2012. The demands and needs statement sent to Mr and Mrs G in relation to their policy with
V clearly states that the insurance is annually renewable, and says the insurer reserves the
right to increase premiums with medical inflation every year.
In relation to the future cost of Mr and Mrs Gs premiums with V, during one of the sales calls
Usay agreed with Mr Gs statement that the cost of the policy would go up by 5% or
something if a claim was made. This information was correct, based on the operation of Vs
no claims discount scale.
Mr G then muttered that this would equate to £7 per month. Usay didnt respond to Mr Gs
statement  and its not clear from the call recording whether Usays adviser heard what
Mr G had said. But, even if Usays adviser had heard and/or responded to Mr G, I wouldnt
expect her to have been in a position to give any indication to Mr G of what the future
premiums for this policy were likely to be.
Usay isnt responsible for calculating the premiums payable under this policy  that was for V
to do according to whatever formula it chose to use. Usay correctly told Mr G that the age of
the policyholders would have an impact on the premiums for the policy each year. The terms
and conditions of Mr and Mrs Gs policy with V say that other factors such as rising hospital
charges and expensive medical advances all have the potential to impact on the premium
charged for this policy. Usay had no way of knowing how all these factors might come
together to influence the base premium set by V in future years.
Im satisfied that the information Usay provided to Mr and Mrs G about both the cost of the
policy and the operation of the no claims discount scale at the time the policy was sold was
correct. Usay didnt confirm what the likely cost of the policy might be in the years ahead, nor
would I expect it to have done so.Ive considered what Mr and Mrs G have said about being unable to split the policy unless
they were to divorce or in the unfortunate event that one them were to die. But it isnt
accurate to say this meant Mr and Mrs G were tied into this plan and/or that this restriction
would potentially have prejudiced them if theyd separated. Either Mr and/or Mrs G could
have left this policy and moved to a different insurer. Alternatively, Usay could have offered
Mr and/or Mrs G an individual policy underwritten by V after a six-month waiting period. The
fact that V subsequently offered Mr and Mrs G the option to split the policy under different
terms as a gesture of goodwill isnt something Usay had the option to do under its
agreement with V.
I dont think the restriction on splitting this policy is particularly unusual or significant, and it
isnt something which Id expect Usay to have highlighted to Mr and Mrs G when this policy
was sold.
Overall, Im satisfied that Usay didnt sell Mr and Mrs G a policy which was unsuitable for
their demands and needs in 2012. I understand Mr and Mrs G subsequently became
unhappy with how the product operated, but this doesnt mean Usay mis-sold this policy to
them.
Mr and Mrs G say the ombudsman who looked into their complaint about V agreed that this
policy wasnt the best one for them. Im not bound by the comments of another ombudsman
who didnt look into circumstances surrounding the sale of this policy. But, for the avoidance
of doubt, the ombudsman said, unfortunately it may be that this policy wasnt the best policy
for the consumers  but that is only based on hindsight. Im not looking at whether I think
this policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs G with the benefit of hindsight  Im looking at
whether I think the policy was suitable for them at the time of the sale, and Im satisfied that
it was.
The policy renewals
Turning to Mr and Mrs Gs complaint about the renewals of their policy, Usay has provided
evidence that it offered to look for cheaper policies for Mr and Mrs G in subsequent years.
Ive listened to telephone calls between Usay and Mr G in 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016 when
Usay contacted him to discuss shopping around for a cheaper price. Mr G continually said
he didnt want to change his medical insurance provider. In 2015, when Usay offered Mr G
the option of moving to a different named medical insurance provider at a potentially cheaper
price, Mr G said he didnt want Usay to speak to that other medical insurance provider.
Usay says it cant provide quotes demonstrating that cheaper cover would have been
available, as its computer systems dont retain a quote when a purchase doesnt proceed.
However, I see no reason to doubt what Usay has said about the likelihood of cheaper cover
being available with other providers. It would make little commercial sense for Usay to offer
to look for products on behalf of Mr and Mrs G which didnt exist.
Ive listened to a total of eight telephone calls between Mrs G and a named Usay adviser
(who Ill call D). D didnt tell Mrs G that she needed to ask for a discount at renewal. D told
Mrs G that V wouldnt allow Usay to change their policy (i.e. apply a discount) without Usay
having spoken to Mr and/or Mrs G.
This reflects what Usay has told our service and I think this position is supported by the
telephone calls made by Usay to Mr G offering him a discount in 2015, 2016 and 2018. Usay
offered this discount without Mr and Mrs G asking for it, but the discount could only be
applied to the policy if Usay spoke to Mr and Mrs G about it.I understand Usay didnt agree a discount for Mr and Mrs G in 2017. This is because Usay
was unable to get in touch with Mr G despite a number of attempts to contact him. I
understand Mrs G is unhappy because Usay didnt attempt to contact her. However, Usays
contact in previous years had always been with Mr G as the principal policyholder. Usay also
sent a letter to Mr G on 13 March 2017 inviting him to contact it to discuss the renewal if he
wished. Usay says the 2017 renewal price may have been cheaper if theyd been able to
contact Mr and Mrs G  but it was unable to apply any discount without first speaking to
Mr and/or Mrs G. In these circumstances, I cant fairly say Usay should have done anything
more.
In response to our investigators view, Mr and Mrs G queried the commission charged by
Usay on single policies compared to joint policies. Usay told us it earned less commission by
selling Mr and Mrs G a joint policy than it would have if it had sold them two single policies.
This isnt something I can look into or comment on any further as it didnt form part of Mr and
Mrs Gs original complaint to Usay. The Financial Ombudsman Service has no power to
investigate a complaint unless the business involved has been given the opportunity to do so
first.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs G but I dont currently think Usay mis-sold their private
medical insurance policy or acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances, and I dont
intend to recommend that Usay should do anything further.
So, my provisional decision was that I didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. 
Usay accepted my provisional findings. Mr and Mrs G didnt and responded with further 
comments for my consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed all the comments Mr and Mrs G made in response to my provisional findings. 
Ive already addressed many of these points within my provisional decision. 
In summary, 
our investigator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint about Usay (although this 
has no bearing on the decision Ive reached);
in the telephone call between Mr G and Usay, when Mr G mentioned a possible 
increase of £7 per month, Usays adviser cannot be heard responding. But, even if 
Usays adviser did agree with what Mr G said, this wouldnt change my decision;
Usay correctly explained to Mr G how the no claims discount scale worked, in line 
with the information set out in the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Gs policy;
Usay couldnt predict what claims Mr and Mrs G might make in the future. This is 
relevant because claims impact on the base price of both joint and single policies; 
Usay doesnt set the price of these policies and therefore had no way of knowing 
what either a joint or single policy would cost Mr and Mrs G in the future;  
I wouldnt expect Usay to carry out any of the calculations Mr and Mrs G have 
mentioned and I havent carried out any such calculations myself. My role is to 
determine whether I think Usay mis-sold this policy to Mr and Mrs G at the time of the 
sale in 2012. I dont think it did. Its not fair or reasonable to retrospectively apply the benefit of hindsight, including the knowledge of claims made after 2012 and actual 
policy price increases, and determine that the joint policy was mis-sold as a result. 
I understand Mr and Mrs G feel very strongly about their complaint and are likely to be 
unhappy with the outcome, but I wont be changing my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman