DRN-3145696
The complaint
Mr J complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard rejected his claim under 
s 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of a mattress that didnt meet the expectations the 
merchant had given. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons: 
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
Barclays has said it does not agree a claim should be made under section 75, as there is not 
enough evidence to show the merchant was in breach of contract or misrepresented the 
qualities of the mattress.
I have reviewed the manufacturers website and see the mattress Mr J purchased was the 
top of the range and says it uses medical grade foam. It is also deeper than standard and 
comes with extra pockets which make it suitable for those suffering from back pain. 
However, it doesnt guarantee that it will suit everyone who has back pain.
Mr J says that he was told the mattress would be suitable as it was used in hospitals and 
had been designed by a doctor. I cannot say of the mattress is used in hospitals or who 
designed it, but it is aimed at those with bad backs. Nor can I say exactly what was said by 
the sales representative, but I can accept that he or she identified the mattress as one aimed 
at back sufferers. I believe that to be accurate. It is promoted as such and the sales 
representative was only stating information providing by the manufacturer. 
I believe Mr J visited two stores and was able to try the mattress and so I presume he had 
the opportunity to decide if he felt it was suitable for him. So, I dont consider I can accept 
that his decision was made purely on what he was told by the sales representative. The 
advice may have helped shape his thinking, but it is clear that the mattress was of great 
importance and I believe he took care over its selection.
He has said that the merchant was responsible for providing expertise in advising him which 
mattress to buy. It seems that it did so in that it identified a mattress that was aimed at those 
with back pain. The merchant is not a medical expert and couldnt guarantee the mattress 
would alleviate Mr Js pain. All it could do was to say this mattress is aimed at back suffers, 
try it, and see whether it works for you.
Mr J has reported that customer reviews suggest the mattress is not as good as it should be. 
My role is to examine if his claim under s 75 should be upheld and the views of others has 
little bearing on that. However, I have noted that on the site he refers to over 70% 
considered the mattresses made by the manufacturer to be great or excellent. 
Mr J does not dispute the quality of the mattress, just its suitability for him. I cannot see that 
he was given any guarantees that it would suit him, but as I have said above I believe he 
was told the mattress was generally suitable for those with back pain. Of course, there are a 
wide range of back ailments and requirements will vary from person to person. 
Overall, I cannot safely conclude that the merchant has breached its contract to provide a 
mattress that is aimed at back sufferers, nor has it misrepresented the mattress. It is 
regrettable that it does not suit Mr J, but that alone is not enough to allow me to uphold his 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman