DRN-3098885
The complaint
Ms H complains about St Andrew's Insurance Plc (St Andrews) request she pay an excess 
she believed had been waived following a subsidence claim made under her buildings 
insurance policy. She also feels that the policy was mis-sold to her when it was taken out 
and her premiums are too high.
 
What happened
Ms H took out her buildings insurance policy in 2003. Several year later, her home 
experienced subsidence and she made a claim under her buildings insurance policy. Repair 
works were arranged, and Ms H complained about St Andrews handling of these and the 
time taken for the claim to be resolved. She was paid £1,000 compensation to resolve that 
complaint. 
Under this current complaint, Ms H said she called to follow up some snagging issues and 
was told she needed to pay the excess for the claim. Ms H was unhappy with this, as she 
was initially told the excess for the claim would be waived. She felt this was unfair as the 
main repairs had been carried out more than a year before. She also says the policy was 
mis-sold and has paid more in annual premiums over the years than she would have with 
another insurer. 
St Andrews issued its final response. It said the policy had been taken out in 2003 and, 
given the time that had passed since this point, it wasnt possible to know what was 
discussed or if it was mis-sold. What St Andrews did say was Ms H would have received a 
14-day cooling off period, and it was her responsibility to read the renewal information that 
came out to her each year. It also said shed been charged the correct of premiums for her 
level of cover. 
However, St Andrews acknowledged Ms H had been given some confusing information 
about the excess by its representative. The representative assumed the excess had been 
waived as Ms H had previously been given a compensation payment for the equivalent 
amount, in relation to the earlier complaint she made. However, St Andrews said this was a 
mistake and the excess was payable in line with the policy terms and conditions. St 
Andrews paid Ms H £75 in recognition of the confusion caused.
Ms H didnt agree and referred her complaint to this service. It was considered by one of our 
investigators who recommended St Andrews pay Ms H a total of £200 compensation. As Ms 
H didnt agree, this matter has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive started by saying while I appreciate this claim has been going on for a long time and has 
impacted Ms H, Im only able to consider a complaint considering Ms Hs concerns about the 
excess and the premiums payable. 
Im unable to consider Ms Hs concerns about the time this claim has been ongoing for 
because they werent referred to us within six months of St Andrews final response letter of 
11 July 2018. Ms H says she had some health issues during this time and has provided 
medical evidence to support this. Specifically, shes provided notes from her GP to show she 
was signed off work between 25 June and 11 November 2018. 
However, the final response letter to the complaint about the time taken to resolve the claim 
was sent on 11 July 2018. This meant Ms H had until 11 January 2019 to refer any concerns 
to us. So, while I acknowledge that she was unwell, I consider that she still had an 
opportunity to refer complaints to us. It follows, I dont think there are any exceptional 
circumstances that prevented Ms M from referring that part of her complaint to us. 
As a result, Ive focused on the issues that I can decide, namely, how St Andrews has dealt 
with the complaint about the excess being applied. Ive considered the policy terms, which 
say:
Excess
 The excess you must pay in respect of a claim made under any one of the covers 
listed in the table below is the amount chosen by you and illustrated in your policy 
schedule
It goes on to clarify the excess for subsidence claims is £1,000. It specifically states:
You will need to pay an additional £1,000 excess. (The £1,000 is in addition to the 
excess amount specified in your policy schedule)
Its accepted Ms H was given the wrong information by St Andrews representatives. 
However, in that situation, Id consider a fair and reasonable resolution to be to put the 
customer in the position they would have been in if theyd been given the right information in 
the first instance. I wouldnt expect a financial business to honour incorrect information. 
Under the policy terms an excess is payable. And while Ms H was given some incorrect 
information this does not mean the excess isnt payable. 
However, the wider situation here is that Ms H says she might not have gone ahead with the 
works had she been told the excess was payable. Ive reached the same conclusion as our 
investigator here. The claim costs were in the region of £8,000 and Ms H has already said to 
pay the excess of £1,000 would have financially impacted her. I think its more likely than not 
Ms H would have paid the excess and St Andrews would have arranged for the works to 
take place than for Ms H to have arranged the repairs herself, given how much more that 
would have cost.  
St Andrews recognised Ms H was impacted as a result of this incorrect information agreed 
to pay £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused. I think this is a fair amount to 
recognise the impact the confusion and inconvenience this incorrect information had on her. 
Im not going to recommend St Andrews increase this compensation payment or waive the 
excess. 
Ive also considered Ms Hs points about her premiums and the fact she says that another 
insurer wouldnt charge as much for a buildings insurance policy. St Andrews says the 
policy Ms H mentioned didnt offer like-for-like cover. Weve not been provided with a copy of 
that quote, but Id generally agree that if there was a significant difference in the price, this is 
likely to indicate a difference in cover offered.  I also note that Ms Hs premium was lower the 
last time the policy renewed than it had been the year before. My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require St Andrews Insurance Plc to pay Ms H £200. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman