DRN-2046871
The complaint
Mr K  on behalf of Company A  complains that CGI Insurance Services Ltd (CGI) mis-
sold him public and employers liability cover.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator. I ll explain why.
CGI say the main reason for recommending primary employers liability cover was because 
Mr K had confirmed that Company A operated on the basis of verbal contracts and without 
implementation of written terms, which would make it difficult to defend any incidents arising 
from contractors placed into the companys clients premises if any work-related injuries 
occurred. Mr K says this is incorrect, however, as according to him every contract he had in 
place had standard terms and conditions. But I can see that CGI requested Company As 
terms of business and terms of engagement on 12 December 2018. Mr K replied the same 
day via SMS message stating The customers we have [are] done on verbal terms [XXX] 
biggest one 17000 a week dealt with them for 30yrs. So Im satisfied that CGI have not 
based their recommendation on incorrect information as Mr K did in fact confirm that his 
company was operating on the basis of verbal terms at that time.
Due to the fact that Company A operated primarily on verbal agreements, CGI deemed the 
initial cover to be inadequate as it was based upon standard recruitment terms and 
conditions being in place between the insured, the placement company and the client. Given 
that Mr K confirmed that no written terms were in place, CGI replaced the initial policy with 
the liability policy to provide more suitable cover for Company As business model  which 
resulted in the increased premium due to the increased risk to the insurer.
The recommendation for employers/public liability insurance was as a result of the 
information supplied by Mr K, and Ive seen nothing to persuade me that the policy was 
unsuitable for Company A, as it was in place to protect it against claims or legal action if one 
of their contractors suffered an injury during their placement. Indeed, I can see that CGI 
have recently been contacted by solicitors about the employers liability cover due to a 
personal injury claim made by a contractor that had been placed by Company A in January 
2018. So irrespective of which clients Mr K says he did or didnt have in December 2018, I 
dont consider this to have any bearing on whether the recommendation was suitable or not, 
as it is seemingly prudent in the circumstances for such cover to have been in place given 
the risks involved. 
Mr K further submits that the slaughter exclusion present in the terms and conditions could 
effectively render the cover useless as many contractors he places might have been 
involved in the slaughtering of animals. But CGI have confirmed that the effect of this 
exclusion in only to exclude the slaughtering aspect itself  not the processing of the animal 
carcasses  meaning that cover was always available for other workers not directly involved 
in the slaughtering process. CGI have also said that Mr K stated that no slaughtermen were 
being provided at the time, so the exclusion he has referenced was put in place in 2016. Ive 
seen nothing to suggest that this clause renders the policy unsuitable. There have been no 
claims declined as a result of this exclusion for example (that I have been made aware of), 
and therefore no prejudice or financial loss for me to consider in any event.
Overall, Im satisfied that CGIs recommendation for employers/public liability insurance 
cover was suitable based on the information they had been given at the time, and Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that the policy is not fit for purpose. I appreciate Mr K may feel the cover 
is expensive compared with other policies on the market. But there was nothing to stop him 
from declining the quote from CGI and placing his business elsewhere.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr K, but Im unable to say that CGI has 
done anything substantially wrong in these circumstances, so I will not be directing them to 
take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Company A to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 October 2020.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman