DRN-3457613
The complaint
Mr M has complained about U K Insurance Limited trading as Privilege Insurances decision 
to cancel his car insurance policy for non-payment.
What happened
Mr M bought a car insurance policy with UKI. In December 2021 UKI cancelled Mr Ms policy 
due to failing to pay the monthly premium to keep his policy up to date. 
Mr M complained to UKI about its decision. He believed UKI had caused an error in 
collecting his premium. He wanted UKI to reinstate his policy and collect the outstanding 
amount. 
UKI didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint and said its decision was correct. So Mr M asked us to 
look at his complaint. 
Our Investigator found UKI hadnt done anything wrong and had correctly followed its 
cancellation process. 
Mr M doesnt agree and has reiterated his view that UKI made errors in the collection of his 
premium which unfairly led to the cancellation of the policy. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
An insurer is entitled to cancel a policy if the terms of the agreement it has with a customer 
have been breached: in this case payments have not been paid. Ive looked at what UKI 
says in the policy about its cancellation process. UKI said that if there were three failed 
attempts to collect the monthly premium by Direct Debit Mr M would be in breach of his 
credit agreement and UKI would cancel his policy. 
Mr M failed to pay the premium due on 9 September 2021. So UKI wrote to Mr M to tell him 
and to advise it would attempt to take the payment on 24 September 2021. 
The second attempt to collect the payment due on 9 September 2021 failed. Mr M called on 
7 October 2021 and made a payment for the missed premium. During this call, UKI advised 
Mr M that a premium was now due for October 2021 and would be applied for on 11 October 
2021. UKI has provided a copy of the call recording and Mr M confirmed his understanding 
of this. 
However, the October 2021 payment failed  and so this meant there were three failed 
attempts to collect the monthly premium under Mr Ms policy. 
UKI wrote to Mr M on 12 and 26 October 2021 advising him of the missed payment. But it 
didnt hear from Mr M and so on 9 November 2021 it sent Mr M a 14 day cancellation notice. 
As it didnt hear from Mr M, it cancelled his policy on 24 November 2021. 
Mr M says UKI shouldnt have attempted to collect a premium on 11 October 2021 as hed 
already paid it on 7 October 2021. He also says that UKI was paid twice on 7 and 11 
October 2021. But as the Investigator explained, the payment he made on 7 October 2021 
was for the overdue missed premium for September 2021 and was in the clearance period 
when Mr M called. UKI refunded this amount due to Mr M paying it by card on 7 October 
2021. But its attempts to collect the October premium on 11 October 2021 failed. So Mr M 
still owed the premium for October as he paid the September premium late. And Im satisfied 
Mr M was aware of this when he called on 7 October 2021 to pay the outstanding 
September premium. Ive seen no evidence of any errors by UKI in its collection of - and 
attempts to collect the premium due under Mr Ms policy. 
Mr M says he didnt open the letters received from UKI in time because he was receiving 
some fake letters from it and he was advised by UKI not to open or to ignore the letters. I 
havent found anything to support Mr Ms account here. I think UKI wrote to Mr M to inform 
him of the premiums that were overdue under his policy. I dont think its responsible for Mr 
Ms decision not to either open the letters or act on them. 
Taking everything into account, I think UKI correctly followed its cancellation process and 
fairly cancelled Mr Ms policy due to non-payment. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman