DRN-3846730
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that their chargeback dispute about a faulty cooker, raised for them 
by Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax), was unsuccessful.
What happened
Mr and Mr K had a joint current account with Halifax. In February 2022 one of them bought a 
cooker from a third party (the merchant) for £460, and paid for it using a debit card for that 
account. The cooker was subsequently delivered to their home and installed. But shortly 
afterwards they discovered some defects. One of the hobs didnt work and the grill didnt 
work. They asked the merchant for a refund, but the merchant declined to refund them, 
instead offering to visit their home and repair the cooker. But Mr and Mrs K chose to ask 
Halifax for a refund instead.
Halifax temporarily refunded the purchase price to Mr and Mrs Ks account on 5 May, and 
raised a chargeback dispute. At some time after that, the merchant arrived at their home 
unannounced and asked to collect the cooker. Mr and Mrs K refused, on the ground that 
they did not know if they were supposed to send the cooker back while the chargeback 
dispute was still open, and not wanting to risk jeopardising their claim. They have alleged 
that they called Halifax and asked what to do, and that Halifax had told them not to return the 
cooker but to get an independent expert to examine it instead.
The merchant defended the claim on 3 June. It said:
There was no proof that the cooker was defective;
The cooker had not been returned to the merchant;
Mr and Mrs K had bought the cooker in person in the merchants store, and the 
cooker had been sold to them as is.
On 10 June, Halifax began a second phase of the chargeback process, called pre-
arbitration. Essentially, this meant that they challenged the merchant for further details. On 
6 July, the merchant responded and repeated its earlier submissions. Two days later, Halifax 
told Mr and Mrs K that their chargeback claim had been unsuccessful.
Mr and Mrs K instructed an independent engineer to examine the cooker (at a cost of £40). 
He confirmed that the cooker was defective (as described above). They shared his findings 
with Halifax, but Halifax said it was too late. They complained, and Halifax paid them £40 as 
compensation for giving them conflicting information about how long the chargeback process 
would be likely to take, but Halifax did not accept that the outcome of the chargeback claim 
could have been any different. The £460 was subsequently re-debited from their account.
Mr and Mrs K brought this complaint to our service, but our investigator did not uphold it. 
She agreed that Halifax had done all it could, and that it had acted reasonably when it 
accepted the merchants defence. Being dissatisfied with that opinion, Mr and Mrs K asked 
for an ombudsman to look into their case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
The relevant chargeback rules include the following requirements:
Before the Issuer may initiate a Dispute, the Cardholder must attempt to 
resolve the dispute with the Merchant
Before the Issuer may initiate a Dispute, the Cardholder must return or 
attempt to return the merchandise
Halifax has no discretion to depart from these rules.
The difficulties I see here for Mr and Mrs K are, firstly, that the merchant offered to repair the 
cooker and they declined,1 and secondly, that they did not return the cooker to the merchant. 
I think that would have been fatal to the chargeback claim if Halifax had attempted to pursue 
it further.
I have seen no evidence that Halifax told Mr and Mrs K to keep hold of the cooker, and I do 
not think it is plausible that Halifax would have told them that, because it is such an 
important rule in a chargeback dispute about defective goods. Mrs K is hard of hearing, so 
I think it is more likely that if the matter was discussed then she misheard.
Another problem is that Halifax was not provided with evidence that the cooker was 
defective until it was too late. The chargeback rules require evidence. If this had been the 
only reason why the chargeback was declined, then I could perhaps still have upheld this 
complaint on the basis that Halifax should have asked Mr and Mrs K for evidence but 
apparently didnt. (And I am not persuaded by the merchants sold as is defence either.) 
But for the other reasons which I have already mentioned, I do not think that this chargeback 
dispute had any prospects of success.
My final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
1 Legally, the seller of defective goods is entitled to one attempt at repairing them. The chargeback 
rules take this into account.