DRN-3353800
The complaint
Mrs B complains about TSB Bank plc (TSB) for making an automated decision to offer her 
a different interest rate on a loan. She wants TSB to let her know how her application scored 
against its criteria so that she can improve any future applications. 
What happened
Mrs B saw marketing material for loans with TSB. The headline rate advertised was 3.2% 
APR. 
Mrs B input her application information and applied for the loan. 
TSB approved the application, but offered her a different rate, of 7.9% APR. 
Mrs B accepted the loan agreement but was upset as to why she had not been offered the 
lower rate. She complained to TSB. 
TSB agents explained to her that the decision was made automatically, and there was no 
appeal mechanism to appeal the rate of the loan. 
Mrs B complained to us. She feels that because the decision criteria and scoring have not 
been provided to her she is unsure why she has not been offered the lower rate. She feels 
that if the decision-making criteria is not made clear then it is possible that factors such as 
her gender or nationality could have been taken into account. 
One of our investigators has looked into this and did not uphold Mrs Bs complaint. He 
explained that businesses are entitled to apply business criteria to applications and based on 
the evidence provided to us there was no evidence that Mrs Bs gender or nationality had 
been taken into account in the rate setting process. 
Mrs B did not accept this view and asked for an ombudsman decision. She is concerned that 
automated processes without appeal are a breach of data legislation, and she feels that the 
process has been unfair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mrs Bs concern here, as she has received a less favourable loan offer than she 
expected and is unclear why this is. 
I must, however, be clear about the limitations of our role. Our function is to consider 
consumer complaints and to decide whether a business has treated an individual unfairly in 
the circumstances. Where there is evidence that an individual has been treated unfairly, we 
can direct a business to put things right, but where there is not, we will take no action. 
We do not regulate business processes and policies (the regulator is the Financial Conduct 
Authority) and we do not enforce data rights (as Mrs B is aware, this is the role of the 
Information Commissioners Officer). 
In this circumstance, the loan advertisement made clear that the headline rate of 3.2% was 
not guaranteed, and loan offers with different rates could be offered. These ranged from 
3.2% up to 39.9%. After application, a personalised loan is offered, and it is open to the 
consumer to accept or reject it at that stage.  
It is standard industry practice to offer different rates to different consumers, based on a 
variety of factors about the consumer (including their credit score, income, outgoings, other 
debts, residential status and postcode, for example). Businesses will also have tailored 
approaches to incorporate the businesss own risk appetite and other business 
considerations.   
The information provided by Mrs B was input into a system and an automated decision 
returned, offering a different rate. The information detailed her nationality, and presumably 
her gender and title, but the evidence provided by the business is that these details did not 
affect the rate offered. I have seen no evidence to suggest that these were factors in the rate 
setting, but I appreciate Mrs Bs concern that without full details of the decision criteria and 
algorithms used, I would not be able to know this. 
I am satisfied that Mrs B has not been treated unfairly individually as her application was put 
through the same process as any other application, and there is no evidence that her 
application was treated differently to, or received a different outcome from, any other with 
similar application information input. 
I cannot consider the broader fairness of the criteria or the lending policy as this is outside 
our remit and powers. 
Consequently, whilst I appreciate that this will be disappointing to Mrs B, I do not uphold her 
complaint and do not ask TSB to do anything further. If Mrs B remains concerned about 
broader policies, or the use of data in decision making, she may need to take her concerns 
to more appropriate bodies. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mrs Bs complaint and do not ask TSB Bank 
plc to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman