DRN-2798489
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the way Admiral Insurance Company Limited handled a claim on his 
motor insurance policy.
What happened
On 29 September 2020 Mr G had a minor car accident when a car in front of him stopped 
unexpectedly. He contacted his insurance company, who took his car to their approved 
garage. But after inspecting the car, Admiral told Mr G it would be written off. Mr G says he 
queried how such a minor accident could result in them writing off his car, which he believed 
to be worth in the region of £13,000. He told them hed like to buy the car back. 
Admiral asked Mr G for evidence showing how much hed paid for the car  and they asked 
him to make a statement to their insurance investigator. He says he told them hed rather 
contact an accident management company to deal with the claim rather than going through 
this hassle  but they warned him he could be prosecuted for fraud. He says he felt they 
treated him like a criminal. 
Mr G says he wasnt able to chase progress of the claim for a while due to illness. When he 
called Admiral for an update in December 2020, they told him his car wouldnt be written off. 
They said their independent engineer had found signs of unrelated repairs, and that given 
the minor damage to the third-party vehicle, they considered this damage to have been pre-
existing. They concluded the only damage caused by the accident was to the front bumper - 
they offered him a cash settlement of £220.
 
Mr G didnt accept Admirals proposed settlement figure. He said it would cost between 
£3,000 and £4,000 to repair damage caused to the bumper, headlight and battery. He was 
unhappy that Admiral had left him with a car that wasnt in a fit state to drive  and that they 
told him they may not cover all the costs if he got it repaired himself. But Admiral said theyd 
done nothing wrong.
Our investigator thought Admiral had followed regulatory requirements by looking into 
apparent discrepancies in the information Mr G provided about his car purchase  and that 
their agent had merely drawn his attention to the implications of providing false information. 
She felt their decision to change the status of the claim from non-repairable to repairable 
was fair, because it was based on the advice of an independent forensic engineer. She 
noted the engineers report said most of the damage to Mr Gs vehicle wasnt related to the 
accident on 29 September 2020, which only damaged the bumper. She felt the amount 
Admiral had paid Mr G was in line with the policy terms, which made it clear theyd deduct a 
£600 excess from any settlement offer. She was satisfied Admiral hadnt ignored the points 
Mr G raised about the headlight  and that it wasnt unreasonable for them to rely on the 
forensic engineers conclusions about this.
Mr G disagreed. He provided photos of the car, showing his headlights working immediately 
after the accident. He said one of the headlights had obviously been damaged in the 
accident, because it stopped working a day or so afterwards. He also thought that, although 
Admirals settlement covered the cost of a replacement bumper, they hadnt included the 
cost of spraying or fitting it to the car. He showed us a copy of a quote hed obtained. 
We asked Mr G for more evidence - such as a more detailed breakdown of the quote for the 
bumper repair. He didnt send us anything further.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Was it fair for Admiral to declare the car a write-off?
I can see Mr G feels strongly that a car worth around £13,000 shouldnt have been written-
off by such a minor accident, so Ive reviewed the evidence of what happened in detail. 
Mr G reported the accident to Admiral on 2 October 2020. Their records say he told them:
- hed had a straight-on collision at a speed of between 5-10mph
- the front bumper had been pushed inwards and come out by the wings
- the car was driveable, but a number of warning lights had popped up on the dashboard
- the drivers side headlight and passenger-side indicator werent working
- thered been no damage to the vehicle before this accident.
Based on the information Mr G provided, I think it was reasonable for Admiral to ask their 
approved repairer to quote for damage caused by an impact to the front of the car. The 
evidence shows the car was found to have considerable damage caused by a front impact  
and that it would cost £13,680.94 to put all of it right. So, I cant say it was wrong for 
Admirals approved repairer to report that the car was beyond economic repair.
Did Admiral act unreasonably or unfairly in the way they investigated Mr Gs claim?
The report from Admirals approved repairer says the car had previously been repaired to a 
poor standard. It says the bumper and headlights had been glued and the front end of the 
car was out of alignment. Having received this report, on 9 October 2020 Admiral carried out 
further checks into the cars history. Ive seen evidence showing the car had previously been 
written off by another insurer in July 2019 due to a front-end collision. It had been marked 
Category S. This means the car sustained structural damage which is repairable, but the 
insurer decided not to carry out the repairs. 
Admiral asked Mr G for a copy of his purchase receipt. Their records show he told them hed 
bought the car as a private sale in August 2020, that hed paid £19,800, and that the only 
damage had been scratches to the alloy wheels. He told them hed got £14,000 in cash from 
the sale of his previous car and hed borrowed £4,000 from his brother. Admiral asked him 
for a copy of his bank statement showing the transfer of the borrowed funds.
Mr G says he had difficulty accessing his car to get some of the documents he needed. Ive 
seen evidence confirming Admiral paid him £50 compensation for the additional 
inconvenience this caused him  I consider this to be fair. But then they told him his claim 
would need to be referred to an investigation unit - and theyd need him to make a 
statement. I can appreciate Mr G found this process distressing, so Ive reviewed the records 
of what happened here in detail.
Admiral say Mr G provided a handwritten receipt dated 7 May 2020, which said the price of 
the car was £19,628, with the balance of £8,000 being due when the log book was received. 
But Admiral say Mr Gs bank statement showed a payment of £11,628.16 to a salvage company. They say they discovered the car had in fact been bought from that salvage agent 
on 7 May 2020  and that the car had been advertised as Category S. 
From the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied that there were apparent inconsistencies in the 
information Admiral had gathered about the car. I realise discrepancies arise for a number of 
reasons - and theres often an innocent explanation. But insurers are required to follow strict 
regulatory requirements, so they have to be alert to the possibility of fraud. For these 
reasons I consider Admiral to have followed best practice by carrying out an investigation in 
this case. 
Admirals records show their representative advised Mr G:
We would like to remind you that giving false information can result in your claim 
being repudiated under general condition 9 for fraud. If this happens, we will seek 
recovery of our costs from you, your details will be logged on the fraud register, and 
we may refer the case to the police for criminal prosecution.
Whilst I appreciate that it may be disconcerting to receive this warning, I consider it 
appropriate that customers are made aware of the potential seriousness of giving false 
information in support of an insurance claim. Ive seen nothing in the evidence to suggest 
Admirals representative accused Mr G of any wrongdoing. So I dont find they treated him 
unfairly here.
Was it fair for Admiral to reduce their offer to a cash settlement of £220?
Its not disputed that, having deemed the car to be a total loss, Admiral initially calculated a 
cash settlement of £8,508. The evidence Ive seen shows this figure took into account the 
fact that the car had been written-off before, and the salvage value that would be deducted 
because Mr G wanted to keep the car. 
Admiral have provided a record of Mr Gs interview with their investigators. Although he 
admitted making an initial payment for the car by bank transfer to the salvage company, Mr 
G said his friend had arranged everything. He said he was aware that the car had been 
damaged, although he didnt know what category it was. He said he paid his friend £8,000 
on the understanding the car would be repaired before it was handed over to him. He said 
the car was in very good condition when he got it, with no visible damage.
I can appreciate Mr G was frustrated at being advised not to get repairs underway until 
Admirals forensic examiner had inspected the car. But Ive seen evidence that the car had in 
fact been purchased from a salvage agent  and Ive seen photos showing it had suffered 
extensive previous damage. And having discovered this, I consider it fair and reasonable for 
Admiral to request a more thorough examination of the car so they could establish how 
much of the damage was caused by the recent accident. So Im unable to say they did 
anything wrong here.
Ive seen a copy of the forensic report on Mr Gs car. The engineer said the total amount of 
damage to the car (needing repairs estimated at £13,680.94) was disproportionate to that 
caused to the other vehicle involved in the accident (needing repairs estimated at just 
£583.57). He concluded that the damage to Mr Gs car couldnt all have been caused by that 
collision. Although he was unable to establish a forensic link between the vehicles, he noted 
contact marks on the front of Mr Gs car at a comparable height to the damage on the other 
vehicle. He concluded that the only damage to Mr Gs car from the most recent accident was 
to the front number plate and front bumper cover. The forensic engineer also found evidence of historic low-quality repairs to the front of Mr 
Gs car  he believed these related to damage sustained in an earlier incident. He said that, 
in his opinion, damage to the inner radiator(s), foam impact pad, headlight units, bonnet, 
front wings and dashboard warning lights were not related to the recent collision. 
Admiral estimated the cost of repairing the damaged bumper at £820.48. Mr G says this isnt 
enough to cover the cost of painting and refitting a replacement bumper  hes supplied a 
quote for work to the front bumper totalling £1,352.22 plus VAT. But having reviewed the 
detail of this quotation, Im not persuaded that it relates only to the cost of removing, 
replacing and repainting the front bumper. Ill explain why.
The initial report from Admirals approved repairer noted that the front end of the car was out 
of alignment, but Ive seen no evidence to suggest this was connected to the recent 
accident. The quotation Mr G has provided says it includes time added for lining up front 
end. The quotation isnt itemised, so Im unable to see how much has been added for this.  
And for this reason, Im not persuaded that the quotation Mr G has provided shows Admirals 
estimate of the cost of repairing the damaged bumper to have been incorrect.
Mr G has provided a photo of the car, which he says was taken just after the accident, in 
which both headlights were working. He says it wasnt until the following day that the 
headlight stopped working and warning lights lit up on the dashboard - and that this shows 
the headlight was damaged in that collision. Admiral disagrees. 
Having considered the evidence provided by both parties, Im unable to say the headlight 
was damaged by the recent collision, because it didnt stop working at that time. The report 
from Admirals approved repairer noted that the headlights had previously been glued. This 
is consistent with the forensic engineers report, which concluded that the damage to the 
headlights was not related to the recent collision. In these circumstances I consider it 
reasonable for Admiral to conclude that the headlight stopped working due to failure of the 
poor-quality repairs to previous damage. This would be something for Mr G to take up with 
the person responsible for those earlier repairs.
Ive seen a copy of Mr Gs insurance policy, which had an excess of £600. So, Im satisfied 
Admiral were entitled to deduct this amount from the cash settlement paid. As Ive seen 
nothing to persuade me their estimate of £820.48 for repairs to the bumper was incorrect, it 
follows that I find their payment to Mr G of £220.48 to have been fair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained here, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman