DRN-4293605
The complaint
Mrs P and Mr W have complained that Santander UK Plc made a mistake about Mrs Ps 
name.
What happened
Mrs P and Mr W have a joint account with Santander. When they opened the account, the 
application form included Mrs Ps correct surname. But Santander then started to 
correspond using Mrs Ps previous surname. 
Mrs P and Mr W complained and Santander apologised and paid £50 compensation for its 
error and the impact of it. But it said Mrs P needed to either attend branch with ID or 
complete and post a form to confirm her name. Mrs P was unhappy with this and referred 
her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Santander needed to do anything 
further. 
Mrs P disagreed and said she was unhappy about having to prove her name when 
Santander had made the mistake.
And so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
Santander accepted that it was responsible for the name error and it apologised for it. 
It also paid £50 into Mrs P and Mr Ws account to recognise the inconvenience 
caused. I think £50 is appropriate taking into account the apology and the options 
given to Mrs P.
Santander asked Mrs P to either attend a branch with her ID or complete and post a 
form. I dont think either of these options are onerous or unreasonable. I think 
Santanders request to confirm Mrs Ps legal name is a reasonable one.
Mrs P doesnt think she should need to take any action to rectify the name mistake 
as she had completed an application form with her correct surname. She also said 
she had switched accounts and her previous bank used the name she had correctly 
provided.
I note what Mrs P says and I can understand why she would be frustrated by having 
to take further action. But I dont think Santanders process here is onerous and I 
think its request is reasonable. It has apologised and recognised the inconvenience 
this will cause for which it has paid £50. Although Mrs Ps previous bank account had 
the same name, Santander hasnt seen evidence of a formal name change and it has 
to follow its own processes. As it has two surnames on its system for Mrs P, it 
requires formal confirmation of the name change.
Based on all the circumstances of this case, I dont think Santanders request for 
confirmation of Mrs Ps surname is unreasonable. And I think Santander has 
appropriately tried to resolve the matter with its apology and compensation. So I 
wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman