DRN-4435203
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC blocked his account when he tried to transfer 
funds through its telephone banking service.
What happened
The details are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all here, instead Ill briefly 
recap the key points.
Mr S phoned Barclays telephone banking to transfer £50,000 from his current account to an 
account he held elsewhere. He said even though he answered its security questions, it 
placed a block on his account and wouldnt process the transaction. Mr S said he was told 
by the advisor to visit a local branch with two forms of identification to be verified. 
Mr S wasnt happy about this and complained to Barclays. He said he cleared the telephone 
security and further security checks by an independent organisation Barclays used, and he 
didnt understand why the fraud team would not process the payment and why his account 
was completely blocked. Mr S also said it wasnt made clear to him that his whole account 
would be blocked. He said a member of the fraud team he later spoke to admitted there was 
an error.
Barclays said it could understand why the payment was flagged and it correctly blocked the 
payment until Mr S was identified in branch. It said the advisor was informed by the fraud 
expert team to ask Mr S to visit the branch with identification. It recognised that Mr S wanted 
to speak to the fraud team directly but thought their response wouldve been the same as the 
advisor. Barclays agreed the phone call was lengthy, but it felt this was because Mr S 
wouldnt accept the advisors response. However, it said the advisor should have logged the 
complaint when Mr S asked them to. As such it offered him £50 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience this caused. 
Mr S wasnt happy with the responses he got from Barclays and brought his complaint to our 
service. Our investigator didnt think it should be upheld and he said he saw no bank error 
other than the initial failure to log Mr S complaint. Our Investigator said Barclays was 
entitled to block Mr S account until he was verified in branch because the potential loss was 
significant. 
Mr S didnt accept our investigators opinion and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I want to clarify that I've taken into account Mr S detailed submissions about what 
happened. However, I havent commented on it all here, instead Ive focused on explaining 
what I think is key to the decision Ive reached. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on 
every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. 
The way in which Barclays organises its internal departments, systems, and processes, such 
as its fraud department, is a commercial matter for it to decide internally. Its not something 
we would look to interfere with. But what I have thought about is whether Mr S has been 
treated fairly in the particular circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with 
the conclusions reached by the investigator, and Ill explain why.
Im satisfied it was reasonable for Barclays to apply a temporary security block on Mr S 
account. Even though he verified the transaction, and successfully completed its customer 
verification checks over the phone, there were still concerns about the activity on Mr S 
account. Barclays said the account appeared to be getting cleared out of the balance and it 
had concerns of a possible account take over. Ive looked at Mr S statements and I can see 
he made several large transfers in and out of his account that day. While I accept the 
transfers were to accounts in his name, I dont think its unreasonable that Barclays had 
these concerns.
It is standard within the industry to have security procedures in place to protect customers 
from financial harm. So, while I accept Mr S passed security on the phone call, I dont find it 
was unreasonable for the advisor to ask him to visit a branch to provide identification if they 
still had concerns about potential fraud.
I must agree with Mr S that the initial phone call with Barclays was lengthy, but I find this was 
more than likely because he was unwilling to accept that the transaction would not be 
processed. So, I dont think Barclays needs to compensate Mr S for the inconvenience he 
experienced. Mr S also asked to speak to the fraud team on several occasions, but he 
wasnt allowed to. Barclays explained that speaking to the fraud team wouldnt change the 
outcome. I dont find what it said was unreasonable as the advisor was relaying the 
information from the fraud team. 
Mr S says it wasnt made clear that his account would be blocked, but Ive not seen anything 
to suggest he was told it was just the transaction that was blocked. Nevertheless, Mr S 
phoned Barclays back and it was confirmed that his account was blocked. I appreciate it was 
frustrating, but Im satisfied any confusion he had was short lived. 
Ive reviewed the transcript of the phone call Mr S had with a fraud team while he was in the 
branch. The advisor apologised for the inconvenience Mr S was caused, but I cant agree 
that he admitted there had been a bank error in blocking the account.
Once his identity was verified, the transaction was processed while he was at the branch, 
and Im satisfied this was done in good time. I appreciate Mr S was frustrated by the 
situation and I can understand how upsetting it was for his account to have been blocked 
temporarily. I accept that Mr S says he lost out on interest he would have earned from the 
account the money was going into, but I havent found that Barclays did anything wrong 
here. As such, I wont tell it to do anything more.
Finally, I understand that Mr S doesnt think Barclays carried out a comprehensive 
investigation into his complaint. While it may not have addressed every point in the level of 
detail Mr S expected, Im satisfied it provided a clear explanation for the block it applied. 
Barclays however acknowledged it gave incorrect information when its advisor said they 
couldnt log a complaint for Mr S. Its offered £50 compensation for the distress this caused, 
and I think thats fair  the complaint was subsequently set up and responded to. And Mr S 
has been able to refer the matter to this service.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive mentioned above, I require Barclay Bank UK PLC to pay Mr S the £50 it already offered to him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman