DRN-3918243
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) dealt with a claim he made 
under his car insurance policy. 
What happened
In April 2022 Mr S was involved in an incident with another vehicle and he made a claim to 
his insurer, UKI. 
Mr S made a series of complaints about the way his claim was being dealt with. He said UKI 
had caused delays and this had led to his car not being repaired in good time. Because of 
this, he said this caused a further incident where his tyres failed while driving. When he 
made arrangements for car hire in November 2022, the car hire company didnt have a car 
available for the agreed date and this had to be rearranged. 
Mr S wanted UKI to pay him compensation of £1,000 and to reimburse him for the costs to 
replace two front tyres. 
In a series of responses to his complaints, UKI agreed it had caused delays and paid Mr S a 
total of £1,250 compensation. It reimbursed him for the costs to replace the tyres. 
UKI said that although it was responsible for some delay, before the incident involving the 
tyres, it had offered Mr S car hire but he hadnt made arrangements. So it said the 
compensation it had paid was fair to resolve his complaints. 
Mr S remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. Our Investigator thought UKI 
had done enough to resolve his complaint. 
Mr S didnt agree and so he wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr S made his claim, UKI arranged for his car to be assessed for repair by an 
approved repairer (AR). Following discussions between the AR and Mr S, the AR told UKI 
that it wouldnt be able to carry out the repairs. Mr Ss car had a ceramic coating and the AR 
said it had experienced problems in the past with being able to suitably paint match on 
similar vehicles during repairs. 
UKI therefore asked Mr S to find an alternative garage to have his car repaired. While I can 
understand this wasnt ideal for Mr S, I dont think it was unreasonable. 
Mr S provided an estimate from an alternative garage in June 2022. But UKI didnt review 
the estimate for approval so that Mr S could book his car in for repairs. However, on 27 May 
2022 in recognition of the issues with the original AR, UKI arranged for a car hire company 
to contact Mr S to arrange car hire - and again on 15 July 2022. But the car hire company 
didnt hear from Mr S. 
The incident where the tyres blew out happened on 17 July 2022. On 10 July 2022 Mr S 
emailed UKI to complain about the delay dealing with his claim and that a friend had advised 
him that the tyres may be unsafe due to incident related damage from the incident in April 
2022.
Ive no doubt that being involved in the incident on 17 July 2022 caused distress and was a 
frightening experience for Mr S and Ms D. 
When things go wrong, we look at what the impact was, and what a business did to put 
things right. We look at what happened, rather than what might have happened. This isnt 
intended to diminish or dilute what might have happened - but it is our approach when we 
look at awards of compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
This service provides examples of what we award for distress and inconvenience on our 
website. In this case, UKI paid Mr S a total of £1,250 compensation for the poor service it 
provided and the distress caused by the incident on 17 July 2022. It accepted that Mr S had 
contacted it regularly without receiving responses to his requests for information. It 
reimbursed Mr S for the costs to replace the tyres. It approved the repairs for Mr Ss garage 
to carry out. 
While UKI is responsible for its failings, I think what it has done to put things right is fair and 
reasonable. Where liability is in dispute, these claims can take longer to settle and there is 
no set timescale for insurers to conclude matters. But we expect insurers to actively 
progress claims - and its clear in this case that UKI failed to do this. 
So I agree that UKIs handling of the claim has been poor. But we also look at what a 
customer did to mitigate damage and loss. I think UKIs offer to arrange car hire in May and 
July 2022 - before the incident happened on 17 July 2022 - means the compensation it has 
paid is within the range of reasonable and in line with what we would have awarded in 
similar cases. 
I appreciate that Mr S believes UKI should pay him significantly more and says he and Ms D 
have suffered injuries as a result of the incident on 17 July 2022. Mr S may wish to seek 
alternative legal advice about that. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman