DRN-3427322
The complaint
Mr M has complained that TSB Bank Plc (TSB) mis-sold him a fee-paying Gold account in 
2015.
Mr M says that he contacted TSB in 2015 to inform it of the death of his partner. He says his 
account was changed to a sole account. Mr M says that the adviser didnt explain any of the 
benefits that were included with the account  which Mr M says he doesnt need.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and she didnt think that the Gold account 
was mis-sold. She also didnt think that TSB had acted unfairly towards Mr M when he 
contacted the bank in 2015.
Mr Ms representative didnt agree so the matter was referred for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint.
TSB has explained that the Gold account was in fact sold to Mr M in 2005. Therefore, I cant 
reasonably say that TSB had mis-sold the Gold account to Mr M in 2015  as he believes is 
the case - given that hed already held the account for around a decade by that point in time.
When the account was sold to Mr M, it included a feature called a fee-waiver. This meant 
that if the balance was kept above a certain amount, then Mr M was able to have the Gold 
account for free. And I understand Mr M did just this from when the account was sold to him 
up until May 2016. Therefore, given that Mr M has not given any testimony about why the 
account mayve been mis-sold in 2005, and as Mr M was able to get all of the account 
benefits without paying a monthly fee for the account (at least during the first decade that he 
held it), Im unable to conclude that it had been mis-sold.
After the adjudicator explained to Mr Ms representative that the account was not sold in 
2015, the representative said that TSB has still acted unfairly and says the branch staff 
shouldve done more to support Mr M in 2015. 
However, Ive not seen enough evidence to suggest that Mr M had specifically asked for 
advice about what type of account he held. On the contrary, it appears that Mr M had simply 
informed TSB about the death of his partner and in response TSB told Mr M what 
documents he needed to arrange for Mr Ms late partner to be removed from the account. 
And in the circumstances, I cant say that what TSB did was unreasonable as it essentially 
followed standard procedure in such matters. 
I appreciate that the representative believes that TSB shouldve done more at the time to 
explain what type of account Mr M had. But unless Mr M had specifically asked TSB to also 
explain what type of account he had at the time - which I cant see that he did - I cant see 
why TSB wouldve done this. Afterall, it would not have been an unreasonable assumption 
for the staff member to think that Mr M was already aware of what type of account he 
already had, given that hed had it for around ten years by then.
In addition to this, as outlined by the adjudicator, TSB did send information to Mr M after 
2015 to remind him of his account benefits and to enable him to check whether they were 
still suitable. As such, I cant reasonably say that TSB hid the fact that Mr M still had a fee-
paying packaged account after it had been changed into his sole name. And I think TSB 
gave Mr M enough information, so that if he wasnt sure about his account or the benefits 
that it came with, he couldve got in contact with TSB if he needed more information about it.
As such, whilst I have some sympathy for Mr Ms circumstances, at the same time I cant 
see that TSB has acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr M. Because of this, I cant 
reasonably say that TSB should refund the Gold account fees that Mr M was charged since 
May 2016 (which is when I understand he first started being charged for the account).
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman