DRN-1299840
 
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about charges hes been asked to pay by PSA Finance UK Limited 
(PSA) 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr B acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints 
about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr B responsible for keeping the car in 
good repair and condition. He would be responsible for any damage to or 
deterioration of the vehicle in excess of fair wear and tear.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are 
returned at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA).
Ive considered the photographs of the damage that are provided in the inspection 
report completed at handover. Im persuaded, for the same reasons the investigator 
has already accurately set out in his view, that all the damage that VWFS are 
making refurbishment charges for is beyond what would be considered fair wear and 
tear under the BVRLA guidance. However, Im not persuaded that Mr B should be 
charged for the roof contamination. The picture shows bird droppings on the roof 
but doesnt show contamination. Im not persuaded that the picture demonstrates that 
the car wasnt returned in a clean condition or that the bird droppings made 
inspection of that area of the car impossible. The bird droppings could have 
happened at any time. So, I think it would be fair for PSA to remove this charge.
I dont agree with Mr B that it would be fair to remove the charge for the carpet 
damage. The damage is clearly evident and beyond the BVRLA guidance.
Ive considered the charges that have been applied but I dont think the amount being 
charged is excessive or unfair. The charges BVRLA have made for the individual 
areas of damage appear broadly in line with similar charges Ive seen raised by their 
competitors.
Im not persuaded that any of the damage was most likely to have been caused at 
some point after Mr B handed the car back and before the inspection. Mr B had the 
car for several years and I think the damage was therefore more likely to have 
occurred during that time than in the limited period before inspection.
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint. 
Putting things right
PSA have already agreed to deduct 25% from the bill and I think thats fair given that the 
other charges are made out in the inspectors report. But they should also remove the 
charge for the contaminated roof. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and tell PSA Finance UK Limited to 
deduct the £40 charge theyve made for the roof contamination before applying the agreed 
25% deduction in refurbishment costs.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman