DRN-3596852
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that they were mis-sold holiday club arrangements and the loans 
used to pay for them. The loans were provided by Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, 
which trades as Barclays Partner Finance and which Ill refer to as BPF. Mr and Mrs W are 
represented by a firm of solicitors, which Ill call P.
What happened
P has explained that, in November 2008, Mr and Mrs W bought a holiday club membership 
with Diamond Resorts. They subsequently upgraded their membership package on two 
occasions, in May 2011 and March 2012. On each occasion, the purchase and upgrade of 
the membership was financed with a loan from BPF. 
The first loan was arranged by a company which Ill call G. It was settled in June 2010. The 
second and third loans were arranged by a different company, D, and were settled in April 
2012 and March 2022 respectively.  
In or around August 2020 Mr and Mrs W contacted BPF, raising a number of issues about 
the loans and the holiday club membership. In summary, they said:
At the time the loans were arranged, G and D did not have the necessary authorisation 
from the Financial Conduct Authority to act as credit brokers. The loans were therefore 
void.
The sellers of the holiday club memberships made misrepresentations about its 
benefits. Under the relevant sections of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 BPF is equally 
liable to Mr and Mrs W for those misrepresentations. 
Mr and Mrs W were subjected to unfair selling practices, including presentation and 
pressured selling techniques.  
The loan agreements created an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act. 
BPF did not carry out appropriate checks to ensure that the loans were suitable and 
affordable. 
Mr and Mrs W then referred the matter to this service, through P. Our investigator 
considered the case but did not recommend that the complaint be upheld, primarily because 
of the time that had passed since the purchases and the loan agreements. P did not accept 
the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Authorisation to arrange the loans
The loan agreements and associated paperwork are no longer available. I have however 
approached this complaint on the assumption that G and D acted as credit brokers for BPF.   
When the loans were set up, consumer credit broking did not require FCA authorisation; it 
required a licence issued by the Office of Fair Trading (OFT). The FCA took over the 
regulation of consumer credit activities (including the authorisation of credit brokers) from 1 
April 2014. 
The register of businesses which held OFT consumer credit licences is no longer available, 
but I note that both D and G are currently authorised by the FCA. They were not authorised 
by the FCA when the loans were set up, but that was because they did not need to be. 
Because the OFT register is no longer available  due to the passage of time  I do not 
believe that I can properly conclude that either business lacked the necessary permission to 
carry out consumer credit activity when the loans were set up. 
The complaint about suitability and the credit assessment
I have not seen anything here to suggest that the lending was not affordable or that the 
loans were otherwise not appropriate for Mr and Mrs W. I note that the first two loans were 
repaid within less than two years. It does not necessarily follow of course that proper checks 
were carried out or that the loans were affordable.  
The third loan was live for around ten years, but it was not until eight years after it was 
agreed that any complaint was made.  
Our own rules say that we cannot generally consider a complaint unless it is referred to us 
within six years of the event complained of or, if later, within three years of the date on which 
the complainant knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that he had cause for complaint.  
The events complained of in this case are the credit assessments and suitability checks that 
BPF carried out (or did not carry out) in 2008, 2011 and 2012. Mr and Mrs W would have 
known if they were having difficulty making repayments. It follows that this part of the 
complaint should have been referred to this service by no later than 5 March 2018  six 
years from the date of the final loan. Because it was not, we have no power to consider it.  
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act  
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act statements made by a broker in connection 
with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender.  
In addition, one effect of section 75 of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for breach 
of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, bring 
that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
It is not in dispute that the loans financed the purchase and later upgrades of the club 
membership. Because the loan documentation is not available, the exact relationship 
between BPF and the sellers is not clear, but I have approached this case on the basis that 
the loan was set up as a result of pre-existing arrangements between them and that section 
75 could therefore apply.    I must therefore consider the claims against G and D. Mr and Mrs W say that the sellers 
misled them about the holiday club membership. For example, they were told that 
accommodation would be exclusive and widely available, but that was not in fact true. 
Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
There is little detail in this case about what was said to Mr and Mrs W at the time of the sale, 
and they have not provided copies of any written agreements they entered into . 
However, under the Limitation Act 2010 an action (that is, court action) based on 
misrepresentation cannot generally be brought after six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued. Any statements which might have induced Mr and Mrs W into the 
contracts for the purchase of and upgrade to the holiday club membership were made on or 
before 29 November 2008, 18 May 2011 and 5 March 2012. They did not however raise any 
complaint with BPF until August 2020, nearly twelve years after the first transaction and 
more than ten years after the last. I think it very likely therefore that a court would conclude 
that any claim against the sellers was made outside the time limit in the Limitation Act. 
P says that the six year time limit does not apply here, because the relevant time limit is 
extended where the claimant did not know they had a cause of action or where fraud is 
involved. On the first point, I think it likely that Mr and Mrs W would have known some years 
ago if they were unable to book the holidays they expected to be able to book. In any event, 
the relevant time limit is not generally extended because a claimant did not know the cause 
of action had arisen. The circumstances in which it might be is quite limited.  
The allegation that the sellers acted fraudulently is little more than an unsupported assertion 
and is not really particularised. And it seems to me likely as well that Mr and Mrs W would 
have known many years ago if they had been deliberately misled. 
Be that as it may, it is not for me to decide whether any particular claim against the sellers is 
now out of time under the Limitation Act. Rather, I must decide whether the response of BPF 
to the claim under section 56 and/or section 75 was reasonable. Given the real possibility 
that a court would say that the claims are time-barred, I think it was. 
Section 104A claims
Under section 104A and section 104B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments. In this case, P says that Mr and Mrs W seek restitution of 
sums paid under the loan agreements.  
The usual time limit for these types of claims under the Limitation Act is six years from the 
time the relationship between the parties ended. In the case of the first two loans, that was 
no later than 5 June 2010 and 4 April 2012, when the loans were repaid in full. 
As far as the third loan is concerned, Ps argument is, in summary, that D acted unfairly and 
that the loan itself is therefore unfair; P also refers to the interest rate. 
As I have indicated, however, there is little detail about the terms of the holiday club 
membership or the circumstances in which it and the 2012 loan were sold. I do not believe 
therefore that I can properly conclude that the loan agreement created an unfair relationship 
within the meaning of section 104A of the Consumer Credit Act.    Conclusions 
In my view the complaint about the credit assessments was brought outside our own time 
limits and I have no power to consider it. 
I have no reason to believe that G and D did not each hold the necessary consumer credit 
licences at the time the loans were made.
I stress that it is not for me to decide whether Mr and Mrs W have claims for 
misrepresentation against G and/or D. Nor is it for me to decide whether any such claim 
might be outside the relevant time limits in the Limitation Act. Rather, I must consider BPFs 
response to the complaints made by Mr and Mrs W.
In my view, BPF acted reasonably in concluding that the section 56 and section 75 claims 
and, for the first two loans, the section 104A claims were likely to be out of time under the 
relevant provisions of the Limitation Act.
I am not persuaded that the third loan created an unfair relationship between BPF and Mr 
and Mrs W. 
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited to do anything more to resolve Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 January 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman