DRN-1727230
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) mis-sold him a monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr S was sold a PPI policy in 1991 in connection with a mortgage. The PPI would have 
provided a monthly benefit for up to 12 months if Mr S was off work sick or lost his job. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. Mr S didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. I will now explain why.
First of all Ive considered whether Mr S was eligible under the policy. Based on his age, 
residence and employment at the time of the sale, Im satisfied that Mr S was eligible for the 
policy. 
BoS had to make it clear to Mr S that the PPI was optional and needed his consent before it 
could be applied to Mr Ss account. Mr S says that it was implied that taking PPI would be 
beneficial to his application and as he didnt want to jeopardise his application he agreed to 
to take it out - even though he says he had sufficient existing employee benefits if he was 
unable to work.
I cant know for sure what took place during the sale. So Ive thought carefully about what  
Mr S and BoS have told us and looked to the documents from the time of the sale to help me 
decided what is more likely to have happened.
In particular Ive seen a copy of the mortgage application. This had a separate section for 
PPI. There was nothing on this to indicate that selecting PPI would increase Mr Ss chances 
of getting the mortgage. I note that Mr S chose to take PPI by ticking a box in this section. If 
he hadnt then PPI wouldnt have been applied to his account at this stage.
So while I appreciate what Mr S has told us, from the evidence available to me I think PPI 
was presented as optional and was only applied to the account because Mr S chose to take 
it out. 
BoS say they advised Mr S to take PPI. This means had to check if the PPI was suitable for   
Mr S. I cant say that BoS checked all the things they should have but I do think the PPI was 
suitable for Mr S. I say this because:
- Mr S has told us about his sick pay entitlement from his employer and that he was 
paid in full by them when he took time off work sick. However, the PPI would have 
paid out in addition to this and for a longer period of time. It would also have paid out 
in addition to any redundancy pay he may have been entitled to.
- Mr S also mentioned he had savings and that his partner and parents could help 
meet the repayments. I dont know how much Mr S had in savings or if these would 
still have been available if the need arose. But even if these were still available, they 
wouldnt necessarily have made the PPI unsuitable for Mr S as he could have used 
the savings for essential living expenses while the PPI took care of the mortgage 
repayments. And the help of his partner/parents wasnt guaranteed.
- Mr S doesnt appear to have been affected by the terms in the policy which would 
have made it difficult for him to make a successful claim under the policy. For 
example, terms relating to certain medical conditions and unusual working 
arrangements. I note that Mr S did make a successful sickness claim on the policy.
- I havent seen any evidence which would suggest that the PPI was unaffordable for 
Mr S.
- Mr S could have cancelled the PPI at any time without losing out financially.
BoS also had to give Mr S clear information about the PPI  in particular about the costs, 
benefits and main exclusions in the policy  so that he could make an informed decision 
about whether or not to take it out.
Its possible the information BoS gave Mr S wasnt as clear as it should have been but this in 
itself doesnt mean the policy was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether better 
information would have put him off taking it out. And I dont think it would have. I say this for 
the same reasons I think the PPI was suitable for him.
So having taken everything into consideration, I dont think BoS mis-sold Mr S this PPI 
policy.
Mr S has raised some other issues, such as the date his policy was cancelled and in relation 
to the claim that he made. However, to be clear, this decision deals only with the mis-sale 
aspect of Mr Ss complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2020.
 
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman