DRN-3315943
The complaint
Mr W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc declined his mortgage payment when they 
shouldnt have and this has impacted his credit file. He also received poor customer service 
from HSBC when he tried to contact them regarding this. 
What happened
Mr W lives abroad but holds a UK bank account with HSBC and a mortgage on his UK 
property with another bank. His mortgage payment is debited from his HSBC account on 16th 
of every month. 
In December 2020 he started a re-mortgage application with the same mortgage provider to 
lower his interest rate and get some cash out to make improvements. 
On 16 January 2021 HSBC rejected the direct debit for the mortgage payment because it 
took Mr W into overdraft, and this resulted in a missed payment on his credit record. 
Mr W says that HSBC have previously let payments go through using an unarranged 
overdraft facility which he has then repaid. On this occasion HSBC didnt let the payment go 
through.
At the end of January Mr W realised that there was a missed payment. He says that he tried 
to make the payment by debit card but it wouldnt go through, and then he tried to make it 
online on 27 January 2021, but online banking wouldnt authorise the sort code or account 
number. He says he then called the bank but was unable to get a response and the payment 
was eventually made on 3 February 2021 by faster payment when he was able to speak to 
HSBC. However, the late payment marker was applied by his mortgage provider on 1 
February, two days prior to the payment being able to be made. 
Mr W has asked HSBC for an explanation and an apology that he can provide to his 
mortgage provider, but HSBC havent provided one. Mr W says his perfect credit score is 
now damaged as a result of HSBCs actions and the letter and apology would allow his 
mortgage provider to correct his credit record. 
HSBC issued a final response on 5 March 2021 in which they said that they could find no 
calls about declined payments between 27 -31 January 2021 and there was no block on the 
debit card. They issued a supplementary response on 19 March 2021 in which they also said 
they could find no declined debit card transactions during that period. 
Mr W was unhappy with this response and brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into it and he thought that HSBC had done nothing wrong. 
Mr W disagreed with our investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision, so it 
has come to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent upheld the complaint and I will explain my reasons below. 
The failure of the direct debit.
Mr W says that HSBC should have processed his direct debit even though there were 
insufficient funds in the account, as they have done so previously. 
Mr W didnt have an authorised overdraft facility on this account, and so there was no 
obligation on HSBC to authorise the payment which would have taken Mr W into overdraft. 
 
I appreciate that Mr W has been allowed to go into unauthorised overdraft previously, but I 
cant say that HSBC have done anything wrong by not allowing it on this occasion. The 
decision about whether to authorise a payment that takes someone into overdraft will 
depend on a number of factors at the time, including the banks approach to risk, and this 
can vary month to month. The only way to ensure that payment will always be met is by 
having an authorised overdraft facility which needs to be arranged in advance. 
The attempts to pay using the debit card/online transfer
Mr W has told us that he tried to make the payment by debit card when on the phone to his 
mortgage provider and also through his HSBC online account. 
Mr W has provided me with call records which show he had a lengthy call with HSBC on 27 
January and long calls with his mortgage provider on 30 January, 1 and 2 February to try 
and sort this out. 
I have also listened to a call between Mr W and his mortgage provider in which they try to 
make the payment using Mr Ws debit card, but unfortunately the payment wont go through.  
HSBC have provided us with a screen shot of the debit card transactions screen from their 
system. This shows that there were no transactions attempted in the period in question. 
HSBC have also checked with the verified by Visa One time Passcode system to see if there 
was an issue there, but there was no record of the attempted transaction from their side. 
They have also confirmed that there was no block on the card. 
HSBC have concluded that as there no block on the card, and there is no record of an 
attempted transaction on HSBCs system there must have been an error on the mortgage 
providers side when trying to take the payment.  In the absence of any evidence to the 
contrary, that seems to me to be a reasonable conclusion. 
I can understand Mr Ws frustration that from his perspective, he was talking to his mortgage 
provider, and they were trying to process the debit card transaction, and so it looks like 
HSBC were rejecting it, but there is no evidence that the attempted transaction ever got as 
far as HSBC and so I cant say that HSBC are responsible for rejecting a transaction that 
they have no record of ever receiving.     
Unfortunately, online banking records are no longer available for that period, so I am unable 
to establish whether Mr W used online banking in that period.  However, as HSBC have 
noted, there would still be a digital footprint of the attempt at the transaction and as HSBC 
have established above that there isnt one. Customer service during the call on 27 January 
HSBC have confirmed that they did speak to Mr W on 27 January 2021, and this ties in with 
his phone bill which shows a 61 minute call to HSBC on that day. Unfortunately, the call 
recording is no longer available so I havent been able to listen to it but I have seen the notes 
of the content of the calls which were made by the Complaints Team when they originally 
investigated and listened to the call. 
During the first part of the call, Mr W is querying why his mortgage payment hasnt gone 
through, talks about his overdraft being removed, and talks about the international payment 
into his account being delayed. He is told by HSBCs adviser that there were insufficient 
funds when the payment was attempted, and that he doesnt have an overdraft facility. The 
call is then transferred. 
The second adviser is a manager and he confirms that the payment was declined due to 
insufficient funds. He tells Mr W that they dont know why the international payment into the 
account was delayed as they are only the receiving bank, and so it wouldnt be their issue. 
He also advises Mr W to contact his mortgage provider to retake the direct debit and 
confirms that there is now sufficient funds to make the payment, but that HSBC are not able 
to reactivate the direct debit from their side. He also raises a complaint for Mr W and advises 
that it will be six to eight weeks for a response. 
All of the advice that Mr W was given was correct and so I cant see that HSBC have done 
anything wrong here, or that their customer service has fallen short.   
I can understand how frustrating this has been for Mr W trying to resolve something which 
isnt his fault from overseas, and how having his credit record affected is upsetting. However, 
having looked at all the evidence, I cant say that HSBC are at fault here. This is an 
unfortunate series of events starting with the delay in the international payment being made, 
and then what appears to be technical issues on the mortgage providers side in being able 
to process the debit card payment. 
It will be for the mortgage provider to consider whether to remove the late payment marker, 
but I cant direct them to do so, and I wont be asking HSBC to provide anything more than 
they already have to facilitate this. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint about 
HSBC UK Bank Plc.  
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman