DRN-4072943
The complaint
Mr W complained that Computershare Investor Services Plc (Computershare) was 
responsible for him missing out on trades which resulted in Mr W incurring investment loss 
and additional costs.  
To put things right, Mr W wants Computershare to put him into the position he would have 
been in had his sale instructions been carried out, plus compensation for his time and duress 
alongside an apology from Computershare for poor customer care.
What happened
Mr W was registered with Computershare to use its online share dealing service which it 
operated through its Investor Centre. 
In early January 2022, Mr W submitted an online instruction to sell two of his shareholdings. 
Mr W held the share certificates and he needed to send Computershare relevant signed 
documents that Computershare required along with the share certificates within seven 
working days of the trade being placed.    
Mr W says that after he inputted his selling instructions, Computershares online trading 
platform failed to provide him with the correct links to the necessary documents he required 
in order to complete the planned sale of his certified holdings. 
Instead, Mr W found a form on Computershares website that was intended for use in a 
postal sale which he told us was the best I could find as I had to post the share 
certificates to Computershare - which he did on 5 January 2022.
 
On 11 January 2022, Mr W noticed in the Documents section of his Computershare 
account that two contract notes dated 6 January 2022 had been added to the account along 
with a Sale of Shares Authority form which required signature. He told us that he completed 
these forms the same day (11 January) and posted them to Computershare.
On 13 January 2022, Mr W received a letter from Computershare stating that the sale 
couldnt be completed as the share certificates had not been received. 
On 17 January 2022, Mr W phoned Computershare to explain what he had done but was 
told that as Computershare had not scanned the share certificates onto its system, it could 
not do anything.
This prompted Mr W to complain to Computershare that hed been unable to provide the 
documents in the way Computershare required as their system had failed to provide him with 
any link to the documents that he had to complete.
Computershare looked into his concerns but didnt agree it had done anything wrong. 
Computershare said it had only received the dealing form and cover, but not the 
registering for the share dealing service forms where we get the bank account details, this is 
why the form was rejected.
Computershare said that as soon as a trade was placed an email was automatically sent 
out, and that it also states on the "what happens next" section that a contract note will be 
prepared and available in the documents section within one business day of the trade being 
placed. It sent Mr W examples of screenshots to illustrate what it was describing. 
Unhappy with this, Mr W asked for our help. One of our investigators looked into what had 
happened but she didnt feel she had seen enough to show that Computershare had done 
anything wrong. She made some further enquiries of Computershare when Mr W said he 
disputed Computershares version of events but ultimately, she wasnt persuaded to change 
her view.
Mr W said he couldnt accept the investigators findings and he disputed her understanding 
of the facts. Mr W put things this way: In terms of evidence or the balance thereof have 
you requested or received any evidence from Computershare to corroborate their assertions 
ie how on the day their systems worked and what information was sent to me?
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. Here are some of the main things I said. 
I do appreciate how strongly Mr W feels about this complaint. I want to assure him that Ive 
carried out an independent review and considered everything he has told me. We provide an 
informal complaints handling service and this is reflected in the way Ive approached the 
complaint. Its part of my role to identify and concentrate on the core issues I need to 
address in order to reach a fair outcome. This means I wont necessarily mention everything 
Mr W has brought to my attention and Ive expressed some of his concerns in my own 
words. But I will comment on everything that makes a difference to the outcome of the 
complaint and try and deal with his main points of concern.  
A key part of Mr Ws complaint, as I understand it, is that whilst Computershare has told us 
what its automated process involved, and shown us sample screenshots, Mr W says this 
process didnt happen in his case and Computershare hasnt proved that it did. So he feels 
its unfair not to uphold his complaint. 
I have no reason to doubt that Mr W is certain about what hes told us. But theres 
disagreement between the parties about what happened and what Mr W says isnt enough 
on its own for me to be able to uphold his complaint. I must look at all the available 
information and decide what I think is most likely on a balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what is more likely than not to have happened. This can mean making some 
reasonable assumptions where theres only limited information. And I must be impartial. 
Theres more information on our website which explains the Financial Ombudsman Service 
approach. 
In brief outline, Computershares online selling process included the following main steps:
A trade order received message confirming that the selling request had been 
received and setting out what would happen next. This message explained that a 
contract note would be prepared showing precise details of the trade which would be 
available to view via the Documents menuwithin one business day of the trade 
being placed and that Mr W would receive an email when his contract note was 
ready to view. It drew attention to the importance of the form of authorisation 
provided alongside the contract note which had to be printed, signed and included 
with the share certificate(s) you send to us. 
An email confirming that the contract note was ready to view and download via 
Mr Ws trading account with Computershare. This included a link to enable Mr W to 
log into his account and included the following reminder, in bold type: As you have 
sold certificated shares, please return the Sale of Shares: Authority Form together 
with all relevant share certificates in order to complete the transaction.Mr W has said he didnt get the trade order received pop up message or any email telling 
him that a contract note was ready to view on either of his sales. He told Computershare that 
the pop up message he saw displayed stated well provide a link to a form of authorisation 
that will need to be printed but that no link was supplied and no email was sent.
Despite what Mr W has said, based on all the information Ive seen and been told so far, 
I dont find its likely that Computershares automated online process didnt happen here. 
Although Computershare doesnt keep logs of the automated pop up message, it told us that 
the trade order received message is the only pop up message it sends and from what 
Mr W has said, it sounds like he might have seen this as hes mentioned having seen the 
sort of information that it included. And Ive seen information from Computershares records 
that shows Mr W was sent the notification by email on 6 January 2022 telling him the 
contract note issued in response to his selling instructions was available to view and 
download via the website, with a link to enable Mr W to log into his account. I acknowledge 
that its possible some technical issue beyond Computershares control might have 
prevented Mr W from seeing that email. But I am satisfied that I can reasonably rely on 
Computershares electronic records as evidence that the email was sent. So I cant fairly 
hold Computershare responsible for any losses Mr W may have suffered when theres no 
evidence to suggest that Computershare did anything wrong. 
The documents Mr W needed to complete were made available to him under the 
Documents tab on his online portal where I think it's fair to say Mr W could reasonably have 
expected to find these. And it looks like Mr W was able to access these in sufficient time for 
him to have been able to complete his trades.  
I say this because Mr W has told us that when he did spot the forms he needed to print off 
and sign in the Documents part of his account, he completed and posted these to 
Computershare on 11 January 2022. Computershare received these on 13 January 2022 but 
could not complete the sales transactions as Mr W hadnt included the share certificates. 
Although Mr W had posted these separately to Computershare, they hadnt at that stage 
been delivered. 
Computershare told Mr W, in a letter dated 13 January 2022 that unless the share 
certificates were received by Monday 17 January 2022, in line with the terms and conditions 
his shares would automatically be bought back.
Computershare didnt receive the share certificates Mr W had posted until 18 January 2022 
 it has provided a screen shot from its internal systems corroborating this information and 
showing that it scanned the documents onto its system the same day. Unfortunately, this 
was too late to allow Mr Ws trades to complete  but I've seen nothing to suggest that 
Computershare was responsible for the documents not being processed through the post 
more quickly. To sum up, I think its likely that if Mr W had sent the share certificates with the correct forms 
on 11 January 2022  which he could have done, had he not already sent the share 
certificates off with a form he knew was not the correct one - Computershare would have 
been able to complete his trades by the deadline. Whilst its very unfortunate that the share 
certificates seem to have been delayed in the post, I cant fairly find on these facts that 
Computershare was to blame for Mr Ws trades not completing. 
Computershare cancelled the sale by rebuying the shares and it charged Mr W for doing this 
 which it was entitled to do under the terms and conditions that Mr W signed up to before 
he placed his trades.
From everything Ive seen, I dont find there is enough persuasive evidence to show that 
Computershare did anything wrong or acted unfairly or unreasonably. So I cant fairly uphold 
Mr Ws complaint. It follows that I cant award the redress he has asked for. 
Mr W disagreed with my findings. He mainly felt there was a lack of evidence to substantiate 
what Computershare says happened. Mr W put things this way: I do have an email from 
Computershare/Investorcentre after (placing) the sale but it does not allow me to follow 
through to the correct form - which is my fundamental issue here ie had 
Computershare/Investorcentre given the correct instructions I would have completed the 
transaction in full and well within time
I heard nothing further from Computershare. 
My provisional decision was unchanged but I wanted to address Mr Ws comments and 
explain some further reasons for not upholding his complaint before issuing a final decision 
which would mark the end of our process. I considered it fair in these circumstances to allow 
Mr W a brief, final opportunity to explain why he thought the outcome I planned to reach was 
unfair.  
I set out my further thoughts as follows:
My role is to consider the evidence presented by both parties and reach an independent, fair 
and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. I take into account the relevant law, 
regulatory requirements and best industry practice when deciding if Computershare did 
anything wrong or acted unfairly or unreasonably. Where the information is inconsistent or 
incomplete, as some of it is here, I must make my decision on the balance of probabilities, 
based on the information thats available. 
Computershares online terms and conditions, which Mr W wouldve had to agree to in order 
to use the site, include the following information:
Please note that  you will have to send us your Sale Documents (which will Include your 
share certificates and a correctly completed Form of Authority) by post In order to complete 
your sale.Under the section headed: How and when we will sell your shares, it said: 
.
3.4 Once we have executed your trade, we will send you a Contract Note. A communication 
alongside the Contract Note will confirm the Sale Documents that you must send us in order 
to complete your sale... the Sale Documents will include your share certificate(s) and a 
correctly completed Form of Authority.
3.5 We must receive your Sale Documents at least three Business Days before the 
Settlement Date.
3.6 You should send the Sale Documents to the address appearing on the Contract Note 
and it is your responsibility to ensure that they reach us in time to complete your sale.
I think its reasonably clear from the terms and conditions that the way to access the required 
documents was via Mr Ws Investor Centre account once the contract note was made 
available to him  and he could expect to be able to see that within a day of receiving email 
notification.    
This is reflected in what Computershare explained when it said that the contract note is 
made available the next business day (latest) on the Investor Centre under documents, 
where it can be downloaded and printed together with the authority form. It also said this 
information would have been stated on the pop up after Mr W placed his trade online. 
I can understand that Mr W wants to see more hard facts and the actual communications 
that Computershare says were sent to him. But Computershare explained that we are not 
able to send the computer logs or audit trail information that you have requested because it 
is no longer held on the server. Thats not a reason for me to uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Its not part of the remit of this service to tell a financial business how to operate or what 
system records it must keep. 
If I understand correctly, Mr W is not disputing that he received a communication on 
6 January  rather, hes saying that it didnt include any operational link to the authority form 
he required. But I think its reasonable for me to rely on what Computershare has told us 
about its usual process and the evidence from its system records that supports what it says 
about that process and how it operated with respect to Mr Ws account. 
When Mr W complained about what happened to Computershare, it said it was:
sorry that you have not received a link to download the authority form, as soon as a trade 
is placed an email is automatically sent out, and it also states on the what happens next 
section that a contract note will be prepared and will be available in the documents section 
within one business day of the trade being placed, please see a screen shot below.
Computershare told Mr W it had:double checked with our IT department and they 
confirmed that the email left our system and was sent to your email address on 06JAN22 (a 
copy of that confirmation was previously sent to you on 07APR22)When we advise that it 
may take up to 24 hours for the email to send, that is just to give the email enough time to 
get to you, however, most emails arrive in a matter of minutes
Computershare told us: Computershare have reviewed this with IT to confirm broadcast 
emails were sent and that nothing has bounced back undeliveredComputershares records show that an email was sent to Mr W on 6 January 2022 which 
included the following information:
We are pleased to advise that the Contract Note from you recent transaction can now be 
viewed/downloaded online via the Investor Centre website. You will be able to view your 
contract note by logging into your account as www.investorcentre.co.uk.
Once logged in, your contract note can be viewed in the documents menu in Investor 
Centre.
As you have sold certificated shares, please return the Sale of Shares: Authority Form 
together with all relevant share certificates in order to complete the transaction.
I am very sorry that Mr Ws planned trades were frustrated by what he considers to have 
been a lack of functionality and deliverability on Computershares website. Hes said he 
noticed in the Documents section of my Computershare account that two contract notes 
dated 6/1/2022 had been posted (there was no notification that these contracts had been 
added to the account, nor was there any Unread Messages warning).
But what I've set out above suggests theres no good reason for me to think 
Computershares normal process wasnt followed here or that Mr W couldnt have known 
what that process was. Im also mindful that the email Computershare sends on the day the 
contract note is available is simply a reminder that the form is available to view and 
download from the Investor Centre with a link provided for convenience. 
Ultimately, I cannot tell Computershare to pay compensation or take other steps to put things 
right unless I am satisfied that Computershare did something wrong or acted unfairly or 
unreasonably  and that this led to Mr W suffering some detriment and/or financial loss. 
Here, although he had given his sale instructions online, Mr W was aware the authority form 
he used was one intended for use in postal sales that hed found by searching 
Computershares website rather than the one confirmed in the Sale Documents that he had 
to send as per the terms and conditions. In any event, looking at some of the forms 
available, I think he would have seen that there were different forms for postal sales and 
online sales. 
And Mr W did have the option of calling Computershares contact centre and speaking to an 
advisor for guidance or directions on how to proceed  so he could have checked before 
sending off his share certificates with the postal-sale form whether this was the best way to 
proceed. 
Its particularly unfortunate that the share certificates seem to have been delayed in the post 
 but thats not Computershares fault.
If Mr W had spoken to Computershare before sending off his share certificates, I think its 
likely he wouldve been directed at that point to the correct documents and he wouldve been 
able to use those.  
And had Mr W not taken the decision to send off the share certificates along with the form he 
was aware was intended for postal sales rather than online dealings, he could have included 
the share certificates along with the correct forms that he did in the event complete on 
11 January 2022  and then his trades could likely have completed. All this means I cant fairly uphold his complaint that Computershare was responsible for the 
fact his trades didnt complete, so I cannot provide Mr W with the remedy he is seeking.  
Mr W has mentioned mistakes Computershare made concerning other people who have 
Investor Centre accounts but this makes no difference to the outcome here. Ive looked at 
the circumstances that apply in this particular case. And as no further comments have been 
received in response to my first provisional decision that change what I think about this case, 
I still think its fair not to uphold this complaint.
What the parties said 
Mr W said that he still disputed my conclusion but felt that his complaint to this service had 
run the course and he wanted to look at takihng his complaint to the next level.
Computershare said it had no additional information to provide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no further comments have been received that change what I think about this case, I still 
think its fair not to uphold this complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional 
decisions. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman