DRN-4404511
The complaint
Mr O complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds decision to decline a claim and 
cancel his policy after he was involved in a road traffic accident.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here.
Mr O had been represented in making this complaint by family members.
Mr O had a car insurance policy underwritten by Admiral. He made a claim after he was 
involved in an accident in March 2023.
Mr O told Admiral that the Police had attended the accident, breathalysed him and arrested 
him. They later took blood for analysis. Mr O said the breathalyser result had been above the 
legal limit (by some distance). Mr O told Admiral that he had been drinking before the 
accident.
Admiral then declined the claim and cancelled the policy. They referred Mr O to the policy 
terms. These say that Admiral will not provide cover under the policy  and will cancel the 
policy  if the insured is found to be driving whilst over the legal limit and/or unfit to drive 
through drink or drugs.
Mr O wasnt happy with this and made a complaint to Admiral. He believes its unfair for 
Admiral to take those steps without sufficient proof that he was driving whilst over the legal 
limit or unfit to drive through drink.
Admiral didnt uphold Mr Os complaint, so he brought it to us. Our investigator looked into it 
and didnt think Admiral had done anything wrong.
Mr O disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute here about what the policy terms say, so I wont quote them in detail. 
They basically say that Admiral will be entitled to decline any claim and cancel a policy if the 
policyholder is found to be driving over the legal limit for alcohol.
Mr O wasnt prosecuted by the Police. And the blood sample he gave at the Police station 
showed alcohol in the blood at below the legal limit. Thats possibly because the sample 
wasnt taken until around six hours after the accident. The reason for that delay would have 
to be explained by the Police.
Weve listened to a recording of the relevant phone call between Mr O and Admiral. When 
asked, he says he was breathalysed  with a result of either 52 or 62mg. Mr O doesnt 
articulate this entirely clearly, but it is absolutely certain that he says either 52 or 62.
Mr Os representative has questioned the validity of the breathalyser test. However, it is well 
over the legal limit and well beyond any tolerance allowed for slightly inaccurate calibration 
of the equipment etc.
The representative has also questioned Mr Os own recollection. They say Mr O has ADHD 
and may have forgotten what he was told by the Police when he was breathalysed and/or 
been confused. However, it is very unlikely the Police would have arrested Mr O if the 
breathalyser reading had been below or close to the legal limit.
Mr Os representative has given an account of the evening in question and the amount Mr O 
had drunk which flatly contradicts what Mr O told Admiral. 
Mr O did not appear in any way confused during the conversation with Admiral. And he was 
very firm in answering the questions put to him. He did not hesitate in his answers, did not 
say he was unsure and did not say he might not recall exactly  at any point.
Mr Os own account of his drinking that day tallies with the later breathalyser reading. He told 
Admiral hed had two cans of cider before driving to his local town, a couple of drinks earlier 
than that and a further drink in town before he set off to drive back. And he finished drinking 
just before he set off.
Mr Os representative said he (Mr O) had drunk two cans that day. And so, the breathalyser 
reading (if it were 52 or 62mg) might not be reliable or accurate. I suspect that was the two 
cans the representative (a family member) was aware of, rather than the full extent of Mr Os 
drinking.
The family member also suggests Mr O was ill that day  and had been sent home from 
work  which again might affect the breathalyser reading. This doesnt correlate with Mr Os 
own admission to Admiral that he had been drinking before the two cans he had at home 
before setting off to his local town.
Admiral are entitled to believe what Mr O told them, rather than what they were later told by 
a family member who may not have been fully aware of the facts. Mr O was clearly alert and 
on the ball when he spoke to Admiral - and he gave a cogent and convincing narrative about 
what had happened that day.  
In summary, the evidence available to Admiral strongly suggests that Mr O was very likely 
well over the legal limit when the accident occurred. I cant conclude that Admiral have acted 
in any way unfairly or unreasonably in applying the policy terms and declining the claim and 
cancelling the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman