DRN-4476355
The complaint
Mr R complains that ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) caused delays in paying benefits from his 
personal pension plans during which time the value fell. He would like compensation for the 
losses suffered.
What happened
Mr R had several pension plans with ReAssure. He says hed been monitoring investment 
markets as he wanted to take his tax-free cash. ReAssure provided a Retirement Options 
Pack (ROP) dated 15 February 2023. To take benefits he needed to complete an application 
online, print this off and post it to ReAssure. Due to problems with the online form, Mr R 
called ReAssure on 20 February 2023 and the call handler ran through this with him. He 
expressed his concerns about stock market movements and asked when the application 
would be processed.  Mr R sent the form and ReAssure received this on 23 February 2023. 
Mr R says he called ReAssure for an update on 27 February 2023 and was told matters 
were in hand. So, he was concerned to receive a letter from it on 13 March 2023 requesting 
he complete a further form to verify his signature. He returned this by special delivery and 
called ReAssure on 15 March 2023. It said it hadnt received the form. Concerned that stock 
markets had now fallen Mr R complained about the delay and asked why it hadnt queried 
his signature sooner. ReAssure now said it had received the verification on 15 March 2023. 
It used this date to value the plans and paid the tax-free cash on 21 March 2023. 
Mr R says because of the fall in investment markets after 20 February 2023 the amount of 
tax-free cash he received was nearly £4,000 lower. ReAssure didnt accept his complaint. It 
said it needed to verify his signature as a fraud prevention measure, and the need for this 
only arose after it had received his completed application, so it wasnt possible to anticipate 
the requirement.  
Mr R referred his complaint to our service. He said ReAssure should honour the valuation of 
20 February 2023 and compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused. He said 
ReAssure ought to verify signatures either on an ongoing basis or at the same time benefits 
were first requested. And he said as it only posted documents that wasted more time. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint, but she didnt uphold it.
Our investigator said it was clear from the ROP that the values quoted werent guaranteed. 
She said ReAssure had confirmed on two occasions that processing could take up to 20 
working days and it had completed everything within this timeframe. And that its service 
standard was to respond to communications within 10 working days and it had done so in 
confirming it needed to verify Mr Rs signature. She said money laundering guidance 
required verification to ensure his funds were protected and not being obtained fraudulently. 
She said using post as a means of communication was normal business practice. 
Mr R didnt agree. He said ReAssure hadnt explained its processes, gave conflicting 
information and had unacceptable processing time frames after submitting his application as 
the verification form letter arrives weeks later. And he said his identity had already been 
verified during the various calls with him.  
As Mr R doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
My provisional decision 
I issued my provision decision on 19 October 2023; I explained the reasons why I was 
planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
Our service doesnt regulate financial businesses and it isnt my role to tell ReAssure to 
change its administration procedures, but I can consider whether these have resulted in an 
unfair outcome. And I think they have here. It isnt unreasonable for a business to say it cant 
process something until its requirements have been met. And a business cant reasonably 
be expected to complete all administrative tasks immediately. But in the circumstances here 
I think ReAssure should have contacted Mr R sooner than it did. Had it, the valuation date 
used would have been earlier. And it may be that the value of his plans would have been 
higher.
It is clear from the ROP that the value of Mr Rs plans wasnt guaranteed and could fall as 
well as rise. The application form that Mr R completed contained a Declaration section 
which stated:
Please note that policy values will be calculated on the day that we receive the fully 
completed application form and any other documents that weve requested (e.g. bank 
statements).
So, it wouldnt be reasonable to backdate the valuation to a date before ReAssure had 
received the application. Preventing fraud and money laundering is important and ReAssure 
had both a regulatory obligation and a duty of care to Mr R to ensure his funds werent being 
accessed by fraudsters. He took the original pension plans out in the 1990s and it may have 
been many years since ReAssure had received documents containing his signature. And 
signatures can change over time. 
As Mr R has said it could have requested verification at the point he made the application. 
But that isnt its process. And I cant say that this is unreasonable, provided it has an efficient 
system to then verify a signature if necessary. And I think it took too long to request 
verification here.
Once ReAssure had received the verification it made payment on 21 March 2023, within the 
20-working day timeframe quoted. But the key date for Mr R was the valuation date used, 
which was 15 March 2023. This is naturally going to be an important consideration for all 
consumers. Mr R had, in his calls, sought confirmation of the process involved because he 
was concerned about adverse movements in stock markets. He was told that once he 
returned the application and any other information requested (like copy bank statements) the 
policy would be valued on the day of receipt provided there were no errors.
Mr R used special delivery to send the completed application form in an attempt to minimise 
the timeframe. When he called ReAssure on 27 February 2023, he was told his application 
had been scanned onto the system on 24 February 2023. He concluded the call in the belief 
that everything was proceeding normally and that a valuation date of 24 February 2023 
would be used. But it was a further eight working days before ReAssure wrote to verify his 
signature on 8 March 2023.  ReAssure says this request was sent within its internal timeframe of 10 working days to 
respond to correspondence. That may be so, and whilst it isnt reasonable to expect 
ReAssure to process applications immediately, I dont think the time taken to respond here 
was fair. I say that because ReAssure received the completed application on 23 February 
2023, it reviewed this the next day and the issue with Mr Rs signature was identified. This 
prompted a review of the calls Mr R had made and it was noted that hed passed security. It 
decided it needed to verify Mr Rs signature, but then took nine working days to send the 
letter requesting this. I dont think that was a reasonable timeframe. 
Particularly so, as once it had listened to the calls, I think ReAssure should have been aware 
that Mr R had concerns about the valuation and stock market movements. And, to treat him 
fairly, I think it should have dealt with what seems likely to be a routine matter of generating 
and posting a template letter and form sooner than it did. When Mr R called again on 27 
February 2023, ReAssure might not have been able to discuss potential fraud concerns. But 
this did give it a further opportunity to consider where it was up to with the processing of his 
application, as he again mentioned his concerns about stock market levels. But it doesnt 
appear to have done so.
So, Ive considered the timeline of events including for the same postal delivery times. And, I 
think, having reviewed the application on 24 February 2023 and identified the issue its 
reasonable that ReAssure should have posted the verification request by 28 February 2023. 
With Mr R receiving it on 3 March 2023. He completed and returned the form within 2 
working days. So, ReAssure would have received the completed verification document back 
from him on 7 March 2023. Thats around a week earlier than what actually happened. And 
in the circumstances here that seems a fair valuation date for ReAssure to have used. 
If the value of Mr Rs pension funds was higher on 7 March than it was on 15 March 2023 
when ReAssure did value his plans, he has suffered a loss and its fair that he be 
compensated for this.
Putting things right
If Mr R has suffered a loss, its fair that he be put back into the position he should be in. So, 
ReAssure should:
Recalculate Mr Rs plan values as if it had received the signature verification form on 
7 March 2023 and then calculate the tax-free cash payment that would have been 
available. If this is higher than the figure derived from the valuation date actually 
used, then Mr R has suffered a loss and the difference should be paid to him.
If there is a loss Mr R has been deprived of the use of the funds from the date 
ReAssure originally made payment of his benefits to him, until the date it makes 
settlement of any loss. So, it should add interest at the rate of 8% per year simple to 
the loss until the date of settlement.
ReAssure should make any adjustment necessary to the value of Mr Rs remaining 
pension funds to reflect the revised valuation date.
If ReAssure considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr R how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr R a certificate showing this if Mr R asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.I think Mr R has been inconvenienced by what has happened and ReAssure should 
pay him £50 in compensation for this.
Provide Mr R with a simple calculation of how it arrived at the final figures.
I asked both parties to send me any further information or comments they would like me to 
consider.
Response to provisional decision
Mr R said he accepted my provisional decision.
ReAssure didnt accept my provisional decision. It sent a copy of some confidential 
information relating to security procedures expanding on the details it had previously 
provided. It said the timeline I had set out above was unreasonably short. As it required it to 
have reviewed documentation and acted on it within two working days of it being scanned on 
to its system. Which it said was unreasonable due to the sheer volume of work that needs 
to be actioned at any one time. It said it wouldnt have been fair to other customers to have 
escalated Mr Rs request. And that it had met its internal 10 day working day service 
standard. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint.
Ive thought what ReAssure has said in response to my provisional decision. I agree it isnt 
reasonable to always expect a business to be able to provide a rapid reply to every query. 
That said it perhaps isnt treating customers fairly to be operating at a level where a 10 or 20 
working day standard for any administrative task is deemed the norm. 
And in the particular circumstances here I based my own timeline on the one ReAssure 
provided to our service with its complaint file. It says having received Mr Rs application form 
this was referred to the fraud team on 24 February 2023. So, within two days of Mr Rs 
application form being received. A referral for potential fraud presumably results in a fairly 
prompt consideration of the issue. 
The fraud team listened to Mr Rs calls about wanting to take his benefits. And notes hed 
successfully passed security on the call. A decision was made about what needed to be 
done. The next entry on the timeline was Mr Rs call to chase matters on 27 February 2023. 
So, I think it is reasonable to conclude that ReAssure does appear to have acted on the 
matter within two working days or so of receiving his application, even though it suggests 
this isnt possible in its reply to my provisional decision. 
What it then didnt do was send Mr R an entirely standard form in the post to verify his 
signature until nine working days later on 8 March 2023. That might be inside the overall 
internal ten working day timeframe, (disregarding the day of receipt as ReAssure seems to 
do here). But I dont think this delay was reasonable, given it had already considered the 
issue and identified the likely solution. It had decided what was required quite efficiently, and 
I dont think it was an arduous task to then follow through on its actual requirement, so Mr R could proceed with his plans without undue delay. Instead of leaving him thinking his policy 
valuation date was already secured following receipt of his application form.
My timeline allowed ReAssure three working days to get this form in the post after it most 
likely reviewed the application. I think this is a reasonable time frame. If it had done so, 
based on what did happen Mr R would have returned this to it by 7 March 2023. I think that 
is a fair date for it to have valued his benefits. If the value of his plan was higher on 7 March 
2023 than it was on 15 March 2023, Mr R has suffered a loss and it is fair that he be 
compensated for this.
Putting things right
If Mr R has suffered a loss, its fair that he be put back into the position he should be in. So, 
ReAssure must:
Recalculate Mr Rs plan values as if it had received the signature verification form on 
7 March 2023 and then calculate the tax-free cash payment that would have been 
available. If this is higher than the figure derived from the valuation date actually 
used, then Mr R has suffered a loss and the difference should be paid to him.
If there is a loss Mr R has been deprived of the use of the funds from the date 
ReAssure originally made payment of his benefits to him, until the date it makes 
settlement of any loss. So, it should add interest at the rate of 8% per year simple to 
the loss until the date of settlement.
ReAssure should make any adjustment necessary to the value of Mr Rs remaining 
pension funds to reflect the revised valuation date.
If ReAssure considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr R how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr R a certificate showing this if Mr R asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
I think Mr R has been inconvenienced by what has happened and ReAssure should 
pay him £50 in compensation for this.
Provide Mr R with a simple calculation of how it arrived at the final figures.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint against ReAssure Limited.
I direct ReAssure Limited to undertake the calculation set out above and if there is a loss 
compensate Mr R as described. And also, to pay him £50 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman