DRN-1783942
The complaint
Ms K says Barclays Bank UK Plc mis-sold her a home insurance policy as it didnt tell her 
about a policy add-on she couldve bought to protect her no claims bonus. 
What happened
Barclays sold Ms K a home insurance policy in 2011. The policy was sold in branch and 
included building and contents insurance.
Ms K is unhappy that she wasnt told that she could purchase an additional policy add-on to 
protect her no-claims bonus. She says if she had been told about this, she wouldve done. 
Barclays says the policy wasnt mis-sold.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Ks complaint. As Ms K disagrees, her complaint has been 
passed to me to consider everything afresh to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold it. I know Ms K will be disappointed by my decision but 
hopefully shell understand my reasons when I explain why.
Looking at the customer checklist which Ms K signed when the policy was sold, Im satisfied 
Barclays didnt provide any advice to her as to the suitability of the policy. 
But it still had to provide Ms K with clear, fair and not misleading information about the main 
terms of the policy so that she could make an informed choice about whether the policy (and 
any add-ons she could purchase) was right for her.
As the policy was sold to Ms K in branch, I cant know for sure what was said or what 
information she was given at the time. So, Ive considered whats most likely to have 
happened taking into account all of the available information. 
Ms K says she wasnt given any information about the option of protecting her no-claims 
bonus by purchasing an additional add-on, which the policy could provide for. 
Of course, its entirely possible that Ms K wasnt told about this add-on, as she says. But Im 
conscious that the policy was sold a long time ago and memories tend to fade. In its final 
response letter dated August 2019, Barclays says it reached out to the person who sold the 
policy to Ms K and they cant recall the meeting now due to the lapse of time. I think this is 
understandable in the circumstances.  
So even if the add-on to protect a no claims discount was a main feature of the policy which 
Ms K shouldve been given information about, Im not persuaded on the balance of 
probabilities that she wasnt given clear, fair and not misleading information about this option 
given the documentation Ive seen from the time. 
The customer checklist which Ms K signed when taking out the policy, contained seven 
boxes with different statements, all of which had been ticked. One of those read that Ms K 
had been told about the optional add-ons available for buildings and contents cover and that 
she had made her own decision on the level of cover to purchase. 
I accept that statement doesnt expressly mention the optional add-on available to protect 
her no claims discount. But Ive seen a letter from Barclays to Ms K dated 24 June 2011 
enclosing the policy documents including the schedule of insurance (the schedule). The 
schedule reflects that Ms K hadnt protected her no claims discount for the buildings or 
contents insurance sections of the policy. Im persuaded that its more likely that the 
schedule reflects what had been discussed at the meeting and that Ms K opted not to 
include it at the time. 
Ive also considered the other key features of the policy such as the main benefits, cost, the 
excess and main exclusions. And even if Ms K hadnt been given enough information about 
those features in a clear, fair and not misleading way at the time the policy was sold, Im not 
persuaded that anything about those features wouldve prevented her from taking out the 
policy.
So, all in all, Im satisfied that the policy wasnt mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold Ms Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman