DRN-3806999
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (LBG) said part of her claim 
was fraudulent and it cancelled her policy.
What happened
Mrs K claimed under her home insurance policy following a home burglary. LBG didnt 
dispute that thered been a burglary or that Mrs K suffered loss because of it. However, LBG 
declined her claim and cancelled the policy back to the date of the burglary because it 
thought shed falsely added a carpet with pre-existing damage to the claim list.
LBG said the damage  an iron burn on the carpet  could be seen in the photos taken 
shortly after the burglary. When LBG questioned Mrs K about the burn, she said it wasnt 
there earlier in the day so mustve been done by the burglars. LBG asked Mrs K about the 
condition of her iron. She responded that it was a mess and like charcoal. But the iron was 
visible in the photos and the plate was clean. Mrs K couldnt explain to LBG why shed said 
the iron was damaged when it was clearly undamaged in the photos.
The photos also showed an off-cut piece of carpet covering the carpet where the burn was. 
When asked, Mrs K told LBG that the off-cut carpet had been put there to cover the burn a 
day or two later. But, when LBG challenged that, she couldnt explain why it was already 
there on the photos taken immediately after the burglary. Therefore, LBG said Mrs K mustve 
put the carpet down before the incident, suggesting the burn was pre-existing damage which 
she already knew about. 
LBG told Mrs K that it thought shed given false information about the damage to the carpet 
when making her claim. Because of that, it declined her whole claim and cancelled the policy 
with effect from the date of the burglary. LBG recorded the policy cancellation on the fraud 
database.
Mrs K complained to LBG. She said she later found that a family member had burned the 
carpet and hidden it rather than owning up. She accepted that it wouldnt be covered under 
the claim. However, LBG maintained its decision because Mrs K still couldnt explain why 
shed given answers which contradicted the evidence. Mrs K brought her complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said the evidence indicated that Mrs K was 
unaware of the burn prior to the burglary, so shed made an innocent mistake when adding it 
to the claim. Our investigator recommended that LBG reinstate the policy if appropriate, 
consider the rest of the claim, remove the fraud marker and pay £150 compensation for the 
inconvenience and upset caused.
LBG disagreed with the outcome. It felt strongly that Mrs K had given information 
contradictory to the photo evidence, which implied she was aware of the damage prior to the 
theft. Therefore, LBG said her exaggerated claim was to benefit more than she was entitled 
to under the policy. 
I issued a provisional decision in November 2022 explaining that I was intending to not 
uphold Mrs Ks complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive provisionally decided not to uphold the complaint. I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Mrs K, but Ill explain my reasons now. I wont repeat all the detail of the 
matter here. Instead Ill focus on the key issues of dispute.
The issue is that Mrs K doesnt think it was fair for LBG to decline her burglary claim under 
the fraud condition of her policy. 
In its final response letter, LBG told Mrs K it withdrew the policy in line with the fraud 
condition because, we do not feel that you have provided a reasonable explanation to 
eliminate our concerns held about your claim.
I understand LBG doesnt dispute the fact that there was a burglary. But the evidence shows 
that it had concerns about Mrs Ks responses to questions it asked during its assessment of 
her claim. The questions were in relation to the claim that burglars had burned the carpet 
with an iron.
Carpet
LBG asked Mrs K when shed put the off-cut of carpet over the burn mark. She said it was 
around two days later because she had guests due to stay and she wanted to cover the 
unsightly mark. However, LBG explained that video footage taken immediately after the 
burglary showed that the off-cut was already over the burn mark. When the claims 
consultant took photos a couple of days later, the off-cut was in the same position. 
Therefore, LBG said Mrs K had given incorrect answers to its questions.
Iron
LBG said the burn was deep and it asked Mrs K what condition the iron was in after the 
burglary. Ive listened to the call and heard Mrs K say it was an utter mess and like 
charcoal. At this point LBG pointed out that the iron is captured in the video footage and 
photos and the plate is completely clean. Mrs K later agreed that it was indeed clean.
Burn
Mrs K returned to LBG with an apology and explained that a family member had confessed 
to burning the carpet and allowing her to believe the burglars caused the damage. This in 
isolation sounds plausible.
However, it doesnt explain why Mrs K responded to LBGs questions in the way she did. 
When asked about the state of the iron and the position of the carpet, LBG could reasonably 
have expected Mrs K to give accurate answers, even if she couldnt explain why they didnt 
match the evidence. LBG gave Mrs K the opportunity to reconsider her answers but it 
remained dissatisfied with them.
Ive thought carefully about the way Mrs K answered the questions and Im minded to agree 
with LBG. Im sorry that Mrs K experienced the burglary and its clearly upset her 
considerably. But I cant say that LBG was wrong to decline her claim and cancel her policy 
for the reason it gave. Mrs K provided two pieces of information which were evidently untrue. 
Had she been completely unaware of the burn, its more likely than not that shed have given 
a true description of the off-cut placement and condition of the iron, or at least said she didnt know. Based on the evidence, I dont think it was unreasonable for LBG to treat her untrue 
answers as a fraudulent exaggeration.
Policy
Turning to the policy, it says:
Fraud 
The contract between you and us is based on mutual trust and we rely on the honesty of 
our policyholders. If you or anyone acting for you knowingly or recklessly: 
provides information or documentation to us that is fraudulent or dishonestly 
exaggerates a claim; or 
otherwise acts or behaves fraudulently in relation to your policy; 
then cover under the policy will end from the date of the fraudulent act and we: 
will not pay any part of a fraudulent or exaggerated claim; 
will not pay any claims arising after the date of the fraudulent act; 
will retain any premium you have paid
LBG said Mrs K provided information which fraudulently exaggerated her claim. So, in line 
with the policy, it declined her claim, kept her premium and cancelled her policy. 
While Mrs K clearly suffered loss because of the burglary, I cant fairly ask LBG to cover the 
undisputed part of the claim. Thats because the exaggeration, if not spotted, wouldve 
meant Mrs K benefited from a new carpet. Therefore, she wouldve gained more than she 
was entitled to under the policy.
Overall, Im minded to conclude that LBG declined Mrs Ks claim fairly and reasonably under 
the fraud condition, and in line with the policy terms and conditions. Therefore, I dont plan to 
ask LBG to do any more in respect of Mrs Ks claim.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
LBG had nothing further to add.
Mrs K responded to say she shouldve just said that she didnt know what the iron looked like 
instead of giving an answer based on what she thought it wouldve looked like. She 
explained that shed just finished a call about an issue regarding vandalism, so she probably 
wasnt thinking straight.
Further to this, Mrs K said she didnt recall saying to anyone that she was claiming for the 
carpet. If she had, she wouldve claimed for the paint that had been spilled on it during the 
burglary. Mrs K confirmed that shed told LBG that the carpet off-cut was left over from a 
piece used in the wardrobe and had been there for some time. So it wasnt used to hide the 
burn.
Mrs K asked me to consider the situation as a whole, including the mental distress shed 
experienced because of the burglary followed almost immediately by vandalism.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I still sympathise with Mrs Ks situation, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint for 
the reasons set out in my provisional decision. That said, Ill comment further on Mrs Ks 
more recent submission.
Carpet
Firstly, Mrs K said she didnt recall claiming for her carpet. Ive looked again at the original 
loss list which she provided for LBG. The carpet is on that list about half-way down. Im 
satisfied that means Mrs K included the carpet in her claim.
Ive looked at the evidence Mrs K provided in respect of the paint marks on the carpet. In her 
call with LBG, Mrs K said her husband cleaned up the paint. Its not clear whether the marks 
were removed completely but, in any case, LBG would likely have cleaned the carpet rather 
than replace it. Therefore, the issue regarding the claim burn mark is still relevant - had LBG 
accepted the claim, Mrs K wouldve befitted from something to which she wasn't entitled. 
Burn
Turning to the burn, Mrs K is, now, aware that it was already there before the burglary. I can 
understand her frustration with this element of her claim because she said she didnt know 
about it until her family member admitted to burning the carpet. But, even setting aside her 
comments about the state of the iron, I note she still said the burn wasn't there that morning. 
So, I can see why LBG remained doubtful of the accuracy of her statement.
Carpet off-cut
Finally, Ill comment on the placement of the carpet off-cut. I agree that Mrs K told LBG the 
carpet was put there earlier, and that it moved about when people walked on it. But what that 
doesnt explain is why she also told LBG that shed put it there to cover the burn a couple of 
days later. Again, LBG became concerned about the truthfulness of Mrs Ks claim regarding 
the carpet. 
Parts of Mrs Ks statement are plausible, but the overall concern is that her statement 
changed several times when LBG asked further questions. For that reason, Im satisfied that 
LBG reasonably declined the claim and cancelled the policy because it thought Mrs K was 
trying to gain more than she was entitled to under the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mrs Ks 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman