DRN-4375019
The complaint
Miss P is complaining that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) automatically renewed her 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2022, Miss P took out an annual travel insurance policy which was provided by 
IPA and was taken out through a broker. In February 2023 she complaining to IPA that it had 
renewed the insurance policy without her knowledge and money had been taken from her 
mothers credit card. She didnt receive a response to her complaint from IPA, so she 
referred her complaint to this Service.
Our investigator upheld this complaint as he said IPA hadnt shown it had given Miss P 
notice that it would renew the insurance policy. So he thought IPA should refund the amount 
she paid for the renewed policy.
IPA didnt respond to the investigators opinion, so the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
The terms of the travel insurance policy set out that IPA will automatically renew the 
insurance policy when it comes to an end unless Miss P asks it not to do so. As Miss P didnt 
contact IPA, or the broker, before the renewal date, the policy automatically renewed. But 
the terms of the policy also required IPA, or the broker on IPAs behalf, to give Miss P 
advanced notice it would do so. I also consider this to be good industry standard practice. 
This Service has asked IPA a number of times to evidence it wrote to Miss P giving her such 
notice and through what written medium. But IPA hasnt done so.
So, I havent seen anything to show that Miss P was given notice that the policy would 
renew. And Im persuaded by what Miss P has told us that shed didnt have a use for the 
insurance policy. So I think she would have contacted IPA or the broker to ask that the policy 
didnt renew had she been given sufficient notice. It follows, therefore, that I think Miss P has 
lost out and I think IPA should refund the amount Miss P has paid for the renewed policy.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require Inter Partner Assistance SA to refund the amount Miss P has paid for the renewed 
policy. It should add 8% simple interest per year on this from when it was charged until its 
refunded. If Inter Partner Assistance SA thinks that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss P how much its taken off. It should 
also give her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax if 
appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 November 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman