DRN-3612892
The complaint
Mrs S complained because Santander UK Plc refused to refund her for a withdrawal which 
she said she didnt make.
What happened
On 3 June 2019, Mrs S went to a Santander branch. She went to a cashier, where she 
provided her card, and entered her PIN, to authorise a £6,000 bank transfer to an 
individuals account. She also provided her passport for identification. The reason on the 
withdrawal slip was recorded as building work.
Less than two minutes later, there was a second bank transfer, this time for £3,500 to 
another individuals account. Mrs Ss card, PIN, and passport were again used. As with the 
previous withdrawal, the reason on the withdrawal slip was recorded as building work.
On 8 September 2021, Mrs S contacted Santander.  She said shed been reviewing her 
statements, and she didnt recognise the £3,500 payment. She told Santander the £6,000 
payment had been genuine, and had been to purchase cryptocurrency. But she said she 
believed the gentleman who served her at the counter had fraudulently carried out the 
£3,500 payment.
Santander asked Mrs S why she hadnt reported the complaint earlier, and she said she had 
an eye condition, and sometimes she couldnt see things. 
Santander didnt uphold Mrs Ss complaint. In its final response, it said its investigation had 
looked at how the payment had been made and authorised. The two payments had been 
made less than two minutes apart, and both had been made using Mrs Ss card, and verified 
using her correct PIN. Santander also pointed out that its records showed the cashier had 
been a lady and not a gentleman. 
Santander also explained that to protect customers from scams, when someone requests a 
large payment, the cashier asks what the payment is for, and thats noted on the withdrawal 
slip. Here, the withdrawal slips evidenced that Mrs S had told the cashier the withdrawals 
were for building work, not to purchase cryptocurrency.
Mrs S wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. She told the investigator that she had 
cataracts in both eyes, and the money shed lost would pay for an operation. She explained 
that the eye problem was the reason for the fraud, because she couldnt see it had 
happened straightaway. When the investigator asked about the building work on the 
withdrawal forms, Mrs S said that was what shed been told to say by the people from whom 
she was buying cryptocurrency. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ss complaint. He explained that Mrs S hadnt brought her 
complaint to Santander within 13 months, so shed failed to bring it to the banks attention 
without undue delay. He also said that the payment had ben authenticated using chip and 
PIN, and had occurred within two minutes of the genuine payment, meaning it was unlikely a 
third party could have done it. He also said that the cashier would have known there was still 
a significant balance in the account and could have taken more than £3,500.
Mrs S didnt agree. She said she wouldnt lie or cheat, and that shed read in a newspaper 
about a similar problem where someone else had had a second withdrawal taken from their 
account after a genuine one. She said that shed just done what the cashier had told her, so 
if the cashier had told her to press a green button shed have done it, or if the cashier had 
told her to press a button twice, thats what shed have done. She thought that was how the 
cashier had carried out the fraud. Mrs S asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Regulations
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations for 
disputed transactions taking place in June 2019 are the Payment Services Regulations 
2017. 
Section 74 (1) of these regulations says that:
A payment service user [the customer] is entitled to redress  only if it notifies the payment 
service provider [the bank] without undue delay, and in any event no later than 13 months 
after the debit date, on becoming aware of any unauthorised or incorrectly executed 
payment transaction.
Payment service providers also have to set out this provision in the terms and conditions of 
the account. Ive checked, and Santander does this. Section 7 of the terms and conditions is 
about Unauthorised and incorrect payments and it says:
 7.1 Notification of Unauthorised or Incorrect Payments If you believe that a payment 
on your account was not authorised by you or was made incorrectly, you must notify us as 
soon as possible either at a branch or by telephoning us on the number shown at the end of 
these Terms and Conditions.

7.6 We  are not responsible for an incorrect payment on your account where: a) 
you fail to tell us (using the contact details provided in this document and in the Key Facts 
Document) of the incorrect payment without undue delay and in any case within 13 months 
of the date on which the payment occurred.
The effect of these rules is that Mrs S had 13 months from the date of the transaction to 
raise it with Santander. The transaction Mrs S disputed took place on 3 June 2019. So, in 
order to meet the requirements of the regulations, Mrs S would have had to have told 
Santander that she disputed the payment before 2 July 2020. She didnt raise it with 
Santander until 8 September 2021. 
This means that, under the regulations, Mrs S brought her complaint too late.
I recognise that Mrs S told our investigator that she has cataracts in both eyes. But she 
didnt provide any documentary evidence to show that shed told Santander that this meant 
she wasnt able to manage her account, or that shed formally requested reasonable 
adjustments like larger print, and what Santanders response was to any such request. Nor has Mrs S explained what changed so that in September 2021 she was able to review 
her statements at that point, but not before. Unfortunately it cant be that her eyesight had 
improved, because she told our investigator that the money shed lost would pay for the eye 
operation she wanted. So Im not persuaded that Mrs S wasnt able to complain to 
Santander in time.
However, as Santander did choose to investigate Mrs Ss complaint, for completeness, Ive 
looked at what happened.
The two transactions took place within a couple of minutes at the counter. So I think its not 
possible for any third party  such as another customer  to have stolen Mrs Ss card after 
the first, undisputed, transaction, and to have carried out the second one. Theyd have to 
have found out her PIN and also obtained her passport, and returned both the card and 
passport afterwards, all without her knowledge. I dont consider that was possible in the time.
Mrs Ss theory is that the cashier carried out a fraud by carrying out the second transaction 
after the first. On the phone to our investigator after he issued his view, Mrs S said that if the 
cashier had said press the green button, shed have done so, and if the cashier had said 
press twice, shed have done so. She said she thought that was how the cashier committed 
the fraud.
I dont think thats likely:
- First, there was still a balance of over £14,000 in Mrs Ss account after the first 
genuine transaction. So if the cashier had been fraudulent and had transferred the 
money to an accomplices account for their own benefit, I think its likely theyd have 
taken more than £3,500. 
- Mrs S has since said that if the cashier had asked her to press the keypad button 
twice, shed have done so. But she didnt claim, either at the time or when she first 
reported the matter to Santander, that the cashier had asked her to take out the card, 
re-insert it, and re-enter the PIN, and then press Enter - as shed have needed to do 
for any second transaction. I think Mrs S would have remembered that and reported 
it.
- In any case, it would have been a huge risk for a cashier to take, because they 
couldnt know that Mrs S wouldnt immediately challenge this  nor that she wouldnt 
report it for more than two years. 
- When Mrs S did report the transaction, she said the cashier had been male, when 
records show the cashier was female. I think shed have realised this by hearing 
them speak, even if her vision was poor. And the authorisation slips referred to 
building work not to the purchase of cryptocurrency which Mrs S said was the real 
purpose of the genuine withdrawal. Mrs S has since said she said this because she 
was told to say this, by the people from whom she was buying the cryptocurrency. 
But these factors, and the length of time, dont convince me that Mrs S has a clear 
and accurate memory of what happened.
So, in view of the fact that Mrs S reported her complaint to Santander too late, and all the 
circumstances, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 Belinda Knight
Ombudsman