DRN-2558532
The complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard irresponsibly allowed 
him to open a credit card account which was unaffordable.
What happened
Mr P says he opened the Barclaycard account in 2015 but says it didnt carry out appropriate 
checks on the application. He says he was in financial difficulties and was unwell that led to 
early retirement. Mr P says he has been charged unfair fees and interest and would like 
them refunded. He also says he was charged an unfair fee when he opened the account of 
about 3% of the balance transfer.
Barclaycard says the account was opened in August 2015 and it carried out appropriate 
checks. It says Mr P didnt have any adverse information on his credit file and it wasnt 
aware of any health problems or the loss of a job. Barclaycard says Mr P made a balance 
transfer for which it charged a fee in line with the agreement, but no further charges were 
made, or interest applied, and the account was paid off in full the following year.
Mr P brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Mr P was employed at the time of the application with limited outgoings. And the 
only charge made was the balance transfer fee. The investigator thought Mr P made 
appropriate payments which provided evidence that the lending was affordable.
Mr P doesnt accept that view and in summary says Barclaycard didnt ask about health 
issues and didnt check if he had the appropriate capacity to understand the agreement. He 
says he shouldnt have been charged a fee and would like it refunded as well as 
compensation for the distress caused. Mr P says Barclaycard hasnt considered his 
vulnerabilities and didnt carry out a health check on him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr P will be disappointed by my decision.
Lenders should carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on credit applications. Those 
checks will of course vary depending on the type of borrowing and the amount. There is no 
dispute here that in 2015 Mr P applied for a credit facility rather than for example a loan. I 
can see from Barclaycards records that it checked Mr Ps credit file and considered his other 
lending which appeared to be one other credit card account. Im satisfied that Mr P declared 
an income and provided details of his outgoings. So, Im satisfied Barclaycard carried out 
appropriate and proportional checks on Mr Ps application and correctly took into account the 
lack of adverse information on his credit file.
It follows that Im satisfied that the decision to offer Mr P the credit card account was not 
irresponsible, and that the facility was not unaffordable. I appreciate Mr P says he became 
unwell and lost his job. But I dont think Barclaycard could have known that unless it was told 
by Mr P and I dont think Mr P says he told it about those matters. I dont think Barclaycard is 
obliged to check the medical position of its potential customers before making a lending 
decision and I think it reasonable to have expected Mr P to have made Barclaycard aware of 
any potential health or other issues.
I can see that Mr P carried out a balance transfer to his Barclaycard account and was 
charged a transfer fee. Im satisfied that Mr P made that application and in doing so would 
have agreed to the balance transfer terms and conditions which would have made clear that 
a fee or charge would be applied. I find such fees or charges are almost always made for a 
balance transfer and I think Mr P would have benefited from the promotional interest rate he 
was offered. So, I dont think the transfer fee was unfair and I find Mr P would have agreed 
to it before he transferred his existing debt to Barclaycard. I also think it likely that any 
balance transfer fee would have been significantly less than the interest or charges Mr P 
was paying to his existing credit card provider and can see no other reasons for the transfer 
except to save money.
I have looked at Mr Ps account statements and can see he was not charged interest and 
fees as he says, and I think he made regular account payments before clearing the debt in 
full in around 2016. I think that provides additional evidence that Mr P was able to afford the 
repayments and that the lending was affordable. 
Overall, Im satisfied Barclaycard carried out reasonable and proportionate checks here and 
that its lending was not unaffordable or irresponsible. I also find Mr P would have agreed to 
the balance transfer fee and in the circumstances, it would be unfair to order that fee be 
refunded.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman