DRN-3218187
The complaint
Mrs P complained HomeServe Membership Limited (HomeServe) had unfairly declined a 
claim made under her policy.
What happened
Mrs Ps husband complained to this service on his wifes behalf. He said HomeServe unfairly 
declined a claim made when there had been problems with the underfloor heating in the 
property covered by the policy. A HomeServe engineer attended and Mrs P and her 
husband were told the policy excluded cover for any problems with underfloor heating. 
HomeServe didnt uphold a complaint made about this. They said they hadnt done anything 
wrong, as the terms of the policy specifically excluded cover for underfloor heating. 
HomeServe also stressed that when the policy was first started, any need for underfloor 
heating cover wasnt mentioned.
Mrs Ps husband doesnt agree. He told us it was HomeServes responsibility to bring the 
exclusion to the policy purchasers notice. He thinks heating cover ought reasonably to 
include underfloor heating and he thought HomeServe ought to be required to do the 
following:
Tell potential customers in the future that underfloor heating wasnt covered.
Provide him with an apology.
Pay him compensation for costs incurred and time wasted, as well as a ruined 
overseas holiday.
He says the annual cover was expensive given the limited benefit provided given the 
exclusion.
An investigator at this service didnt think the complaint ought to be upheld and the case was 
referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs Ps complaint. I agree with the investigator and for 
broadly the same reasons.
I have looked with care at the terms of the policy, which are sent to the policy holder when a 
new policy is purchased. There is reference to underfloor heating being excluded from the 
cover.
I appreciate Mrs Ps husband thinks such exclusions ought to be given greater prominence; 
indeed he thinks it ought to be drawn to the attention of the any purchaser prior to purchase.
Im satisfied the exclusion of cover for underfloor heating is sufficiently clear in the terms. It is 
mentioned several times, in sections that set out the areas that are not covered.
So I dont think HomeServe did anything wrong in declining the claim. I accept the terms of 
the cover were properly and fairly applied when considering this claim. HomeServe provided 
the terms and its reasonable here to expect this exclusion was sufficiently clear for a policy 
holder to identify this when the cover was started, and act accordingly if the cover was 
insufficient for their needs. Im not persuaded that it is reasonable to assume any cover for 
heating includes all and any heating per se, including underfloor heating. I understand such 
cover was felt important here, but it might fairly be said, in such circumstances, this would 
lead to greater care to ensure the right cover was being provided if there were specific 
needs.
I accept the policy did provide a benefit to the policyholder as I dont think it was bought to 
solely cover any problems with the underfloor heating.
Ive seen the wider feedback and actions Mrs Ps husband would like HomeServe to 
implement for future customers. Those suggestions arent something I can consider.
My final decision
For the reasons given I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint against HomeServe Membership 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman