DRN-2849592
The complaint
Mr S says Provident Personal Credit Limited, trading as Satsuma Loans, irresponsibly lent to 
him. He says he told Satsuma he was in serious financial difficulty due to gambling before it 
lent to him. He thinks it shouldnt have approved the lending because of this. 
He also said he would like a default notice removed as he told Satsuma about his gambling 
issues, and related financial problems, at the start and so it shouldnt have lent to him. He 
also feels that the default shouldnt have been added to his account as he was living 
overseas at the time. He feels the default is unfair. 
And he says Provident continued to offer him new loans despite having difficulty repaying 
the loans he had. This negatively affected his mental health.
 
What happened
As both parties to the complaint are aware Provident, is planning to enter into a scheme of 
arrangement. Because of this I wont be able to consider Mr S irresponsible lending 
complaint. Mr S is aware of this and agrees that this Service wont look at this aspect of his 
complaint. He plans to bring his complaint about mis-selling to the scheme at a later date, if 
possible. 
So, Im only looking at the administration complaints Mr S has raised. To be clear these are:
was the default notice reasonably, and correctly, applied to his account and
did Satsuma send him inappropriate communications, or inducements to borrow, 
when it knew he was in financial difficulties. 
This complaint is about one instalment loan Satsuma lent to Mr S. He borrowed £300 on 
14 November 2017. He was due to make six monthly repayments of £94.80. Mr S had one 
loan before this with Satsuma, but this doesnt form part of this complaint. 
Mr S hasnt been able to repay any of this second loan. Satsuma has said they sent Mr S a 
notice of arrears on 29 January 2018. And a notice of default was sent on 28 April 2018. 
Satsuma hasnt been able to supply copies of this actual correspondence it says it sent. But, 
I dont think its in dispute that they were produced and sent. The default has been recorded 
on Mr S credit file. 
Our adjudicator looked at Mr S complaint and didnt upheld it. In brief she said that:
as Mr S hasnt paid any of the loan repayments, it was reasonable to place the 
account in default
Mr S had moved, but he didnt inform Satsuma about this until some time after the 
default was added. So, he may not have received all of the postal communication 
about the default
Mr S was frequently in contact with Satsuma over this time and he wouldve been 
aware that his account was in arrears and a default would potentially be added
the promotional documentation that Mr S received was sent by Provident (Mr S also 
has loans with Provident itself) and not Satsuma. 
Mr S disagreed with the outcome, in response he said: 
Satsuma hasnt been able to provide actual copies of the default notice and so it 
should be treated as if wasnt sent
he didnt receive the default notice as he had moved address. So, the default wasnt 
lawful
he says he may have been in a financial position to repay the loan and he would 
have done this if he had received proper notification of the default, and better 
customer service 
the default is also not lawful as he was living overseas the time and it was not sent 
within the time frame specified by the Information Commissioner (ICO), that is six 
months. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about high cost and short-term lending  
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. 
Applying this to the circumstances of this particular complaint, I have reached the same 
outcome as our adjudicator, for essentially the same reasons.
The first thing to look at here is was Satsuma acting reasonably when it applied the default 
to Mr S account. As Ive briefly outlined above Mr S hadnt made any repayments to the loan 
when it issued the default notice. 
A default is essentially the point where a business accepts that is has failed to reach an 
agreement with a consumer about repaying credit. And the relationship has broken down. 
Both sides can then consider what the best next steps should be. I think this what happened 
here. And having read all of the correspondence between Mr S and Satsumas customer 
service representatives, I think its reasonable to say that this situation wouldnt be resolved 
in the near future.
Mr S doesnt agree with the assumption that he was unlikely to be in a position to repay the 
loan. But I think the clearest indicator about Mr S ability and willingness to repay is what did 
happen. 
I can see there was a dispute about the amounts lent. But even when this was resolved I 
havent seen any attempt by Mr S to make any loan repayments. And if Mr S was in a 
position to make some of loan repayments it seems reasonable to say that he would have 
done this, even if he couldnt repay the full amount. 
So, I dont think its reasonable to say that Mr S was in a position to make the loan 
repayments. It follows that I think it was right for Satsuma to place his loan account in default 
when he couldnt repay the loan. 
Mr S has said that the default wasnt lawful as it was made outside of the timeliness 
guidelines for applying a default given by the ICO. As Mr S is aware, the ICO does say that a 
default should be applied between three to six months of a missed payment.But this isnt a legal rule it is a guide to best practice. And circumstances around each loan 
repayment can differ. It may not always be in the consumers best interests to place an 
account in default. But in any event the six months timeframe starts from the missed 
payment. And Satsuma applied the default within this time. 
Mr S also says the default isnt lawful as he was living overseas when it was applied. Im not 
aware of any rule or regulation that defines where a person must be resident for a default to 
be applied. And it is accepted that debts in this country arent extinguished if a person 
moves, or is living temporarily, overseas.  
Satsuma sent the default notice to the address it held on file. But it has been established Mr 
S was not living at the address the default notice was sent to. He didnt inform Satsuma that 
he had moved until after the default was added. So, I cant say for certain that he received 
the default notice by letter. But he was in contact with Satsumas customers service 
representatives by email, so he wouldve been aware of the status of his account. So, again, 
I dont think the default isnt valid due to this issue. 
So I think its reasonable to say that Satsuma was acting correctly when it applied the 
default. I dont think that Satsuma was acting wrongly, or unlawfully, when it did this. And it 
seems to have produced and sent it correctly, given what it knew. 
Mr S has complained about some promotional emails he received from Provident. Whilst 
Provident is the parent company of Satsuma, both Provident and Satsuma are separate 
legal entities. I can only consider the actions of Satsuma as part of this decision. So, I cant 
look at this part of Mr S complaint here. I understand that Mr S may be able to opt out from 
these communications going forward. 
Overall, given my findings above Im not upholding Mr S complaint. I dont think Satsuma 
has acted wrongly here. 
I can see Mr S has been through a difficult time, both in his personal life and with his 
finances. He has my sympathies about this. And I hope things have improved for him. Im 
sure my decision wont be what he wants to hear. But I hope he finds the explanation Ive 
given helpful. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr S complaint.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision 
before 29 June 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman