DRN-4293058
The complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC misled him about when a mortgage offer would 
expire. He says because of this he missed the chance to apply for better rates elsewhere 
before rates increased. Mr W asks that Barclays applies the fixed interest rate product in the 
offer to his mortgage.
What happened
Mr W started a re-mortgage application with Barclays in February 2022, via a broker. 
Barclays issued a mortgage offer in March 2022, with a fixed interest rate product. The offer 
expired in early August 2022. 
Mr Ws mortgage hadnt completed by early August 2022. Barclays agreed to extend the 
offer to 23 August 2022 to allow the mortgage to complete. It issued a new mortgage offer 
which gave two different dates for when it expired: 23 August 2022 and February 2023. 
Mr Ws re-mortgage didnt complete before 23 August 2022. 
Mr W re-applied with a new interest rate product in September 2022. Barclays issued a 
mortgage offer and the mortgage completed later in October 2022. However, the interest 
rate products available to Mr W in September 2022 had higher rates than the interest rate 
product in the previous mortgage offers.  
Mr W says if hed known the mortgage offer issued in August 2022 wasnt valid until 
February 2023, hed have looked for a better rate with another provider. He says its 
common sense that hed have got a better rate. 
Our investigator said it was clear that the first mortgage offer was only extended to 23 
August 2022. Mr W didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to re-consider the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Barclays issued a mortgage offer in March 2022 which expired on 9 August 2022. Mr Ws 
mortgage hadnt completed by then. Theres nothing to suggest this was due to an error by 
Barclays. 
As an exception to its usual policy, Barclays agreed to extend the offer by two weeks to 23 
August 2022. It issued a new mortgage offer dated 19 August 2022. 
Mr W says he was misled by the mortgage offer. This is because it had more than one expiry 
date. The first page says the offer is valid until 11 February 2023. Mr W says he relied on 
this being correct. He says hed have applied elsewhere if hed known it wasnt and is sure 
hed have secured a better rate than he has now.
Barclays says its system automatically generates mortgage offers with a six-month expiry 
date. It added a special condition to the 19 August 2022 mortgage offer which says:
This mortgage offer is to reflect the previous mortgage application made under 
[number]. This mortgage offer will expire on 23/08/2022 to allow completion. This 
expiry date supersedes any other expiry date noted in the offer.
Id expect Mr W to read the mortgage offer. If he was unsure about the expiry dates or which 
one took precedence, he could have asked his broker or Barclays to explain.
I also need to take the wider circumstances into account. The 19 August 2022 mortgage 
offer was issued only because Barclays agreed to extend the expiry date by two weeks. This 
was an exception to its usual policy. Its unlikely it would have agreed to do this without there 
having been a discussion with Mr Ws broker. As the application was made by a broker, it 
would be the broker rather than Barclays that explained the basis on which Barclays agreed 
to extend the offer to Mr W. Barclays says it sent a reminder to Mr Ws broker that the 
mortgage needed to complete by 23 August 2022 to secure the product.
Taking all this into account, I think Barclays did make Mr W reasonably aware that the 
mortgage offer would expire on 23 August 2022.
Mr W says his personal circumstances meant he was under pressure to complete the re-
mortgage, and this meant he had to make another application to Barclays. The first 
mortgage offer expired in early August 2022. If Mr W wanted to apply elsewhere to secure a 
better rate he could have done so as soon as he realised his re-mortgage wouldnt complete 
before this (or indeed before 23 August 2022).
Mr Ws broker started a new application with Barclays on 17 September 2022. There were 
issues with affordability and the amount of the loan Mr W applied for exceeded the loan to 
value ratio for the product hed chosen. Nonetheless, Barclays issued an offer and the 
mortgage completed on 11 October 2022. I cant see that there were any delays by Barclays 
with this application. 
Mr W said he had five completion figures to complete the fixed rate mortgage, causing 
serious delays. Its unclear what Mr W means by this. But, as I said, I cant see that Barclays 
caused delays with Mr Ws mortgage applications. I havent seen anything to suggest it was 
responsible for his re-mortgage not completing before the first mortgage offer expired, or that 
it caused any delays with the completion of his mortgage in October 2022.
Mr W says he should have been treated as vulnerable due to his personal circumstances 
(hed separated from his partner). I need to take into account that the mortgage application 
was submitted by a broker that dealt with Barclays on Mr Ws behalf. I appreciate that Mr W 
is disappointed that his re-mortgage didnt complete in time for him to benefit from the fixed 
interest rate hed first applied for. But based on the available evidence, I dont think this was 
due to any errors by Barclays and I dont think Barclays treated Mr W unfairly. It follows that I 
dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require Barclays to apply a lower 
interest rate product to Mr Ws account or pay compensation to him.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman