The complaint
Mr C (a sole trader) complains that Folgate Insurance Company Ltd (Folgate) have unfairly 
declined his business protection insurance claim.
The details of this case are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again here. 
Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision in response to the main issue 
here, which is whether Mr Cs caravan can be said to have been used in connection with his 
business.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator. I'll explain why.
The policy terms and conditions state:
Loss of or damage to property insured
a.Own plant, tools and equipment
Constructional plant, machinery, trailers, tools, equipment, site huts or caravans
(including their contents) belonging to you for use in connection with the business
while on or next to the site of any contract carried out by you [my emphasis
added].
Mr Cs caravan was located near/on the site he was contracted to work, but he has said that 
he was living in it at the time. He says it was used for residential purposes, as well as in 
connection with his business, and that the policy does not stipulate it must be used solely for 
business purposes.
I appreciate there is no such express stipulation. But given that the above term requires the 
property to be used in connection with the business  and given that this is a commercial 
policy  I think it reasonably implies that the propertys predominant purpose should be for 
business use if it is to fall within the scope of policy cover. This is the interpretation that I 
consider yields to business common sense in such circumstances.
In any event, there is no real persuasive evidence here to suggest that the caravan was 
even used in connection with Mr Cs business. He says that it was used as an office because 
he would plan his day there and send emails from his laptop etc. But merely carrying out a 
few work-related activities in a residential dwelling every now and then does not serve to 
render it a business premises.The caravan being used as an office would, in my opinion, 
need to be its primary purpose in order for Mr C's claim to fall within the scope of the policy. 
And as I have set out above, I have seen no persuasive evidence to suggest this was the 
DRN-1626494case. There was little or no business property stored in the caravan, for example, and there 
is little to suggest that it was used for anything other than Mr Cs primary residence. He kept 
all his personal effects such as clothes and kitchen appliances in the caravan, and I note that 
he also did not have any other permanent residence, other than occasionally staying with his 
partner at weekends. 
So all the evidence suggests that the caravan was predominantly used for residential 
purposes. And I'm not persuaded on the evidence submitted that it was used in connection 
with his business. Rather, it appears the caravan was for Mr C's personal use, and was just 
conveniently located on the site he was contracted to work. As such, I do not consider 
Folgate to have declined the claim unfairly in these circumstances
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2020.
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman