DRN-2740241
The complaint
Miss H complains that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) was irresponsible to 
lend to her and didnt carry out enough checks before doing so.
What happened
Miss H had two loans from Lending Stream as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Monthly 
RepaymentDue Repaid
1 16 Sep 2019 £350 166d £105.27 28 Feb 2020 Outstanding
2 13 Oct 2019 £200 171d *£166.94 31 Mar 2020 Outstanding
* Combined monthly repayment for loans 1 and 2
Miss H says she was already in a poor financial situation when she was approved for the 
loans with Lending Stream. She says she had defaults on her credit file and Lending Stream 
didnt ask for copies of her bank statements or any other proof of her financial 
circumstances. She said she couldnt keep up with the repayments and the loans were 
passed to a debt collection agency, thereby worsening her financial situation.
Lending Stream says it asked Miss H about her income and expenditure and checked her 
credit file. It says it compared the figures with statistical averages and adjusted them if 
required. Lending Stream says the checks showed Miss H had sufficient disposable income 
to afford the repayments, even after it had made its adjustments. It acknowledged there 
were outstanding balances on both accounts but offered to set up an affordable payment 
arrangement.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied that 
Lending Stream had carried out proportionate checks, given the circumstances of the 
lending, and that there was nothing in the available information to indicate Miss H was 
struggling to manage her money.
Miss H responded to say, in summary, that Lending Stream was irresponsible to lend to her 
and that it cannot have looked into her financial circumstances well enough. She says she 
already had debts of around £2,000, was £2,000 overdrawn on her bank account and her 
credit file would have shown multiple defaults. Miss H adds that she was declined for loans 
from other lenders at around the same time and wanted her complaint reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss H could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Miss Hs complaint.
Loan 1
When Miss H applied for the first loan with Lending Stream, I can see it asked her about her 
income and expenditure. Miss H said her monthly income was £2,500, with expenditure of 
£925, although Lending Streams checks caused it to increase the expenditure to £1,038. Im 
satisfied, in the circumstances of the lending, that these checks were proportionate. I say 
that because:
This was Miss Hs first loan with Lending Stream;
The monthly repayment due was less than 5% of Miss Hs declared income;
Miss H said she spent £175 per month on credit;
Lending Stream calculated her disposable income to be over £1,400 per month, 
indicating the repayments were affordable.
At this stage in the lending I consider Lending Stream was entitled to rely on the information 
provided by Miss H as there was nothing to indicate her financial circumstances were 
significantly different. I acknowledge Miss H says she had multiple defaults on her credit file, 
but Lending Streams credit check did not raise any concerns and the earliest default was registered after loan 1 was taken out. So I cant conclude Lending Stream was wrong to 
have approved loan 1.
Loan 2
Miss Hs circumstances remained largely the same when Lending Stream asked her about 
her income and expenditure for loan 2. It calculated her disposable income to be £1,150 and 
the combined repayments on both loans was £166.94. By this time, Miss H had also made 
the first repayment on loan 1 on time.
I acknowledge that Miss H had defaulted on two accounts by the time loan 2 was taken out, 
but it is unlikely they would have shown on a credit search at the time due to how recent they 
were. I dont find it would have been proportionate for Lending Stream to carry out the level 
of financial review that would have been required to show these new defaults.
So Im satisfied Lending Stream would have considered loan 2 to be affordable and that 
there was nothing to indicate Miss H was in financial difficulties.
Finally, I understand the loans have now been moved to Collections. Lending Stream still 
has an obligation to treat Miss H fairly if she is having difficulty repaying the loans.
In summary, I find that Lending Streams checks were proportionate and that there was 
nothing in the available information to indicate that Lending Stream acted irresponsibly by 
approving the loans.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 May 2021. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman