DRN-3276947
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lowell Financial Ltds is unfairly trying to recover a credit card debt. 
What happened
Lowell says it bought a credit card debt in Mr Ms name from the original lender (C) in 
December 2020. Both Lowell and C sent a Notice of Assignment (NOA) to Mr Ms home 
address in January 2021 to confirm the outstanding balance and new arrangement. Lowell 
also took over responsibility for reporting a default on Mr Ms credit file. 
Mr M has explained that he contacted C to dispute the credit card debt was taken out by him 
before it sold the account to Lowell. 
Mr M complained to Lowell and it sent him a final response in July 2021. Lowell said it had 
raised a complaint with C on Mr Ms behalf. Lowell also said the account had been defaulted 
in April 2020, before it took ownership. Lowell didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Mr M referred the matter to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Lowell had dealt with Mr Ms complaint fairly and didnt ask it to take any further action. Mr M 
asked to appeal and said hed contacted C about his concerns before it sold the debt to 
Lowell. Mr M also said C had failed to send Lowell evidence the debt was valid. As Mr M has 
asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr M has raised a complaint about the circumstances under which his credit card 
with C was opened. Thats a separate matter and in this decision Im only looking at whether 
Lowell has treated Mr M fairly. 
Lowell says it purchased the account from C and has referred Mr Ms concerns that it was 
opened fraudulently on to the original lender. If that complaint is resolved in Mr Ms favour Id 
expect Lowell to work with C to put any settlement in place. But Im satisfied I can look at 
whether Lowell has treated Mr M fairly since it purchased the credit card debt. 
Ive considered the information Lowell has provided and whether its acted reasonably by 
asking Mr M to make payments to the debt. I note the outstanding balance as set out in 
Lowells NOA matches the information provided by C. And Lowell also took over reporting 
the default from April 2020 on Mr Ms credit file. In addition, Lowell has confirmed the 
account was opened with C in August 2019 and has provided evidence of the address it was 
registered at. That address matches the information Mr M has given this service. In my view, 
Lowell has provided clear information that shows it purchased the debt in question from C. 
So Im satisfied there was a legitimate reason for Lowell to contact Mr M about the debt. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but I havent found that Lowell has treated him unfairly by 
contacting him for repayment of the debt it purchased from C. As Im satisfied Lowell has 
dealt with Mr Ms complaint fairly, Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman