DRN-4191186
The complaint
Miss G is unhappy Bastion Insurance Company Limited turned down a claim on her gadget 
insurance.
What happened
Miss G has gadget insurance that is underwritten by Bastion. She made a claim on her 
policy following the theft of her mobile phone. 
Bastion turned down the claim because it said it was a requirement that she provided them 
with a copy of the crime report. They said they needed the crime report to verify an insured 
incident occurred, to show the claim was reported on time and to make sure that policy 
exclusions dont apply. 
Miss G provided evidence to Bastion that she had reported the crime to the police, the date 
she had done so, and a copy of her police statement showing her version of events.
Our investigator looked into what had happened. He acknowledged the terms of the policy 
said Miss G had to provide Bastion with all the information they requested. But he thought 
the police report was unlikely to provide any further detail than what Miss G had already 
evidenced. So, in the circumstances of this case, he thought it was fair for Bastion to 
progress the claim without the police report and assess it against the remaining terms of the 
policy. 
Miss G accepted the outcome, but Bastion disagreed. In summary they said 
They dont see any extenuating circumstances as to why Miss G should be granted a 
change in process over all their other customers 
They have provided assistance to Miss G to try and help her secure the police report 
If Miss G had submitted a Subject Access Request, as theyd suggested then they 
think she wouldve received the crime report by now. 
They had concerns over the screen shots of the police report because the website 
doesnt include any key word relating to a police force, as they would expect to see. 
The screenshots also made no mention of when the incident was reported or when 
the police statement was taken. And the statement doesnt contain the crime 
reference number.
The ombudsman can only look at what is fair and reasonable if we deem the term is 
unclear.
The case has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Bastion has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The terms and conditions of Miss Gs policy say: 
You must report the Theft or Accidental Loss of any gadget(s) to the Police within 24 hours 
of discovery of loss and obtain a crime reference number in support of a Theft, and a lost 
property number in support of an Accidental Loss claim. A copy of any report supplied must 
be provided to Us.
I dont think it was unreasonable for Bastion to request the crime report. However, I also 
need to consider the purpose for which Bastion wants the crime report and whether the 
information Miss G has already supplied, serves the same purpose. And in this case I think it 
does. 
Bastion raised concerns about the evidence provided by Miss G. Their online claims form 
says:
Within 24 hours of the theft you must report this to the police and obtain a police report 
which includes the Crime Reference Number (CRN). A Crime Reference Number (CRN) 
alone is not sucient
Bastion argue Miss Gs evidence didnt tell them the information they needed, such as the 
date and time the incident was reported. But I disagree. The date on the email 
acknowledging the crime report is 19 January 2023. And the crime report number is included 
at the start of the email. Im satisfied this evidence is enough to show the incident had been 
reported to the police and a report was obtained within 24 hours, in line with the policy terms. 
It remains unclear why Bastion say they dont have the information they require to assess 
the claim. 
I note Bastions comments about the website showing the police report. But as the 
investigator has already explained, I understand this is an  electronic witness statement - 
which is an application developed for police forces. So I think its reasonable for Bastion to 
rely on its validity. 
Im mindful that Bastion has a duty to progress claims promptly and fairly. Ive taken account 
of Bastions reasons for requiring the police report, what Miss G has been able to provide 
and her efforts to try and obtain what they want. Overall Im persuaded the documents 
already provided by Miss G contain the required information and Bastion should be able to 
progress the claim with the information they already hold. I think the request to still provide 
the police report is causing an unnecessary delay. 
Bastion isnt correct about when we can apply our fair and reasonable remit. I can consider if 
a term of the policy has been applied fairly. And in the circumstances of this individual case, 
I dont think it has. Im persuaded its unreasonable to continue to apply the requirement for a 
copy of the policy report when I think its unlikely to add any further value to what Miss G has 
already provided. As Ive explained above, I think Bastion has the required information in 
order to progress the claim. 
Putting things right
Bastion Insurance Company Limited need to progress the claim without the police report and 
assess it against the remaining terms of the policy.   My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint and direct Bastion Insurance Company 
Limited to put things right by doing what Ive said in this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman