DRN-3295006
The complaint
Mr T, alongside the other trustees of the M Will Trust, complain about the way ReAssure 
Limited has communicated with them about some life policies. Specifically, Mr T complains 
about the ownership of his late wifes policies and about tax residency letters it keeps 
sending him.
What happened
Mr T and his late wife took out identical investment policies in 1999. The policies had life 
assurance attached and both Mr T and Mrs T were named as the lives assured on each 
policy. Each policy was made up of ten segments. Mrs T sadly passed away in 2012. Mr T 
was told at the time that her policy would be owned by him.
In 2020, ReAssure took over the administration of the policies. When Mr T received an 
annual statement he realised he only had details of one policy. He contacted ReAssure to 
find the missing policy. ReAssure initially confirmed the other policy had been assigned to 
Mr T but then said this wasnt right. As the sole policy owner was the late Mrs T, it would be 
her estate that was the legal owner. Mr T complained as he believed he was the policy 
owner. He also complained about letters he was receiving asking him to confirm his tax 
residency status.
ReAssure apologised that Mr T was assigned his late wifes policy in error. It explained that 
the policies were set up in sole names and so it shouldve passed to his late wifes estate. It 
offered Mr T £150 compensation. 
Our Investigator upheld this complaint. She confirmed that the policy ownership was now 
correct  that the policies were set up with sole owners but did have both lives assured. She 
said ReAssure had corrected the issue and she felt the £150 compensation offered for this 
mistake was fair and reasonable. But she felt ReAssure had caused Mr T trouble and upset 
when sending letters to him asking for his residency for tax purposes. She said it was clear 
Mr T was upset and concerned by these letters  which were sent out in error. And that hed 
received a number of them before ReAssure confirmed it was an error. She recommended 
ReAssure pay an additional £350 compensation.
ReAssure disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to reach a decision. In summary it said it 
felt additional compensation wasnt reasonable because Mr T hadnt suffered any financial 
loss from the letters.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same outcome as the Investigator for similar reasons. 
ReAssure must do more to put things right. Ill explain why.
Policy ownership
Our Investigator explained in detail, listing the policy references, which policy numbers 
belonged to Mr T and which ones belonged to his late wife. I wont repeat the detail here but 
can confirm that the policies were set up with sole ownership. This means that when Mrs T 
passed away, the legal owner of her policy was Mrs Ts estate. The policies werent 
supposed to pass to Mr T, and it was an error that he was told that they did. Mr T is bringing 
this complaint with the consent of the executors and trustees of the late Mrs Ts estate.
Its clear that the miscommunication, and assigning the policy to Mr T in error caused him 
confusion. But I think ReAssures offer of £150 is fair and reasonable compensation for this 
confusion and so I wont be asking it to offer anything more for this issue.
Tax residency letters
The biggest issue, that does appear to be ongoing, is that ReAssure keep sending letters to 
Mr T asking him about his residency for tax purposes. These letters set out consequences of 
not reporting accurate information to HMRC. The letters have been sent out in error  likely 
because of the incorrect assignation of Mrs Ts policy to Mr T. And the content of the letters 
has clearly caused Mr T significant worry.
The first letters were sent in November 2020, and the letters said Mr T had to report his tax 
residency. Mr T sent around five emails after he received the letter and was clearly 
distressed at the content. He was explaining hed always been resident in the UK for tax 
purposes and also spoke about when he was working abroad for a small period of time. He 
continued to receive some letters and it wasnt until August 2021 that ReAssure confirmed 
that these letters were sent in error  some nine months later. I dont consider this 
acceptable, especially when it was clear from Mr Ts emails to ReAssure how upset and 
worried he was by them. I think ReAssure couldve investigated this and told Mr T that they 
were sent in error much sooner.
Mr T had told ReAssure that he felt bullied by the letters and felt ReAssure were threatening 
to report him to HMRC when he hadnt done anything wrong. He even contacted HMRC 
about the situation. Its clear from his communication at the time to ReAssure how upset and 
worried he was, so I think the issuing of the letters, as well as not addressing the issue for so 
long, as caused him significant trouble and upset. Ive also noted that recently ReAssure has 
sent another letter of this type to Mr T.
ReAssure has said that Mr T hasnt suffered a financial loss so it doesnt think additional 
compensation is fair or reasonable. But I have the power to award compensation for distress 
and inconvenience  this is where a business error causes a consumer some level of trouble 
and upset. The level of award can differ depending on the impact the error has caused that 
consumer  and we consider each case individually. In this case, its clear the error in 
sending the letters, and delay in confirming to Mr T that these were sent in error, caused him 
significant distress, so Im directing ReAssure to pay him an additional £350 compensation 
for this.
Putting things right
Reassure Limited must do the following:
- If it hasnt already done so, pay Mr T the £150 compensation it offered for the error in 
assigning his late wifes policies to him.
- Pay Mr T £350 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the tax residency 
letters it has sent him.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. ReAssure Limited must follow the 
instructions Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T, Mr T and Ms 
T as trustees of the M Will Trust to accept or reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman