DRN-1348760
 
The complaint
Ms I complains that Chubb European Group SE ("Chubb") unfairly turned down her personal 
accident claim. 
What happened
Ms I holds a private health insurance policy with Chubb, which also provides personal 
accident cover. Her policy provides a benefit in the event of her sustaining an injury covered 
by the policy, as a result of an accident.
Ms I made a claim after being diagnosed with complete hearing loss in one ear. Chubb 
declined the claim and said Ms I's hearing loss hadn't been caused by an accident. 
Ms I complained to Chubb about its decision. It responded reiterating that it didn't think Ms 
I's condition had been caused by an accident, as defined by her policy. And it said the 
medical evidence it'd seen didn't show an accident had taken place. 
Unhappy with Chubb's response, Ms I brought her complaint to this service. 
An investigator here looked into what had happened. She said she didn't think Chubb had 
unfairly turned down Ms I's claim. Ms I disagreed with the investigator's view and asked for 
the case to be passed to an ombudsman. So it's now for me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms I has made reference to decisions this service has made in the past in relation to 
personal accident claims. She's mentioned three cases in particular, but the circumstances 
of those cases are different to this one. It's rare for two cases brought to us to be exactly the 
same, and we consider each case on its merits. 
Ms I has also made reference to a case in law. In arriving at a fair and reasonable decision, 
I'm required to take into account rules and good industry practice, as well as the law. So Ive 
considered the points Ms I has made in relation to the case she's referenced. However, the 
circumstances of the legal case Ms I has referred to arent the same as those surrounding 
Ms I's claim. 
In her submission to this service, Ms I has made a number of detailed points. I won't be 
commenting on every point - instead I've concentrated on what I believe to be the main 
issues. And this reflects the informal nature of our service. When assessing Ms I's complaint, Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines. 
These say Chubb has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldn't 
reject a claim unreasonably. Having done so, I don't think that Chubb has done anything 
wrong. And I'll explain why. 
Firstly I must clarify that it's not in dispute that Ms I has suffered a total and permanent loss 
of hearing in one ear, or that she meets her policy's definition of 'loss of hearing'. However, 
as benefit is only payable in respect of an accident, for the claim to be paid, Ms I's loss of 
hearing must have been caused by an accident.
Ms I's policy defines 'accident' as follows:
"Accident / accidental 
A sudden, identifiable violent external event that happens by chance and which could not be 
expected; or unavoidable exposure to severe weather.". 
The letters provided by Ms I's consultants say: 
"Patient noticed that she had lost her hearing in the left ear when she woke up from sleep."
and
"there seemed to be no specific background medical condition to explain her sudden onset 
idiopathic sensorineural hearing loss. I suspect it was viral because, despite her slightly red, 
congested eyes, there seems to be no signs of inflammation."
Neither of the letters provided by Ms I's consultants refer to an accident having taken 
place. Indeed, the description idiopathic means of unknown cause or spontaneous. Ms I 
has said that sensorineural hearing loss is considered a medical emergency by the NHS and 
she was referred to an accident and emergency department. Whilst I accept that Ms I's 
condition needed to be treated as an emergency, this doesn't persuade me that 
the condition was caused by an accident as defined by her policy.
Ms I has made detailed submissions as to why she thinks her hearing loss meets her 
policy's definition of an accident. And I've carefully considered these. I accept that Ms I's 
hearing loss was both sudden and unexpected. However, I've not seen sufficient evidence 
that her hearing loss was also caused by something 'identifiable violent and external' as 
described in her policy. This service considers that where a policy doesn't specifically define 
a word, then that word must be given its ordinary everyday meaning. And having done so, 
I'm not persuaded that the circumstances of Ms I's hearing loss meet the definition. So I 
don't think Chubb has applied the policy terms unfairly. 
I'm very sorry that Ms I has suffered a permanent loss of hearing and I know that my 
decision will be a great disappointment to her. But Ms I's policy is designed to cover injuries 
which occur as a result of an accident, rather than illness or infection. So for the reasons I've 
explained, I don't think it was unreasonable for Chubb to turn down her claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons I've given, it's my final decision that I don't uphold this complaint. I make no 
award against Chubb European Group SE.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2020.Gemma Warner
Ombudsman