DRN-3225492
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain about the renewal price for their travel insurance policy offered by 
Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV). 
All references to URV include the agents it has appointed to administer policies on its behalf.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T held an annual travel insurance policy, provided by URV, for a number of 
years. 
In December 2020, Mr and Mrs T received a quote of £692.27 to renew their travel 
insurance for the 2021/2022 policy year. Mr and Mrs T complained to URV, saying the quote 
was significantly higher that what theyd paid in previous years. 
URV sent a final response letter to Mr and Mrs T. It said the way it priced its policies had 
changed and this, combined with increased claims volumes, the level of Mr and Mrs Ts 
cover and the Covid-19 pandemic, meant the price charged for travel insurance had 
increased. URV also said the prices of all its policies had increased  not just Mr and Mrs Ts 
- and that the price it had quoted was still competitive within the market. 
As Mr and Mrs T remained unhappy, they brought their complaint to the attention of our 
service. Our investigator looked into what had happened but said he didnt think URV had 
treated Mr and Mrs T unfairly. Mr and Mrs T didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurance policies like the one Mr and Mrs T held with URV are annually renewable. This 
means neither Mr and Mrs T nor URV are obliged to enter into a new contract at the end of 
every policy year. And, if URV does agree to enter into a new contract with Mr and Mrs T for 
another policy year, it is entitled to offer to do so on different terms. 
Generally, an insurer is entitled to decide what level of risk it is prepared to cover under an 
insurance policy, and for what price. Its not unreasonable for an insurer to take material 
facts such its general claims exposure into account when setting a price for its policies, even 
if a particular policyholder hasnt made a claim themselves. So, overall, its URVs decision 
what price it sets for the insurance it provides. 
I dont have the power to tell an insurer what its insurance should cost. That would mean Id 
be, in effect, telling an insurer how it should run its commercial operations and thats not my 
role. Instead, my role is to assess the information Ive been provided with to decide if I think 
URV has applied its view of risk consistently and fairly to Mr and Mrs T. 
I appreciate that the increase in the price which URV quoted to Mr and Mrs T in December 
2020 was more than four times the premium charged the previous year. However, URV 
provided a detailed explanation to Mr and Mrs T of why this was and set out the material 
facts it took into account when setting the December 2020 renewal price. URV has provided 
evidence to this service of how the December 2020 quote was calculated, and has 
demonstrated that the same criteria would apply to other customers with the same risk 
profile as Mr and Mrs T. 
Im satisfied, based on the evidence Ive seen, that: 
URVs calculations for the December 2020 renewal quote were correct; 
URV applied its approach to the pricing of policies like this consistently; and 
URV didnt treat Mr and Mrs T unfairly.  
Mr and Mrs T have also complained about the level of customer service they received from 
URV and that they didnt receive a call-back as promised. It would have been helpful for 
URV to have contacted Mr T by phone, if thats what it had agreed to do. However, URV 
sent a final response letter to Mr and Mrs T within 8 weeks of receiving their complaint, as 
required by the regulator. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs T, but I dont think URV has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in the circumstances, so I wont be asking it to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman