DRN-4050937
The complaint
Mr W complains that Santander UK Plc did not process his bank drafts in a reasonable 
timeframe. 
What happened
Mr W deposited two Canadian bank drafts for $75,674.07 CAD and $18,186.54 CAD into his 
Santander account. Santander acknowledged receipt of the cheques on 9 June 2022 and 
debited the £10 handling fee from Mr Ws account for each cheque.
Towards the end of August, the funds still had not cleared and Mr W began contacting 
Santander to chase the funds. Santander informed Mr W that they were awaiting the cleared 
funds from the Canadian bank, who Ill call C. Mr W then went back and forth between 
Santander and C, with both parties explaining they were waiting for the other to take action. 
Mr W eventually was able to cancel the cheques and sent the funds via a different method 
with a different bank in January 2023. He has said that due to the delays in him receiving the 
funds, he was unable to purchase a house that he was due to close on at the end of June. 
And hes had to obtain a different mortgage with a higher interest rate. In addition, he 
received a less beneficial exchange rate in January 2023 resulting in more losses. He would 
like Santander to reimburse him and pay compensation. 
Mr W referred his complaint to our service. Our Investigator looked into it and felt that there 
wasnt enough to show Santander alone was at fault for the cheques not clearing. But they 
did agree that Santander could have done more to help chase the clearing of the cheques, 
so they recommended compensation of £150, which Santander accepted.
Mr W disagreed with this. He felt the cheques had been received by Santander in April 2022 
so the delay to January 2023 was unacceptable.
The complaint was then passed to me, and I came to a slightly different outcome to the 
Investigator. I issued a provisional decision which read as follows:
Ive firstly considered the issue of the cheques themselves not being collected. Mr W has 
said he thinks the cheques were received by Santander in April 2022, however the cheques 
themselves are dated 5 May 2022, so I dont think this is possible. Santander has shown me 
an internal screenshot showing the cheques were received by them on 9 June 2022, which 
is when the handling fees were debited, and on balance Im satisfied this is when they were 
received. 
While I have evidence that the cheques were received by Santander, Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that they then contacted C to request the funds. The contact notes that Santander 
has provided does suggest the foreign cheques team were in communication with C but 
despite asking for that evidence, Santander hasnt been able to show me what was said.   
Mr W has provided e-mails between himself and C in which they say Santander has not 
contacted them, whereas Santander has said they had been chasing C for the cleared 
funds. 
The issue I have here is that both banks have blamed each other for the error and this 
complaint is only against Santander. The evidence is not clear and because of that, it isnt 
possible for me to decide what proportion of the blame Santander is responsible for in terms 
of the cheques not clearing. And based on what Ive seen so far, I cant be satisfied that its 
more likely Santander is fully responsible for the error.
Mr W has said that the delays in the cheque clearing meant he was unable to purchase a 
particular house. He said that he was due to purchase the house at the end of June, but as a 
result of the delays he had to push back the sale until the end of July. However, when the 
cheque did not clear he lost the house purchase and now has a mortgage at a much higher 
interest rate. 
Santander confirmed that a foreign cheque can take from two to eight weeks to clear from 
when the cheque is received, especially when it goes through the process of collection as  
Mr Ws cheques did. As the cheques were received by Santander on 9 June 2022, they 
could reasonably not have cleared until 4 August had they taken the full eight weeks. 
Because of this, I cant agree that Mr Ws house purchase would not have been affected 
even if no error had occurred in the cheque clearing. And as I mentioned above, I dont think 
we can fairly proportion all of the blame to Santander for the cheques not clearing. So, I 
dont think Santander needs to cover any of Mr Ws losses in relation to the failed house 
purchase.
However, as explained previously, I do think Santander has caused delays in chasing the 
funds for Mr W. While the internal notes suggest Santanders foreign cheque team had 
chased the clearing of the funds, I have not been provided evidence showing when or what 
these communications contained. All I have been provided are two swift messages, which is 
a form of communication between two banks, the first of which was on 29 December 2022, 
over six months after the cheques were received.  
On balance considering Mr W had been chasing Santander relatively regularly from August, 
and had clearly been putting in a lot of effort to try and resolve the issue, I think waiting six 
months to send a secure swift message was too long. Considering the missing funds were in 
excess of £50,000, I can understand why this would have been a very stressful experience 
for Mr W. And adding to that the fact he was trying to purchase a house, I can see why this 
was distressing and caused Mr W a great deal of inconvenience. 
With all of this in mind, I think the delays in Santander actively chasing the funds caused 
distress and inconvenience to Mr W and Im currently minded to recommend £500 
compensation in recognition of this. 
Santander responded and accepted my provisional findings and agreed to increase the 
compensation to £500.
Mr W responded and, while he appreciated that I had found in his favour, he did not think the 
£500 compensation was a fair reflection of the impact the issue had on him. 
He reiterated that he had lost his dream home and had to take a mortgage at a much higher 
interest rate as a result of this issue. He therefore asked me to consider increasing the 
compensation to account for this. He also asked what our service is doing to protect cases in 
which banks damage the finances of a customer to ensure it does not happen again. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Ws additional comments in response to my provisional decision. I want 
to assure him that I have considered the affect the issue has had on him when reaching a 
decision on compensation. And I explained in my provisional decision why I had not included 
the damages around the house purchase. This was because I did not feel there was a 
guarantee that the purchase would not be affected by reasonable delays in the cheque 
clearing process as it could take up to eight weeks to clear. Because of this, when 
considering compensation, I have focussed on the chasing Mr W had to do when trying to 
resolve the issue and the amounts that were missing. And I still feel the recommendation of 
£500 compensation is fair in the circumstances.
Mr W has also queried what our service is doing to protect customers in similar situations in 
the future. It should be noted that we are not the regulators of financial business so cannot 
recommend that they amend their processes or procedures, or fine them for wrongdoing. 
That is the role of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. We are an alternative 
dispute resolution service who focus on individual complaints against financial businesses, 
which is what we have done in Mr Ws case. 
Having considered the additional comments carefully, they do not alter the findings set out in 
my provisional decision. So for the reasons outlined above, I think the recommendation of 
£500 compensation is fair in the circumstances. .  
My final decision
Santander UK Plc should pay Mr W £500 compensation in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience the delays caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman