DRN-2837283
The complaint
Miss J complains that a car acquired under a conditional sale agreement with Vauxhall 
Finance plc wasnt of satisfactory quality.
Miss J has been represented throughout this complaint by her father. But for ease of reading 
I will refer to Miss J in my decision. 
What happened
In May 2019, Miss J acquired a new car from Vauxhall Finance under a conditional sale 
agreement.
Miss J was able to use the car for a year without any problems, but in August 2020 she says 
she noticed the car was overheating. She took it back to the dealership for repair, but she 
says the car continued to overheat throughout the next few months, and further repairs were 
undertaken. All the repairs were completed under warranty, and all repairs carried out were 
to try and combat the overheating problem.
In total, Miss Js car went back to the dealership three times between August and December 
2020, and it looks like each time the overheating continued once the repairs or replacements 
had been completed. Repairs and replacements completed by the dealership were:
Resealed radiator cap following a leak under the car;
Engine coolant thermostat replacement and;
Water outlet casing replacement. 
Miss J tells us she was without the use of the car for approximately one month during this 
time, while the car went back and forth for repair. It had covered approximately 11,000 miles 
at this point. 
The car had to go back to the dealership again in January 2021 as it had a coolant leak, and 
at this point Miss J complained to Vauxhall Finance. She explained that she had chosen to 
acquire a new car for the peace of mind and enjoyment she thought this would bring, and it 
hadnt turned out that way. She wanted to reject the car and unwind the agreement as she 
no longer had faith in it and didnt feel it was of satisfactory quality at the time she acquired 
it. Vauxhall Finance didnt uphold Miss Js complaint. They said they felt the vehicle was of 
satisfactory quality at the time Miss J entered into the agreement. They also said it was 
Miss Js responsibility to provide evidence to prove the car wasnt of satisfactory quality, as 
she had had the car for longer than six months before any faults were found. 
Unhappy with Vauxhall Finances response, Miss J brought her complaint to our service. Our 
investigator upheld the complaint. He said that he felt the car wasnt of satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied to Miss J, and Vauxhall Finance had to do something to put it right. He 
said they should:
End the agreement with nothing further for Miss J to pay;
Collect the car at no cost to Miss J;
Refund the deposit paid by Miss J of £2,375.87;
Return one months rental payment for Miss J being without use of the car between 
August and December 2020. Also return any payments made after January 2021 
until the date of settlement as the car was back in the dealership;
Pay 8% simple interest on those refunded amounts from the date of payment until 
the date of settlement;
Pay Miss J £200 for the trouble and upset shes been caused by having a car of 
unsatisfactory quality and;
Remove any adverse information from Miss Js credit file in relation to this 
agreement. 
Vauxhall Finance didnt agree. They maintained that the faults hadnt been seen within the 
first six months and they had no reason to believe the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when 
it was supplied to Miss J.
As Vauxhall Finance didnt agree, it was passed to me to decide. Prior to making my 
decision I wanted to know what the current situation with the car is. Miss J has confirmed 
she collected the car in March 2021 and has continued to pay her monthly repayments and 
use it since then. But she still wants to reject it for the reasons she explained to Vauxhall 
Finance in January 2021 when she made her complaint to them. Vauxhall Finance have 
confirmed the cylinder head and head gasket needed replacing when the car was returned in 
January 2021, and the car was with the dealership until mid-March 2021. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the conditional sale agreement entered into by Miss J is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service can consider complaints relating to it. Vauxhall Finance are also the 
supplier of the goods under this type of agreement and are responsible for complaints about 
their quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) covers agreements like the one Miss J entered. 
Because Vauxhall Finance supplied the car under a conditional sale agreement, theres an 
implied term that it is of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Cars are of satisfactory 
quality if they are of a standard that a reasonable person would find acceptable, taking into 
account factors such as  amongst other things  the age and mileage of the car and the 
price paid. 
The CRA also says that the quality of goods includes their general state and condition, and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects 
and safety can be aspects of the quality of the goods. 
But on the other hand, satisfactory quality also covers durability. For cars, this means 
components must last a reasonable amount of time. Of course, durability will depend on 
various factors. In this case, Miss J was supplied with a new car. I dont think a reasonable person would generally expect there to be a fault with the car overheating, needing a 
replacement coolant thermostat and water outlet housing, and ultimately needing a 
replacement head gasket after approximately 18 months of driving and where the car has 
only covered around 14,000 miles. 
Miss J tells us she first noticed the car was overheating in August 2020, just over a year after 
she was supplied with it. At that stage, the dealership re-sealed the radiator cap to prevent 
the car leaking underneath. That alone isnt enough for me to decide that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied. 
However, more serious issues were found a couple of months later when the car continued 
to overheat and was back in the dealership. Over the next couple of months, Miss J had to 
return the car to the dealership three more times. Each time, the dealership found a part that 
needed replacing. It started with the coolant thermostat as it was stuck to closed, causing 
the car to lose water. Following that, a couple of months later the dealership found that the 
water outlet housing was cracked and needed replacing  this was causing the car to 
overheat, and Miss J tells us she was required to fill it with water after every journey to 
ensure the temperature of the engine wasnt too high. And finally, in January 2021 the car 
needed a new head gasket. Considering the cars age, Im satisfied it wasnt of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply. I dont think a reasonable person would expect a new car to 
show faults of this nature after a relatively short space of time and having covered the miles 
it had. 
Miss J asked to reject the car in January 2021. She said she wasnt comfortable with it and 
wanted a new car for the peace of mind it would bring her, which hadnt been the case here. 
And Im satisfied rejection of the car is reasonable. Its obvious from the job sheets provided 
and the faults identified with the car, that the numerous repairs and replacements hadnt 
worked up until the point Miss J asked to reject it. Miss J asked to reject the car before the 
final, significant replacement was carried out  the nature of this replacement indicates there 
was a fault with the car, which Ive found made it of unsatisfactory quality at the time of 
supply. 
I appreciate Miss J has had the car back since March 2021 and the latest replacement may 
have solved the issue, but it doesnt detract from the fact that Miss J was entitled to reject 
the goods prior to the head gasket replacement. 
The CRA sets out that rejection of the car after the first 30 days and after Vauxhall Finance 
have had the opportunity to repair it is one of the remedies where goods arent of a 
satisfactory quality  and that is what I think should happen. As Ive said above, its clear 
from the faults with the car and the trips back and forth to the dealership that the attempts to 
repair the faults hadnt worked. 
Miss J told us she was without the use of the car for a total of one month between August 
and December 2020. This is confirmed by the job sheets provided by the dealership, with the 
car being with them from 17 September until 23 October 2020 for one of the repairs. It 
doesnt appear that Miss J was given the use of a courtesy car while the car was at the 
dealership, so I think its reasonable for Vauxhall Finance to reimburse Miss J for one 
months payment as a result. Im also aware that Miss J was without the car from the middle 
of January 2021 until the beginning of March 2021, for which I think Vauxhall Finance should 
reimburse Miss J two months repayments. So, three months repayments in total. Miss J 
has continued to use the car since it was last returned to her in March 2021, so I think its fair 
that the payments shes made since that date should be kept by Vauxhall Finance. 
The refunded payments should be made in addition to Miss Js deposit, which should also 
be refunded once the agreement has been ended and the car has been collected by the dealership.
Miss J has clearly explained the inconvenience shes suffered as a result of having to take 
frequent trips to and from the dealership and being without a car for periods of time while 
unsuccessful repairs were being carried out. Shes also had the inconvenience of a new car 
overheating, and the need for her to continue to fill up the water after using it from time to 
time. For that, I think its fair for Vauxhall Finance to pay Miss J £200.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Im upholding this complaint. Vauxhall Finance plc must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay;
Collect the car at no further cost to Miss J;
Refund Miss Js deposit of £2,375.87;
Pay 8% simple interest on this amount from the date it was paid until the date of 
settlement; *
Refund Miss J one months repayment for being without the car for a month from 
September to October 2020;
Pay 8 % simple interest on this amount from the date the payment in September 
2020 was made until the date of settlement; *
Refund Miss J two months repayments for being without the car in January and 
February 2021;
Pay 8% simple interest on this amount from the date the payments were made until 
the date of settlement; *
Pay Miss J £200 for the inconvenience she experienced as a result of not having use 
of the car at certain times;
Remove any adverse information from Miss Js credit file in relation to this 
agreement. 
*If Vauxhall Finance plc considers that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Miss J how much theyve taken off. 
They should also give Miss J a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman