DRN-3801282
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy Calpe Insurance Company Limited (Calpe) has declined a claim made
under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
In June 2021 Mr F had a car accident. He made a claim to Calpe, his motor insurer.
Calpe investigated the claim. Due to the delay in reaching a claim decision, Mr F complained
to Calpe and then to this service. An investigator looked into matters and didnt uphold the
complaint. She said that Calpe was investigating the claim and she didnt think there were
any unnecessary delays.
After that complaint, Calpe declined Mr Fs claim. They said they werent satisfied with the
veracity of the claim due to the different circumstances Mr F, and the passengers, had given.
They also said Mr F didnt report the accident to the police at the time and left the scene of
the accident. And Calpe noted the Police had concerns that Mr F was intoxicated at the time
of the accident, but as he left the scene of the accident, they werent able to breathalyse him.
Mr F was unhappy with Calpes claim decision and approached this service with a second
complaint.
Our investigator looked into things, but she didnt uphold the complaint. She said that Mr F
didnt contact the Police and that was a breach of the policy terms, and she didnt think
Calpe had made unreasonable assumptions based on all the information presented.
Mr F didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision. Whilst I reached the same overall outcome as our 
investigator, it was for different reasons. So, I issued a provisional decision, to give both 
parties an opportunity to comment on my findings, before I reached my final decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im issuing a provisional decision. Whilst Ive reached the same overall outcome as 
our investigator, there are different reasons for doing so. So, I wanted to give both 
parties an opportunity to comment on my findings before I reach my final decision.
I also should make it clear that Im only considering the second complaint  the claim
decision reached by Calpe - here in this provisional decision. The delay in reaching 
that claim decision was a separate complaint so doesnt form part of my 
consideration here.
The broader background and events are well known to both parties, albeit varying 
versions of what happened have been given. But I dont intend to outline this again in 
full here as both parties are already aware.
But to summarise, Mr F was involved in a single vehicle accident with two 
passengers in his car. Immediately after the crash, all three parties left the vehicle 
and scene of the accident.
One of the passengers returned to the scene at which point the Police had arrived 
(they hadnt been contacted by Mr F or his passengers after the accident) and the 
passenger gave a version of events leading up to the accident about where they had 
met Mr F earlier in the evening.
Mr F disputes the version of events given by the passenger. He has also given 
slightly different reasons for why he didnt call the Police and left the scene after the 
accident. And he disputes the Police (and Calpes) suspicions that he was intoxicated 
at the time of the accident.
Calpe ultimately declined the claim for the following reasons:
Differing versions of events of what happened prior to the accident
Mr F left the scene of the accident and didnt contact the Police
The Police believe Mr F was driving under the influence and left the scene to 
avoid detection
Our investigator said Mr F not contacting the Police was a breach of the policy terms, 
so it wasnt unreasonable for Calpe to decline the claim on this basis. Mr F says he 
contacted Calpe after the accident and they didnt tell him to contact the Police, and 
he has also given his own separate reasons why he didnt.
Ive checked with Calpe and the call recording when Mr F reported the accident is no 
longer available. However, I dont think that is important here or affects the outcome, 
Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the policy terms. Having done so, I dont think it would be in line with 
the policy terms for Calpe to decline the claim solely on the basis Mr F didnt contact 
the Police. I say this because the full policy terms dont make contacting the Police a 
requirement in order to make a successful claim following an accident.
The only requirement in the terms to having to contact the Police is in the event of a 
theft, but thats not relevant here as it was an accident rather than a theft. I do note 
there is more general guidance of what to do in an accident, which does mention 
contacting the Police, but this isnt a term or requirement for a successful claim to be 
made, instead it is more general guidance.
Therefore, I dont agree with our investigator that it would be fair or reasonable for 
Calpe to decline the claim solely on the basis Mr F didnt contact the Police.
However, Calpe has a number concerns over the claim and what happened, and the
reasons why Mr F left the scene of the accident. And this includes concerns over the
conflicting statements given by the passengers, and Mr F, about what happened in 
the lead up to, and after, the accident.As an informal alternative to the courts, I dont have the powers to cross examine 
witnesses to establish what exactly did happen. But, in my view, Calpe does have 
genuine concerns about the claim and events, including the conflicting information 
given by the passengers and Mr F during the claim. And I note that it is a policy 
requirement that Mr F must provide all the information and help Calpe needs in order 
to assess and process a claim. But I dont think Mr F has done enough to reasonably 
satisfy Calpes concerns here. With this in mind, Im not currently intending to 
interfere with Calpes concerns over the veracity of the claim.
So, whilst I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mr F, Im not minded to 
conclude Calpe has acted unfairly or unreasonably by declining his claim at this 
stage.
Therefore, I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint.
The responses to my provisional decision
Calpe responded to my provisional decision and said they had nothing to add.
Mr F provided several responses. He resubmitted the written statements from him (he also 
mentioned he made corrections after the interview) and the passengers, along with providing 
further comments surrounding the circumstances of what happened on the night of the 
accident. And Mr F doesnt agree with Calpes concerns, including about conflicting 
information being given.
Mr F also said the recording of his interview could be obtained, and he could also try and 
obtain it, as this would show what he answered. He also said both him and his friends 
co-operated with Calpe by providing statements.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about the conclusions I came to in my provisional decision. Having 
done so, my final decision remains the same as my provisional decision, and for the same 
reasons.
I acknowledge Mr Fs responses, and the information he has provided. However, Ive already 
seen copies of the interview statements, and I took these into account when reaching my 
provisional decision. And I also note Mr Fs additional comments on what happened on the 
night of the accident, but again, this is information he (and Calpe) previously provided.Whilst Mr F has said a recording of his interview could be obtained, I dont consider this is 
important in reaching my final decision on what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case. I say this because Ive considered the witness statements, 
including Mr Fs (with his amendments) and his passengers, along with the numerous emails 
Mr F has sent in to this service (and Calpe) in which he has explained the sequence of 
events. Therefore, I dont believe the recording will show anything different to what I have 
already considered, and relied on, when reaching my decision. Ive already taken into 
account what Mr F has explained happened from his extensive correspondence.
As I outlined in my provisional decision, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for Calpe to solely 
rely on Mr F not contacting the Police to decline his claim.
However, Calpe has a number of genuine concerns over what happened, and the reasons 
why Mr F left the scene. And as I explained, we are an informal alternative to the courts. I 
dont have the powers to cross examine all parties involved in the accident to establish with 
certainty what happened before, during, and after, the accident. I also think Calpe has 
genuine concerns based on all the information provided, including by Mr F, and the 
witnesses, and I dont think Mr F has done enough to reasonably satisfy Calpes concerns. 
Consequently, Im not going to interfere with Calpes concerns over the veracity of the claim. 
With this in mind, I dont think Calpe has acted unfairly by declining the claim at this stage. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman