DRN-1113610
The complaint
Mr K complains about how Santander UK Plc dealt with his direct debit indemnity request.
What happened
Mr K holds a current account with Santander. On 25 July 2019 almost £12,000 debited his 
account and credited an account he holds with a bank that Ill refer to here as T. 
Mr K said he hadnt authorised that payment because, instead of taking the amount it took, T 
was supposed to request the minimum payment from his Santander account. So, Mr K 
asked Santander to return the money that had left his account using the direct debit 
guarantee. 
After Mr K had requested the return of his money he was advised hed be refunded. And he 
subsequently received a text message from Santander, which told him his request was 
complete. Mr K took that to mean that his money had been refunded. But on checking his 
account Mr K discovered that the funds were still missing. 
Mr K contacted Santander to query the whereabouts of his money. He said Santander told 
him that hed need to attend a branch and provide a letter from T and some ID and any 
other information he had to support his request for the return of his money. 
Mr K wasnt happy about this and raised a complaint with Santander. He thought the direct 
debit guarantee offered a full and immediate refund of the amount that had left his Santander 
account. But Santander disagreed. Mr K told Santander he needed the money because he 
was in the process of purchasing a house. But he said Santander told him it was closing his 
complaint as there was nothing more it could do without the information it had requested 
from Mr K. 
In Santanders final response to Mr Ks complaint it told him that, due to the large amount of 
money that had left his account, it was entitled to request further information from him before 
it returned the money to his account. It said because Mr K had declined to provide the 
requested information it hadnt been able to assist him.
Mr K wasnt happy with how Santander had dealt with his complaint. So, he referred it to our 
service. Our investigator looked into it but, while they empathised with Mr K, they didnt 
uphold his complaint. Overall, they didnt think Santander had acted unreasonably and they 
didnt think it needed to do anymore here. Mr S disagreed and asked an ombudsman to 
decide his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr K experienced here. I can see how strongly he feels 
about his complaint. But, having thought about everything he and Santander have said, Ive 
reached the same overall conclusion as the investigator. I appreciate Mr K will be disappointed by this outcome. But I hope he can understand the reasons behind my 
decision.
A very large amount debited Mr Ks Santander account. But that wasnt caused by anything 
Santander did wrong. I say this because a direct debit is a pull payment. So, in setting up a 
direct debit with T Mr K gave authority to Santander to allow these payments to be made. 
And Santander had no reason to question the request that was presented to it by T. 
However, once Mr K told Santander the funds had left his account in error it had a duty to 
assist him with his direct debit indemnity request. Here, due to the large sum involved, 
Santander asked Mr K to provide additional information. Mr K feels this was unfair and 
unnecessary. 
Fortunately, Mr K isnt out of pocket due to what happened and, from what Ive seen, there 
has been no financial or other loss or detriment to him. Nonetheless, I have considered 
whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably in how it dealt with his direct debit indemnity 
request. 
As our investigator explained the Bacs Payment Schemes Limited (Bacs) is responsible for 
the schemes behind the clearing and settlement of direct debits. Bacs provides guides and 
rules to banks and other financial institutions about their obligations surrounding direct debit 
payments.   
The Paying Banks Guide and Rules to the Direct Debit Scheme, in particular, offers 
guidance to banks where a customer is requesting the return of money that has left their 
account by way of direct debit. 
Ordinarily a refund under a bank would issue a full refund immediately in line with the terms 
of the direct debit guarantee. However, the process is different where a sum of money 
exceeding £5000 is involved. In that case, a bank is entitled to request additional information 
to investigate the claim. This explains why Santander asked Mr K to provide the information 
it requested. 
Im satisfied Santanders request was in line with The Paying Banks Guide and Rules to the 
Direct Debit Scheme. Given the amount of money involved here I think it was fair for 
Santander to look into the circumstances and gather information surrounding the 
circumstances in which that money had left Mr Ks account in error before agreeing to issue 
the refund. And, as he didnt provide the information Santander needed, it couldnt secure 
the return on his money. I cant fairly hold Santander responsible for that or find that it did 
anything wrong in not returning Mr K's money.
Taking everything into consideration, I think if Mr K had provided the information Santander 
had requested from him it would have led to a quicker resolution of his direct debit indemnity 
request. And I also think the money would, most likely, have been returned to his account. I 
say this because those funds were ultimately returned by T.   
Overall, Im satisfied Santander followed the relevant rules.  Based on what Ive seen, it tried 
to help Mr K with his direct debit indemnity request. I appreciate that Mr K doesnt think 
Santander needed the additional information it requested. But if hes unhappy with the rules 
Santander followed here he should pursue that with Bacs.
Finally, Mr K also raised concerns that it was unfair of Santander to inform him by text 
message that his request was complete when his money still hadnt been returned. I can 
understand why this text message created a false expectation on the part Mr K that his money had been returned. And I can appreciate the distress and frustration he felt when he 
found out it was still missing. 
We arent here to punish businesses and, to put things right, Id have asked Santander to 
apologise for what happened here. Its already done this and, while Mr K may disagree with 
me, Im satisfied that this fairly recognises the impact receiving the text message in question 
had.
I realise Mr K will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end what we, in trying 
to resolve their dispute with Santander informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr 
K any further with this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman