DRN-4489509
Complaint
Ms S has complained about a personal loan Chetwood Financial Limited (trading as Live 
Lend) which she says was unfairly lent to her. She says she was provided with the loan at a 
difficult time and it ought to have been apparent that she couldnt have afforded it.
Background
Live Lend provided Ms S with a loan for £6,500.00 in May 2022. This loan had an APR of 
23.4% was due to be repaid in 35 monthly instalments of £243.52 followed by 1 final monthly 
instalment of £253.54.
One of our investigators reviewed what Ms S and Live Lend had told us. She thought that 
Live Lend hadnt done anything wrong or treated Ms S unfairly when it provided this loan and 
so didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. 
Ms S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Ms S complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Im not upholding Ms S complaint. Ill explain why in 
a little more detail.
Live Lend needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, what this means is that Live Lend needed to carry out proportionate checks to be 
able to understand whether Ms S could afford to make her repayments before providing this 
loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to provide loans to a customer 
irresponsibly.
Live Lend says it approved Ms S application after she provided details of her monthly 
income and some information on her expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on the funds going into her main bank account and it also carried out a credit 
search it carried out which showed Ms S had some existing commitments but these were 
being relatively well maintained at the time. 
In Live Lends view all of the information it gathered showed that Ms S could afford to make 
the repayments she was committing to. On the other hand, Ms S has said she already had a 
lot of debt and so she couldnt afford this loan.
Ive carefully thought about what Ms S and Live Lend have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that while Ms S is unhappy that the term guaranteed 
acceptance might have been used during the course of her application, its clear that Live 
Lend did carry out checks before deciding whether to lend to her. My suspicion is that the 
term Ms S is unhappy with was used because the search engine Ms S used had already 
conducted some kind of soft checks in the background before the formal application was 
completed. 
In any event and most importantly, Live Lend not only carried checks it didnt just accept 
what Ms S had said either. And its clear that Live Lend did obtain a reasonable amount of 
information before it decided to proceed with Ms S application. Having looked at the credit 
check, its clear that Ms S had some existing debts. But there doesnt appear to be any 
significant adverse information recorded at the time. 
Furthermore, while I accept that Ms S might not agree with this, I dont think that her existing 
debts were excessive in comparison to her declared income which had been cross-checked 
against what was going into her bank account each month. And these checks did not 
suggest that what was declared  which may have been declared to the search engine 
rather than Live Lend - was incorrect. 
I accept that Ms S actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information she provided, or the information Live Lend obtained. I know that she has 
confirmed that shes a carer and that she has a medical condition. Im really sorry to hear 
about what Ms S told us about and it sounds like shes going through a difficult time. 
However, I have to consider whether Live Lend ought to have suspected this. And I cant see 
how Live Lend would have known about this, or that there was anything else to indicate that 
Ms S might have been vulnerable, at the time it did its checks. What Live Lend did was carry 
out a series of checks in conjunction with the search engine that Ms S used. And all of the 
information obtained seemed to indicate that, at the time at least, Ms S could make the 
repayments that she was committing to. 
There doesnt appear to be anything in what had been gathered that was inconsistent, 
difficult to explain or warranted any further explanation. Given the circumstances here, and 
the lack of obvious inconsistencies, I dont think that reasonable and proportionate checks 
would have extended into Live Lend doing anything further.
In these circumstances, I wouldnt expect a lender to have picked up what Ms S has said for 
itself  particularly as much of it is medical and it had no way of finding out about this unless 
Ms S provided this information, which she didnt in this instance. As this is the case, I dont 
think that Live Lend did anything wrong when providing this loan to Ms S - it carried out 
proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which suggested the 
repayments were affordable. 
So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Live Lend didnt treat Ms S 
unfairly or unreasonably when lending to her. And Im not upholding Ms S complaint. I 
appreciate this is likely to be very disappointing for Ms S  as she clearly feels strongly about this matter. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that shell at least 
feel her concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding Ms S complaint, I would remind Live Lend of its obligation to 
exercise forbearance and due consideration (particularly bearing in mind what it has now 
been made aware of during the course of this complaint) in the event that it intends to collect 
the outstanding balance remaining and Ms S is experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman