DRN-4402144
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement
with Santander Consumer (UK) Plc, trading as Santander Consumer Finance, who Ill call
Santander.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint last month. An extract from that provisional 
decision is set out below.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im issuing a provisional decision here as, while I agree that the complaint should be upheld,
the redress Im expecting to order is different than the investigator had suggested
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a fixed sum loan, as was the
case here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer
Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement
has a like right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have
been met.
Santander have agreed that theres been a breach of contract here, as the car they supplied
to Mrs M wasnt of satisfactory quality and repairs have been unsuccessful.
In those circumstances, wed expect a business to support rejection of the car and to
terminate the finance agreement that funded the purchase. Wed also expect a refund of
some of the finance if the consumer had impaired use of the goods, and wed expect the
business to compensate the consumer for any distress and inconvenience caused by their
actions.
Putting things right
I understand the car was collected in February 2023 at no cost to Mrs M and that the finance
agreement was marked as settled at that point. Id agree with those actions.
Santander have already provided some redress, theyve explained they have refunded all
nine of the monthly instalments Mrs M paid, refunded £100 to cover hire car expenses, and
paid £150 of the charge the dealership levied in relation to refurbishment of damage on the
car when it was returned to them. Theyve agreed to refund the advance payment but want
to deduct £3,845 (8,546 miles x 0.45p per mile) from that advance payment in respect of the
use Mrs M has had from the car.
I dont think the charge for usage is a fair one. I can see no basis for Mrs M having to pay
more than she would have done had she had full use of the vehicle. The finance agreement
allowed her to cover 12,000 miles per year before additional mileage charges could be
applied if the car was returned at the end of term. And, pro-rata, Mrs M had travelled a little
less than that.
Im asking Santander to put things right in the way Ive set out below. Once theyve
calculated this new redress they can offset it against anything that has already been paid.
Mrs M had reasonable use of the car and had been able to cover more than average
mileage in it. A courtesy car was provided when her car was being repaired. But the courtesy
car was a lesser model, and her use and enjoyment of the car would have been impaired by
the faults she had with it. On balance, I think Santander should be allowed to retain 80% of
the finance instalments due, or paid, under the agreement. The rest should be refunded to
Mrs M with interest.
The finance agreement explains that Mrs M made an advance payment. Any advance
payment/deposit/part exchange should be refunded to her, with interest, as shes been
deprived of that money.
Santander should refund the charges made to Mrs M for the courtesy car provided.
I cant see that Mrs M had an opportunity to put any damage right before the car was
returned so I think its fair for Santander to waive the refurbishment charge levied by the
dealership.
Mrs M has had to escalate her complaint to this Service when I think Santander could have
resolved it earlier for her. I think Santanders actions have therefore caused Mrs M some
distress and inconvenience and, in the circumstances, I think they should pay her £275 in
compensation.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im expecting to uphold this complaint and tell Santander
Consumer (UK) Plc to calculate:
1. A refund of the advance payment plus 8% simple interest* per year from the date of
payment to the date of settlement.
2. A refund of 80% of all finance instalments paid plus interest* of 8% per year from the
date of payment to the date of settlement.
3. A refund of all charges paid by Mrs M for the use of courtesy/hire cars when her car
was being repaired. Add 8% interest* per year from the date of payment to the dateof settlement.
4. A refund any refurbishment charges paid by Mrs M in relation to damage on the car,
if any was paid. Add 8% interest* per year from the date of payment to the date of
settlement.
5. Compensation of £275 for the distress and inconvenience caused by Santanders
actions in addition to the good will payment of £100 already offered.
6. Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mrs Ms credit file in relation to
this agreement.
7. Deduct payments already made from payments due under points 1 to 5 inclusive and
pay the balance to Mrs M.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires the business to take off tax from this interest they must
give the consumer a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if the consumer asks for
one.
Further comments and/or evidence
Santander accepted my provisional decision. They also noticed that Id made a mistake in it 
when I suggested they retain 80% of the finance instalments paid instead of the 20% I had 
explained Id be likely to order in my pre-amble. I can see that our investigator was able to 
explain that error to Mrs M. I thank Santander for noticing it.
Mrs M responded too. She said:
I have re-read your email and Im not sure I would agree with deduction of 80% and
us keeping 20%. We have already been refunded the full amount for our monthly
payments this was never in dispute.
If the sums were round the other way I feel this would be more fair after all this time
I would like to think Santander would agree.
Mrs M provided copies of emails she had with the dealership and with Santander setting out 
the basis of her original settlement and confirming the refund of all nine of her monthly 
payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive not been persuaded to change my provisional decision.
While I appreciate that Santander had offered to refund all of the instalments, they did that 
on the basis that they would make what I considered to be an unfair deduction from Mrs Ms 
deposit for the mileage she was entitled to cover. The calculation Ive provided refunds the 
whole of that deposit with interest. Its only fair that Mrs M pays something towards the, 
albeit limited, use she had from the car and, as Ive explained, I think that should be 80% of 
the instalments paid.  Putting things right
As Ive not been persuaded to change my provisional decision that now becomes my final 
decision on this complaint, but I have rectified the error that was contained in point two.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im expecting to uphold this complaint and tell Santander
Consumer (UK) Plc to calculate:
1. A refund of the advance payment plus 8% simple interest* per year from the date of
payment to the date of settlement.
2. A refund of 20% of all finance instalments paid plus interest* of 8% per year from the
date of payment to the date of settlement.
3. A refund of all charges paid by Mrs M for the use of courtesy/hire cars when her car
was being repaired. Add 8% interest* per year from the date of payment to the date
of settlement.
4. A refund any refurbishment charges paid by Mrs M in relation to damage on the car,
if any was paid. Add 8% interest* per year from the date of payment to the date of
settlement.
5. Compensation of £275 for the distress and inconvenience caused by Santanders
actions in addition to the good will payment of £100 already offered.
6. Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mrs Ms credit file in relation to
this agreement.
7. Deduct payments already made from payments due under points 1 to 5 inclusive and
pay the balance to Mrs M.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires the business to take off tax from this interest they must
give the consumer a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if the consumer asks for
one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman