DRN-2873928
The complaint
P, a limited company, has complained that Travelers Insurance Company Limited unfairly 
refused to pay legal costs it incurred in relation to a claim under its residential property 
owners insurance policy. 
What happened
P is a management company for a block of flats. In October 2019 it made a claim to 
Travelers for damage caused by water getting in through the roof. Travelers accepted the 
buildings claim.
One of the leaseholders, L, wanted to claim for damage to contents in her flat. In December 
2019 Travelers said the policy only covered landlords contents and not those belonging to 
leaseholders. L also wasnt happy with the standard of some plastering and redecoration 
work carried out by P.
In December 2019 L brought a claim against P for negligence, nuisance and breach of its 
obligations under the lease to repair and maintain the structure of the building. 
P sent Travelers a letter from Ls solicitor dated 3 December 2019 setting out details of her 
claim. Travelers said it wouldnt get involved in the legal action.
The dispute went to arbitration. In May 2020 the arbitrator ordered P to pay L £6,906 in 
respect of damaged contents and £1,077 for repair and redecoration. He also ordered P to 
pay Ls legal costs plus interest and the arbitration fee of £6,370 plus VAT. Ps legal costs 
and half of the arbitration fee were covered by a separate insurance policy.
Travelers agreed to pay the amount due in respect of contents and repair/redecoration. But it 
didnt think it was liable to pay Ls legal costs or half of the arbitrators fee. It said if it had 
been aware of the arbitration sooner, it would have settled the matter before such costs had 
been incurred.
P complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. She thought Travelers 
had been made aware of the legal claim around December 2019 and should have dealt with 
it at that stage. So she recommended that Travelers should pay Ls legal and the arbitration 
costs. 
As Travelers didnt agree, the matter has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Travelers said that it paid for the damage to contents as a goodwill gesture. But I can see 
that under the public liability section of Ps policy it states that Travelers will indemnify P up 
to the policy limit for all sums which P shall become legally liable to pay as compensation for 
damage occurring during the period of insurance and arising in connection with Ps business 
as a management company. It goes on to say that in addition Travelers will indemnify P in 
respect of all sums which P shall become legally liable to pay as claimants costs and 
expenses in connection with the indemnity referred to above.
The question for me to decide is whether Travelers acted fairly in refusing to pay Ls legal 
costs and the arbitration fee on the ground that it had been prejudiced by P not giving it 
notice of the legal claim sooner.
When Ps broker first notified Travelers of the claim in October 2019, it mentioned that there 
was damage to the internal walls and some contents in Ls flat. When Travelers loss 
adjuster visited the property, they interviewed L and were made aware that she was claiming 
for damaged contents. Travelers said Ls contents werent covered by the policy.
It doesnt appear to be disputed that a copy of a letter dated 3 December 2019 from Ls 
solicitors was forwarded to Travelers shortly after receipt by P. That letter said the firm 
had been instructed to seek damages interests and costs from you, in respect of 
losses suffered by the above-mentioned client, arising from a nuisance and breach of 
covenant resulting in property damage. It set out in detail what L was claiming and 
why.
The letter went on to say:
If you do not provide a response to this letter within 14 days, we may commence the 
arbitration process without further notice. This will incur further costs, which our client 
will seek from you.
The amount claimed included an amount for alternative accommodation. Later in December 
Travelers agreed to pay that part of the claim. It still didnt agree to pay for Ls contents 
claim. On 16 December Travelers said it wouldnt be involved in any liability action or 
proceedings.
I can see that in a telephone call in mid-January Travelers discussed Ls claim with Ps 
broker. It still refused to pay any other part of the claim.
On 22 January 2020 Ls solicitors began the arbitration process by requesting that an 
arbitrator be appointed. The arbitrator was appointed later that month. 
P then contacted Travelers to make a claim under the legal expenses part of the policy. It 
asked it to provide legal assistance to defend the claim being brought by L. On 4 March 
2020 Travelers said:
Unfortunately as your claim relates to the third party pursuing you as a management 
company for damage to their flat I regret to advise that we will be unable to assist with your 
claim for legal expenses assistance.
The parties agreed that the arbitrator would reach a decision on the basis of written 
submissions, so there was no hearing. The arbitrator made an order on 11 May 2020.
Based on this I dont think it was fair for Travelers to say that it wasnt made aware of the 
arbitration and was deprived of the opportunity to settle the claim before costs were incurred.
Putting things rightTo put things right I think Travelers should pay Ls legal costs and half the arbitration fee 
plus in each case interest as set out in the arbitrators award.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Travelers Insurance Company Limited to pay Ls legal 
costs and half the arbitration fee plus interest in accordance with the arbitrators award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman