DRN-2862974
The complaint
Mr D complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc havent provided him with the information about 
his account as he requested.   
What happened
Mr D asked Barclays to provide him with information regarding bank transfers he requested 
from his account with them in 1989. He wanted confirmation whether these transactions 
were completed. Mr D says this is so he knows whether to pursue Barclays or the third party, 
for the return of these funds. 
Barclays responded to say that due to the time that had passed, they werent able to provide 
this information. They said they are only required to hold this information for six years and 
dont have any record of these transactions for Mr D. 
Mr D brought his complaint to our service for an independent review. The investigator 
thought Barclays had acted fairly. She said that she couldnt hold them responsible for not 
having information available from 1989. However, she didnt agree with Barclays that Mr D 
hadnt brought the complaint in time. Barclays responded to say they accepted this point that 
the case was one this service could consider. 
Mr B didnt accept the investigators view. He didnt think he had been treated fairly or 
Barclays had done enough to provide the information he wanted. He has also suggested 
involvement by government agencies to ensure information is covered up. As he remains 
unhappy, its now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr D that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So, I dont uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why. 
I appreciate that Mr D is trying to establish what happened with a large amount of money 
and that he feels that any information that Barclays could provide, to confirm where these 
amounts went, would help him in any attempt to recover the funds. 
Mr D has suggested that there might be sinister involvement or reasons why the information 
hasnt been provided to him. However, I havent seen anything to suggest that is the case. 
The information Mr D has requested relates to transactions in 1989, over 30 years ago. 
There is no requirement for a bank to keep information for more than six years and I dont 
consider it to be fair or reasonable to expect them to be able to provide this information. 
I accept my decision will come to disappoint Mr D. But, for the reasons set out above, I dont 
require Barclays to do anything to resolve this complaint. My decision ends what we  in 
attempting to resolve Mr Ds dispute with Barclays  can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman