DRN-3112556
The complaint
Miss S complains that Kensington Mortgage Company Limited trading as Kensington
Mortgages hasnt treated her fairly.  
What happened
 In 2007 a third party recommended that Miss S should take a mortgage of £10,000 plus 
fees of £2,995 with another lender over a term of ten years. The mortgage was later 
transferred to Kensington.
Miss S experienced some financial difficulty and the mortgage was switched to interest only 
in 2011.
In 2017, when the mortgage term ended, Kensington told Miss S she still owed £17,000.
Miss S said that she had paid well over £17,000. She said that Kensington refused to come
to arrangement to repay the balance, so she entered a debt payment plan. But Kensington
was later removed from the plan. Since then the mortgage balance has risen to over
£30,000.
Miss S considers that Kensington hasnt treated her fairly  it hasnt been fair or
understanding and has added unreasonable charges and interest. The balance has doubled,
even though payments have been made and Miss S has remained in regular contact with it.
Our investigator said that we couldnt look at any complaint about the interest, fees and
charges that had been applied more than six years before Miss S referred her complaint to
us  so we could only consider interest, fees and charge applied from September 2013,
along with the complaints about how Kensington dealt with her application for a debt
management plan and whether it has treated her fairly.
Miss Ss representative responded to say that we were able to investigate the integral part of
her complaint that she had made every effort to make arrangements with Kensington and
that it had failed to act fairly in relation to the relevant rules.
I issued a provisional decision proposing to uphold the complaint in part. I provisionally 
found:
We could only look at events from 6 September 2013.
Kensington had treated Miss S fairly in respect of her financial difficulties. But as the 
mortgage was interest only there were few options available to offer her. Kensington had 
engaged with Miss S and agreed payment arrangements.
I didnt think the arrears fees had been applied fairly for a number of reasons. Fees were 
applied in months where Miss S had paid more than the contractual monthly payment., 
arrears fees were applied where solicitors had been instructed and field agents had 
visited Miss S and Kensington had not properly taken account of her vulnerability. 
Kensington should refund all arrears fees it has applied since September 2013.
I couldnt see that interest had been applied incorrectly or unfairly.
It was reasonable for Kensington to turn down Miss Ss offer to pay an additional £106 a 
month. That would extend the term of the mortgage for a further 14 years and there was 
a significant possibility that Miss S might fall into difficulty again. Overall it did not seem 
to be in Miss Ss best interests.
Kensington had not explained why it was reasonable to take legal action once the term 
had ended. It knew Miss S was vulnerable and that any legal action would incur costs 
that would add proportionally a large amount to Miss Ss balance. And when it went to 
court it was sisted so that Miss S could explore any schemes that might let her keep her 
home. Kensington ought reasonably to have done that before starting legal actions. So it 
should refund all costs relating to the repossession action taken after March 2017.
The evidence we had supported that Kensington should not have been included in the 
debt arrangement scheme.
Miss Ss representative responded to say, in summary, that my proposed decision took us 
back to where we started. Miss S will still have an outstanding debt to be repaid. They would 
like to find out what options Kensington could offer.
Kensington did not respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
jurisdiction
Both sides have accepted that we can only consider events going back six years from the
date Miss S referred the complaint to us. So I cant consider events before 6 September
2013.
fair treatment
Under our rules I must take into account the relevant rules (amongst other things) in deciding
what I consider to be fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of this complaint. In
this case the Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business sourcebook (MCOB) is
relevant. Under those rules Kensington has an obligation to treat Miss S fairly and explore
what it could do to help when she fell into arrears.
In the past, Kensington had capitalised Miss Ss arrears. It also switched the mortgage to 
interest only  but that doesnt appear to have been presented as a concession to assist 
Miss S. Since then, there have been several payment arrangements, which have been 
broken.
As the mortgage was interest only, there were few options that Kensington could offer to
help Miss S. It has engaged with Miss S and agreed payment arrangements. Overall, I
consider it has largely treated Miss S fairly. I appreciate that Miss S is in difficulty through no
fault if her own. But I am satisfied that Kensington did enough during the time in question.
fees
I accept that Kensington was entitled to apply fees when Miss S was in arrears to reflect theadditional work it carried out. But it is for me to decide whether that was fair and reasonable
in the individual circumstances of this complaint.
Kensington has offered to refund £300 of arrears fees. It appears that a total of over £600 in
fees were applied during the time in question. I dont consider it was fair to do so in the
circumstances of this case:
Fees were applied when Miss S paid more than the contractual monthly payment. For 
example in September 2013, Miss S paid £200 in total, but a £50 monthly arrears fee 
was applied. While the account might have remained in arrears, it doesnt seem fair 
for Kensington to apply a fee in circumstances where Miss S was likely paying as 
much as she could, that was more than the monthly payment and where she had 
known financial difficulty. I would also question if it was fair, in the circumstances, to 
carry out the same level of work
Arrears fees were applied at the same time as solicitors were instructed. Possession 
action should be a last resort. So its not clear why Kensington was charging fees for 
work it carried out in relation to the arrears when it was taking legal action. And there 
is likely to be a degree of duplication in the work being carried out.
Arrears fees were applied in the same months as a field agent visited Miss S. 
Again there is likely to be some duplication throughout the period I am looking at
It is clear that Kensington should have been aware that Miss S was vulnerable. She 
had suffered bereavements, had mental health problems, experienced financial 
difficulty and had relationship problems. All those are clear indicators of vulnerability. I 
cant see that Kensington took reasonable steps to deal with that.
I consider it would be fair for Kensington to refund all the monthly arrears fees it has 
applied since September 2013.
That leaves the legal fees that have been applied during the term of the mortgage  I will 
deal with those applied after the end of term later. Kensington should only instruct 
solicitors to take steps to repossess the property when it is genuinely a last resort. Under 
the terms of the agreement it can pass on any costs it incurs to Miss S.
I can see why Kensington started legal action. The arrears were significant and payment 
arrangements were made and broken, then legal action started only to be halted when a 
new arrangement was made. I accept that Kensington was in a difficult position. It had to 
go through a process to get to the stage where it could take possession but it could only 
do so when it was the last resort. I can see the argument that perhaps it could have taken 
into account Miss Ss overall position and whether the prolonged action it was taking and 
the associated cost was reasonable  but I consider the refund of arrears fees is a fair 
reflection of that. After careful consideration, overall, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Kensington to instruct solicitors when it did and to pass on the costs to Miss S.
interest
I cant see that interest has been applied incorrectly or unfairly.
end of term
Once the mortgage term ended, Kensington should still have treated Miss S fairly. To do 
that it ought to have explored the options available to her and given her time to look at what else she could do. Although Kensington would be entitled to carry out affordability 
checks in regard to any changes  good practice would require it to look more widely into 
whether any proposed change was in Miss Ss best interests.
I cant consider whether Kensington acted fairly in switching the mortgage to interest only 
or whether it was fair and reasonable to accept that Miss S would repay the mortgage with 
savings, bearing in mind what it knew about her circumstances. Nor can I consider 
whether Kensington considered whether the switch was in Miss Ss best interests rather 
than storing up problems for the future.
Nevertheless, when Miss S switched to interest only she agreed to repay the full mortgage 
balance at the end of the mortgage term in March 2017. So Kensington was entitled to look 
for her to repay the balance. But it would have been clear, bearing in mind the contact it 
had with Miss S and the conduct of the account, that this was unlikely. As Ive said, to treat 
Miss S fairly, it should explore the options available to her.
Kensington hasnt set out what options it had available when a borrower reaches the end 
of term. I can see that it declined an offer from Miss S to pay the monthly payment plus an 
additional £106 as that would take over 14 years to repay. I agree that such a long-term 
arrangement would not seem to be in Miss Ss best interests. In view of the conduct of the 
account, there was a significant possibility that Miss S might fall behind with her payments 
and the balance would go up  further eroding any equity in her home. In addition, Miss S 
would have to pay interest for a further 14 years, on top of what she has already paid.
Overall, I dont consider that Kensington acted unfairly in rejecting that offer.
Kensington took repossession action once the term had ended. But it hasnt sufficiently 
explained to me why that was the right option at that time, bearing in mind the court 
hearing was sisted so that Miss S could explore other options that were available. 
Kensington should have known that such options were available and explored them before 
commencing court action  particularly as it was aware (and reasonably should have 
been) that Miss S was vulnerable.
I accept that Kensington was entitled to take court action once the term had ended. But Im 
not persuaded it was fair or reasonable in the individual circumstances of this complaint. It 
didnt consider the schemes that might have been able to help Miss S  and in view of her 
vulnerability and precarious position it ought reasonably to have done that before starting 
court action at the end of term. It knew that would add proportionally a large amount to 
Miss Ss balance and I dont think that was fair here. Kensington should refund any costs it 
has applied to Miss Ss mortgage in relation to the possession action since the term ended 
in March 2017 and any associated interest.
I appreciate that Miss S would like a solution to the situation she finds herself in. A lot of 
the problem stems from the switch to interest only that I cant consider. It is reasonable for 
Kensington to tell Miss S what options are available to help her. Although it is possible that 
the options that are available arent appropriate for Miss S. Nevertheless, it should 
consider Miss Ss circumstances and explore whether there is anything it can do to assist 
her. If there is nothing it can offer, then it is reasonable to give Miss S some time to seek 
financial advice to see if there is anyway to repay the mortgage balance, which is now due. 
But if a viable solution isnt found then Kensington would be entitled to take possession 
action and pass on the costs to Miss S.
debt arrangement scheme
The evidence available to me supports Kensingtons position that it shouldnt have been 
included in the debt arrangement scheme as the debt was secured and the term of the 
mortgage had already ended by that point.I can see that Kensington instructed solicitors to deal with its removal from the scheme and 
has passed those costs on to Miss S.
My final decision
My final decision is that Kensington Mortgage Company Limited should:
Refund all of the arrears fees and any associated interest it has applied to Miss Ss 
mortgage since 6 September 2013.
Refund all costs (solicitors costs, court costs etc) and any associated interest incurred 
since the term ended in March 2017 that were charged in relation to the court case that 
was sisted  including all preparatory work.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman