DRN-2971389
The complaint
Mr R complained because Barclays Bank UK PLC refused to refund him for multiple 
transactions which had debited his account between 2014 and 2021.
What happened
In October 2020, Mr R contacted Barclays. He asked for copies of the last six years of his 
statements, saying there were some transactions he didnt recognise. 
After various phone calls, and branch visits, Mr R told Barclays he was disputing multiple 
transactions which had debited his Barclays account since 2014, and he wanted a refund for 
these. Mr Rs account of which of the transactions he was disputing varied over time. He 
also told Barclays he didnt remember ever receiving statements, which was why hed only 
just found out about the disputed transactions. He said hed lived at multiple addresses. He 
gave at least six addresses to Barclays, though hed only told Barclays about three of those. 
The total Mr R claimed was just over £14,200 for around 300 transactions. He told Barclays 
that in 2011 hed been evicted and didnt get all of his paperwork back  so he thought that 
at that point someone had obtained the information enabling him to be impersonated.
Barclays didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. It said its fraud team had investigated, but  hadnt 
identified any third party access to Mr Rs account. 
Mr R wasnt satisfied and asked this service to look at his complaint.
He told our investigator that he still had the debit card, attached to its original letter. He also 
had three letters with the PIN, and said hed never revealed the PIN  and hadnt used the 
card himself. He also said hed never been without a debit card. Mr R also told the 
investigator that the reason hed contacted Barclays in late 2020 was that the bank had sent 
him a text about a fraudulent transaction  and that it had paid him £50 compensation on 
various occasions. Barclays didnt have any record of having sent Mr R a text, and said it 
hadnt paid him any compensation, in the relevant period.
The investigator didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint about the disputed transactions going back 
to 2014. He explained that:
- The withdrawals had taken place over a number of years, which wasnt typical of a 
fraudster who would typically withdraw as much money as possible straightaway;
- The withdrawals had been made in a branch at a machine with extra security 
features. As well as the genuine card and PIN, larger withdrawals would need two 
numbers from Mr Rs date of birth. Hed told the investigator hed used one of these 
machines;
- Since 2015, Barclays had sent Mr R five different debit cards, and the disputed 
transactions had taken place using these different cards. The investigator thought 
that on balance Mr R had received these cards, because Mr Rs current account had 
been in constant use, and hed said hed never been without a debit card;
- There had also been transfers from Mr Rs savings account to prevent his current 
account going overdrawn. A fraudster with access to Mr Rs savings account would 
have just taken the money out, not transferred it to his current account before 
withdrawing it from that.
Mr R wasnt satisfied. He said there had been more unrecognised transactions than the 
investigator had considered. The investigator explained that hed looked at the statement 
which Mr R had sent to Barclays, marked up with disputed transactions just on his savings 
account not on his current account. Mr R also asked about a £50 reversal on one of his 
statements, which the investigator explained was a reversal of a cash machine transaction. 
The investigator also sent Mr R a copy of one of the statements which Mr R had said he 
didnt have.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. As Mr R has disputed 
transactions over a long period, there are two relevant regulations. The transactions before 
13 January 2018 are governed by the Payment Services Regulations 2009. Those after 13 
January 2018 are governed by the Payment Services Regulations 2017. In both cases, 
broadly speaking the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, and the 
customer is liable if he did authorise them. The regulations also say that account holders can 
still be liable for unauthorised payments under certain circumstances  for example if theyve 
failed to keep their details secure to such an extent that it can be termed gross negligence.
I can see from the records that Mr R hasnt always been able to be clear about which 
transactions hes disputing. But I can see that the figures in Barclays final response letter 
indicated that Mr R had told Barclays he was disputing transactions for a total of £14,214.84. 
The notes show these were for 291 transactions on both his savings and current accounts. 
After so long, the technical authentication records arent available for all of these, but Ive still 
considered what I think is more likely than not to have happened for all the transactions Mr R 
disputed at various times, taking into account all the circumstances of the case.
Mr R told Barclays that he thinks someone obtained his personal information in 2011 when 
he was evicted and didnt get back some of his papers. But fraudsters take out the maximum 
amount of money they can, and empty accounts  straightaway. Its just not at all likely that 
fraudsters would obtain details in 2011, then only take money out gradually between 2014 
and 2021. Any many of the withdrawals are for around £20. Fraudsters wouldnt take out £20 
and leave a larger balance untouched.
Looking at the actual withdrawals, in order to take money out at a cash machine, its 
necessary to have the genuine card and correct PIN. Barclays issued five cards to the 
addresses it had for Mr R. All five cards were used over time, and the withdrawals generally 
took place at a branch Mr R said hed used. The cards which were out of date wouldnt have 
been accepted  so the correct, currently-valid cards were used for the withdrawals. Cards 
have a chip in them, and chip technology is complex and sophisticated  - so  there have 
been no known instances when the chip in the card has been successfully copied. And there 
are 10,000 possible combinations for a four digit PIN. 
This means that whoever carried out all the withdrawals had the genuine card (as updated 
over the years) and knew the correct PIN, which Mr R said he hadnt written down. Ive 
explained above why I dont think anyone stealing Mr Rs documents in 2011 would have waited so long before fraudulently withdrawing money. And theres been no suggestion 
about other ways in which any third party fraudster could have regularly obtained Mr Rs 
genuine card, found out his PIN, and then returned the card between every transaction so 
Mr R didnt realise it was missing.
The investigator also asked Mr R how he monitored his account, if he never received 
statements. Mr R told him that he did this by checking at a cash machine. There were 
occasional credits to Mr Rs account, so I think its likely hed have wanted to check that 
these had arrived. But I find it very surprising that, given that Mr R was checking his account 
at a cash machine, that he didnt contact Barclays until many years after some of the 
transactions had taken place. 
Taking all these factors into account, I think its more likely than not that Mr R carried out the 
disputed transactions himself.  So I dont require Barclays to refund him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman