DRN-4474623
The complaint
Mr M complains about the suitability of the advice provided by Esteem Money Ltd (Esteem 
Money) in October 2017 to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits in the British Steel 
Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension plan (PPP).
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 23 November 2023 in which I set out 
the background and my provisional findings. Ive repeated what I said here:
Mr M had built up safeguarded benefits in the BSPS while employed by Tata Steel UK Ltd 
(Tata Steel). The BSPS was a defined benefits (DB) pension scheme that provided a 
guaranteed lifetime income to members.
In March 2016, Tata Steel announced that it would be examining options to restructure its 
business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with members 
referred to possible outcomes regarding their safeguarded benefits, one of which was a 
transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to 
provide compensation to members of DB pension schemes when their employer becomes 
insolvent. Tata Steel closed the BSPS to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017. By that 
point, Mr M had built up 28 years and 9 months pensionable service in the BSPS between 
June 1988 and March 2017. His annual scheme pension as at the date of leaving the 
scheme was £15,545.56. This would be revalued over the term to retirement by a prescribed 
rate.
In May 2017, the PPF announced that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement 
(RAA) had been agreed. This was approved by The Pensions Regulator in August 2017  
under the announced plans, Tata Steel agreed to set up and sponsor a new DB pension 
scheme, the BSPS2, subject to certain conditions relating to funding and size being satisfied. 
Members were told that if the re-structure was approved, they would have three options 
regarding their safeguarded benefits:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP
In September 2017, terms of the re-structure were confirmed enabling trustees of the BSPS 
to start to talk to members in detail. This led to the Time to Choose communication pack 
being issued to members, including Mr M, in October 2017. The pack provided more detail 
about the three options available and was intended to help members choose an option.
Mr M was concerned about what the announced changes meant for the security of his 
safeguarded benefits in the BSPS. He was introduced to Esteem Money by another 
business, Lawrence Miller and Company, to provide pension transfer advice. The following 
information about Mr M was recorded in October 2017:
He was aged 47, in good health and unmarried. He was co-habiting with a long term 
partner. He didnt have any children financially dependent on him;
He was employed full-time by Tata Steel and paid gross annual income of about 
£37,500. He didnt expect his employment status to change in the foreseeable future;
His assets comprised his residential home valued at about £150,000. He didnt have 
any other savings or investments;
His liabilities comprised a mortgage of about £30,000 outstanding on his residential 
home which was due to be repaid in five years time. He also had an unsecured loan 
of about £3,000;
After paying for bills and essentials, he had surplus disposable income of about £600 
available every month;
In addition to the value of his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS, he had been a 
member of Tata Steels defined contribution (DC) pension scheme since April 2017. 
The total annual contribution paid into his DC plan was 16% of his gross annual 
salary. He was also on course to receive the full state pension at age 67;
Through his employment he had a lump sum death in service benefit of three times 
his salary;
He was an inexperienced investor with little knowledge and experience of 
investments. On a scale of 1 to 5 where 1 (Cautious) was lowest risk and 5 
(Adventurous) was highest risk, his risk profile was determined to be 3 or Moderate 
risk. This was defined as, You prefer to invest in a broad range of core stock-market 
linked investments, where the overall returns achieved are more closely linked to the 
performance of the underlying assets. In so doing, this will provide you with the 
potential to benefit from real capital growth. However, you should be aware that 
investment values will fluctuate according to market conditions.
His capacity for loss was determined to be Moderate. This was defined as, Your 
sensitivity to volatility is realistic and you recognise that markets fluctuate, and that 
some short- term volatility must be accepted in order to achieve your investment 
objectives. You have sufficient assets outside of your portfolio and an investment 
time horizon far enough in the future to withstand small to medium losses without any 
detrimental effect to your living standards.
On 27 October 2017, Esteem Money issued its suitability report to Mr M. This confirmed      
his objectives regarding his safeguarded benefits were as follows:
To review your former employer's pension with a view to meeting your retirement 
goals.
Specifically, you want to preserve the death benefits for your long-term partner in the 
event of you predeceasing her.
You also want to be able to access benefits at 55 in a flexible manner to allow you to 
retire early and pursue your catering business venture.
Esteem Money explained in the suitability report that Mr M had three options regarding his 
safeguarded benefits, as previously communicated by the BSPS. And that the BSPS had 
offered a transfer value of £412,996.03 in respect of his pensionable service if he transferred 
to a PPP. Esteem Money calculated the following critical yield figures based on that transfer 
value (excerpt from the suitability report):Esteem Money discounted the PPF and BSPS2 options and instead recommended that     
Mr M accept the transfer value of £412,996.03 and transfer to a PPP to achieve his 
objectives for the following reasons:
To preserve the death benefits for [Mr Ms partner].
While invested your fund will benefit from tax advantaged growth.
Benefits can be taken at any time from age 55.
25% of the uncrystallised pension fund can be taken as a Pension Commencement 
Lump Sum (tax free cash) payment.
A broad range of investment opportunities offering enhanced flexibility.
You will benefit from much greater freedom and flexibility regards accessing your 
pension benefits.
There will be no death benefit charge on an uncrystallised pension fund if death is 
before age 75 and the value of pension benefits is within the lifetime allowance.
It recommended that the PPP fund value be invested with two discretionary fund 
management (DFM) providers to align with Mr Ms Moderate risk profile (excerpt from the 
suitability report):
Esteem Money stated in the suitability report that the introducer, Lawrence Miller and 
Company, would provide ongoing advice and reviews to Mr M in connection with the 
recommended PPP. The costs associated with the recommendation were as follows:
1.50% initial advice charge deducted from the PPP fund value
1.50% (or £6,194.94)  initial adviser charge for recommendation and 
implementation, split between Esteem Money and the introducer, Lawrence Miller 
and Company
1.43% ongoing annual charges deducted from the PPP fund value
0.80% discretionary fund management charge
0.13% investment management charge
0.50% ongoing annual advice charge payable to Lawrence Miller and Company 
Mr M accepted the recommendation, following which the transfer to the PPP was completed. 
This complaint
During 2022, Mr M complained about the suitability of the pension transfer advice Esteem 
Money had given him in 2017. He felt that he had been misled about the ability to retire early 
under the BSPS2. And that he had also been misled about the investment returns he would 
receive under the PPP compared to the revaluation rates applicable to his safeguarded 
benefits. He was also unhappy about the level of fees involved in the transaction. In his view, 
the pension transfer advice was unsuitable and had caused him to suffer a financial loss.
Esteem Money didnt uphold this complaint. It clarified that it was only responsible for the 
pension transfer advice  and that it couldnt be held responsible for the subsequent 
investment performance of the PPP. In summary, it was satisfied the advice was suitable 
because, in its opinion, it was the only option available that fully met Mr Ms stated objectives 
to maximise the death benefits available to his partner and to have the flexibility to retire 
early from age 55. It was satisfied that it had adhered to and considered relevant FCA rules 
and guidance including providing Mr M with all the necessary information and risk warnings 
in good time to be able to make an informed decision. It didnt believe the alternative options 
of the PPF or BSPS2 couldve met Mr Ms objectives.
One of our investigators considered this complaint and recommended that it be upheld 
because, in his view, Esteem Money had failed to demonstrate that transferring to the PPP 
was clearly in Mr Ms best interests. He thought that the pension transfer to the PPP was an 
unsuitable outcome for Mr M. Given his circumstances and objectives, he thought Mr M 
shouldve been advised to transfer to the PPF on the basis of prospective early retirement at 
age 55. To put things right, our investigator recommended that Esteem Money carry out a 
redress calculation in line with the FCAs guidelines on the basis that Mr M transferred to the 
PPF, took benefits at age 55 and would be a 20% income taxpayer in retirement. In addition, 
he recommended that Esteem Money pay Mr M £300 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused by its unsuitable recommendation.
Mr M accepted our investigators assessment. Esteem Money didnt agree with our 
investigator and provided substantial additional comments in response. In summary, it 
maintained its position that the pension transfer met Mr Ms stated objectives and so its 
advice should therefore be regarded as suitable.
Our investigator considered those additional comments but wasnt persuaded to change his 
view and recommendation that this complaint should be upheld. Since agreement couldnt 
be reached, this complaint has been referred to me to review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
FOSs approach to deciding complaints
In response to our investigators assessment, Esteem Money expressed it concerns about 
how we decide complaints. It says our approach to assessing complaints about BSPS 
pension transfers is flawed and that we dont follow FCA rules and guidance which has 
resulted in inconsistencies in approach between the FCA and this service when assessing 
the suitability of pension transfer advice. Its concerned our investigator didnt assess this 
complaint on its own facts and that the recommended uphold outcome was already pre-
determined.
I want to address Esteem Moneys concerns. Firstly, I can assure it that we consider each 
case on an individual basis based on the available evidence. While some cases may appear 
to have similar circumstances, they can have different facts involved and so wont 
necessarily have the same findings or outcome. In the case of BSPS pension transfers, 
many members were facing the same, uncertain situation following the announcement by 
Tata Steel in March 2016 which resulted in many of them being advised to transfer away. 
The background and circumstances were very similar for lots of members  and so its 
inevitable that our decisions on complaints about BSPS pension transfers will include similar 
content when setting out the background, circumstances, the reasons for the 
recommendation to transfer and when referencing relevant FCA rules and guidance. But the 
similarity in content on different decisions doesnt mean the outcome of this complaint was 
pre-determined as Esteem Money believes to be the case.
My role, as set out in DISP 3.6.1R, is to decide this complaint by reference to what is, in my 
opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. And when considering whats fair and 
reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 and the 
Dispute Resolution section in the FCAs handbook, I need to take into account relevant: law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on 
the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened 
based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ive carefully considered all the available evidence afresh including Esteem Moneys 
substantial comments in response to our investigators assessment. Id like to make clear 
that the purpose of this decision isnt to repeat or address every single point raised by the 
parties. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected 
what I think is the right outcome.
The FCAs applicable rules and guidance
The below isnt a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time
of the advice but provides useful context for my assessment of Esteem Moneys actions 
here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading
PRIN 9: A firm must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and 
discretionary decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule)
COBS 4.2.1R: A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion is 
fair, clear and not misleading
 
The suitability rules and guidance that applied when Esteem Money advised Mr M were set 
out in COBS 9.2. The relevant rules were COBS 9.2.1R and 9.2.2R.
The provision in COBS 19 which specifically relate to a DB pension transfer were as follows:
COBS 19.1.2R required the following:
A firm must: 
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a 
defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits 
with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension 
scheme or other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client 
to transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with 
safeguarded benefits;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able 
to make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the 
factors that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no 
later than when the key features document is provided; and(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison 
and its advice.
And COBS 19.1.3 G stated:
In particular, the comparison should:
(1) take into account all of the retail client's relevant circumstances;
(2) have regard to the benefits and options available under the ceding scheme and 
the effect of replacing them with the benefits and options under the proposed 
scheme;
(3) explain the assumptions on which it is based and the rates of return that would 
have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up;
(4) be illustrated on rates of return which take into account the likely expected returns 
of the assets in which the retail client's funds will be invested; and
(5) where an immediate crystallisation of benefits is sought by the retail client prior to 
the ceding schemes normal retirement age, compare the benefits available from 
crystallisation at normal retirement age under that scheme.
Under the heading Suitability, the following was set out:
COBS 19.1.6G: 
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits 
whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a 
transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a 
transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on 
contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the client's best 
interests
COBS 19.1.7G:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or 
pension opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where 
relevant, in relation to the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved 
to replicate the benefits being given up.
COBS 19.1.7B:
In considering whether to make a personal recommendation, a firm should not 
regard a rate of return which may replicate the benefits being given up from the 
defined benefits pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits as 
sufficient in itself.
COBS 19.1.8G:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal 
recommendation;(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Businesses are required to follow these rules and consider the guidance because the FCA 
considers safeguarded benefits to be valuable. Based on the above regulatory rules and 
guidance, businesses advising on pension transfers should start by assuming that the 
existing DB pension scheme is suitable and to only recommend a transfer, which converts 
safeguarded benefits into flexible benefits, if it can clearly demonstrate its in their clients 
best interests.
In assessing the suitability of Esteem Moneys advice to Mr M, its necessary for me to have 
due regard to the FCAs rules and guidance stated above.
Mr Ms situation when Esteem Money advised him
The situation for Mr M wasnt normal because the existing DB pension scheme, the BSPS, 
was closing. So he was essentially forced to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits to 
a new scheme. Three options were available, as stated by the BSPS in its Time to Choose 
communication pack and repeated by Esteem Money in its suitability report.
The BSPS was one of the largest DB pension schemes in the UK with approximately 
125,000 members. Its undeniable that it was a period of great uncertainty for BSPS 
members, many of whom had been largely passive pension savers and found themselves 
having to make major and irreversible choices about their financial futures. I think its fair to 
say that many members were in a vulnerable position due to the uncertainty surrounding the 
future of the BSPS. As a result, I think it was essential for any regulated adviser making a 
recommendation to a BSPS member to have a detailed understanding of each of the options 
available and of their customers personal circumstances.
In response to our investigators assessment, Esteem Money stated that when it advised          
Mr M in October 2017 it wasnt certain that the BSPS2 would go ahead and so shouldnt be 
considered as an option in deciding this complaint. I disagree. Its my view that by          
October 2017 there wasnt an imminent threat of the BSPS entering the PPF  on the 
contrary, by that time the key commercial terms of the RAA had been agreed and approved 
by The Pensions Regulator. Given that the whole purpose of the consultation was to prevent 
the BSPS entering the PPF, I think, by October 2017, it was more likely than not the BSPS 
would avoid entering the PPF by being restructured into a successor scheme  as it then 
did. And so I think the option of joining the BSPS2 shouldve been considered by Esteem 
Money. Indeed, its clear from its suitability report that it had considered the BSPS2 at the 
time it advised Mr M, going as far as calculating critical yield figures for that scheme.
The PPF and BSPS2 options provided guaranteed lifetime income but there were 
differences between them for deferred members like Mr M. The PPF was designed to 
provide members with at least 90% of their starting pension value but the BSPS2 was 
designed to provide members with 100%. The PPF was likely the better option for unmarried 
members who expected to retire early or take the maximum tax-free cash available even 
allowing for the 10% reduction in the starting entitlement. But the BSPS2 was likely the 
better option for married members or those who expected to draw benefits at or close to the 
scheme normal retirement age of 65. The BSPS2 provided the potential for discretionary 
increases to the scheme pension, a higher level of spouses pension and the option to 
transfer to a PPP at a later date, if then deemed suitable. The benefits available under the 
PPP option would be dependent on the performance of underlying investments and annuity rates available at retirement  in other words, there were no guarantees regarding the level 
of benefits paid.
I dont believe that the circumstances surrounding the BSPS altered the FCAs position or its 
expectations of firms. Our investigator thought Mr M shouldve been advised to transfer to 
the PPF on the basis of prospective early retirement at age 55. I disagree. In my view, based 
on Mr Ms circumstances and the uncertainty about when he would be able to retire, its my 
view that the BSPS2 was likely the better option for him bearing in mind the FCAs view on 
safeguarded benefits and what was known at that time. So its my fair and reasonable 
opinion that Esteem Money shouldve only recommended a transfer to the PPP in favour of 
the BSPS2 if it could clearly demonstrate why it was in Mr Ms best interests, as referenced 
in COBS 19.1.6G.
Having considered the evidence, its currently my opinion that Esteem Moneys pension 
transfer advice to Mr M was unsuitable. My view can be summarised as follows:
The primary purpose of a pension is to meet the income needs of an individual during 
retirement. Mr Ms safeguarded benefits, accounting for 28 years and 9 months 
pensionable service, represented his most valuable asset. Esteem Money assessed 
Mr M as having a Moderate capacity for loss. The definition for this included the 
statement, You have sufficient assets outside of your portfolio and an investment 
time horizon far enough in the future to withstand small to medium losses without any 
detrimental effect to your living standards. I disagree. Mr M had very limited other 
assets outside of his safeguarded benefits that could be used to support his 
retirement income needs. Given the lack of other assets, Esteem Money ought to 
have recognised that Mr M was likely to be heavily reliant on the value of his 
safeguarded benefits to generate a minimum level of core income to support his 
standard of living in retirement until state pension age. And that he therefore had a 
very limited capacity for loss. So I think it was important not to expose the value of 
his safeguarded benefits to unnecessary risk by treating flexibility, control and 
maximisation of death benefits as a high priority at the expense of the primary 
income purpose  unless there was a clearly suitable reason to do so;
According to the contemporaneous evidence, one of Mr Ms objectives was to retire 
early from the steel industry at age 55 to enable him to pursue a catering business 
venture he had just started. But he was then aged 47 and so couldnt access any 
benefits until age 55 at the earliest under the PPP. So the basis of the advice wasnt 
to enable Mr M to retire immediately  rather, it was based on the prospective 
withdrawal of pension benefits several years in the future. In my view, with such a 
time frame until pension benefits could be accessed, it made the case for a pension 
transfer at that time  for the sake of achieving possible early retirement from age 55 
 more difficult to justify;
Esteem Money stated that early retirement at age 55 was allowed under the BSPS2 
subject to a reduction in the annual pension income. The reduction wasnt a penalty. 
Rather, the reduction was applied to reflect the fact that the scheme would have to 
support the income for longer than anticipated, and to protect the interests of scheme 
members generally. I think Esteem Money portrayed the PPP option as allowing for 
early retirement earlier than age 65 without penalty. The reality was of course that 
the PPP wouldve had less time to grow if accessed earlier than age 65 and any 
resulting income would need to last longer. I cannot see that this was adequately 
explained to Mr M so that he could understand accessing any of the available options 
early would likely lead to reduced retirement income during his lifetime compared to 
taking benefits at age 65;The further away from retirement an individual is, the harder it is to establish a 
realistic income figure and whether early retirement would in fact be possible. Theres 
conflicting contemporaneous evidence in Esteem Moneys records. A document titled 
Pension Planning Supplementary Fact Find noted that Mr Ms annual retirement 
income need from age 55 was £15,000 in 2017 terms. But in a document titled 
Retirement Planning Report it stated the annual retirement income need from age 
55 was £24,000 in 2017 terms. Theres no reference to whether these were gross or 
net figures or how the conflict in the target income figure was resolved. To confuse 
matters further, theres no reference in the suitability report about Mr Ms target 
income need and, therefore, what the pension transfer to the PPP was targeting  
rather, the suitability report refers to an accompanying illustration but its unclear 
what illustration this is. Regardless of which figure the advice was based on, I think it 
wouldve been difficult to calculate an accurate target income figure with such a 
substantial time frame until age 55;
Notwithstanding the confusion about Mr Ms retirement income need, Im concerned 
about Esteem Moneys approach to this. In my view, where a client has a retirement 
income need  as Mr M clearly did due to the lack of other assets  the starting point 
is to establish a realistic target income based on the clients likely fixed outgoings, 
discretionary spending plans and excess income for saving. This information would 
then reveal the core income required to cover the expected expenditure from the 
target retirement age  and this would then provide a basis for the recommendation. 
But in Mr Ms case, Esteem Money didnt do this. Rather, it seems its used a notional 
figure of either £15,000 or £24,000 without any supporting evidence based on Mr Ms 
likely fixed outgoing and discretionary spending plans. I dont think this approach was 
appropriate because without understanding Mr Ms retirement income need its 
difficult to conclude that the pension transfer at that time was clearly demonstrated to 
be in his best interests;
One of the reasons for the pension transfer was to enable Mr M to access pension 
benefits from age 55 to enable him to pursue a catering business venture he had just 
started. Im not convinced it was clearly in Mr Ms best interests to relinquish valuable 
benefit guarantees attached to his main pension provision to pursue a business 
venture several years in the future. His plans may well have changed by the time he 
reached age 55. Furthermore, theres no evidence Esteem Money considered and 
discounted alternative options such as borrowing money to facilitate the venture;
Overall, its my view that Esteem Money failed to obtain the necessary information 
relating to Mr Ms financial situation including his anticipated income and expenditure 
during retirement when assessing whether it was suitable for him to transfer out of 
the BSPS to achieve his early retirement objective. It may well have been the case 
that Mr Ms retirement income and lump sum needs couldve been met by the BSPS2 
but Esteem Money failed to establish this. Ultimately, however, theres insufficient 
evidence to demonstrate why it was in Mr Ms best interests to transfer at that time to 
achieve his early retirement objective or whether he could in fact retire earlier than 
age 65;
Transferring to the PPP led to the investment, inflation and longevity risks associated 
with his safeguarded benefits being transferred from the scheme to Mr M. Those 
risks wouldve been retained by the BSPS2 had he transferred to that scheme  I 
cannot see that there was any compelling reason for Mr M to take on those risks at 
that time, particularly since he couldnt access any benefits for at least several years;
Had Esteem Money advised Mr M to transfer to the BSPS2 he wouldve maintained safeguarded benefits and retained the option to transfer to a PPP at a later date, if 
then deemed suitable, when he could immediately access benefits and, crucially, 
determine his retirement income and lump sum needs with far greater accuracy than 
at age 47;
Esteem Money recorded that Mr M wanted to transfer his safeguarded benefits to a 
PPP to provide greater flexibility when drawing benefits from his pension fund rather 
than have guaranteed lifetime income. Its unclear why Mr M apparently didnt value 
guaranteed income. He had received guaranteed income all his working life. So I 
think a guaranteed retirement income from another source such as the BSPS2 
before state pension age wouldve been valuable for an individual in his 
circumstances;
Flexibility and control might sound attractive, but I cant see that Mr M had any 
concrete need for it. Im not persuaded that it was appropriate for an inexperienced 
investor to relinquish the guarantees attached to his main retirement provision in 
exchange for more risk so that he could access flexible benefits in the future. Theres 
no real evidence that Mr M required the flexibility of irregular lump sums or variable 
income during retirement. But if he did require it, then any flexible needs couldve 
been met by his DC workplace pension into which he was contributing 16% of his 
salary. And hed also have access to tax-free cash under the BSPS2. This doesnt 
appear to have been adequately considered by Esteem Money;
Mr M had surplus disposable income of about £600 available every month, which 
would increase once his mortgage was repaid in five years time at around age 52. 
Theres inadequate evidence that Esteem Money considered saving some of these 
additional monies in either a pension, investment or savings account to provide 
flexible income or lump sums rather than transferring and losing benefit guarantees;
Esteem Money recorded that Mr M was concerned about the security of his 
safeguarded benefits and so wanted control over his pension. But he appears to 
have been a largely passive pension saver up until that point. Theres no evidence he 
had experience of controlling, managing or investing large sums of money. In my 
view, Mr M had limited knowledge and experience to enable him to understand the 
risks involved in transferring his safeguarded benefits; 
It was noted that Mr M was concerned about a transfer to the PPF at a later date. 
While I understand that he may have been concerned about this, I dont consider a 
transfer to the PPF was an outcome to avoid. Under the PPF, Mr M wouldve 
received a minimum of 90% of his scheme pension. This contrasted with the 
recommended PPP where theres no promise of a minimum level of benefits payable. 
If Mr M was concerned about his safeguarded benefits being transferred to the PPF 
which would result in him losing 10% of the scheme pension, then I question why, as 
an inexperienced investor, he would accept the risk of transferring to a PPP which 
exposed his benefits to unlimited downside risks where the loss could be significantly 
greater than 10%. This doesnt make sense to me; 
It was recorded that Mr M was concerned that neither the BSPS nor the PPF would 
provide benefits for his long-term partner because they werent married. While I 
understand that death benefits are important to consumers, the priority here, in my 
opinion, was to advise Mr M about what was best for his own retirement provision. 
He was in good health at the time. Withdrawing money from the PPP to meet income 
and lump sum needs would likely mean that the size of the fund remaining in later 
years  when death is more likely  could be much smaller than expected. I cant see 
that this was explained to Mr M. Through his employment he had a generous lump sum death in service benefit based on a multiple of three times his salary. And the 
BSPS2 (had he been advised to opt for that option) would provide a refund of his 
personal contributions of about £50,000 as a lump sum. In addition, the value of his 
DC workplace pension plan would be payable as a tax-free lump sum. So its clear 
his partner would receive a large (relative to what was recorded about their wider 
financial situation) lump sum death benefit from other sources in the event of his 
death. And if this was deemed insufficient, the surplus disposable income he had 
available couldve been used to obtain life cover to provide a lump sum on death. 
These factors dont appear to have been adequately considered by Esteem Money;
Its my view that Mr M had no health issues at the time Esteem Money advised him 
which might reasonably have prompted him to relinquish the guarantees attached to 
his own retirement income for the sake of an enhanced safety net for his partner 
bearing in mind the cover already in place. So Im not convinced there was any real 
merit in him transferring to a PPP at that time to provide a lump sum death benefit at 
the cost of losing valuable benefit guarantees;
The TVAS calculations showed that the critical yield figures to match the benefits 
under the BSPS2 were 5.95% at age 65 and 8.47% at age 55 on the basis Mr M 
opted for a reduced pension and tax-free lump sum. Esteem Money stated in the 
suitability report that it considered the critical yield figures as being achievable and 
acceptable. I disagree. These critical yield figures compared with discount rates of 
4.4% at age 65 and 3.5% at age 55, as explained by our investigator in his 
assessment. For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time 
was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per year. Its 
my view that a required investment growth rate ranging between 5.95% and 8.47% 
was incompatible with the discount rates and Mr Ms PPP being invested in a DFM 
portfolio with a risk rating described as Moderately Cautious. I think these factors 
showed that it was likely Mr M would be financially worse off as a result of the 
pension transfer;
Notwithstanding the above, I think the critical yield figures were incorrect. While the 
cost of ongoing advice of 0.5% of the PPP fund value was taken into account, it 
appears that the figures were based on an initial advice charge of £1. But the initial 
advice charge was £6,194.94 (or 1.5% of the transfer value). Including that initial 
advice charge wouldve led to the critical yield figures being greater than stated, 
which further increased the risk that Mr M would be worse off by transferring. This 
meant that Mr M wasnt provided accurate information about the level of investment 
growth required in the PPP to match the scheme pension;
In my view, the suitability report failed to meet the fair, clear and not misleading 
requirements of COBS 4.2.1R. It was generic with templated wording to describe               
Mr Ms objectives with the result that the recommendation wasnt sufficiently tailored 
to his individual circumstances. I think it lacked sufficient colour and detail. As noted 
above, it appears it included misleading information regarding the critical yield figures 
due to the absence of the initial advice charge. And it failed to provide sufficient 
information on the alternative options, as Ive set out above, to achieve his stated 
objectives. I think these inadequacies in the suitability report led to him making an 
uninformed decision to proceed with a pension transfer when this was not in his best 
interests.
Conclusion
The transfer out of the BSPS was recommended on the grounds that it would meet Mr Ms 
objectives of achieving early retirement, income flexibility, flexible death benefits and control over investment choice. It appears to me that Esteem Money placed greater emphasis on   
Mr Ms objectives, failing to assess whether the pension transfer was in his best interests 
and whether the objectives could in fact be achieved by transferring to the BSPS2. 
Overall, I dont think the contemporaneous evidence supports the position as to why Mr Ms 
objectives wouldve been sufficiently compelling reasons for him to relinquish valuable 
benefit guarantees by transferring to a PPP at that time, especially in view of his good state 
of health and level of reliance on these monies to provide retirement income. Based on what 
Ive seen, I think Esteem Money failed to give adequate consideration to the risk that Mr M 
couldnt financially bear the risks involved in the pension transfer. 
I havent seen any evidence that shows the pension transfer to the PPP led to Mr M gaining 
any clearly defined advantage compared to the alternative option of transferring to the 
BSPS2 at that time. As a result, I think its fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint.
In summary, my provisional decision was that it was fair and reasonable to uphold this
complaint based on the available evidence. I went on to set out what I considered was fair
compensation on the basis that Esteem Money undertake a redress calculation in line with 
the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in 
policy statement PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4. I also said 
that Esteem Money should pay Mr M £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused 
by its unsuitable recommendation.
I asked both parties to this complaint to provide any further comments or evidence that they 
wanted me to consider before I made my final decision. 
Both Mr M and Esteem Money have replied and confirmed that they accept my 
recommended outcome and proposed redress methodology.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 and the Dispute Resolution section in the FCAs handbook, I need to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, 
and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
The findings I made in my provisional decision and set out above form part of this
final decision. Given the responses received, I see no reason to depart from my provisional 
decision of 23 November 2023 to uphold Mr Ms complaint. And so Ive decided to proceed 
on this basis.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Esteem Money to put Mr M, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice he was given. 
Properly advised, I think Mr M wouldve transferred to the BSPS2 and his benefits would 
now be preserved in that scheme. I acknowledge that he had an aspiration to retire from age 
55. However, he was about eight years away from that target retirement age when Esteem 
Money advised him. I think its fair to say that plans about retirement can change over such a 
long period of time. Im not persuaded that theres sufficient contemporaneous evidence that supports the position Mr M wouldve started taking his safeguarded benefits which involved 
taking a regular income at age 55. And Im not convinced it could be reasonably determined 
at the time that the PPF was the likely better option for Mr M. And so I think, given his age 
and the lack of clarity surrounding when he would retire, the BSPS2 was likely the better 
option for him based on what was known at the time and that at age 65 the BSPS2 would 
provide a higher level of benefits than the PPF.
As such, the calculation on the basis of entering the BSPS2 should be carried out. For 
clarity, compensation should be based on the BSPS2s normal retirement age of 65 for the 
reasons explained. Esteem Money must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line 
with the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in 
policy statement PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Esteem Money should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the 
redress. A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr M and our service upon 
completion of the calculation.
The calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line with 
DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or 
submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ms 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Esteem Money should:
calculate and offer Mr M redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr M before starting the redress calculation that:
- its redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his PPP
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr M receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum;
if Mr M accepts Esteem Moneys offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge him for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented; 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ms end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr M as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Esteem Money may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension. Typically, 25% of the loss couldve been taken as tax-free cash and 75% wouldve 
been taxed according to Mr Ms likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. In addition, Esteem Money should pay Mr M £300 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused by its unsuitable recommendation, as recommended by our investigator.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Esteem Money Ltd to 
pay Mr M the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that
Esteem Money Ltd pays Mr M the balance. 
If Mr M accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Esteem Money Ltd. 
My recommendation wouldnt be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr M can accept my final 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept my final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman