DRN-3552295
The complaint
Miss C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC gave her inconsistent and incorrect 
information about the early repayment charge (ERC) if she repaid her buy to let mortgage. 
She says this caused delays and her sale fell through. While Barclays offered compensation, 
she asks that it increases this to cover her legal costs, council tax and lost rental income.
What happened
Miss C decided to sell her buy to let property. She checked the amount of her ERC with 
Barclays and was told it was 1% of the balance of her mortgage. On this basis she accepted 
an offer for the property. When she received the redemption statement the ERC was 2%. 
Miss C asked Barclays to investigate this. However, her buyer pulled out before Barclays 
responded.
Our investigator said while Barclays made errors, its payment of £750 compensation and 
offer to apply an ERC of 1% was fair. The investigator said Barclays wasnt responsible for 
the costs Miss C incurred in relation to her sale.
Miss C didnt agree. She said she wouldnt have tried to sell her property if shed known the 
ERC was 2%.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Barclays accepts it made errors. It says while the ERC was 2%, it had told Miss C it was 1% 
on more than one occasion. Because of this, Barclays agreed to apply an ERC of 1% if 
Miss C repaid her mortgage while the product applied. And it offered compensation of £750. 
Had the sale of Miss Cs property completed, she might well have considered that to be fair 
compensation for the upset and inconvenience caused by Barclays error. But Miss Cs sale 
fell through. Miss C says this was due to the delay while she waited for Barclays to respond 
to her complaint.
Miss C says Barclays should pay her costs related to her failed sale as well as 
compensation for lost rental income of about £2,300 per month from November 2020 to 
March 2021, and the costs related to the property during this period. She says the sale fell 
through due to delays caused by Barclays. And if shed known at the outset the ERC was 
2% she wouldnt have marketed the property for sale and incurred these costs.
Ive set out briefly what happened, based on what the parties have told us.
Miss C took out a new product in March 2019. This had an ERC of 2%, in place until May 
2021. Barclays says this would have been stated on the mortgage information sheet. 
Miss C says she was told the ERC would be the same as her previous product (1%). 
After Miss C took out the product Barclays sent a confirmation letter saying the ERC was 
1%. Barclays says it sent a further letter correcting this, but cant find a copy. It says its 
notes on the account suggest this letter also said the ERC is 1%. 
Miss Cs tenants left her property in early November 2020. Miss C provided evidence 
that the tenancy agreement ended on 8 November 2020.
Miss C says she put the property on the market in November 2020. She provided her 
contract with the estate agents, which she signed on 23 November 2020.
Miss C says she accepted an offer for the property and provided a memorandum of sale 
dated 3 December 2020. This said the proposed dates for exchange and completion 
were ASAP. It said the purchaser was to place a deposit to show intent. 
Miss C called Barclays in late November 2020 to check the amount of the ERC (Barclays 
said it was 1%) and asked for a redemption statement (which she didnt receive).
In early January 2021 Miss C was told the ERC was 2%. She made a complaint and told 
Barclays the matter was urgent due to her sale.
Miss C says she didnt want to exchange contracts for her sale until she knew how much 
the ERC was. She told Barclays in early February 2021 she was due to exchange 
contracts for her sale the following week.
Barclays told Miss C it would apply a 1% ERC on 19 February 2021. Miss C told 
Barclays her sale had fallen through the previous day.
Did Barclays make an error?
Ive listened to a recording of Miss Cs call with Barclays in November 2020 when it told her 
that the ERC was 1%. It was clear about this, even when Miss C asked it specifically to 
confirm that it was 1% and not 2%. This discussion was important as Barclays had sent 
Miss C inconsistent information previously about whether the ERC was 1% or 2%. Barclays 
confirmed the products on both sub accounts expired in May 2021. Miss C asked for a 
redemption statement, which she says she didnt receive.
Barclays made errors. It had previously told Miss C several times that the ERC was 1%, and 
it told her this again in November 2020. I think Barclays took too long (until 19 February 
2021) to respond to Miss Cs complaint and confirm what ERC it would apply. 
Did Barclays error cause Miss Cs sale to fall through?
Miss C says her buyer wanted to benefit from the stamp duty holiday which was due to end 
on 31 March 2021. She told Barclays on 4 February 2021 that she was expecting to 
exchange contracts the following week. 
The implication of what Miss C says is that waiting for Barclays to confirm the amount of the 
ERC was the only matter holding up the sale. However, Miss C hasnt been able to provide 
evidence to support this  such as an email from her solicitor confirming they were otherwise 
ready to exchange contracts. I asked if Miss C could provide a copy of her solicitors invoice, 
as this would usually set out what work had been carried out. I also asked if Miss C could provide other evidence, such as the cover letter or email attaching the contract ready to sign. 
Miss C didnt provide this. She provided a fee estimate dated 2 December 2020 addressed 
to a family member. But this doesnt evidence the work carried out by the solicitor, or that 
Miss C and the buyer were ready to exchange contracts.
Barclays said it would apply an ERC of 1% on 19 February 2021. Miss C told it that the sale 
had already fallen through. This was about a week after shed been due to exchange 
contracts  and more than five weeks before the stamp duty holiday was due to end. If her 
buyer was keen to buy the property and in a position to exchange contracts, they could at 
this point have gone ahead and done so.
While Miss C says her buyer pulled out due to delays caused by Barclays she hasnt 
provided evidence to support this. There are a number of reasons for property sales falling 
through. I dont think, based on the available evidence, I can reasonably find that the only or 
the main reason Miss Cs sale fell through was due to delays caused by Barclays.
Is Barclays responsible for Miss Cs losses during the sales process?
Miss Cs tenants left the property in early November 2020 and Miss C put the property on 
the market in late November 2020.
While the property was marketed for sale, it was empty and Miss C lost rental income or at 
least the opportunity to try to let it. She had costs, such as monthly mortgage payments and 
council tax. 
The balance of Miss Cs mortgage was about £400,000. The ERC would have been about 
£4,000 (if it was 1%) and about £8,000 (if it was 2%). Miss C contacted Barclays in 
November 2020 to check the amount of the ERC. Most likely this was one of the factors she 
took into account when making decisions about the property. 
However, Miss C had taken the decision to market the property for sale rather than to re-let 
it, and had instructed the selling agent before the call in November 2020 when Barclays 
wrongly said the ERC was 1%. 
Miss C appointed the selling agent in mid-November 2020 and marketed the property for 
sale at about £650,000. Shed accepted an offer of £615,000 before 2 December 2020. This 
means Miss C accepted an offer of £35,000 less than the asking price after shed marketed 
the property for about two weeks. This could suggest that Miss C was keen to sell the 
property quickly. Miss C could have avoided paying any ERC if shed waited to sell the 
property after the product expired in May 2021.
Barclays gave Miss C incorrect information about the amount of the ERC. The difference 
between the ERC Miss C was told shed pay and the actual amount due was £4,000. I think 
its reasonable for Miss C to say this was a significant amount of money that shed have 
taken into account when making decisions about the property. 
But I dont think I can fairly find that Miss C wouldnt have continued with the sale of the 
property if shed been given correct information about the ERC when she called in late 
November 2020. Her tenants had left in early November and the property was vacant. Shed 
already instructed selling agents and started to market the property for sale. Miss C could 
have avoided paying an ERC by waiting until May 2021 to sell the property. And Miss C 
accepted an offer of £35,000 less than the asking price when the property had only been 
marketed for about two weeks. This could suggest that selling the property at that time was a 
higher priority for Miss C than achieving the highest possible net proceeds from the sale. Ive considered what Miss C has said very carefully. Im sorry that her sale didnt proceed as 
shed hoped. I dont think, in the circumstances, that I can fairly find that Miss C would have 
acted differently if shed been given correct information about the ERC in November 2020. It 
follows that I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Barclays to pay compensation for 
any costs she incurred related to the sale process or the property, or for lost rental income. 
Theres no doubt though that this caused Miss C upset and inconvenience. Its quite 
reasonable for Miss C to want to know how much the ERC would be if she repaid the 
mortgage. It must have been frustrating that Barclays took more than a month after she 
raised her complaint to confirm it would apply an ERC of 1%, especially as she was hoping 
to sell the property. Taking all this into account, I think compensation of £750 is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay £750 to Miss C, as it offered to do. It 
can deduct any amounts it has already paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman