DRN-2821464
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that AWP P&C SA declined their claim against their travel insurance 
policy. Reference to AWP includes reference to its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, in February 2020, Mr and Mrs H booked a family trip with 
departure and return dates of 18 July 2020 and 1 August 2020 respectively. They 
booked their flights and accommodation separately. On 6 March 2020, Mr and Mrs H 
bought a single trip travel insurance policy which started and ended on the same dates 
as their trip.
Mr and Mrs H cancelled their trip because of the quarantine requirements on their return 
to the UK. Mrs H is a nurse and couldnt be on leave for the period of the trip and the 
quarantine period. On 17 July 2020, Mr and Mrs H rearranged their flights so that the 
departure and return dates were 24 July 2021 and 7 August 2021 respectively and paid 
an additional amount in doing so.
Mr and Mrs Hs claim against their policy is for the cost of their flights in 2020 and the 
additional amount they paid when they rescheduled their flights for 2021. AWP says that  
Mr and Mrs Hs policy doesnt cover what happened here. Mr and Mrs H want AWP to 
settle their claim and they want compensation for the time they spent dealing with the 
claim. 
The background facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considerable sympathy for Mr and Mrs H and can quite understand why they didnt 
wish to travel in July 2020 and be subject to quarantine restrictions on their return. But I 
agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr and Mrs Hs policy provides cover for cancellation in certain, specified 
circumstances. Mr and Mrs H seek to rely on two parts of the cancellation provisions, 
which say as follows:
CANCELLATION OR CURTAILMENT OF YOUR TRIP
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the summary of cover for the unused 
portion of your travel and accommodation costs that you have paid or contracted to 
pay and you suffer a financial loss because you cannot get a full refund if you cancel 
before the start of your trip [] because of the following:
1. the death, bodily injury, illness or being subject to quarantine of you, []
[]
7. you, or any person you intended to travel with, who is a member of [] the 
nursing profession [] being ordered to return to duty.
Cancellation cover applies before a trip starts. Mr and Mrs H didnt cancel their trip 
because they couldnt travel as they were subject to quarantine. They cancelled their 
trip as, quite understandably, Mrs H wished to avoid quarantine on their return. Thats 
not something thats covered under the policy. 
Ive seen no evidence that Mrs H was ordered to return to work, so I dont think        
Mr and Mrs Hs claim is covered by that provision.  
Even if I reached a different conclusion about the cover provided by Mr and Mrs Hs 
policy, claims arising from disinclination to travel are excluded under the policy. 
In addition, Mr and Mrs H didnt suffer any loss in relation to the flight costs, as the 
airline permitted them to reschedule their flights. The additional cost they incurred for 
the 2021 flights isnt something thats covered under the policy. 
Considering everything, I dont think that AWP treated Mr and Mrs H unfairly in 
declining their claim. Theres no basis on which I could fairly direct AWP to deal with 
this claim which isnt covered by the terms of the policy.  
Its not clear whether Mr and Mrs Hs rearranged 2021 trip will proceed but, in any 
event, that trip isnt covered under Mr and Mrs Hs single trip policy for the 2020 trip. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 August 2021. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman