DRN-2566578
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them an
endowment policy for the repayment of their mortgage.
For ease of reference, Ill refer to Mr and Mrs D as the complainants in my decision. 
What happened
The complainants took out their endowment policy at the same time that their mortgage was 
arranged. They believe this was done through an adviser in a Halifax branch who sold them 
the policy in 1984. However, due to the time thats passed since the sale, and because they 
surrendered the policy a number of years ago, the complainants no longer hold a copy of the 
relevant documents.
They complained to Halifax about the sale of the policy in 2020. Because of the
time that had passed, Halifax had very few records available and nothing to indicate it was
responsible for the sale. Consequently, it didn't uphold the complaint.
Upon bringing the matter to our service, our investigator agreed that there wasn't sufficient 
evidence that Halifax was responsible. Because they disagree, the complainants asked for 
the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. They maintain that Halifax is in fact responsible, 
as it conducted the sale. Also, the complainants submit that it should not be down to them to 
hold records of the policy. 
Because the complainants remain in disagreement, the complaint has been escalated to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can only uphold a complaint if I'm satisfied that a financial business had done something
wrong. And in order to make an award I must be satisfied, on balance, that a business is
responsible for what happened. For the purposes of deciding this case, it wouldn't be fair or 
reasonable for me to make an award against a business that didn't sell the policy in 
question.
I appreciate the complainants version of events and why they consider it to be Halifaxs 
responsibility to consider the alleged mis-sale. Understandably, given the passage of time, 
they arent clear about whom they dealt with and no longer hold any records that could prove 
the seller was indeed Halifax.
Where the complainants have been unable to produce a record of the policy documents (or 
record of sale), in this case Im left with whats available from Halifax and what it can 
reasonably find.  
Halifax has told our service that it too has no documentary evidence that it was in fact 
responsible for the sale. The archives it has do not reference the complainants nor the policy 
number they were able to provide to the bank. Moreover, its common ground that the 
complainants surrendered the policy at some point between 1991 and 2006. Which was in 
itself some years ago now  so, even if Halifax was in fact responsible, it isnt surprising 
that the bank no longer holds record of the policy given that its only generally required to 
hold onto most information for up to six years. 
I am satisfied that Halifax has consulted the known policy providers that it acted as an agent/ 
representative for around the time of 1984. Its substantiated that its asked these separate 
entities whether they have record of the policy. Unfortunately, these attempts have not 
returned any results to help track down the responsible business. Ive considered Halifaxs 
reaction to this complaint and, taking into account the lack of information to rely on, Im 
satisfied that it has exercised reasonable endeavours to assist the complainants. 
I must consider that these events happened some thirty years ago. Overall, having reviewed 
the matter carefully, I don't uphold this complaint as I'm not persuaded I can fairly find 
Halifax is responsible for the sale of the policy  there just simply isnt sufficient evidence 
that shows me that Halifax was the selling agent or acting as a representative of the policy 
provider. Invariably, when complaints are made so long after the event there is very little 
information to go on. However, if the complainants do obtain further information in the future 
that sheds more light on the matter, I would expect Halifax to fairly consider it.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman