DRN-2169585
The complaint
Mrs C has complained that her motor insurance provider One Insurance Limited voided her
policy and refused to deal with her claim.
What happened
Mrs C had a motor insurance policy with One Insurance. The policy renewed monthly and
each month One Insurance would send out documentation for Mrs C to check before the
policy renewed. The policy covered Mrs C only, with no named drivers being covered.
Mrs C also had a second vehicle that was insured elsewhere. Mrs C has told us that her
husband was a named driver on that policy to use that vehicle. Mrs C explained that he had
been involved in an accident while driving that vehicle on the 25 January 2019.
In July 2019 Mrs C was involved in an accident and attempted to claim on her One
Insurance policy.
One Insurance refused to deal with the claim and voided Mrs Cs policy. It explained that Mrs
C hadnt made it aware of the claim that had been made under Mrs Cs other policy, and if
she had made it aware, that it would not have offered insurance at all.
Our Investigator considered Mrs Cs complaint and explained that under the rules, One
Insurance could only take the action it had if Mrs C had failed to take reasonable care not to
make a misrepresentation, and only if the misrepresentation had an impact on the insurers
decision to offer the policy.
Our Investigator therefore looked at the questions that One Insurance asked Mrs C and
explained that the information One Insurance had requested did not cover the accident in
January 2019.
One Insurance argued that Mrs C would still have known to declare the accident as she had
declared an accident from 2013. But One Insurance has also explained that it doesnt know
who the driver at the time was.
In my provisional decision sent in August 2020, I explained why I thought this complaint 
should be upheld. I said:
When Mrs C renewed her policy each month she had a responsibility - under the Consumer
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) - to take reasonable care not
to make a misrepresentation. And for One Insurance to take any action at all it needs to
show Mrs C didnt do this, and that she made whats described as a qualifying
misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out several things that need to be considered when deciding whether
a consumer failed to take reasonable care. One of these considerations is the questions
the consumer was asked.
Each month One Insurance sent out documents to Mrs C when her policy was due to renew.
The relevant statement within the documents was the following:
Please show below any accidents, thefts or losses (irrespective of blame and whether a
claim resulted) which you or any other person who will drive have been involved in within
the past 5 years
But Mrs C has explained that it was her husband driving her other vehicle on a separate
policy that had the accident in January 2019. Mrs Cs husband wasnt insured to drive the
vehicle covered under her One Insurance policy.
As the statement above states which you or any other person who will drive have been
involved in I dont think One Insurance has asked a clear question that would capture the
accident that took place in January 2019, as Mrs C's husband was not insured under the
One Insurance policy.
One Insurance has further said that it was Mrs C that was involved in the accident in January
2019, so she should have disclosed the information, and that there was a previous accident
recorded from 2013 on the policy, so Mrs C should have known to disclose the one in
January 2019 too.
Ive thought about what One Insurance has said but it hasnt provided any evidence to
support the allegation that Mrs C was driving at the time of the accident in January 2019,
and we dont know the circumstances of the accident that took place in 2013, not that I think
this would add much weight to One Insurances argument, as it was its responsibility to ask
clear questions that would capture the information it wanted to receive.
So, I dont think Mrs C has misrepresented any information by not disclosing the accident in
January 2019, and it wasnt fair for One Insurance to take the action that it did.
To put things right I thought One Insurance should:
Remove the voidance marker from any internal and external databases this has been 
recorded on.
Pay Mrs C £150 compensation for the trouble and upset it has caused by unfairly 
voiding her policy and not dealing with her claim. 
Deal with Mrs Cs claim under the remaining terms of her policy. I understand Mrs C 
has now sold the insured car, so this will have to be considered by One Insurance, 
including any loss she has incurred as a result of One Insurance not dealing with her 
claim from the outset.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither One Insurance nor Mrs C provided any further information in response to my 
provisional decision I see no reason to make any changes to my provisional findings.
I require One Insurance Limited to:
Remove the voidance marker from all internal and external databases this has been 
recorded on.Pay Mrs C £150 compensation for the trouble and upset it has caused by unfairly 
voiding her policy and not dealing with her claim. 
Deal with Mrs Cs claim under the remaining terms of her policy. I understand Mrs C 
has now sold the insured car, so this will have to be considered by One Insurance, 
including any loss she has incurred as a result of One Insurance not dealing with her 
claim from the outset.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require One Insurance Limited to put things right by doing what 
Ive explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman