DRN-3868513
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way Santander UK Plc has managed his mortgage when he 
experienced financial difficulties.
What happened
In 2005 Mr M got an interest only mortgage with Santander. By 2020 Mr Ms mortgage was 
in arrears and had been for some time.
In August 2021, Santander offered to capitalise Mr Ms arrears. Mr M says that he was told 
on a number of occasions that after hed made six monthly repayments on time after his 
arrears were capitalised, he would have access to a better (lower) interest rate. However he 
says that once hed done that he was told that 12 months (not six months) had to pass 
before he would have access to the better interest rates.  
Santander accepted there had been some confusion. In its final response it said that it could 
have offered Mr M a new interest rate once the mortgage has been up to date for one 
month. However, it said that its interest rates are more favourable when the mortgage has 
been up to date for 12 months. It says it paid him £75 compensation as a gesture of 
goodwill.
After Mr M complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service Santander told us it uses a 
banding system to determine the interest rates that are available to customers. It said the 
band a customer is in is based on several factors such as account conduct, the customers 
credit file and other external information. It said it told Mr M the best interest rate that was 
available to him when he contacted it on various occasions in 2021 and early 2022, but he 
chose not to accept a new interest rate until January 2022.
Our investigator said that having considered all the available information she thought 
Santander had acted fairly by offering Mr M the interest rates that were available to him. She 
could see that Mr M was in different bands in late 2021 and early 2022. She said that Mr M 
was able to secure a better (lower) interest rate in January 2022 than hed been able to get 
in late 2021.
Mr M remained unhappy. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it 
has been passed to me to decide. He didnt raise any further points.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusion our investigator has reached. Ill explain why.
Its clear that Mr M thinks he should have been able to get the best interest rate around six 
months after his mortgage was capitalised around August 2021. He thinks he should have 
been able to secure an interest rates as low as 1% around that time and thinks that he 
wasnt able to secure such an interest rate because Santander went on to say that the best 
interest rates would be available to him around twelve months after his mortgage was 
capitalised.
However, having considered the available information Im not persuaded thats the case. Im 
satisfied that the interest rates available to Mr M were determined by the band he was in. 
Ive been provided with information about the band Mr M was in throughout 2021 and early 
2022. Ive seen nothing to indicate that Mr M wasnt offered the best interest rate for his 
banding when he spoke to Santander during that period. Its important to note Mr M was 
offered better rates than the standard variable rate throughout, even if these werent always 
the best rates it offered. I dont think its unreasonable that Santander chooses to offer its 
best rates to those customers it thinks presents the least risk  and that its view of the risk 
Mr M presented (and so the rates available to him) changed over time as he built up a longer 
history of making his payments in full. 
Im conscious that Mr M will be disappointed by the outcome of this decision. However, 
having taken everything into account, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to 
say that the interest rate Mr M agreed to in January 2021 was higher than it should have 
been. It follows that I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman