DRN-4084837
The complaint
Mrs B complained, in her capacity as representative for Mr W (who I will call B), that 
Vanguard Asset Management, Ltd (Vanguard) failed to fully acknowledge its responsibility 
for the impact of delays during the process of arranging a Junior Individual Savings Account 
(JISA) transfer to a third party. She is unhappy that compensation Vanguard has paid is 
insufficient redress overall as it doesnt take into account investment loss.
What happened
Mrs B wanted to transfer Bs JISA away from Vanguard to a different investment platform. 
Mrs B was dissatisfied with Vanguard and wanted to move the JISA in order to take 
advantage of investment opportunities that Vanguard didnt offer.  
Vanguards records show it received the transfer authority from Mrs Bs new platform 
provider (the third party) on 18  August 2021. On 23 August 2021, Vanguard emailed its 
valuation of the account to the third party and it received notification of acceptance from the 
third party on 1 September 2021. Mrs B chased up what was happening with the transfers 
on 22 September 2021 and an exchange of messages followed. The transfers of the stocks 
and shares elements completed on 11 November 2021 and the residual cash element was 
transferred on 22 November 2021 and reached Bs new account two days later.
Vanguard said it shouldve actioned the acceptance from the new provider on 
1 September 2021 and that it understood why Mrs B had been prompted to complain about 
the length of time the transfer had taken. It admitted it was responsible for delays during the 
transfer process and upheld Mrs Bs complaint. Vanguard apologised and paid £150 into her 
bank account to reflect its admitted delays in transferring Bs JISA. Vanguard didnt however 
agree that it had prevented Mrs B adding additional funds into the JISA although it had 
explained that this would disrupt the transfer process. So it wasnt prepared to accept 
responsibility for any investment loss. 
Mrs B was unhappy with this response as she had understood that Vanguard would look at 
further compensation if she provided supporting evidence to show investment loss as a 
result of missing out on trading due to Vanguards delay  which she felt she had done. So 
she brought her complaint to us and one of our investigators looked into what happened.   
Our investigator thought that Vanguard had done enough to put things right. He felt the 
redress paid was fair. In particular, he didnt think there was evidence that demonstrated 
what Mrs Bs investment decisions would have been before or when the transfers were first 
initiated. Without sight of any emails from Mrs B to the new platform provider stating her 
investment intentions or evidence of any pending orders, our investigator didnt feel he could 
fairly ask Vanguard to do anything more.
Mrs B disagreed with our investigator and asked for an ombudsman review. She put things 
this way:
Vanguard acknowledged losses were incurred and that they were at fault and that their 
errors caused the losses. They said they would rectify Vanguard reneged on what was 
agreed. They did not transfer the funds within 30 days, despite endless prompting. It was 
inevitable there would be lossesI acted on their advice any losses incurred because of 
poor advice is their fault.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 

Vanguard has upheld Mrs Bs complaint and agreed that it was responsible for delays in 
dealing with the transfers. So I dont need to say more about how the delay happened or 
make any findings about whats already been agreed. Im going to concentrate in my 
decision on what Vanguard should fairly and reasonably do to put things right in these 
circumstances.
Although Mrs B was involved in dealing with matters on a day to day basis she was 
representing Bs interests rather than her own  the JISA belonged to B and Vanguard 
owed a duty of care to B rather than to Mrs B as she was involved in the matter only as Bs 
representative. This means that whilst I dont doubt that Mrs B was put to a lot of extra 
trouble chasing things up with Vanguard and she was anxious about keeping her childrens 
JISAs topped-up, under the rules governing our service, Mrs B (as representative) isnt 
entitled to any personal compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Our approach is to think about the impact on B of Vanguards delays during the transfer 
process and the extent of any financial loss arising as a result of Vanguard making an error 
or acting unfairly or unreasonably with respect to the way it handled the transfer of Bs 
JISA.  
Vanguard has paid Mrs B £150 in respect of Bs JISA transfer delays. It worked out that 
amount by looking at the delay and said it had arrived at that figure using guidance provided 
by the Financial Ombudsman and its own internal guidelines to ensure all customers are 
treated fairly when errors have occurred. I find that the £150 paid by Vanguard to Mrs B is 
fair and reasonable to reflect the shortcomings in the service it provided in connection with 
this ISA transfer. But I think Vanguard also needs to pay redress to cover any resulting 
investment loss attributable to its delays and service failings. Ill explain why I say this.  
In order to be able to fairly hold Vanguard responsible for trades not happening until market 
conditions were less favourable, I need to be satisfied, on a balance of probabilities, that 
Vanguard was responsible for delays that meant Mrs B was unable to execute planned 
trades she would have completed but for Vanguards delays. 
Ive kept in mind that HMRC guidance states that ISA transfers like these should happen 
within 30 calendar days from a business receiving a request. Vanguards records show it 
received the transfer request on 18 August 2021. So in this case, Bs JISA transfer took 
significantly longer than the time limits set out in ISA transfer rules.
Mrs B said she wanted the transfer to complete as quickly as possible as she was hoping 
to top-up Bs investments out of income and before an investment deadline passed. When 
it became clear that she couldnt do this through the new provider until the transfer from 
Vanguard completed, Mrs B had to choose between prioritising the transfer or continuing to 
invest via Vanguard. 
Vanguard explained to Mrs B that if she invested more with it whilst the transfer was being 
processed, the transfer would be disrupted and the third party would have to resubmit its 
transfer request. Understandably, Mrs B didnt want to have to start the transfer process again. This is what wouldve needed to happen if she had kept investing through Vanguard 
as new valuations would then have had to be carried out and agreed before any transfer 
could go ahead.  
But I also think its reasonably clear from looking at Bs capital account transaction history 
that Mrs B was anxious to start investing in four particular funds - Ill call these W,X,Y and 
Z. These funds were offered by her new platform provider and Vanguard confirmed to us 
that funds W, X, Y and Z werent available on the Vanguard platform. Ive seen evidence 
that Mrs B began investing into these funds, as far as she could afford to do so, on 
21 October 2021, the day after opening an account for B with the third party and paying an 
initial subscription to Bs account. Over the next week or so, Mrs B invested on Bs behalf a 
total of £3,000 across the four funds. 
Mrs B has explained that, but for Vanguards admitted delay, she would have been able to 
invest the £3,000 at an earlier date. Vanguards delay in transferring the JISA prevented 
the third party being able to accept the £3,000 new investment. Looking at the immediate 
actions Mrs B took when she was finally able to invest the £3,000, having been delayed by 
the Vanguard transfer, my view is that she would most likely have purchased these 
investments in her chosen funds W, X, Y and Z at the first available opportunity when she 
couldve done so.  
Mrs B said she was only able to purchase investments in funds W, X, Y and Z once the third 
party confirmed she was permitted to fund the accounts, and this could only be done once 
the Vanguard transfer was completed. Ultimately, she says she was only able to complete 
her planned investments at a higher cost. 
I've taken into account that Vanguard says it didnt prevent Mrs B from making further 
investments and she could have continued paying into Bs Vanguard ISA had she been 
willing to accept this would mean holding up the transfers. But that doesnt change my 
overall view. Mrs B didnt have the option of investing in funds W, X, Y and Z on 
Vanguards platform. I am satisfied that Mrs Bs investment priority was to invest in these 
four particular funds. She told Vanguard on 22 September when she first enquired about 
what was happening that: The delays are stopping me investing in my desired (new 
platform provider) funds This meant she was totally reliant on Vanguard executing the 
transfers on a timely basis. 
So I dont think Mrs B had any real option other than to press on with the delayed transfers 
so she could make the investments into funds W, X, Y and Z just as soon as she could  
which she has said from the outset was the main reason why she wanted to transfer to the 
new platform provider.  
All this leads me to conclude that if theres been any investment loss, then its fair and 
reasonable for Mrs B to expect Vanguard to pay an amount which would put B into the 
position he would have been in, but for Vanguards delays.
As Im satisfied Vanguard has not yet dealt with this complaint fairly Im planning on 
upholding this complaint and telling it to take further action to put things right.What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr W has confirmed he accepts what I've said in my provisional decision.
Vanguard initially asked for more information and this was sent. Weve heard nothing further 
however and the deadline for responses has now passed. So I think its reasonable for me to 
proceed with my review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as no further comments have been received in response to my provisional 
decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair to uphold this complaint 
for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
Ive kept in mind the expectation that ISA transfers should generally complete within 30 days 
and that Vanguard received the transfer requests on 18 August 2021. I am aware that 
Vanguard expected one particular fund to take longer to transfer and this was still 
outstanding when all the other funds were able to be transferred on 28 October 2021. But it 
seems fair to me to say that 30 calendar days from 18 August meant Mrs B was reasonably 
entitled to expect Vanguard to have completed the transfer requests by 17 September 2021. 
And had that happened, I find that she would have invested in funds W, X, Y and Z probably 
by 20 September 2021 at the latest. So I think thats a fair starting point for calculating 
redress owed to B. 
My approach to redress is to try to put B, so far as its possible to do so, into the position B 
would be in now if Vanguard had completed the JISA transfer on 17 September 2021. Mrs B 
would then have invested the £3,000 into funds W, X, Y and Z on 20 September 2021. And if 
this shows that B suffered financial loss, then Vanguard should compensate him for this.
This redress calculation also needs to take into account that for one of the four funds, a 
dividend payment was due to be paid on 1 October 2021. Because of the later investment 
caused by Vanguards transfer delays, this dividend payment was not received. I consider it 
reasonable to take into account that dividend in this loss calculation.
Mrs B has asked that Vanguard be required to refund account charges paid over the period 
when the transfer should have already been completed. These charges have not been 
quantified, and I consider it likely that charges also apply with the new third party JISA 
provider. In other words, Bs JISA would have had charges applied if the transfer had not 
been delayed, but they would have been paid to the new JISA provider, rather than 
Vanguard. For that reason, subject to any further submissions made, I do not currently 
intend to make any award in relation to account charges incurred.
Vanguard should take the following actions:-
1. Calculate the number of units B would have purchased in funds W, X, Y and Z with 
the £3,000 that was invested from October 2021, in the same proportion that B 
actually did invest, assuming that the investments were made on 20 September 
2021.
2. The number of units calculated at (1) should then be valued at the date of my decision.
3. To the figure calculated at (2) should be added the amount of any dividend that B 
would have received if B had held these units calculated at (1) on 1 October 2021. 
This total figure, including any dividend, represents the fair value.
4. The number of units that were actually purchased in funds W, X, Y and Z by this 
£3,000 investment should also be valued at the date of my decision. This represents 
the actual value.
If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable. If the fair value 
is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Any compensation due should be paid to B.
Vanguard should provide details of the calculations to Mrs B in a clear, simple format.
If the compensation is not paid within 28 days of Vanguard receiving acceptance of my 
decision, interest at 8% per annum on the loss identified will be payable from the final 
decision date to the date of settlement. Income tax may be payable on this interest, if paid. If 
Vanguard deducts income tax from the interest, it should tell Mrs B how much has been 
taken off. Vanguard should give B a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mrs B 
asks for one, so B can reclaim the tax on this interest from HM Revenue & Customs, if 
appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ws complaint and direct Vanguard Asset Management, Ltd to take the steps 
I've set out above to put things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman