DRN-3816505
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy hes been charged an early termination charge and for excess mileage 
when he terminated his hire agreement with Ald Automotive Limited (Ald).
What happened
In August 2018, Mr P entered into a hire agreement with Ald to acquire a new car. Mr P was 
required to make one advance payment of £869.94, followed by 23 monthly rentals of 
£289.98.
In May 2020, Mr P contacted Ald and discussed terminating his hire agreement early. Ald 
told Mr P the total charge was £4,045.24. This included an excess mileage charge for the 
additional 32,469 miles travelled. Mr P said he couldnt make this payment due to his current 
financial circumstances but accepted it was owed. 
Mr P signed and agreed to terminate his hire agreement early in July 2020. At the time the 
car was returned to Ald, it had travelled a total of 29,128 miles. This was an excess of 
19,248 miles more than the 9,707 pro-rated mileage at the time. So Ald charged Mr P for the 
excess mileage costs, the remaining rentals and rentals owed under a three month payment 
deferral.
Unhappy with this, Mr P complained to Ald and says he was told during a call in May 2020 
that Ald would waive the excess mileage charges. 
Ald issued its response to Mr Ps complaint. It said during its communications with Mr P, it 
didnt guarantee it would look to write off excess mileage charges. It offered Mr P £100 as a 
gesture of goodwill and apologised if its conversations led him to believe it would write off 
any amounts. It also agreed to refund half of two monthly rentals totalling £289.98 to Mr Ps 
account, to represent the reduction he would have received had the issue been resolved in 
May 2020. It also recognised it didnt call him back on two occasions and credited a further 
£100 as a gesture of goodwill to Mr Ps account. In total, it credited £489.98 to Mr Ps 
outstanding balance. This left an outstanding balance of £2,584.58.
Unhappy with this, Mr P referred his complaint to this service in January 2021. He reiterated 
his complaint and said he wasnt happy with the service provided by Ald. He said the £100 
gesture of goodwill Ald had offered didnt go far enough to reduce the excess mileage 
charge. He said he was happy to pay the outstanding monthly rentals, but he wanted Ald to 
remove the excess mileage charges.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but thought the excess mileage charge applied by 
Ald was fair and it didnt result in Ald receiving excessive compensation in the 
circumstances. He said the £200 Ald had paid for its service failings was also fair.
Mr P disagreed. He said the net book value of the car was irrelevant and questionable. He 
said he offered to purchase the car from Ald at a higher amount then it was sold at auction, 
but Ald declined. He said he disagreed with Alds account of the phone call and said he was 
provided incorrect information.
Our investigator said he was satisfied the net book value was what Ald were expecting to 
receive if the agreement had run its full term and the car had been driven inside the mileage 
allowance.
As Mr P remains in disagreement, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint, Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Ive set out the relevant considerations below. Mr P was 
supplied with a car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement 
which means were able to look into complaints about it.
Ive read and considered the whole file and acknowledge that Mr P has raised a number of 
different complaint points. Ive concentrated on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on 
any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it  but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. The rules of this service allow me to do this.
Considerations under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA)
Section 101 of the CCA is relevant here as it refers to a consumers right to terminate a hire 
agreement by giving notice. It states:
Right to terminate hire agreement:
(1) The hirer under a regulated consumer hire agreement is entitled to terminate the 
agreement by giving notice to any person entitled or authorised to receive the sums payable 
under the agreement.
(2) Termination of an agreement under subsection (1) does not affect any liability under the 
agreement which has accrued before the termination ...
(7) This section does not apply to
(a) any agreement which provides for the making by the hirer of payments which in 
total (and without breach of the agreement) exceed £1,500 in any year
Considerations under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)
The relevant considerations under the CRA in this case concern what may be considered to 
be unfair terms. If a term is considered to be unfair, it wont be binding upon a consumer.
Part 2: Unfair Terms. What are the general rules about fairness of contract terms and 
notices?
62. (1) An unfair term of a consumer contract is not binding on the consumer.
(4) A term is unfair if, contrary to the requirement of good faith, it causes a significant 
imbalance in the parties' rights and obligations under the contract to the detriment of 
the consumer.
The CRA provides guidance about transparency and ambiguity and the potential impact of 
this:
68: Requirement for transparency
(1) A trader must ensure that a written term of a consumer contract, or a consumer 
notice in writing, is transparent (4) A term is unfair if, contrary to the requirements of good faith, it causes a 
significant imbalance in the parties rights and obligations under the contract to the 
detriment of the consumer.
69: Contract terms that may have different meanings 
(1) If a term in a consumer contract, or a consumer notice, could have different 
meanings, the meaning that is most favourable to the consumer is to prevail. 
The CRA also lists examples of some terms that may be considered unfair:
Schedule 2: Consumer contract terms which may be regarded as unfair.
Part 1 list of terms 
(4) A term which has the object or effect of permitting the trader to retain sums paid by the 
consumer where the consumer decides not to conclude or perform the contract, without 
providing for the consumer to receive compensation of an equivalent amount from the trader 
where the trader is the party cancelling the contract.
(5) A term which has the object or effect of requiring that, where the consumer decides not to 
conclude or perform the contract, the consumer must pay the trader a disproportionately 
high sum in compensation or for services which have not been supplied.
(6) A term which has the object or effect of requiring a consumer who fails to fulfil his 
obligations under the contract to pay a disproportionately high sum in compensation.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Principles for Businesses
Principle six says, A firm must pay due regard to the interest of its customers and treat them 
fairly. 
The Hire Agreement
Mr Ps hire agreement sets out his contractual obligations. In the Contract Parameters 
section on page one it says:
Total Contract Mileage (see Other Charges (h&i)) 10000.
Excess Mileage Rate (pence per mile  excl VAT) (see Other Charges (h)) Up to 9999 miles 
7.78p Over 9999 miles 7.78p
The hire payments, the Contract Mileage, the term and/or the charges for excessing the 
contract mileage may also vary if we agree to vary your contract mileage after a request 
from you  see clause 11.3 of the attached terms and conditions.
Upon return of the Vehicle to ALD, the mileage actually recorded by the Vehicle will be 
compared to the agreed contract mileage. If the Vehicle has recorded more miles than the 
agreed contractual mileage on a pro-rata basis, then the Customer will pay to ALD an 
excess mileage charge at the rate per mile stated above, (see Other Charges (h))
In the Customer Rights  Early Termination, section the agreement says:
Although the Customer does not have a statutory right to terminate this Agreement before 
the end of the Fixed Period of hire, the Customer may request early termination at any point 
during the Fixed Period. ALD will not unreasonably withhold its consent, and will be entitled 
to charge an early termination fee reflective of its expected costs. ALD will supply to the 
Customer a quote of the early termination charge when early termination is requested. Refer 
to Clause 7 of the attached terms and conditions for more information.
Clause 7 of the terms and conditions goes on to say:
The early termination charge will be whichever is the lower of:
1. 100% of the remaining unbilled rentals less any benefits accruing to ALD In 
consequence of any such early termination; or2. 50% of the remaining unbilled rentals.
The early termination charge does not reduce or otherwise effect any existing liability that 
you may have for billed rentals or other sums which have become due and which are 
unpaid.
And Clause 10.8 of the terms and conditions says:
On return of the Vehicle, in the event of the Vehicle exceeding the total or pro-rata Contract 
Mileage the Customer shall pay the charges specified in the Key Financial Information and 
Other Charges.
Mr Ps agreement requires him to make payments of around £3,500 per year. Section 101 of 
the CCA doesnt apply to any agreement which results in the hirer paying more than £1,500 
a year. This means that section 101 of the CCA doesnt apply in this case.
In light of this, I need to determine whether the charges Ald has applied are fair and 
reasonable.
In this case, Mr Ps hire agreement provides him with the option to request an early 
termination. Both Mr P and Ald agreed to terminate the hire agreement early. When the early 
termination was processed, Ald applied an early termination charge and a charge for 
exceeding the total pro-rated mileage allowance. 
Having read Mr Ps agreement, Im satisfied Ald was entitled to apply an excess mileage 
charge to the reduced mileage allowance, in the event Mr P exercised his right to end the 
agreement early. So Ill now consider whether I think overall the early termination calculation 
was fair. 
Mr Ps hire agreement says that Ald, will be entitled to charge an early termination fee 
reflective of its expected costs. Ive seen a copy of the early termination quote that was 
signed by Mr P in July 2020. This confirms that the early termination calculation has been 
calculated at 50% of the outstanding rentals remaining. This totalled £120.83 plus any 
applicable VAT. Im satisfied that the early termination charge at that time was charged in 
line with clause seven of the terms and conditions applicable to Mr Ps agreement.
Having said this, neither the terms and conditions or Mr Ps hire agreement explain what the 
expected costs are that it refers to and neither do they set out how Ald calculates these 
expected costs. Bearing in mind what the CRA says about unfair terms, I dont think Ald 
reasonably or transparently informed Mr P of the extent of the costs he may incur as a result 
of terminating his agreement early. This is because Mr P has no indication how all the 
expected costs are being charged and so, he cant make any reasonable enquiries as to 
whether these expected costs are fair. 
Taking everything into consideration, I think its fair to assume that Ald is charging both the 
termination charge and excess mileage charge to reflect that Mr P isnt paying all the agreed 
contractual payments under the agreement and to reflect any devaluation of the car by Mr P 
driving more miles than the expected mileage under the agreement. I think the car potentially 
having a higher value upon early termination in comparison to the value at the end of the 
agreement also needs to be considered.
So because the hire agreement doesnt provide a transparent and fair way of calculating the 
expected costs or compensation for Ald, we need to ensure that Ald arent overcompensated 
by applying the early termination fee and expected costs which are unfair or disproportionate 
to their actual loss. So, in the circumstances, Im satisfied that FCA Principle 6 should be 
applied. This means ensuring that Ald isnt unfairly charging Mr P more than its fair and 
reasonable to do so.
When Mr P returned the car to Ald, it had one month left on the agreement. However, as Ald 
has accepted it will honour the termination quote it issued in May 2020, like the investigator, 
Ive based my figures considering this date.At the time Mr P returned the car to Ald, it had travelled 29,128 miles. Mr Ps pro-rata 
mileage at the time was 9,707. The car was delivered to Mr P with 173 miles. So Mr P had 
travelled 19,248 miles more than his agreement allowed him to. With an excess mileage 
charge of 7.78p plus VAT payable under the agreement, this meant Ald imposed an excess 
mileage charge of £1,769.64.
Had the agreement run its term, Ald would have received three further payments of £289.98 
totalling £869.94 from Mr P. The cars net book value at the time was £24,250, on the 
assumption that the car hadnt exceeded the total allowable mileage under the agreement of 
10,000 miles. So Ald were expecting to receive a car and payments to the value of 
£25,119.94.
But because the hire agreement was terminated early, Ald charged Mr P a total of £434.97 
for the early termination, £1,769.64 for excess mileage and the car sold for £16,750. So Ald 
received a car and payments totalling £18,954.61. And so, Ald received £6,165.33 less than 
it would have done, had the agreement run the full course and if the mileage under the hire 
agreement hadnt been exceeded.
Mr P has said that the expected value of the car is irrelevant as its common for cars to sell 
for lower than the net book value at auction. However, at an auction there is no guarantee of 
the price a car may achieve. It may achieve lower or higher than it is expected to. In any 
event, the net book value of the car was the expectation that Ald had of the car had the 
agreement run its full term and had it only been driven as per the allowable mileage under 
the agreement. Mr P has asked for proof of the sales value of the car. I dont require Ald to 
provide this. However, weve compared the net book value Ald expected to achieve and the 
sales price achieved with trade guides. But taking these calculations into account, Ald is still 
at a loss and has not unfairly profited as a result of the agreement ending in the way it did. 
Mr P has also said Ald refused to sell the car to him, but this wasnt a requirement of its hire 
agreement. And so, I dont think it acted unfairly.
Overall, Ald didnt unfairly compensate itself by charging both the early termination fee and 
the excess mileage charges. This is because Mr Ps decision to terminate his agreement 
early meant Ald received less than it would have done, had the agreement lasted the whole 
term and had the mileage of the car not been in excess of 10,000 miles when it was 
returned. And so, I dont think the charges imposed by Ald upon Mr P requesting an early 
termination were disproportionately high for services that hadnt been supplied to him. And 
so, I dont think Ald breached the requirements of the FCA Principle 6.
Has Ald acted unfairly or unreasonably in any other way?
Mr P says Ald led him to believe that he wouldnt be required to pay any excess mileage 
charges when he called it in May 2020 about ending his agreement early. 
Ald isnt able to retrieve a copy of the call. But Ive seen the notes from this call. From these, 
I can see that Ald provided Mr P with the early termination quote which included the excess 
mileage charge. The notes say Mr P said early termination would be the best option for him 
but he wanted to discuss a potential payment plan and queried if the fee could be waived. 
They go on to say the agent during the call advised in certain circumstances, they can 
potentially look to write off all or part of the debt, but that the agent made it clear this wasnt 
a guarantee and they couldnt promise this would be an option.
Mr P accepts that he was told the excess mileage charge could be waived in certain 
circumstances. But he says he wasnt told what those circumstances were or were not and 
neither was he told nothing was guaranteed. 
Having carefully considered both Alds representations about the call and Mr Ps, I dont 
think Ald led Mr P to believe it would write off Mr Ps excess mileage charges. Both Mr P and 
Ald are broadly in agreement that the agent told Mr P it could potentially look to do this in 
certain circumstances. Mr P has accepted he wasnt told his circumstances were part of the certain circumstances in which Ald would consider doing this. And so, I dont think Ald led Mr 
P to believe he wouldnt need to pay any excess mileage charges.
Having said this, Ald has said it shouldnt have mentioned that any amounts could have 
potentially be written off, when this wasnt an option. I agree it shouldnt have mentioned this 
but I dont think this led Mr P to believe the excess mileage charges under his agreement 
would be written off. Ald apologised for making the statement and as a gesture of goodwill, it 
offered to credit Mr Ps agreement with £100 and refunded one monthly rental of £289.98. It 
also offered a further £100 when it recognised it had caused delays and didnt cause Mr P 
back when it said it would. 
Overall, I think the £489.98 Ald has already credited Mr Ps account with is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. And so, it follows that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Having said this, Id like to remind Ald of its obligation to treat Mr P with forbearance and due 
consideration if hes currently suffering from financial difficulties.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman