DRN-2835104
The complaint
Miss O complains about the quality of a car supplied to her by BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited trading as MINI Financial Services (BMWFS).
What happened
Miss O acquired a used car under a 60 month hire purchase agreement with BMWFS for 
£15,407 in May 2019. The car was around a year old and had covered around 8,000 miles 
when it was supplied to Miss O. 
In December 2019, whilst the car was being serviced, Miss O told the supplying dealership  
who Ill refer to as T  that the car made knocking and grinding noises. She said T told her 
there was no fault, but it said the car needed three new tyres. 
Miss O said the car then failed to start and the noises continued the following day. So an 
appointment was booked for a diagnosis to be carried out on the car in early January 2020. 
But Miss O said she purchased three new tyres for the car and once these were fitted the 
noise disappeared and she was able to start the car. So she cancelled the appointment.
Miss O says in March 2020 the car failed to start again. So she took the car to T and says it 
told her the car needed a new starter motor and a flywheel. She also complained to 
BMWFS. But it directed her to make her complaint to T. T agreed to repair the car, but the 
repairs were delayed as a result of the restrictions imposed on T by the government due to 
the COVID-19 pandemic. The car was repaired in June 2020. 
In August 2020, Miss O complained to BMWFS and said she didnt think the car was reliable 
anymore. She said she had also learned since acquiring the car that before she acquired the 
car, it had a new windscreen fitted and a new fuel system fitted. 
BMWFS looked into Miss Os complaint and said that T were entitled to repair the car. But it 
said that as Miss O didnt have a car whilst repairs were being carried out, it would refund 
one monthly payment to Miss O as a gesture of goodwill. 
Unhappy with this, Miss O referred her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think BMWFS needed to do 
anything further. Whilst he thought the car supplied to Miss O wasnt of satisfactory quality, 
he said the car had already been repaired under the warranty at no cost to Miss O. And he 
said he could assume that T didnt tell her about its previous history. But he said he thought 
it was likely that even if it had told her the cars previous history, she would have still likely 
acquired it.  
Miss O disagreed. She said she didnt think a car should have a fault with it within the space 
of a year. She suggested the earlier issue with the grinding noise was linked to the problem 
with the starter motor and the flywheel. She said she wasnt told the car had been repaired 
before she acquired it. She says if she had been told this, she wouldnt have got it.
As Miss O remains unhappy, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory, I reach my view on the balance 
of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances.
Ive read and considered the whole file and acknowledge that Miss O has raised a number of 
different complaint points. Ive concentrated on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on 
any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it  but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.  
Quality of goods supplied under the agreement
The finance agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement. So our service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. BMWFS is the supplier of the car under this type 
of agreement and so is responsible for dealing with a complaint about its quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) covers hire purchase agreements. Under a hire 
purchase agreement, there are implied conditions that the goods supplied will be of 
satisfactory quality. In Miss Os case, the car she acquired was used  so there would be 
different expectations compared to a new car. Having said that, the cars condition at the 
point of supply, should have met the standard a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory, given its age, mileage and price.
In this case, Miss O reported a grinding noise and juddering from the car to T, around seven 
months after the car was supplied to her, following a service being carried out. Ive seen a 
copy of the job sheets from this time. The technician has said a fault couldnt be found with 
the juddering or the noise. But the technician commented that the tyres were losing pressure 
and two of the cars tyres had punctures in them. At this point, the car had travelled around 
14,500 miles. Miss O says the noise disappeared after she had three of the tyres replaced.
Having thought about this, I think its likely the grinding noise Miss O says she heard and the 
juddering experienced were caused as a result of the two tyres being punctured. It follows 
that I dont think these issues were linked to the flywheel and starter motor. And as Miss O 
had been able to travel around 6,500 miles in the car by this point, I dont think its likely the 
car had a fault with it at the time it was supplied to her, given the mileage she was able to 
travel in it. So even though I accept these issues occurred, I dont think they made the car of 
unsatisfactory quality. 
Ive gone on to consider what Miss O said about the car failing to start in March 2020. I can 
see Miss O took the car to T on 19 March 2020  around ten months after it was supplied to 
her. T has provided our service with a copy of the job sheet which shows the mileage at 
around 17,000 miles. T found the car needed a replacement flywheel and starter motor. 
Its unclear why the flywheel and starter motor needed to be replaced. Neither T nor BMWFS 
has provided an explanation. And I know Miss O wants to know why this happened. But, 
rather than why this happened, I think the key thing to point out is that  I dont think its 
expected that a flywheel or starter motor will need replacing this soon in the lifetime of a car, 
as long as the car has been maintained correctly. 
Ive thought about whether this means the car was of satisfactory quality at the time it was 
supplied to Miss O. And, I dont think it was. I say this because the car was relatively new at 
the time it was supplied had a low mileage. And one of the considerations of whether goods 
are of satisfactory quality is durability. Here, both parts needed replacing when the car was 
around two years old and at around 17,000 miles. Having thought about this, I think a 
reasonable person would consider that a flywheel and starter motor would last longer than 
this. And so I dont think the parts were sufficiently durable. It follows that I dont think the car 
was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss O.Ive gone on to consider whether I think BMWFS needs to do anything further to put things 
right. Having done so, I dont think it does. Ill explain why.
When the faults were identified in March 2020 by T, the repairs were carried out under 
warranty, at no cost to Miss O. And since the repairs were carried out, it doesnt appear that 
Miss O has encountered any further issues with the flywheel or the starter motor. Under the 
CRA, Miss O had a right to a repair. So as BMWFS repaired the faults, Im satisfied it has 
met Miss Os rights and it doesnt need to do anything further here.
Whilst the repair was carried out in June 2020, Miss O wasnt provided with a courtesy car. 
The repair took around two weeks. As the fault which led to the repairs made the car of 
unsatisfactory quality, I think Miss O should have been provided with a courtesy car during 
the period the car was repaired. However, when BMWFS looked into the complaint, it paid 
Miss O one monthly repayment under the agreement of £260.43 as she wasnt provided with 
a courtesy car. I think this is fair in circumstances and dont think BMWFS needs to do 
anything more to put things right here.
I now turn to the delays with the car being repaired after a fault was discovered. Miss O 
wasnt provided with a courtesy car 
Miss O was initially booked in to have the car repaired in late March 2020, but due to delays 
caused by COVID-19, the repair was carried out in early June 2020. I appreciate Miss O 
would have had her car repaired earlier if COVID-19 hadnt happened. But by late March 
2020, most dealerships were operating with restrictions as a result of COVID-19. Given the 
unprecedented nature of COVID-19, I dont think it was unreasonable for BMWFS to have 
some delays given the circumstances. It should also be remembered that at this point in time 
businesses were still trying to adjust to new and different ways of working because of the 
restrictions imposed by COVID-19. 
In addition, Miss O was able to mostly continue using the car during the nine weeks the 
repair wasnt carried out. She said the car made noises, but she was still able to use it to 
travel to work. She also said after a couple of weeks, due to COVID-19 she wasnt required 
to travel into work. So whilst I accept she was inconvenienced as the repair wasnt carried 
out sooner, I dont think BMWFS need to refund any further payments as she was able to 
continue using the car. 
Was the car misrepresented to Miss O?
Miss O says the car was misrepresented to her because she wasnt told that the windscreen 
and fuel system were repaired before she acquired it. But BMWFS has provided information 
from T to suggest that it told Miss O about these things before she acquired the car. 
When I consider whether a misrepresentation has been made or not, I need to be satisfied 
that T told Miss O a false statement of fact about the car, and that statement induced her 
into entering the contract to acquire it, when she otherwise wouldnt have. 
Theres conflicting information about whether a statement was made about the repairs 
carried out to the car before Miss O acquired it. So I dont know what exactly what was or 
wasnt said to Miss O by T. 
However on balance, I think Miss O wasnt likely told about the repairs. This is because 
Miss O only appears to have made her complaint about the windscreen and the fuel system 
after she says she obtained the cars service history in June 2020. But, I wouldnt reasonably 
have expected T to have told Miss O about every repair the car had before she acquired it. Even if Miss O was told about the repairs, I think on balance she would still have acquired 
the car. I say this as it was a used model, and it wouldnt be unusual for some repairs to 
have taken place in its lifetime., It follows that, I dont think the car was misrepresented to 
Miss O.
Overall, whilst I dont think the car supplied to Miss O was of satisfactory quality, it has been 
repaired as I would expect it to be, at no cost to Miss O. So it follows that I dont require 
BMWFS to do anything further. 
My final decision
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as MINI Financial Services has already made 
an offer to reimburse Miss O one months repayment, £260.43, to settle the complaint - in 
addition to carrying out the repairs - and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as MINI Financial 
Services should, if it hasnt already, pay Miss O £260.43.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman