DRN-1913915
The complaint
Mrs A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as First Direct (HSBC) mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy alongside a credit card.
What happened
In September 1998 Mrs A opened a joint bank account with her partner and at the same time 
she applied for a credit card. On the application for the credit card Mrs A also selected to 
take out a PPI policy. 
The application form for the current account included a section for the credit card application 
and in that section for the credit card, this card account was applied for solely by Mrs A. 
Mrs A has now complained to HSBC that the policy was mis-sold but it didnt agree that was 
the case. 
As HSBC refused to uphold her complaint that the PPI was mis-sold, Mrs A brought her 
concerns to this service. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs A disagreed and asked for 
an ombudsman to look at her complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs As complaint.
Mrs A has complained she was mis-sold the PPI as she says a friend who recommended 
HSBC told her the current account application would only be accepted if they subscribed to 
the PPI policy and so she didnt realise it was optional. Mrs A says the PPI wasnt required 
and she wouldnt have taken it out if shed know it was optional and hadnt been sold to her 
as part of a package with the current account. 
HSBC has been able to provide a copy of the application form completed and submitted by 
Mrs A at the time. The application form for the joint current account included a section for a 
credit card application and in the section for the credit card, this was applied for solely by 
Mrs A. The credit card application was not a requirement to open the current account but 
was optional for one of the joint current account applicants.
In the credit card section, there is part which is marked Cardholder Repayment Protector. 
This sets out the cost is 72p for every £100 of the card balance and briefly explains what the 
cover includes. It indicates it is subject to eligibility and the conditions of the policy. There is then the wording: If you would like cover please tick the box. And I can see that the box 
has been ticked to take out the PPI.
It seems this application was made by post as there are indications on the form saying it 
should be signed and returned with identification. Also there is a received date stamp on the 
form. So I think Mrs A completed the application at home and she chose to take out the 
optional credit card and with it the PPI which was also indicated as optional on the form as it 
could be ticked to take it out or not. 
I have noted Mrs As comments about a friend recommending the business and what that 
friend may have said. But they were not acting as a formal representative of the business 
and I really cannot take into account what Mrs As contacts said or thought. PPI was not 
taken out by Mrs A for the current account, but for the credit card. So I cannot see why she 
may have thought taking out PPI on a credit card in her name would have affected the joint 
bank current account application.
I am satisfied based on the evidence I have seen that the PPI for the credit card account 
was presented as optional and that Mrs A chose to take it out. 
The information provided about the PPI cover on the actual application form was limited and 
it did not provide the full details about the terms and conditions of the policy, although it 
referred to them. I have considered if I think Mrs A would still have chosen to take out the 
PPI at the time if she had known all the details about the policy and the restrictions that may 
have applied.
The cost of the cover was stated on the application form as 72p for every £100 of the 
balance on the account and it was indicated that this would be added to the statement each 
month. So Mrs A should have been aware that interest would have been caused because 
the cost was added to her account. 
The benefits included repayment of 10% of the outstanding balance each month for up to 12 
months in any one claim and also life cover. So the cost was reasonable when taking 
account of the benefits that could be paid for a successful claim.
I have seen nothing to indicate the policy wasnt affordable and as the premium appeared on 
the monthly statements, Mrs A could have cancelled the policy at any time if unhappy with 
the cost. 
Ive not seen any information or evidence to suggest Mrs A would have been affected by any 
of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. She was eligible for the policy and she wasnt 
affected by any restrictions on claims such as relating to pre-existing medical conditions. So 
I cannot see that further information at the time would have affected her decision to take out 
the policy. 
Overall, based on the evidence I have seen, I think Mrs A chose to take out the insurance 
and it would have provided a useful benefit if she had needed to claim. It follows that I dont 
think the policy was mis-sold and Im not upholding this complaint.
I have also considered if the rules relating to excess commission and profit share at levels 
over 50 % of the premium costs mean and commission refund is due. However, the rules 
and guidance put in place by the Financial Conduct Authority relating to this only affect credit 
taken out after 6 April 2007 or if taken out before this date, then still running on 6 April 2008. 
As Mrs As credit card account closed in 2001 it is not caught by these dates therefore these 
rules do not apply and no excess commission or profit share is due to be refunded.My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out Im not upholding Mrs As complaint, as I dont think the PPI 
policy was mis-sold by HSBC Bank UK Plc trading as First Direct.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2020.
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman