DRN-4198231
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund £2,574 they lost to an 
investment scam beginning in February 2023.
As the complaint has mainly been brought by Mr J, and for ease of reference, I will refer only 
to him as the complainant throughout this decision. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons. 
It isnt in dispute that Mr J authorised the disputed payments he made to Revolut, 
Coinbase and OKCoin using his HSBC debit card (where his funds were subsequently 
transferred on to the scammers from those accounts). The payments were requested 
using his legitimate security credentials provided by HSBC, and the starting position is 
that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate 
payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether HSBC should have done more to prevent Mr J from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular 
payment. For example, if it was particularly out of character.
I appreciate that overall, Mr J has lost over £2,500. But this amount wasnt paid in one 
large or out of character transaction. It was spread over five separate smaller 
increments over the space of ten days, and from two accounts. In my judgment, this 
payments activity would not have appeared particularly unusual or out of character when 
compared with Mr Js spending history, such that the card payments ought to have been 
regarded as suspicious or indicating that he might have been at risk of falling victim to a 
scam. The payments were not of such an amount, for example, that they would 
represent a heightened risk of financial harm. 
I appreciate Mr J disagrees and considers HSBC should be intervening on smaller 
payments such as the ones he made. But its neither practical nor reasonable to expect a 
bank to stop every payment to ensure its going to a legitimate merchant, as the entire 
banking system would grind to a halt and the vast majority of legitimate payments would 
be significantly delayed. The fact that he made the payments in the early hours of the 
morning is also not enough to warrant an intervention by HSBC either. Its entirely 
plausible that an account holder would, on occasion, make payments late at night. And 
theres nothing to suggest that this is more indicative of a scam taking place either, as 
many scams happen during the middle of the day.
So, having considered the payments Mr J made from his HSBC accounts, Im not 
persuaded there was anything that ought reasonably to have triggered the banks fraud 
monitoring systems, or that would have reasonably indicated he was in the process of 
being scammed. It therefore follows that I do not think HSBC can fairly be held liable to 
refund the money he lost.
I note that HSBC originally failed to consider Mr Js claim as fraud and instead treated it 
as a chargeback dispute. It has since investigated the fraud claim, but I acknowledge the 
delay would have been frustrating for Mr J. However, HSBC has offered £100 
compensation in recognition of the poor service it provided in this respect, which Im 
satisfied is a fair amount of compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr J, and Im sorry to hear he has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, in the circumstances, I do not consider it would be 
fair and reasonable to hold HSBC liable for his loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman