DRN-4028061
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Revolut Ltd wont refund the money he lost after falling victim to a 
scam.
What happened
Both sides are familiar with the case, so Ill summarise what happened in brief.
In spring 2022, Mr M was called by a scammer who impersonated Revolut and made it 
appear that they were calling from Revoluts real phone number. They convinced Mr M his 
money was at risk, so he transferred the balance of his account  about £1,500  to an 
account theyd set up, which they said was in his name.
Later the same day, Mr M reported the scam to Revolut. Revolut tried to recover his money 
from the receiving bank but got no response.
Revolut didnt think they were liable for Mr Ms loss. They explained theyd given Mr M 
warnings before hed made the payment, it wasnt unusual enough for them to flag it, and 
while theyd tried to recover the money the receiving bank had not co-operated.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M 
asked for an ombudsman to look at the case afresh, so the complaints been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr M fell victim to a scam, and so he has my sympathy. I appreciate this 
cant have been an easy time for him, and I appreciate why he feels that his money should 
be returned. Its worth keeping in mind that its the scammer whos primarily responsible for 
what happened, and who really owes Mr M his money back. But I can only consider what 
Revolut did. Having carefully considered everything that both sides have said and provided, 
I cant fairly hold Revolut liable for Mr Ms loss. Ill explain why.
I understand that Mr M thinks Revolut must have leaked his data or otherwise been 
compromised. But there are lots of different methods scammers use to get their hands on 
peoples details, and its not possible for me to be certain how they did so here. Its also 
possible for scammers to spoof phone numbers, to make it appear as if theyre calling from 
the banks real number. Ive not seen any evidence which substantiates that this was 
Revoluts fault, and I have no basis on which to conclude that it was.
Its not in dispute that Mr M authorised the payment. So although he didnt intend the money 
to go to a scammer, under the Payment Services Regulations he is liable for the loss in the 
first instance. And broadly speaking, Revolut had an obligation to follow his instructions  the 
starting position in law is that banks are expected to process payments that a customer 
authorises them to make. 
Revolut should have been on the lookout for payments which could be the result of fraud or 
scams, to help prevent them. But I also accept that a balance must be struck between 
identifying and responding to potentially fraudulent payments, and ensuring theres minimal 
disruption to legitimate payments. Ive thought carefully about whether Revolut should have 
done more in Mr Ms case.
However, I dont think the payment involved was so unusual or out of character that Revolut 
needed to intervene. For example, the payment had been properly authenticated by the 
genuine customer, it was only one payment rather than lots of payments, and there were no 
failed logins or other signs that something unusual was happening. While it was a significant 
amount, it wasnt so large that Id expect it to be flagged. After all, customers do make large 
payments from time to time, and banks cant reasonably stop every large payment.
Further, I can see that Revolut did warn Mr M that they couldnt confirm whether the name 
on the receiving account was right or not, as the receiving bank didnt use the Confirmation 
of Payee system. They also warned Mr M that fraudsters impersonate people, that theyd 
never ask him to make a payment, and that they might not be able to get the money back if 
he went ahead. I think these warnings were relevant and proportionate to this case, and its 
recorded that Mr M chose to proceed. I think Revolut gave as much warning as Id expect 
them to given the particular circumstances of this payment.
Next, Ive considered what Revolut did to try to recover Mr Ms money after he told them 
about the scam. Under the Best Practice Standards, Revolut should notify the receiving bank 
immediately after being told about the potential fraud. I agree with Mr M that Revolut should 
have contacted the receiving bank a bit more quickly here. The receiving bank didnt reply to 
Revolut, but our investigator did manage to make contact with them and find out what 
happened to Mr Ms money. And unfortunately, by the time Mr M contacted Revolut the 
scammer had already moved the funds on  theyd done so just a few minutes after Mr M 
made the transfer. So even if Revolut had acted as quickly as possible when Mr M reported 
things, Im afraid it was already too late to recover his money.
Mr M questioned how the scammer was able to move the money on so quickly. As far as 
I can see, they did so in the normal way  UK bank transfers are very quick, often only taking 
seconds to complete. In any case, Im afraid that would be a question for the receiving bank, 
not Revolut  Revolut cannot block a bank account with a different bank. And in this case 
I can only consider what Revolut did.
Mr M also questioned why another bank refunded him when he was defrauded, but not 
Revolut. From what I can see, it looks like thats broadly because in that other case, Mr M 
did not make or consent to those payments, so he wasnt liable for them. Whereas in this 
case, Mr M made the payment involved himself, meaning hes generally liable for it.I appreciate that Mr M is unhappy with Revoluts customer service. But from what I can see, 
Revolut worded things appropriately, and they replied to Mr M promptly within the timescales 
they gave  they did say theyd try to give an answer within 15 business days, but it could 
take up to 35 business days. And it looks like the time taken was mostly due to the receiving 
bank not co-operating, which Revolut are not responsible for. As above, Revolut did take a 
bit too long to initially contact the receiving bank, but Im afraid that would not have made a 
difference here, as the money was already gone by the time Mr M reported the scam. 
Ultimately, Im afraid there was nothing more that Revolut could reasonably do to recover 
Mr Ms money.
Lastly, I understand Mr M is unhappy that Revolut primarily communicate by in-app chat. But 
they were allowed to do that. They didnt have to communicate with him by a different 
method. And that is, generally speaking, their primary contact method.
So while Im very sorry to hear about what the scammer did to Mr M, I dont think Revolut 
should be held responsible for his loss. And so I cant fairly tell Revolut to refund Mr Ms 
money in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman