DRN-3389813
The complaint
Miss B complains about Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA)s handling of her claim under her 
home emergency policy. 
What happened
Miss B had a policy with IPA, that amongst other things, covered her home for the treatment 
or removal of pest infestation. The policy had a claims limit of £500 per claim up to an overall 
policy limit of £2000. In March 2021, Miss B reported an infestation to IPA, who sent a 
contractor to treat the problem. 
Over the course of the claim, IPA visited Miss Bs home on a total of 18 separate occasions, 
to carry out various treatments to tackle the infestation, including work that IPA said 
exceeded what was covered under the policy.  
During this time Miss B had cause to contact IPA on a few occasions. She wasnt happy 
about the level of service she had been receiving from the contractor, whom she said was 
ineffective, laid traps (when Miss B had specifically asked it not to), didnt carry out the 
proofing of her property when it shouldve,  ignored her emails, calls and changed 
appointment times without telling her.
She had also informed IPA about her physical and mental health and how the situation was 
extremely distressful. Miss B felt that IPA didnt act quickly enough in resolving the issues 
she had at her home. And on occasion were not as empathic to her needs. Because of all of 
this, she raised a complaint to IPA. 
In its first final response, it accepted that the level of service Miss B received at times and 
her ongoing situation were extremely stressful for her. It said that it couldve been better in 
its communication and empathy towards Miss B. It offered £600 for the trouble and upset 
this caused. But it carried out a further review, which was outside of its normal procedures 
and included a review conducted by senior level staff, to ensure that Miss B was treated 
fairly, and with the appropriate level of understanding. As a result, in its second final 
response, it increased its offer of compensation for the distress and upset caused to £2,000. 
Miss B was given her referral rights and referred a complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She said that IPA 
had contributed to the level of distress that Miss B suffered from, in addition to the infestation 
at her home. 
She thought that IPA couldve communicated better and shouldve showed Miss B empathy 
and understanding. And she concluded that the £2,000 compensation paid, was a fair 
reflection of the sustained distress and impact on Miss Bs health. She further acknowledged 
that IPA had covered the cost of all the works carried out at Miss Bs home, which had 
exceeded the overall policy limit. Her view was that there was nothing further she could 
reasonably ask IPA to do, to resolve the complaint. 
IPA accepted the view Miss B did not. She said that the damage to her home was escalated 
due to the amount of time it took IPA to resolve the issues. Miss B said that the event has 
left her traumatised and that she missed out on treatment for her health as a result. She 
wanted our investigator to recommend IPA cover the costs of her missed treatment which 
was £20,000. So, she asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be asking IPA to do anything more to resolve the complaint. I realise 
this will be a disappointment to Miss B, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining 
why Ive reached this decision.
I note that Miss B has made a number of detailed points, which I have read and considered. 
I hope the fact that I dont respond in similar detail here shouldnt be taken as a discourtesy. 
As an informal dispute resolution service, we are tasked with reaching a fair and reasonable 
conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, it isnt necessary for me to respond to 
every point made, but to concentrate on the crux of the issue.
I have to assess what steps IPA took when dealing with Miss B and whether it acted unfairly 
or unreasonably towards her. In doing so, Ive considered the level of service IPA provided 
to Miss B and both parties accounts. The main issue of this complaint is whether the 
damage at Miss Bs home escalated due to the time IPA took to resolve the issues. And 
whether because of this IPA ought to cover the costs of Miss Bs missed treatment of 
£20,000. 
I should point out that our role isnt to fine or to punish the businesses we cover. Rather, we 
look at the effect on the customer including their upset. I can understand why Miss B was 
upset by what happened as she explains that she was put under extreme stress, by the poor 
level of service she said she received from IPA. 
She explains that she felt IPA were lazy in trying to treat the infestation. The contractors it 
sent werent prepared or caused damage (such as one contractor putting a foot through a 
floorboard). And ultimately took too long to resolve the issues. Also, when Miss B specifically 
requested that no poison was put down, this was seemingly ignored. 
Miss B further felt that IPA ignored her emails, calls, changed appointment times, gave her 
incorrect information regarding the infestation. And allocated different managers each time 
she raised her concerns. I note that the time that IPA took to carry out the treatment at her 
home, was over a few months. And she said that this also contributed towards her stress 
and affected her mental health, which Im persuaded by. So, Ive next considered the actions 
of IPA. 
Ive reviewed the policy terms and conditions to see whether IPA acted in line with those 
terms. It provides: The treatment or removal of a pest infestation involving wasps, bees, 
hornets, nests or cockroaches where the infestation is within your home. In addition, the 
treatment of mice, rats and squirrels within your home.  So, Im satisfied that IPAs 
obligations under the policy were to treat or remove the infestation. IPA said that it attempted 
to remove the infestation, by carrying out the various treatments. And I do agree that various 
treatments were carried out for this reason. I also note that IPA appointed other contractors 
to assist with the infestation and exceeded the policy limit of £2,000 in treating the 
infestation, which I think is fair and reasonable. Nonetheless, IPA agreed that Miss B had been incorrectly told that the infestation had been 
eradicated, when it had not. And ultimately, I think this led to some work not being 
completed, when it shouldve been. So, Im satisfied that this delay, wouldve contributed to 
Miss Bs distress. 
Nevertheless, Miss B hasnt provided me with any expert evidence that shows that the work 
that IPA carried out was either done incorrectly or that it caused further damage to her 
home. And given that IPA attended several times to treat the infestation, appointed other 
contractors to tackle the infestation, offered Miss B alternative accommodation to carry out 
treatment, I think these actions were reasonable and in line with (and exceeded) the policy 
terms and conditions.  
IPA has accepted that Miss B experienced poor customer service, not least as she was 
provided with incorrect information and that it couldve been more empathic to her needs. 
And I do think that IPAs handling of Miss Bs claim contributed to her distress. But It has 
offered and paid Miss B £2,000, for all the distress and upset it caused. 
When assessing whether this was a fair and reasonable level of compensation, for the 
failings, I have taken into account the number of appointments IPA attended, that it covered 
the costs of all the work carried out by its contractors (some of which exceeded the policy 
limit) and that it paid out on the claim,  in line with Miss Bs policy. 
Taking all of this into consideration, I think the compensation paid, is a fair and reasonable 
amount, given the impact on Miss B and the level of distress and upset caused.  So, I wont 
be asking IPA to do anything more to resolve the complaint.
My final decision
Inter Partner Assistance SA has already paid £2,000 to settle the complaint and I think this 
offer is fair in all the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman