DRN-2652448
The complaint
Miss B complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo).
Miss B has been represented by her partner throughout this complaint. For ease, and 
because the finance agreement is in Miss Bs name, I will refer to Miss B in this decision.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss B, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss B acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then MotoNovo, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Miss B. The car here was 
about four years old and had already completed about 51,000 miles. So, I think a reasonable 
person would expect some wear and tear to be present.
Miss B has complained about some issues that MotoNovo havent had a chance to respond 
to. I believe Miss B has now referred these problems to MotoNovo and, whilst I wont be 
considering them in this decision, she is still able to refer any concerns about those 
problems to this service if she remains dissatisfied with MotoNovos response.
the tyre problem
The relevant legislation allows a consumer to reject goods if theyre not of satisfactory quality 
and if the consumer reports the issue within 30 days. 
Miss B took receipt of her car in August 2020 and reported the problem with a tyre deflating 
the next month and within 30 days. 
I havent seen evidence that she asked to reject the car on that basis and the business 
appear to have fixed the slow puncture at no cost to Miss B. I dont think it would be fair to 
ask them to take any further action as it seems Miss B approved the repair.
was the agreement misrepresented
The relevant legislation explains that finance providers are liable for what they say and for 
what is said by the credit broker (the dealership here) before the consumer takes out the 
credit agreement.
So, if the dealership provided a false statement of fact AND that false statement induced 
Miss B to enter into a finance agreement that she wouldnt otherwise have entered into, then 
I may ask MotoNovo to take some further action.
I understand that Miss B is upset that the dealership promised to fit a rear air vent to the car. 
The dealership dont agree that they promised this, and I cant see it was specified on the 
documentation.
I dont think I have sufficient information to show air vents were promised at the rear of the 
car. But even if I was prepared to accept that the dealership did provide a false statement of 
fact, dont think I have sufficient evidence to suggest that statement would have induced 
Miss B to enter into an agreement she would not otherwise have entered into.
Im not persuaded that the lack of a rear air vent would have been such a sufficient omission 
that it would induce Miss B to walk away from the agreement. It didnt, for example, prevent 
the car from being heated. 
So, I dont think it would be fair to ask MotoNovo to take any further action about this and, 
overall, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman