DRN-4347890
The complaint
Mr T complains that TRANSUNION INTERNATIONAL UK LIMITED trading as TransUnion,
was reporting someone elses financial information on his credit file. And some of his
information was being reported on another individuals credit file.
What happened
I previously issued a provisional decision on this case. I intended to uphold the complaint, 
but I thought TransUnion needed to do more to put things right for Mr T. Because of this, I 
wanted to give both parties the chance to respond with anything else they wanted me to 
consider before I came to my final decision on the matter.
I have copied my provisional decision below, which also forms part of this final decision:
Mr T says that, for years, TransUnion have been reporting a CCJ on his credit file that didnt
belong to him. And he says that his information has been shared with someone else. Mr T
says this has led to years of him not being able to get credit, or only being accepted for more
expensive credit. Mr T added that once the information had been removed from his credit
file, he immediately started to receive pre-selected offers from other credit providers.
Mr T added that TransUnion didnt respond to his data subject access request. And it didnt
answer all of the points he asked it to when he complained. He says hes been trying to
contact TransUnion by phone but hasnt been able to speak to anyone.
Mr T says this situation has impacted him financially, by having to pay more for credit. Hes
also said it has impacted on his mental health, as he would have sleepless night whenever
he applied for credit.
TransUnion responded to Mr Ts complaint and accepted that it had made a mistake when it
was reporting someone elses information on Mr Ts credit file. It said that it had been doing
this since around 2018 based on some information it received from a third party. Because it
made a mistake, it offered to pay him £250 to put things right.
An Investigator also looked into Mr Ts case. They agreed that TransUnion had made an
error which had impacted Mr T. The Investigator thought that £500 was a fair amount of
compensation for this. However, they stated that they hadnt seen any evidence to suggest
Mr T had lost out financially, and so he didnt think TransUnion needed to compensate Mr T
for any financial losses.
Mr T didnt agree with the Investigator. And because an agreement couldnt be reached, the
complaint has been passed to me to decide on the matter.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to say that TransUnions handling of this case has been disappointing. And it has
caused delays to the case being progressed. Which I can see from Mr Ts communications
with this service has caused him additional worry. Ill be considering this point when deciding
on fair compensation.
TransUnion hasnt provided this service with much information on this case. So, its difficult
for me to know exactly whats happened. But it has accepted that it made a mistake in
reporting someone elses information on Mr Ts credit file. And it hasnt disputed what Mr T
has said about someone else also being able to view his financial information. So, Ill now
decide whether the £500 TransUnion has agreed to pay Mr T is enough to settle things. And
I dont currently think it is.
Information being reported on Mr Ts credit file
Part of the incorrect information being reported on Mr Ts credit includes a county court
judgement (CCJ). The presence of one of these on a credit file will make it more difficult for
someone to get credit. And if they are accepted for credit, they will likely need to pay more to
borrow.
Mr T says that he had to pay a higher mortgage rate because of the information on his credit
file. I accept this is possible. However, this service has also seen evidence from Mr Ts
broker which suggests that there were other affordability factors, specifically debt to income
ratio, which meant that Mr T wouldnt likely to have been accepted for a mortgage on a lower
rate even without the CCJ.
Ive thought about what Mr T has told us, in that he had the ability to be able to pay off all the
debts in cash prior to taking the mortgage. But I dont think doing so necessarily means that
hed still have been accepted for a mortgage. I know Mr T will be disappointed with my 
comments here, but I just havent seen enough evidence that persuades me the CCJ was
the only reason Mr T couldnt get a mortgage at a lower rate. Although I accept this was
likely to have been a contributing factor.
Because of this, I cant fairly conclude that Mr T has lost out financially here.
Mr T has also confirmed that he had to pay higher rates on other types of lending  and had
also had credit declined. At the time, he didnt know why. But since the CCJ has been
removed from his file, he is now seeing more offers for credit. So, Mr T thinks that the issues 
hes had in getting credit in the past are down to the CCJ.
Again, I accept having a CCJ present on a credit file would likely make it more difficult to get
credit or get credit at a lower rate of interest. But I havent seen any evidence that suggests
Mr T would have been accepted for different types of credit without the CCJ.
I understand Mr T is now receiving offers for other lending at better rates. But what Mr T has
sent us to prove this are offers. This doesnt mean that hed be accepted for the lending at
the rate advertised, or at all. A full affordability review would need to take place by these
lenders before it would agree to lend. Im sorry to disappoint Mr T, but I cant conclude that
he has lost out financially here. Im not saying that he hasnt, I just havent seen enough
evidence to persuade me that he has.
I should add here too, that what Ive said above isnt suggesting that Mr T is of poor financial
standing, or that he has affordability issues. What Im saying is that theres no evidence to
suggest that he has lost out financially as a result of the incorrect information showing on his
credit file.Another individual being able to see his information
I havent yet seen the evidence showing that Mr Ts information was available for someone
else to view. But TransUnion hasnt disputed this, so Ive accepted what Mr T has said here.
I can appreciate why Mr T would be very upset by this. The information contained in credit
files is very sensitive and personal  and not something that most people would feel
comfortable in another person seeing. Ive taken this into account when deciding on fair
compensation.
Data subject access request still not received and general customer service.
I can see Mr T has been trying to contact TransUnion a lot about the issues hes been
having. From what Ive seen, many of his contact attempts havent been responded to, and
hes understandably been frustrated by the lack of responses, to an issue which has already
caused him a lot of undue distress and inconvenience. I can see that TransUnion are aware
that Mr T made a data subject access request, however he says this still hasnt been
received. TransUnion should have done better here, and Ill be also taking this into when
deciding fair compensation.
Putting things right
Overall, I do think that TransUnion could have done much better here. It has reported a CCJ
against him when he didnt have one, it has made his credit file viewable to a third-party, it
has provided poor customer service, it hasnt responded to his request for his data and it has
caused delays in his complaint being investigated. Understandably, these things have
caused Mr T a significant amount of distress. Because of this, I currently intend to order
TransUnion to put things right by increasing its compensation award to £750. And for it to
provide Mr T with his personal information under his data subject access request.
TransUnion responded to my provisional decision to say it had nothing further to add. 
Mr T also responded, he said that he didnt think the £750 was enough to put things right. In 
summary, he made the below main points:
He had been taking out credit and repaying the credit to improve his credit file. But 
what he was doing was pointless because there was a CCJ being incorrectly 
reported against him by TransUnion.
The CCJ being reported on his credit file unfairly removed the option for him to be 
able to apply for and potentially be accepted for lower cost credit from high street 
lenders.
The impact of all of this has been severe. He says his personal relationships have 
suffered as a result of the incorrect reporting. Every month he pays more in mortgage 
repayments because of the CCJ showing on his credit file.
Mr T has provided evidence of his current credit score, now the incorrect information 
has been removed, which he feels supports his view that high street lenders would 
have been happy to lend to him if the incorrect information hadnt had been reporting 
about him.
His mental health has been severely impacted by the error and he is now in contact 
with his GP about the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything afresh, I will still be upholding Mr Ts complaint for £750 
compensation for much of the same reasons as set out in my provisional decision. 
Id like to reassure Mr T that I have read and taken into account everything he has said in 
response to the provisional decision. While I havent specifically referred to everything he 
has said, I have thought about it when coming to my final decision.
I have already explained in my provisional decision why I cant fairly say that Mr T has lost 
out financially as a result of TransUnions incorrect reporting of his data. I havent seen any 
evidence that persuades me Mr T would have been accepted for credit with a lower rate of 
interest had the incorrect data not been reported. I do accept though that the information 
showing on Mr Ts credit file denied him the opportunity of applying for or obtaining credit at 
certain rates  or getting further into the stages of applications for these types of credit. I 
considered this loss of opportunity when deciding the overall award.
Im sorry to have read about the very difficult personal situations Mr T has described, and 
that this has all had a significant impact on his mental health. Again, I took into account the 
distress and upset this had caused when coming to what I feel is a fair compensation award. 
While I accept that TransUnions reporting of incorrect information would clearly have had an 
impact on Mr T and caused a considerable amount of unnecessary worry, I cant fairly hold 
TransUnion responsible for all of the ways Mr T has said this situation has impacted him. For 
example, some of the personal relationship issues he has had since the reporting. I accept 
that these things might not have happened had it not been for TransUnions incorrect 
reporting, but it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to hold TransUnion accountable for the 
continued breakdown in those relationships. 
Putting things right
It isnt in dispute here that TransUnion havent done as they should have. Having thought 
about everything again, I still feel that a compensation award of £750 is fair in this case. And 
so, to put things right, TransUnion should:
Pay Mr T a total of £750 to compensate him.
Provide him with a data subject access request.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ts complaint. TRANSUNION INTERNATIONAL 
UK LIMITED  trading as TransUnion should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman