DRN-1827692
The complaint
Mr C complains about Retail Money Market Ltd (RMM) and the information they provided 
when he came to settle the outstanding balance of his loan.
What happened
Mr C took out a loan with RMM in September 2019. In April 2020, Mr C decided to settle the 
outstanding loan early.
Mr Cs online account showed him that to settle the loan; hed need to pay a final amount of 
£19,603.20. Mr C paid this amount by taking out a separate loan. But, after paying, Mr C 
received an e-mail from RMM explaining that months direct debit payment of £512.14 was 
still due to be taken. They advised Mr C not to cancel his direct debit and that the account 
would close after that payment was made. 
Mr C was unhappy with this. He complained to RMM that their website didnt make it clear 
that the direct debit payment would still be taken, on top of the final amount hed also paid. 
So, he hadnt planned for that direct debit to be taken that month which left him in financial 
difficulty and he wanted compensation from RMM to recognise this.
RMM didnt uphold the complaint. They thought theyd made it reasonably clear to Mr C that 
any pending fees would still be taken, on top of the final amount needed to settle the loan. 
They explained as Mr C had requested to settle the loan during the direct debit window, the 
final amount that quoted excluding the pending debit payment. So, they didnt think they 
needed to do anything further. Mr C wasnt happy with this response so he referred his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He thought, based on the 
evidence he had available, that Mr C wouldve been made aware pending fees werent 
included in the final amount payable to settle the loan. So, he didnt think RMM had done 
anything wrong and didnt need to do anything further.
Mr C disagreed. He was unhappy that RMM werent able to provide the actual screenshots 
of the web pages he saw at the time. Because they werent available, he didnt think our 
investigators view was fair. Our investigator responded explaining that as Mr Cs account 
was now closed, screenshots of what hed seen were unable to be obtained. But, hed seen 
screenshots of test account to show what Mr C wouldve seen. And he thought that evidence 
allowed him to fairly decide that RMM had acted reasonably. As Mr C still disagreed, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.First, I want to recognise the upset this has caused Mr C. Ive no doubt Mr C intended to pay 
off the entire remaining balance on his loan when he made the final payment on 17 April. So, 
I dont think he factored in the final direct debit of £512.14 and I can understand how an 
unexpected payment of this value can caused short term financial difficulties. But, for me to 
agree that RMM should compensate Mr C for this, Id need to be satisfied that it resulted 
directly from their error. And unfortunately, in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
I understand Mr C doesnt think he was made aware that the direct debit would still be taken. 
But, Ive seen an example of the loan summary Mr C wouldve seen when he wanted to see 
how much the final settlement payment would be. On this page it provides the current loan 
balance and explains the amount showing includes any interest and fees due, but excludes 
any pending payment. As Mr C accessed this page and paid the loan balance during the 
direct debit window, so after the direct debit had been requested, this was not shown in the 
remaining balance.
I understand Mr C doesnt think this is evidence that he was made aware as it isnt a direct 
screenshot of what he saw specifically. But, a screenshot of the actual webpage he saw isnt 
available as the loan has been settled and the account closed. So, I have to make a decision 
based on what I think was most likely to have happened. And on balance, I think its most 
likely that the page he saw mirrored the screenshots that have been provided by RMM. So, I 
think the information RMM provided Mr C was fair, making it reasonably clear that the 
remaining direct debit amount would still be taken. 
Mr C has explained that when hes had loans with other providers and he settled the loan 
early, hes overpaid and then received a refund. So, he thinks RMM shouldve shown the 
direct debit amount and then refunded him the difference. But, Im unable to change the 
business process of RMM. I can only comment on whether theyve followed theirs fairly. 
Plus, if they had done this, as the payment was made in the direct debit window its unlikely 
the direct debit request couldve been recalled so its likely Mr C wouldve been left in the 
same situation.
Its unfortunate that due to the timing of Mr Cs final payment, the direct debit didnt show in 
the amount hed have to pay. Its obviously caused Mr C upset and frustration. But, I cant 
agree that RMM have done anything wrong by not doing so. I think they made it reasonably 
clear that pending fees, such as the direct debit, would need to be taken. And it would also 
be unfair for me to hold them responsible for Mr Cs decision to take out another known to 
clear the loan with RMM, and any payments he had to make to satisfy the terms of that new 
loan. Because of this, although I sympathise with the short term financial impact this had on 
Mr C, I dont think RMM need to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint about Retail Money Market 
Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman