DRN-1036785
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
February 2008. Mr A says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him the PPI.
background
Mr A bought the policy in February 2008 at the same time as taking out a credit card. The 
sale took place online.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
Barclays says Mr A would have been given a choice about the PPI. In support of what its 
said Barclays has referred us to copies of screenshots from its online application process 
which it says was in use at the time Mr A applied for his credit card and selected the PPI.
These screenshots show that Mr A would have had to select whether he wanted the PPI, 
before completing the online credit card application. Based on the screen shots provided, I 
think yes and no options were given equal prominence. Overall, I think its more likely than 
not Mr A would have understood that the PPI was optional. And I dont think he would have 
selected the PPI if he didnt want to take it out.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr A so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make sure Mr A got the information he needed to decide if it was right for 
him. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been  particularly about the things it didnt cover. But Mr A chose to take out the PPI, 
so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at 
the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover. 
So it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was 
affordable. 
Mr A has told us he would have received at least six months pay from his employer if he 
was too unwell to work. Hes also told us that he had some savings as well as critical illness 
and life cover in place at the time of sale.Having thought about what Mr A has said about his sick pay and critical illness cover, I dont 
think this means he wouldnt have found the policy useful. I say this because the PPI Mr A 
selected, only included cover for involuntary unemployment and death. As Mr A didnt select 
the accident and sickness benefit, I dont think his sick pay or the critical illness cover he 
says he had in place would have made a difference to his decision to take out the PPI. 
Ive also thought about what Mr A has told us about the savings he says he had in place. In 
the event of a successful claim, the PPI would have paid a benefit, which would have 
enabled Mr A to use his savings for any other financial commitments he may have had. So I 
don't think his savings would have meant the policy wasn't useful for him.
With regards to Mr As life cover, as Ive already concluded that Barclays didnt recommend 
the PPI to Mr A, it was up to Mr A to decide whether he wanted the PPI, bearing in mind the 
cover he already had in place. So I dont think that any better information about the PPI 
would have made a difference to Mr As decision to take out the PPI.
Finally, Mr A has told us he had a pre-existing medical condition at the time of sale. So, Ive 
thought about whether this made a difference to the outcome of this complaint. As Mr A 
didnt select accident and sickness cover, any policy exclusions relating to pre-existing 
medical conditions wouldnt have applied to his policy. So I dont think his medical condition 
would have made a difference to his decision to take out the PPI.
So overall, I think Mr A could have found the policy useful if he were to lose his job and I 
dont think that any better information would have put him off from taking out the policy.
Based on what Ive said above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. Which means Barclays 
doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr A.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr A because:
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr A about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr A, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
my final decision
I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr A.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr A any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
Ombudsman