DRN-3245471
The complaint
Mr F has complained that Capquest Debt Recovery Limited didnt pass on his final payment 
to the creditor.
What happened
Capquest were collecting a debt on behalf of a bank. In October 2020, Mr F paid off the debt 
in full. However, Capquest had an error on their end and didnt pass the payment on to the 
creditor until November 2021. This negatively affected Mr Fs credit file in the meantime.
Our investigator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint. They proposed 
that Capquest give Mr F a letter explaining what happened so he could provide this for any 
future queries, and pay him £350 compensation.
Capquest didnt agree. They felt they should pay Mr F £300 compensation. So the 
complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im glad to see that Mr Fs payment has now been passed on. As I understand, the lender 
will backdate things on Mr Fs credit file now, if theyve not done so already.
However, this situation was caused by Capquests error, and it took them over a year to sort 
things out. This is despite the fact that the lending bank even chased them about this. They 
were also late in responding to Mr Fs complaint, too. In the meantime, this had a negative 
impact on Mr Fs credit file, and caused him considerable trouble, stress, and worry, all over 
a very significant timeframe.
Taking into account our guidelines for compensation amounts, I agree with our investigator 
that £350 is fair to put things right here  more so than the £300 Capquest have suggested.
I also agree that Capquest should provide Mr F with a letter in case he gets any further 
queries about this account, and in case this makes a difference with any lender who may 
have turned him down in the meantime.
Putting things right
I direct Capquest Debt Recovery Limited to:
Follow up with the creditor to make sure theyre aware that Mr Fs settlement date 
should be backdated to October 2020;
Provide Mr F with a letter explaining that this account was fully settled in October 
2020 and was not marked as such only due to Capquests error; and-
Pay Mr F £350 compensation in total.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Fs complaint, and direct Capquest Debt 
Recovery Limited to put things right in the way I set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman