DRN-3891733
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice given by Premier Benefit Solutions Limited (Premier) not to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and wrong. He says that 
because Premier advised him not to transfer, he has been prevented from moving his 
pension into assets that are better protected against inflation. And that this has caused a 
financial loss.
What happened
Mr M had deferred benefits in a DB scheme. In 2022 he contacted this scheme in to find out 
what his options were when he approached retirement. The DB scheme said that he could 
access his benefits immediately, transfer them away, or leave the scheme as it was and take 
the benefits when he retired. 
In July 2022 Mr M was provided with a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £200,472. 
Or if he wanted to access the benefits immediately this would mean an annual pension of 
£8,542.92 or a pension of £6,616.08 plus tax free cash of £44,106.58. And he could do 
nothing, and his scheme benefits would be paid as usual at the DB schemes normal 
retirement date (NRD). The pension he would receive at the schemes NRD was £10,396.08. 
Following receipt of this information, Mr M wanted to look at his pension planning in more 
detail. His employer had appointed an Independent Financial Advisor, which was Premier, 
so its employees could do this.
Whilst Mr Ms employer paid for this service, Premier was independent of both his employer 
and the DB scheme. Premiers role here was to independently provide Mr M with financial 
advice with regards to his pension options based on its understanding, and analysis, of his 
circumstances and the DB scheme. 
Mr M completed a fact find online. This was considered by Premier and both parties 
discussed it later. The information gathered at the time showed that: 
Mr M was 57 years old and married. He had three children, two of which were still 
dependent whilst they were in further education. 
He was employed and worked full time. Mrs M was self-employed on a full-time 
basis. 
Mr M wanted to retire at around age 63. Mrs Ms aims about this were similar.  
He had savings and investments and he had self-invested at times. 
He was a member of his employers defined contribution (DC) pension scheme. This 
was valued at approximately £300,000. 
He had a Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) which was valued at £80,000.
Premier also carried out an assessment of Mr Ms attitude to risk, which it said was 
moderate to adventurous. Mr M wanted to take a moderate risk with his pension 
arrangements. 
A recommendation was issued on 18 July 2022. This was part of an abridged advice 
process where the recommendation was based on Mr Ms personal circumstances and the 
scheme benefits, but a full transfer analysis wasnt done. This letter said that Mr M shouldnt 
transfer his benefits. 
Mr M didnt agree with the initial advice not to transfer and he said that he wanted full advice. 
He said that he wanted a recommendation that said he should transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal arrangement with a third party. He didnt want to start an annuity. Premier then 
started the full advice process. This included gathering some further information and doing 
full regulatory calculations about the scheme transfer values and the options it could provide 
in comparison with a personal arrangement.
On 24 August 2022, Premier issued a full advice suitability letter. This said that Mr M wanted 
to:
Make sure that he had £31,000 each year in his full retirement in five years.
Have the opportunity to invest for potentially higher returns.
Access his pension flexibly to receive a higher pension income in the early years of 
retirement.
Leave a lump sum to his wife on his death. He thought this would be worth more than 
the spouses pension offered by the DB scheme pension.
But Premier again said that Mr M shouldnt transfer his DB scheme benefits. It said that the 
transfer wasnt financially viable, and he was likely to be worse off in retirement if he 
proceeded. Mr M did have some health problems but after considering these it said it still 
wasnt certain that he would benefit from a transfer now, rather than later on. It looked at 
impaired heath annuity rates but these werent very much higher than standard annuities 
and so they were discounted. 
Mr M then initiated a transfer himself to a third party. I understand this third party wont 
complete the transfer as Premier hasnt provided a positive recommendation that he should 
move his DB scheme benefits.
Mr M complained in 2022 to Premier about the suitability of the advice. He said that he 
should have been advised to transfer as high inflation was eroding the value of his deferred 
DB scheme benefits. He thinks the transfer should proceed and he could invest in 
appropriate assets to mitigate this. And he thinks he has lost out as this has not happened. 
He said that Premier had failed to consider his heath situation and thinks that Premier took 
too long to give full advice.  
Premier didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. In summary it said that the regulator required that 
there must be specific objectives to justify a transfer, but there was no real need to transfer 
here. The DB scheme met Mr Ms income requirements at retirement, and he could use his 
other provisions if he wanted to retire early. It said the critical yields required to make the 
transfer worthwhile were unlikely to be achievable. The enhanced annuities it looked at due 
to Mr Ms health problems did not make it worth the transfer proceeding. It said Mr M should 
review the situation later.
Mr M referred his complaint to our service. An Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She 
said that the information such as the critical yields and the required fund values to replace 
the DB scheme benefits showed that the transfer would be poor value and not likely to be in 
Mr Ms best interests. The transferred-out fund was unlikely to provide the returns Mr M 
needed. Mr Ms current arrangements were more likely to meet his needs and so Premier 
was right to recommend that Mr M not transfer. She didnt think that Premier had taken too long to give advice and it did not have to treat Mr M as an insistent customer and process 
the transfer in any event. 
Mr M disagreed, saying he was concerned that inflation would erode the benefits he had in 
the DB scheme. He still thinks this is the case and he should be advised to transfer to 
mitigate this. He thinks that inflation, and his health issues, have not been fully considered. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements of the advice process Premier followed
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. 
And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions 
on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened 
based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Premier explained that it would firstly offer abridged advice. And this advice could have one 
of two outcomes  that a transfer was unsuitable, or it was unclear if it was suitable or not. If 
it was unclear, Mr M would have the option of taking full advice.
The information Ive seen indicates that Premier followed this process as set out to Mr M 
when advising him. And this process seems to be in line with guidance the regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), set out for providers giving abridged pension transfer 
advice in the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS), under COBS 19.1A. I note that 
despite the abridged service resulting in a recommendation not to transfer, Mr M asked for 
full advice to be given.
And there are further rules and guidance that Premier needed to follow when giving advice. 
The most important of these are the provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations 
when giving a personal recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in 
COBS 19 which specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Premier 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Ms best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was 
in his best interests.
So, having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided not to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
Financial viability 
Premier carried out a transfer value comparator report (as required by the regulator) to show 
what sum of money Mr M would need to invest at a risk-free return to provide the same 
benefits as the DB scheme at 65 (the schemes normal retirement age) assuming he took a full pension. It also showed how much Mr Ms pension fund would need to grow by each 
year in order to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). 
Mr M was 57 at the time of the advice and wanted to retire at 63. The critical yield required to 
match Mr Ms benefits at age 63 was 20.09% if he took a full pension and 17.75% if he took 
tax free cash and a reduced pension. This means that the transferred pension would need to 
grow at these rates each year, over the six year term, to match the benefits given up. And 
the cost or providing these equiravlent benfits at his time of retirement was shown to be over 
£500,000, which was £300,000 more than the transfer value. 
These returns are very high, and it wouldnt normally be realistic or probable for an 
investment to be expected to provide these, over this term. It follows that I think it was 
reasonable for Premier not to reocmmmend that Mr M transfer when he was likely, if not 
almost certain, to be worse of when he did so because of this.  
Mr M thinks that the the investments he could make himself would better protect him against 
inflation. But the DB scheme increased in deferment broady by the retail price index (up to 
certain limits at certain times). And I understand this is not done on a year by year basis but 
averaged over time. So the recent higher inflation amounts would be accounted for. And it 
would also increase when in payment. So I dont think its correct to say that the DB scheme 
doesnt mitigage against inflation. In fact I think if Mr M transferred his pension it would be at 
a greater risk from erosion by inflation, given the returns he needed to achieve to match the 
benefits he was giving up.
I can see that Mr M has questioned the validity of this financial viability assessment and 
says that Premier is hiding behind the requirement from the FCA that this should be carried 
out. But Premier was required to produce this analysis under FCA rules  it couldnt simply 
ignore this regulatory requirement in Mr Ms case. And in my view the comparator is 
important because it highlights the risks involved in transferring and the valuable benefits 
provided by a DB pension. This is the case even if Mr M may not have wanted an annuity. 
In summary Mr Ms DB scheme provided guaranteed and escalating pension. And the 
information Premier recorded at the time, and relied on to support the advice, showed that it 
was highly unlikely Mr M would be better off financially in retirement as a result of 
transferring. So, I think the conclusion reached by Premier, that transferring Mr Ms DB 
scheme benefits was likely not in his best interests from a financial viability perspective, was 
reasonable.
But financial viability is not the only consideration  there might be other compelling 
reasons, which would make a transfer suitable. And Mr M said that at the time of sale he 
was attracted by the flexibilty a personal pension offered, and the increased death benefits. 
Flexibility and income needs
Premier concluded that Mr M did not need to transfer his DB scheme benefits in order to 
meet his needs for flexibility. This was because he had other means by which he could do 
so. This is one of the things the regulator suggests businesses should take into account, 
particularly when giving abridged advice. 
Mr M did have other pension benefits that could be used flexibly. He had his employers DC 
scheme which had a value of £300,000 and a SIPP with a value of £80,000. Premier 
concluded that Mr and Mrs Ms income needs could be met largely by Mr Ms DB scheme, 
Mrs Ms provision and their state pensions. And Mr Ms other pensions (his DC scheme and 
his SIPP) could be used to, for example, provide an income if they wanted to retire early. And these pensions were already subject to investment risk  which the DB scheme was not 
and so there was no need to give up the DB scheme. 
So, it concluded that a transfer was not in Mr Ms best interests and was unsuitable. 
Considering the available information and the starting assumption the FCA said Premier 
needed to make, I dont think that conclusion was unreasonable. 
Death benefits
Mr M strongly believes that Premier didnt fully consider his health situation when it gave him 
advice. He thinks he may not live to his full life expectancy due to a medical condition he 
has. 
In general terms death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most 
people would like their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death 
benefits on offer through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr M. But 
whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr M might have thought 
it was a good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the 
priority here was to advise Mr M about what was best for his retirement provisions. 
And whilst I accept that Mr M may have believed he would have a reduced life expectancy at 
the time of advice, Mr M not reaching his life expectancy was only a possibility at this time. 
And if he lived longer than he was expecting to, Mr M would need his pension benefits to last 
for longer. 
If Mr M transferred out of the DB scheme, he would be relying on investment returns to 
ensure sufficient capital remained in the personal pension to provide any death benefits, 
whereas the spouses pension was guaranteed and escalated. 
And Premier did consider Mr Ms heath situation and it looked at some impaired life 
annuities. But it concluded that these werent the best value at the time. And Premier 
concluded that this wasnt a good enough reason to transfer his DB scheme benefits. But 
this should be reviewed later when his retirement plans were clearer, or when his health 
concerns became more pressing. I think this was right at the time. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
arrangement justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr M. 
The time the advice took
Mr M has also said he was unhappy with how long the advice process took. 
As Ive explained, Premier was required to base its advice on Mr Ms circumstances. This, in 
my view, included taking into account his pension provisions. Premier did need to request 
information from Mr Ms pension providers, make the calculations Ive referred to above and 
produce some fairly lengthy reports. This did take over a month to do. But this isnt unusual, 
and Ive seen no persuasive evidence that Premier delayed this process unnecessarily.
So overall, I dont think the time taken for Premier to give its advice here was unreasonable. 
Summary
I understand that Mr M disagrees with Premiers advice and recommendation. But Im 
satisfied Premiers advice was based on his individual circumstances and needs at the time and that having considered these it said it wasnt in Mr Ms best interests to transfer the 
benefits from his DB scheme to a personal pension arrangement. 
I appreciate that Mr M and Premier had differing views of what was in his best interests. But 
I think its important to stress that Premiers role here wasnt simply to transact what Mr M 
wanted it to do. Its role was to advise Mr M, and in doing so it had to look beyond what 
Mr M wanted and make a determination of what it believed was in his best interests. And 
from what Ive seen, its clear that it believed Mr Ms chosen path, which was to give up a 
guaranteed income in retirement, wasnt in his best interests. I think this was a fair and 
reasonable conclusion for Premier to have made at the time.
I can see that Mr M has also complained that Premier has refused to give a positive 
recommendation to transact the transfer from his DB scheme. So he is prevented from 
transferring to his preferred provider in any event. But Premier isnt under any obligation to 
do this, or treat him as an insistent customer, so he could make the transfer despite the 
advice it gave. I cant compel Premier to do either of these things. Mr M may find another 
provider is willing to accept the transfer if he still wishes to proceed.
Finally I want to clarify that I cannot change or influence the rules the FCA sets for 
businesses  thats not the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service. My role is to 
consider individual complaints to assess if any wrongdoing requires putting things right. 
And in this case, Im satisfied Premier hasnt done anything wrong or treated Mr M unfairly  
- so I dont uphold this complaint or make any award.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman