DRN-4520786
The complaint
Mr H complains that Erudio Student Loans (Erudio0 unfairly defaulted and terminated his 
account while he was in the process of trying to defer it.
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint and my initial findings in my provisional decision 
dated 28 November 2023 (below)
What happened
Mr H had a student loan account which comprised of three separate loans, he had 
successfully deferred payment on this account for many years. His most recent 
deferment ended on 14 August 2021. Monthly payments became due from this date 
onwards. A letter was issued to the address registered on the account confirming the 
deferment period had come to an end.
Further letters were sent to Mr H on 31 August 2021, confirming what the monthly 
payments would now be for each loan.
No payments were made towards the loans and on 16 September Eruido sent Mr H 
three Notice of Sums in Arrears (NOSIA) letters, one for each loan.
On 22 September 2021, Mr H began his application to defer his loan payments for 
another year. Mr H doesnt reside or work in the UK and the country in which he 
resides operates a different tax year to the UK  January to December. In his online 
application he sent his pre-submission tax assessment form, as he had done in 
previous years. Erudio wrote to Mr H, the next day, saying this was the incorrect 
information and requesting he supply the correct information. They sent reminders on 
14 October 2021 and again on 3 November 2021, Mr H didnt respond.
On 23 November 2021, Erudio cancelled the deferment application and wrote to Mr 
H letting him know the deferment of the loan had expired and payments were now 
due. There was an email exchange between Mr H and Erudio on 25 November 2021 
where Erudio ask Mr H to provide a copy of his 2020 tax return, they also explained 
he would need to submit a new deferment application as the previous one had 
expired. Mr H agreed to resend it over the weekend. Mr H says he thought he had 
done this but must have forgotten to as no new application was made. And as no 
payments had been made and there was no successful application for deferment 
Erudio terminated the account on 14 January 2022, meaning the balance on all three 
loans became due. They wrote to Mr H to let him know, they didnt get a response 
and so sent NOISA letters to him for all three accounts on 16 February 2022.
Mr H contacted Erudio on 21 February 2022 to explain that there had been some 
confusion with his application to defer. He said he hadnt received the letters Erudio 
had sent, as the address listed on his account is not where he lives but is his UK 
correspondence address. And that unfortunately due to covid the property had been 
empty at the time these letters arrived, as the residents had been shielding 
elsewhere.
Erudio asked for some more information to consider reinstatement of the loans. But 
ultimately told Mr H that the account had been terminated and so couldnt be 
reinstated. Mr H complained as he felt the account had been terminated unfairly due 
to him not receiving the letters. He felt very strongly that Erudio could have emailed 
or called him to let him know what was happening, as he had been communicating 
with them by email and phone throughout the process.
Erudio didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint they said they had fairly terminated the 
account. They said his deferment in previous years had been accepted automatically, 
with no manual review of the documents hed submitted. They accepted there had 
been some confusion explaining what information they required and offered Mr H £50 
to recognise this. Mr H remained unhappy and so brought his complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator upheld Mr Hs complaint, in summary he said:
Erudio should have been able to tell from the tax documents Mr H submitted that the 
address listed on his account was not where he resided. And so should have done 
more to contact him. Had they done so Mr H would have acted urgently to prevent 
the account from being terminated. He asked Erudio to reinstate the account, 
process the deferment application and remove any adverse data from Mr Hs credit 
file.
Mr H accepted the investigators findings, but Erudio did not, they said it is Mr Hs 
responsibility to provide correct address details. They explained the letters they sent, 
regarding arrears and termination are statutory ones that have to be sent by post, it is 
not their process to do this by email also. They also said that Mr H was on notice in 
November that his application to defer had expired and he hadnt submitted a new 
one with the relevant documents.
The matter has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive 
done so using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key 
issues. The rules that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean 
that Ive not considered everything that both parties have given to me.
There is no dispute from either party that Mr H had started the deferment process in 
September. So, I think its accepted that he always intended to defer the loans. 
Erudio have argued that Mr H was on notice in November 2021 that the deferment 
hadnt gone through, and he needed to submit a new application and information.
For the many years he has deferred, prior to this deferment application, Mr H has 
said to the best of his knowledge he has always submitted the pre submission form. 
This is because its all thats available at that time of year, given the way the tax year 
runs where he resides. But even if thats not the case, Erudio has accepted, in its 
final response letter (FRL), it wasnt clear in explaining what information it needed from Mr H when it was communicating with him.
Ive thought about Mr Hs responsibility here to make sure he applies to defer in time. 
And normally I would say, Mr H forgetting to submit the second application is the 
cause of the account termination, but given what Ive said above, I think even if Mr H 
had resubmitted his application to defer, he would have again included the incorrect 
information. I say this because, it was only made clear to him where he had gone 
wrong in Erudios FRL, which was after the account had terminated.
So, Ive gone on to consider what Mr H has said about his expectation that Erudio 
should have called or emailed him before terminating the account. Erudio have said 
they followed their internal process by sending letters and it was Mr Hs responsibility 
to make sure the address on his account was up to date.
I agree its Mr Hs responsibility to keep his account details updated, but Ive also 
thought about the circumstances in the wider context. Mr H has had his UK 
correspondence address on his account for many years. And it appears he has 
always, in the past, received correspondence without issue, so I can see why he was 
happy to leave the address as it was. The issue arose here because during the 
Covid-19 pandemic, the normal resident of that address was in a bubble and staying 
at a different address when the letters came. So, I accept Mr H wasnt aware of the 
letters Erudio had sent until much later, so couldnt act on them at the time.
While thinking about Mr Hs point that Erudio could have contacted him by a different 
medium, I did some research. I looked at Erudios website to see what its customers 
can expect. And in the FAQ section of the site, under the heading Default process I 
found the following:
How many warnings do I get before I default?
Our UK-based customer support team will make reasonable attempts to 
contact customers who are in arrears. Where possible (depending on 
sufficient contact details being available), we will contact customers by way of 
written letter and telephone; as well as issuing at least one Notice of Sums in 
Arrears and a Notice of Default letter.
Having looked at the evidence provided to this service by Erudio, I can see they had 
Mr Hs correct telephone number. Therefore, Im satisfied they had sufficient contact 
details, as described on their website, to be able to phone Mr H. So, I contacted 
Erudio to ask why they hadnt followed what their website FAQs said they would do. 
Erudio said this wasnt their process and the information on the website was 
incorrect. They have since changed their website to say all contact regarding a 
default will be sent by post and so its important to keep your correspondence 
address up to date.
Based on the above, I think Mr H was right to expect that Erudio would contact him 
by another medium, if his account was about to default. And I think, the fact that 
Erudio have now changed the website to reflect that wont happen, shows they also 
accept that the FAQs should be something consumers can rely on to be accurate.
As Ive detailed above, in my opinion, even if Mr H had submitted a second 
application to defer, its more likely than not, it still would have had the incorrect 
documents submitted with it. So, its possible the deferment still wouldnt have been 
approved leaving him back in the same situation. Ive also explained why I think him 
not receiving the letters Erudio sent, was due to an unusual set of circumstances brought about by the covid-19 pandemic and national lockdowns.
So, that leaves me to consider all the other elements that led to this point, including 
the confusion around the information Mr H needed to provide, Erudios knowledge of 
his intention to defer, the FAQ statement that Erudio would contact him by phone and 
post. And having considered these points I think Erudio should have done more here:
They should have been clear on the information they wanted Mr H to provide, 
especially as he hadnt been asked for this in previous applications, that had 
been auto-approved.
They should have called him to let him know his account was about to default, 
as their FAQs said they would
Because of this, Im satisfied in the particular circumstances of Mr Hs case the fair 
and reasonable outcome here is to wind back the clock, by reinstating the loans and 
processing the deferment application. Ive given more detail about this in the putting 
things right section below.
Ive thought about if compensation is due here, but I dont think it is as some of Mr 
Hs actions contributed to the overall situation.
Putting things right
To put things right Im intending to direct Eruido to:
Reinstate Mr Hs loans
Upon receipt of the correct tax documents, process the deferment applications for the 
year 2021 and beyond if Mr H wants to continue to defer the accounts
Remove any adverse data relating to the loans from Mr Hs credit file
I invited both parties to let me have anything in response they thought was relevant.
Mr H didnt respond
Erudio responded, they didnt say they disagreed but in summary made the following points:
Although they had agreed in their final response letter to Mr H that information, they had 
given him was confusing, they felt they had cleared this up before the account had defaulted 
and that Mr H had acknowledged hed sent in the incorrect tax documents in a follow up 
email.
They were concerned that what I had said in my provisional (below) suggested that the 
criteria had changed by Erudio. But it hadnt, the information needed had always been the 
same but the auto approval meant that the previous applications had not been reviewed by a 
handler.
They should have been clear on the information they wanted Mr H to provide, 
especially as he hadnt been asked for this in previous applications, that had been 
auto-approvedWhat Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about the points Erudio has made but they dont change things for me, Ill 
explain.
Erudio accepted that it could have been clearer when it was asking for information from Mr 
H. Mr H had in previous years submitted a summary tax document when deferring his 
accounts. These had been auto approved  so not looked at by a handler. I accept that in 
these applications he was using the incorrect tax document, but he didnt know that as it had 
never been pointed out to him and he had never had problems when using it before.
Erudio didnt explain to him that he needed to submit the full tax return when trying to sort 
this out. They said he had sent in a tax document for the wrong year 2019, rather than 2020. 
Mr H responded to this saying that the 2019 document was attached to the application but 
that the 2020 document was included with the original email, but he would send it through 
again. Its accepted by all that he didnt send it. But even if he had, I still maintain he would 
have sent through the 2020 tax summary document again for the reasons explained above. 
So, while Erudio may feel they had cleared matters up I dont agree that it was clear to Mr H 
that he was using the wrong document.
It was not my intention to imply Erudio had changed the criteria it sets for deferment 
applications, and I dont think thats what Ive done. Mr H had never been asked to provide 
the submitted tax documents in his previous applications  for the reasons already 
explained. And so, I think Erudio did needed to spell out for him what was different about this 
application. But as Erudio have objected to whats been said and for the sake of clarity, I do 
not think Eruido changed the criteria for deferment applications. 
Hopefully my explanations have been helpful for Erudio.
Putting things right
To put things right Im intending to direct Eruido to:
Reinstate Mr Hs loans
Upon receipt of the correct tax documents, process the deferment applications for the 
year 2021 and beyond if Mr H wants to continue to defer the accounts
Remove any adverse data relating to the loans from Mr Hs credit file
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and I require Erudio Student Loans 
Limited to carry out the actions as set out under the Putting things right section of this 
decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman