DRN-2126459
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K say Santander UK Plc (when it was trading as Abbey National) mis-sold them 
a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K took out a mortgage that started in 2001. The PPI was sold to them over the 
phone when they took out a further advance in 2007.
The mortgage was in joint names and the policy covered Mr K. It protected their mortgage 
monthly repayments in the event of accident and sickness.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs K disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion. 
Mr and Mrs K mainly said that Mr K was self-employed and he already had life insurance 
arranged through the mortgage. They told us that PPI was never explained and Mr K was 
told he needed to take out PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ks case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. 
I think Santander made Mr and Mrs K aware that they had a choice about buying the PPI, 
and they chose to take it. Ill explain why I say this.
Its completely understandable that Mr and Mrs K mightve forgotten some of the details of 
this sale as it was so long ago. This means that what Mr and Mrs K say isnt enough on its 
own for me to be able to uphold their complaint. I have to look at everything Ive been told 
and sent and decide what I think is most likely.
Theres no recording of the phone call when Santander sold the PPI to Mr and Mrs K. And I 
dont know exactly what was said during the call with the advisor about PPI. But Santander 
has provided a call script to show how its advisors were instructed to explain and present 
PPI. And Ive also seen a record of the discussion that Mr K had with Santanders 
representative when PPI was discussed. 
The sales process at the time was for the representative to go through Mr Ks personal 
circumstances before offering advice and recommendations based on this. The paperwork 
Ive seen suggests this is what happened during the call  and that Mr K said that if he was 
unable to work through accident and sickness he would be unable to pay his mortgage and 
related bills. 
As a result of this conversation, Santander recommended the policy to Mr K. And perhaps 
thats what Mr and Mrs K recalled when they told us that Santander said they needed the 
policy.
Ive also seen the mortgage offer sent to Mr and Mrs K  this clearly indicates that they 
werent required to take out any insurance through the lender. And that the only insurance 
they had to have wasnt PPI. 
So I think the paperwork Ive seen shows that Santander gave Mr and Mrs K enough 
information to make them aware that it was up to them to choose whether to take out PPI. 
And, as their original mortgage had been running for some years without PPI, I think they 
understood at the time that having PPI wasnt an essential requirement of their mortgage.
So, I think at the time Mr and Mrs K wouldve understood that they couldve taken their 
further advance without PPI if they hadnt wanted to have the cover.
Overall, for all these reasons, I think its likely that Santander did do enough to make Mr and 
Mrs K aware that the PPI was optional. And it was added to their account when they 
indicated they wanted to have it.
As Santander advised Mr and Mrs K to take out the policy to cover Mr K it had to make sure 
this was a suitable recommendation for them, as well as providing them with clear 
information so they could decide if it was right for them.
Mr K was eligible for the policy. 
The policy covered Mr K for accident and sickness for up to 12 months per claim - and 
repeat claims were possible. So the policy wouldve given Mr and Mrs K long term cover 
whilst they were paying off their secured borrowing. 
Their mortgage was a major financial commitment and Mr and Mrs Ks home wouldve been 
at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date. 
They were now borrowing more money. So even if they hadnt wanted PPI before I can see 
why they mightve chosen to take it out when they increased the amount they owed on their 
mortgage account.
I think its likely that losing Mr Ks income wouldve had a significant impact on their joint 
finances. So, I can see why they mightve felt it was useful having PPI to protect his income. 
Looking at what theyve told me about their circumstances, I think having PPI couldve been 
helpful for Mr and Mrs K, even if theyve forgotten now why they decided to have it. 
Having PPI gave Mr and Mrs K security and peace of mind that their mortgage repayments 
would be protected even if Mr K couldnt work.  
Mr K mentioned having life insurance. But PPI provided a different sort of cover and paid out 
in different circumstances. The life insurance he had set up wouldnt have helped Mr and Mrs K pay their mortgage 
monthly repayments if Mr K was unable to work as a result of accident or sickness. So this 
doesnt mean that the PPI wasnt suitable for them.
Looked at overall, I think PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs K.
Its possible some of the information Mr and Mrs K were given about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. 
There were some things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look as if that affected Mr K. 
So, I dont think having more information about things the policy didnt cover wouldve 
affected their decision to take it out.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made clear to Mr and Mrs K when they bought the policy. 
Santander sent a welcome letter to Mr K in September 2007 which included a schedule of 
cover (showing the insurance theyd taken) and Paymentcare paperwork (telling them about 
the policy). 
Looking at the information Santander has provided it appears that the policy mightve been 
free of cost for the first 3 months  but in any event, Mr and Mrs K wouldve had to sign an 
instruction form to their bank to cover the monthly cost. 
And the amount of the monthly premium wouldve been shown in the information included in 
the welcome letter. 
Ive seen nothing to make me think that the policy wasnt affordable for Mr and Mrs K when 
they had to start paying for it  so thats not a reason for me to uphold the complaint. 
And as they paid for the PPI monthly, they could cancel it without further cost if their situation 
changed or they no longer wanted to pay for it.
Overall its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Mr and Mrs K still wouldve decided to buy the policy even if theyd been given clearer 
information as it gave them useful protection in their particular situation. 
And, on balance, I dont find it was mis-sold.
Ive also thought about whether Santander needs to give back to Mr and Mrs K some of the 
commission they paid. The Supreme Court ruling and new rules and guidance dont apply to 
certain types of mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage. As Mr and Mrs Ks 
mortgage became a regulated mortgage before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So Santander 
doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs K paid for the PPI they had with 
that mortgage.
This means it doesnt need to take any steps to put things right. 
I appreciate that my decision is disappointing for Mr and Mrs K. But I hope that setting things 
out as I've done helps explain how I've reached this conclusion. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman