DRN-2959059
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) declined his travel insurance 
claim for costs relating to a cancelled holiday. 
What happened
Mr G booked accommodation on 20 November 2019 for a holiday that was due to start on 
13 August 2020 and end on 27 August 2020. He booked the villa through a holiday rental 
company and paid a 25% deposit. The remainder of the payment was due by 19 June 2020.
On 2 January 2020, Mr G bought an annual multi trip travel insurance policy. It covered trips 
of up to 50 days duration worldwide commencing on 1 February 2020 to 31 January 2020. 
On 17 March 2020, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office 
(FCO) advised UK residents against all but essential travel abroad, including the country 
Mr G was intending to travel to. The holiday villa company didnt therefore require Mr G to 
pay the outstanding balance on 19 June 2020. 
On 4 July 2020, a travel corridor opened between the UK and the travel destination which 
meant that it was exempt from the FCOs advice against all but essential travel. Mr G 
therefore hoped to travel as planned on 13 August 2020. However, the advice changed 
again on 25 July 2020 which meant that the FCO was advising against all but essential 
travel to the country and on returning Mr G would have to self-isolate for two weeks.
Following that change Mr G cancelled his villa booking on 27 July 2020 as this would have 
likely affected the dates he was travelling. He managed to receive either refunds or credit 
vouchers for his flights and car hire. But the deposit for the villa was non-refundable at this 
point. This FCO travel advice remained in place for the dates Mr G was intending to travel.
Mr G therefore submitted a claim to Great Lakes for the loss of his deposit. Great Lakes 
declined the claim. It said the policy only covered him for cancellation due to changes in 
FCO travel advice in the event of an earthquake, fire, flood or hurricane. These 
circumstances didnt apply to Mr Gs claim and Great Lakes said he was therefore not 
covered. It further said Mr G could have claimed for cancellation costs incurred due to FCO 
changes if he had purchased the travel disruption cover. But he hadnt taken out this optional 
upgrade on his policy in January 2020. Great Lakes said Mr Gs claim did not fall within the 
terms and conditions of the policy. 
Great Lakes also said, had the claim been accepted, it would only have covered Mr Gs 
portion of the deposit because he was the sole policyholder even if hed fully paid the deposit 
himself. 
Unhappy with Great Lakes response, Mr G brought his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. She said she didnt think the exclusion 
of cover from claims arising from changes to the FCO advice was clearly highlighted to Mr G 
in the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) and also this wasnt easily 
understandable from the policy documents either. She thought the way the documents were 
presented meant, in combination, the effect of the policy wasnt clear to Mr G. She didnt 
think this was fair and it was likely Mr G would not have purchased the policy if he realised 
there would be no cover if the FCO advice changed after hed taken it out. So, it was 
reasonable for the claim to be covered under the cancellation section of the policy.
Our investigator also considered Great Lakes comments in regard to claiming only his 
portion of the cost as he was the only policyholder. Mr G paid for the full deposit himself and 
he booked the villa as a wedding gift to his son and family. As there was no specific 
exclusion to such a situation on the policy, she thought Mr G was eligible to claim for the full 
deposit amount. 
Great Lakes didnt agree with the investigators findings entirely and asked for the complaint 
to be passed to an ombudsman. So, its been passed to me. 
Great Lakes said:
It accepts our investigators comments regarding the villa being gifted to Mr Gs son 
and family and would cover the full cost as being Mr Gs; and
In reference to the FCO exclusion and IPID comments, while it appreciates the costs 
in relation to the deposit, it would like a final decision as it disputes this part.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Great Lakes has accepted our investigators findings that Mr G gifted the villa holiday to his 
family. So, the remaining issue for me to decide is whether Great Lakes fairly declined the 
claim on the basis that Mr G wasnt covered for a change in FCO advice. 
Industry rules and guidance
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly.
ICOBS also says that insurers should give consumers appropriate information about a 
policy in good time and in a way that is easy to understand. This should include an 
Insurance Product Information Document (IPID), giving a consumer a summary of certain 
things  including excluded risks. 
Regulatory guidance (The Responsibilities of Providers and Distributors for the Fair 
Treatment of Customers) from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), says businesses 
should consider the impact of their actions  or inactions  on the customer throughout the 
lifecycle of the service being provided. 
In considering Mr Gs complaint, Ive also taken into account the relevant law (including the 
unfair terms provisions in the Consumer Rights Act 2015). 
The policy terms and conditions and the IPID
Section 1 on page 15 states what cover is available in the event of a cancellation:Section 1 Cancellation
Cancellation applies for booked trips taking place within the period of cover that you 
are forced to cancel because of one of the following, which are beyond your control, 
and of which you were unaware at the time you booked your trip or purchased the 
cover (whichever is later).
What is covered:
We will pay up to a maximum of £500 for Basic cover or £5,000 for Comprehensive
cover (an increase to £1,000/£3,000 cover option on Basic and up to £15,000 on
Comprehensive may be available, please see the table of benefits for details) per
insured person for your non-refundable deposits and amounts you have paid (or you 
are contracted to pay), for your travel and accommodation (including pre-paid 
excursions up to £300 for Basic cover and £350 for Comprehensive cover), and up to 
£350 (£175 for loss of deposit), Comprehensive cover only, for pre-paid kennel or 
cattery fees which you do not use because of the following:
.
f) the Foreign and Commonwealth Office issue a directive advising against all, or
all but essential travel to your trip destination because of an earthquake, fire, flood, or 
hurricane.
Mr G cancelled his trip due to advice given by the FCO against all but essential travel to his 
intended destination and due to the risks associated with the Covid-19 pandemic. The 
pandemic isnt a listed insured event so, looking at this alone, Mr Gs claim isnt covered 
under the terms and conditions of the policy. 
However, under the general exclusions section of the policy (which apply to the whole 
policy), general exclusion 24 on page 41, states:
General Exclusions  applying to all sections. 
No sections of this policy shall apply in respect of:
.
24. Your travel to a country or specific area or event to which the Foreign &
Commonwealth Office, or the World Health Organisation (WHO), or similar
governing body have advised against all, or all but essential travel.
On page two of the IPID it says:
Where am I covered?
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region where the Foreign and
Commonwealth Office has advised against all travel or all but essential travel
The exclusions applied to the policy means if Mr G had travelled to his destination and had 
acted against the FCO advice, he wouldnt have had cover under the policy at all. In other 
words, if Mr G had ignored the FCO advice, he wouldnt have been able to use the policy at 
all for any claims. 
And, as Mr G hadnt purchased the Travel Disruption Extension Cover, the circumstances of 
his claim (and the insured event being the pandemic) wouldnt be covered under the And, as 
Mr G hadnt purchased the Travel Disruption Extension Cover, the circumstances of his 
claim (and the insured event being the pandemic) wouldnt be covered under the cancellation section of his policy. So the effect of the general exclusion would be that he 
wasnt covered for the cancelled trip by following the FCO advice. But if he had travelled and 
not cancelled the trip and, therefore, not followed the FCO advice, he still would have been 
left with no cover.
Taking the relevant law, guidance and industry regulations into consideration, as well as 
whats fair and reasonable, I dont think the exclusion of cover from claims due to the FCO 
advice was easily understandable from the policy documents or clearly highlighted to Mr G in 
the IPID. Im not satisfied the exclusion thats applied on Mr Gs policy relating to travelling 
against FCO advice was prominent or transparent. Mr G would have been required to read 
the policy terms and conditions all the way through to understand the full effect of the policy. 
I dont think its unreasonable to expect such an exclusion to have been brought to Mr Gs 
attention in a more prominent and transparent way. 
The way Mr Gs policy was designed and presented to him meant that the true effect of the 
policy wasnt made clear to him. It created the effect of him having no cover whatsoever on 
25 July 2020 (when the FCO changed its advice). This created a significant imbalance 
between the rights of Great Lakes and Mr G. And this meant that this shifted the rights and 
obligations under the contract significantly in Great Lakes favour.
The IPID is designed to make sure customers have essential information about the policy in 
a way thats easy to understand. However, I dont think the FCO exclusion is prominent in 
the IPID. And the What is not Insured section of the IPID doesnt include cancellation 
claims which arise because of the FCO advising against all but essential travel. The IPID 
only sets out the general exclusion that policyholders wont be covered if they travel against 
FCO advice in the Where am I Covered? section.
I also dont think the exclusion from cover of cancellation claims is clear or transparent 
enough. While it is in plain English, the FCO exclusion isnt presented in the same place. So 
I dont think it would be evident to a policyholder that they would have no cover at all under 
the policy if FCO advice changed in respect of their destination after theyd bought the 
policy. I appreciate the consumer would have a cooling-off period. However even with this, I 
dont think a consumer could easily be able to understand the full implications of the FCO 
exclusion on their cover. I think the way the cancellation section of cover and the FCO 
exclusion under the general exclusions section of the policy are presented separately means 
the combined effect isnt clear. 
Overall therefore Im not persuaded Mr G wouldve agreed to a policy that left him without 
any cover in these circumstances if hes understood the true effect. So, I think the way the 
information about the cover available under this policy is presented is not fair and I dont 
think Great Lakes was acting in the best interests of consumers like Mr G when presenting 
the information in this way. I dont this this is fair or reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint. 
Conclusion
Taking account of all the available evidence, Im not persuaded that Great Lakes has 
declined Mr Gs claim fairly and reasonably. The overall effect of the policy left him with no 
cover on his policy when the FCO advice changed on 25 July 2020. 
And it follows that as the cost of the deposit was irrecoverable from the holiday rental 
company, the claim for this cost should now be paid and for Mr G to receive 100% of this 
cost which he solely paid. 
Putting things rightGreat Lakes should now assess and pay Mr Gs claim under the cancellation section of the 
policy and the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Gs complaint against Great Lakes Insurance 
SE. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman