DRN-3339272
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about the process that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) has 
to make payments to their lifetime mortgage. They also complain about the high level of 
interest charged. 
Mr C has led the complaint throughout. 
What happened
In 2019, Mr and Mrs C took out a lifetime (or equity release) mortgage for around £40,000 
with Aviva, following advice from a broker. The interest charged is at a fixed rate of 3.97%.
Mr C contacted Aviva to make a payment to the mortgage but found that it took some bother 
spending time on the telephone going through the process to do so. He complains that hes 
not been able to make payments online and that every time he is required to go through a 
lengthy call.
Mr C has also complained about the interest charged on the lifetime mortgage and says that 
Aviva are charging high rates and operating sharp practices. 
Aviva responded to the complaint to say that it needs to speak to Mr C every time a payment 
is made to confirm the outstanding balance on the lifetime mortgage and provide an estimate 
of the revised amount owed at the end of the term  as well as whether an early repayment 
charge (ERC) would apply.
Unhappy with this, Mr C referred the matter to this service. Our investigator considered the 
complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr C disagreed and so the matter has been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs C took out this mortgage through a broker which means that they were 
responsible for ensuring that they understood the product, including the long-term options 
they had, and ensuring that the arrangement was suitable for them.
There was a second stage to the advice process too, which was that Mr and Mrs C needed 
to speak to an independent solicitor to ensure they understood the mortgage and the 
implications of it for their finances and estate. 
A lifetime mortgage doesnt work in the same way a traditional mortgage does. Put quite 
simply, a lifetime mortgage is designed to be in place for the whole of a borrowers life, or 
until they are no longer able to live in the property because of the need for long-term care. 
So that a lender can assess the appropriate amount to lend, it is quite normal for a fixed 
interest rate to be attached to the mortgage for its entire duration  as one of 3.97% applies 
to this mortgage. This also benefits the consumer in that they can understand the 
consequences to their ongoing finances and their estate because the amount of the debt can 
be reliably predicted before the mortgage is applied for. 
Generally, equity release mortgages are priced at a higher rate of interest than standard 
residential mortgages. Aviva is under no obligation to alter the interest rate to mirror 
fluctuations in variable rate mortgages  because the contract is for a fixed rate of interest. 
The product is structured to reflect the fact that Aviva has lent money over a long term with 
no return on its funds until the mortgage ends  which could be in 25 or 30 years from the 
date it was taken out. The implications of this on the overall amount owed are explained 
clearly in the documents. Ive considered the documents that Mr and Mrs C were provided 
and can see that it was explained how interest would be applied to the mortgage. 
There is nothing wrong with this practice and Ive noted that the rate that applies here is 
competitive considering other rates available on the market. 
I can understand Mr Cs desire to make interest payments to limit the impact of the cost of 
the roll up interest that applies to the mortgage. This mortgage permits voluntary partial 
repayments  up to a maximum of 10% of the initial amount borrowed. But I dont consider 
that Aviva has treated him unfairly in requiring him to make payments over the phone.
I say this as the mortgage has been arranged so that payments are not required for the 
duration of the term and so there is no need for a direct debit to be set up in the way one 
would for a traditional mortgage. I also dont consider that Aviva should be obliged to provide 
an online facility to enable payments. Its explained why these need to be made over the 
telephone so it can explain the impact of any payment to Mr C. whilst I can appreciate that 
this must be frustrating for Mr C, having considered the reasons given - I dont think this 
process is unreasonable. 
Ive also noted Mr Cs comments that other lenders offer lifetime mortgages with the facility 
to make payments. Whilst this may be the case, I dont think Aviva should be compelled to 
offer this just because other lenders do and as Ive explained, this is not how Mr and Mrs Cs 
mortgage was arranged. 
If this was a facility that Mr C wanted with this mortgage, or if he required a mortgage that 
would have enabled him to protect some of the capital then this is a matter he could take up 
with the adviser responsible for the sale of the mortgage. Whilst Aviva has provided the 
mortgage, it is not responsible for the advice to take this out as Mr C used a broker to do so. 
I understand that Mr C has said that he thinks the broker who sold them the lifetime 
mortgage has since retired. But as our investigator has explained it is still possible for him to 
raise his concerns against the firm responsible if he feels that this lifetime mortgage did not 
suit his needs and requirements when it was sold to him and Mrs C in 2019. 
Whilst I understand this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs C, having considered 
everything, I dont think that Aviva has treated them unfairly and so I dont uphold this 
complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Camilla Finnigan
Ombudsman