DRN-3910143
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as M, complains about the way Barclays Bank UK Plc carried 
out a Know Your Customer (KYC) review.
M is represented in this complaint by its director, Mr M.
What happened
Mr M told us that Ms staff spent many hours trying to reach Barclays, and that the 
restrictions Barclays had placed on Ms account meant that it could not make business 
purchases or gain access to its capital. However, he was unwilling to provide detailed 
information about the losses M had suffered, on the grounds that he believed any award 
made by the ombudsman service was unlikely to cover the time costs in providing that 
information.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint, in which I said I didnt know what had 
happened because neither party had responded fully to our investigators requests for 
information. Based on the limited evidence I did have, I said I was provisionally satisfied that 
an award of £250 would be fair compensation  but I stressed that I might change my mind 
in light of further comments from the parties.
I did receive further evidence, and I did change my mind as a result. I therefore issued a 
second provisional decision, in which I explained why I didnt think Barclays had done 
anything wrong. Briefly, I said:
Barclays provided bank statements showing that money went into and out of Ms 
account during September and October 2022, and so I was not persuaded that 
Barclays did anything to prevent M from making business purchases.
I thought Barclays was entitled to carry out its KYC process, and I didnt see anything 
wrong with the way in which it did so.
I accepted that Barclays KYC process was likely to have caused M some 
inconvenience, but I didnt think M had suffered any avoidable inconvenience as a 
result of an error by Barclays. 
Barclays accepted my second provisional decision, but Mr M did not. He said direct debits 
were paid from the account, and that it was possible to pay existing payees using Barclays 
app  but that was all. Barclays told him that it had applied restrictions to Ms account, but it 
did not tell him the extent of those restrictions.
Overall, Mr M said that Barclays took a very heavy handed approach to gathering KYC 
information. It would have known that the correspondence it sent regarding restrictions 
would have caused panic, and yet it did not provide adequate telephone based support to 
deal with enquiries. He said that a faulty bank logon further gave the impression that Ms 
account had been fully restricted.
Mr M also pointed out that Barclays had said it had searched its records for calls from his 
mobile phone only, but a significant proportion of the calls were from his landline. He said 
any disconnections were probably from Barclays end; he did not disconnect any calls but it 
is common for Barclays to disconnect or terminate a call when trying to transfer it.
Barclays has subsequently checked its records for Mr Ms landline, and has traced a small 
number of additional calls.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to further disappoint Mr M, but having done so I still dont think it would be fair for 
me to order Barclays to pay compensation to M. 
Banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. That sometimes means  as in this case  that a bank 
chooses to carry out a KYC review. Those reviews may cause inconvenience to a customer, 
but that doesnt automatically mean that the bank treated the customer unfairly. 
In principle, I have no concerns about Barclays decision to carry out a KYC review of Ms 
account. That means that in order to decide whether Barclays treated M fairly, I need to 
consider how that review was carried out.
Barclays says that M became in scope for its KYC exercise in May 2022. It sent M a form to 
complete, which M swiftly returned. Barclays then did nothing until the end of 
29 September 2022, when it wrote to M to say that it wanted additional information (without 
specifying what that additional information was). It also told M that it had applied restrictions 
to Ms account, but it later said those restrictions only prevented M from applying for new 
products and services. 
Barclays also says that Mr M had some difficultly in accessing Ms account online, 
particularly with its mobile Pinsentry option, but it does not believe those issues are related 
to the KYC review. It says Mr M re-registered with Barclays mobile banking in October 2022, 
and it believes those issues have now been resolved.
I consider that there was some confusion on Mr Ms part, both about the extent of the 
restrictions on Ms account and about the reason for those restrictions. But after looking at all 
the evidence, Im satisfied that Barclays did not at any time prevent M from making business 
purchases or accessing its capital. I accept that there were some difficulties with online 
access to Ms account, but Im satisfied that Mr M would always have been able to access 
Ms account through other means had he chosen to do so. 
I also accept that Barclays correspondence could have been clearer about the extent of the 
restrictions it intended to apply, but I dont think it would be fair for me to award 
compensation for that lack of clarity. I have not been provided with any evidence to show 
that M suffered a loss because Mr M believed that the restrictions prevented him from 
making payments using Ms money.
Barclays has acknowledged that its phone lines were extremely busy in September and 
October 2022. I accept that Mr M made several attempts to contact Barclays by phone. But 
as I said in my second provisional decision, it is unusual for us to award compensation for 
delays due to a banks phone lines being busy. I dont think it is appropriate for me to do so 
in this case. Mr M might have preferred Barclays to write to him setting out the information it needed, but 
I see nothing wrong in the banks apparent preference for telephone calls. Taking into 
account the evidence available to me  including Mr Ms responses to both of my provisional 
decisions  overall I think Barclays treated M fairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman