DRN-3104475
The complaint
Mr G complains that the charges applied at the end of his Hire Agreement with Hitachi 
Capital (UK) PLC (Hitachi) were unfair. He would like them waived.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat the again here. 
Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons: -
Mr G told us he used the car for over four years covering 75,000, in his words hard 
miles. So, I dont find it surprising he incurred some charges for damage outside of 
fair wear and tear. The agreement he signed makes it clear he needed to keep the 
car in good condition and would be liable for any necessary work at the end of the 
hire period
Hitachi uses British Vehicle Leasing & Rental Association (BVRLA) guidelines for 
assessing damage to vehicles. Having looked at the guidelines, photos of the car and 
inspection report I agree with our investigator that the damage charged for falls within 
these guidelines So dont think it was unreasonable Hitachi made the charges it did
Mr G doesnt dispute there is some damage to the carpet but feels this is due to its 
quality. If Mr G didnt think the carpet was of suitable quality, he could have raised 
this during the hire period, but I am not aware that he did. 
Similarly, Mr G doesnt dispute there is corrosion on the car but feels this is a result 
of a manufacturing defect. I can see from the final response letter Hitachi sent that Mr 
G made this point. But I think Hitachis response that Mr G should have raised any 
such concerns during the hire period when they might have been addressed by 
manufacturers warranty was reasonable. 
Finally, Mr G accepts there is a dent on the rear bumper but feels given his use of the 
car that should fall within fair wear and tear. Unfortunately, the dent falls within the 
BVRLA guidelines as damage that can be charged for.
As I havent found the charges that Hitachi applied were unfair, I cant reasonably ask 
Hitachi to waive them as Mr G would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman