DRN-3033991
The complaint
Ms O has complained about the way Scottish Widows Limited has dealt with her claim.
What happened
Ms O has an income protection policy, underwritten by Scottish Widows, which pays a 
benefit after a deferred (waiting) period of 26 weeks if she is unable to work due to illness or 
injury. 
In early 2020, Ms O became absent from work due to illness. In June 2020, she applied to 
change her deferred period from 26 to 13 weeks. Scottish Widows sent a quote to Ms O to 
change her deferred period from 26 weeks to 13 weeks. Ms O signed and returned this. 
The quote explained that it would use medical information to make a decision. On 12 June 
Scottish Widows wrote to Ms O and said a GP report had been requested before a decision 
could be made. In August, it issued an endorsement confirming the deferred period was 26 
weeks. It later confirmed the application to change the deferred period to 13 weeks had been 
declined because of a change in Ms Os health since she first took the policy out.
Ms O made a claim in 2020 which was accepted but she was unhappy that Scottish Widows 
hadnt changed her deferred period to 13 weeks. She was also unhappy with the amount of 
benefit paid and the length of time taken to make a claim decision.
Ms O complained to Scottish Widows. It explained how the benefit was calculated and 
apologised for providing confusing information about the request to change the deferred 
period. It offered to pay £250 compensation for the poor service but disagreed that the 
benefit was paid incorrectly.
Unhappy, Ms O referred her complaint to this Service. Our investigator looked into the 
complaint but didnt think Scottish Widows needed to do any more.
Ms O disagreed and in summary, made the following comments:
Had she known how the policy worked, she would have waited longer before making 
a claim so that she was eligible for houseperson benefit.
She doesnt think the policy was suitable as there was no price difference between a 
13 or 26 week deferred period.
Scottish Widows agreed to change the deferred period to 13 weeks and it should 
honour this. 
And so the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. And largely for the same 
reasons as already explained by the investigator. 
The relevant rules and industry guidance say an insurer should handle claims promptly, fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The deferred period
Ms O requested a change to her deferred period from 26 to 13 weeks after she became 
absent from work due to illness. As Ms O was already absent from work, she wouldnt be 
able to change her deferred period part way through the deferred period of an active claim. 
The correspondence Ms O received from Scottish Widows could have been clearer as she 
was under the impression that if she signed and returned the quote, this meant Scottish 
Widows had agreed to change her deferred period as requested. However, it explained that 
it would request medical evidence and having done so, it decided it couldnt change the 
deferred period as Ms Os health had changed. As a result of confusion, it offered Ms O 
£250 compensation which I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint.
As Ms O was already unwell and absent at the point she asked for a change to the deferred 
period, she would always be subject to the original terms for any ongoing claim. I dont think 
Scottish Widows did anything wrong by declining her application to change the deferred 
period even though its correspondence could have been clearer. So I wont be asking it to do 
anything further.
The benefit amount
The policy terms confirm when a benefit will be paid and how much. Ms O says she should 
be considered a houseperson as she would receive more benefit. The policy confirms the 
maximum benefit is either 50% of earnings or £833.33 if a houseperson.
Houseperson is defined as:
someone who was not in paid employment (gainfully employed) for an average of 
at least 16 hours a week over the previous three months
Ms O was in employment prior to making her claim. And so she wasnt a houseperson when 
she became absent and wouldnt be paid the benefit for a houseperson.
The benefit is calculated based on income. Scottish Widows provided its calculations to Ms 
O to show how her benefit has been calculated. As she was employed just before her 
absence, Scottish Widows has correctly calculated her benefit based on her being 
employed. Ms O wasnt a houseperson as she was employed immediately before becoming 
absent due to illness. 
Time taken to make a claim decision
Ms O says Scottish Widows took too long to make a claim decision. Scottish Widows 
accepted the claim in October 2020. 
Ms O submitted her claim in August 2020 and a claims decision accepting the claim was 
made on 23 October 2020. During this period, Scottish Widows requested and reviewed medical information from Ms Os GP and financial information regarding her employment 
and income. I dont think there were any undue delays which were unreasonable or which 
caused any loss or detriment to Ms O.
Ms Os comments
In relation to the deferred period, Ms O says Scottish Widows agreed to change this to 13 
weeks. But although it sent confusing information, I havent seen any evidence that it agreed 
to change the deferred period to 13 weeks. And so I dont think its fair to ask Scottish 
Widows to do this. Even if it had agreed to change the deferred period to a shorter time 
period, that wouldnt apply to the 2020 claim, it would only apply to future claims.
Ms O says she would have waited before making a claim so that she would become eligible 
for houseperson benefit. But that isnt how the policy works. She cannot intentionally change 
her circumstances to benefit from an income protection policy. To be eligible for 
houseperson benefit, medical evidence would need to show that she was unable to 
complete two or more out of the six activities of daily work including walking, lifting, using a 
pen, pencil or keyboard, hearing, speech and vision. I havent seen any evidence that Ms O 
would be eligible for benefit if she was a houseperson as there is no evidence that her illness 
prevented her from doing at least two activities of daily work. In any event, she wouldnt be 
eligible as she was employed when she made the claim, as set out above. 
Ms O is also suggesting the original policy wasnt suitable for her. If Ms O feels the policy 
wasnt suitable when she first took it out, she would need to complain about this as a mis-
sale to the business who sold the policy to her. This isnt a complaint which has been 
investigated and so doesnt form part of my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman