DRN-3336756
The complaint
Mr A has complained about the service provided by British Gas Insurance Limited (British 
Gas) under a home emergency policy.
Mr A is represented in this case by Mrs A, who I will normally refer to throughout my 
decision.
What happened
Mrs A contacted British Gas to complain. She said British Gas had rescheduled the annual 
service appointment, which also included a repair for an issue with the boiler. She was also 
unhappy this was the first scheduled service for two years, but it had been moved multiple 
times.
When British Gas replied, it accepted it hadnt provided the service paid for. It said it had 
sent the annual service reminders in 2019. However, it hadnt sent the 2020 reminders. It 
offered a total of £115 compensation, including £65 for the 2020 missed annual service.
Mrs A complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said when Mrs A 
tried to book the 2019 annual service, she hadnt been able to do so due to technical issues 
at British Gas. British Gas also hadnt sent the 2020 annual service reminders and then 
moved the next annual service a number of times. As Mrs A had an issue with the boiler, this 
caused further inconvenience. He said British Gas should pay a total of £215 compensation.
As British Gas didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 27 January 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
Ive thought about what happened in 2019. Mrs A said she tried to book the 2019 annual 
service but was unable to do so. She said there was a problem with booking it online and 
when she spoke to British Gas on the phone, she was told she had to book online. Im aware 
that British Gas has said it has no record of a phone call from Mrs A and provided a 
screenshot from its systems to show this. 
Based on what Ive seen, there doesnt seem to be any dispute that Mrs A was aware she 
could book the 2019 annual service. Even, if I accept that Mrs A tried to book the service 
and was unable to do so at that time, I dont think this would mean British Gas was entirely 
responsible for the service not taking place. Ultimately, the annual service could only take 
place if Mrs A booked it. I havent seen anything to suggest there were ongoing issues with 
customers being able to book appointments or anything to suggest something specific to Mrs 
A. So, on balance, I currently think it was more likely than not that Mrs A could have booked 
the annual service, even if she was unable to do so when she first tried.
Ive also thought about the 2020 annual service. In this instance, British Gas accepted it 
hadnt sent reminders. I think it was reasonable that British Gas refunded the cost of that 
service. 
When the appointment for the next contract year was first scheduled, this was only for an 
annual service. British Gas terms and conditions explained it might have to reschedule 
appointments during periods of high demand, which is what it said happened here. It did this 
with one days notice. British Gas then rescheduled the annual service again because of 
industrial action and prioritising customers without heating or hot water. It offered a date over 
two months away. Mrs A told British Gas there was an issue with the boiler. British Gas then 
offered a date a couple of weeks earlier, which would include dealing with the boiler issue. 
Although Mrs A has said she didnt have heating and hot water, I havent currently seen 
anything to suggest this was raised during the phone call. So, given the issues British Gas 
was dealing with at the time, it gave Mrs A the next available appointment based on her 
circumstances. Im aware that British Gas also contacted its planning department to ensure 
the appointment wasnt rescheduled again.
But, Im mindful that, with one days notice, British Gas moved the annual service. In the 
end, it took place about four months later, having been rescheduled twice. This followed on 
from the annual service not taking place the previous year, which British Gas accepts it 
didnt send the reminder notices for. I think each of these issues caused Mrs A 
inconvenience and the combination of them added to that inconvenience and added to Mrs 
As view that she wasnt receiving the service she expected.
So, although I think it was reasonable that British Gas refunded the £65 cost of an annual 
service, Ive also thought about whether the additional £50 compensation it offered was fair. 
Having done so, I dont currently think it was because I dont think it reflected the range of 
issues that Mrs A experienced or their impact. As a result, I currently intend to say British 
Gas should pay £150 compensation. So, a total of £215, including the cost of the 2020 
annual service. British Gas may deduct any payments it has already made to Mr A or Mrs A 
in response to the complaint from this amount.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 24 February 2022
British Gas said it thought the amount of compensation was excessive but would agree to it 
in order to bring the matter to a close. 
Mrs A said she didnt agree with some of the points made but, as she was happy with the 
level of compensation, she would accept it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. I havent found any reason to change my findings or the way I think this 
complaint should be resolved.
Putting things right
British Gas should to pay Mr A £215 in total, made up of £65 for the annual service and £150 
compensation.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint. I require British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr A £215 in total, 
made up of £65 for the annual service and £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman