DRN-3836960
The complaint
This complaint is about outstanding arrears on a mortgage Mr and Mrs L hold with Barclays 
Bank UK PLC (Barclays).
What happened
During the coronavirus, Covid-19, pandemic (the pandemic) Mr and Mrs L requested 
payment deferrals on their mortgage. Barclays granted the deferrals from April 2020 to 
September 2020, but Mr and Mrs L continued having problems meeting their contractual 
monthly payments (CMPs) after this.
Mr and Mrs L made part payments between October 2020 and March 2022. But, as Mr and 
Mrs L werent meeting their CMPs in full, they accrued arrears on their account. According to 
the most recent statement provided the arrears total around £16,540.48.
Mr and Mrs L complain Barclays is being unreasonable because it hasnt accepted either of 
their proposals to clear their arrears. Mr and Mrs L have offered to pay £137.84 a month for 
120 months, or for the arrears to be added to their mortgage balance and repaid over the life 
of the mortgage. They say Barclays keeps asking them to complete Income and Expenditure 
assessments but doesnt do anything with them. That Barclays hasnt factored in the impact 
all of this has had on Mr L given his ongoing health issues. And, that one of Barclays 
advisers laughed at Mr L on the phone. 
Barclays issued a final response letter in July 2022 and said it didnt think Mr and Mrs Ls 
proposed repayment plan was sufficient considering the disposable income they have. It 
said Mr and Mrs L would continue to be chased for the arrears until a suitable plan was in 
place. But Barclays did offer Mr and Mrs L £300 in compensation for the phone call Mr L had 
with its adviser. 
Mr and Mrs L didnt accept Barclays response, so they brought their complaint to this 
service. Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs Ls concerns, but they thought Barclays 
offer was fair in the circumstances. As Mr and Mrs L remain unhappy, the complaint was 
referred to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mr and Mrs Ls complaint should be upheld and Ill explain why.
Its expected that consumers are treated fairly under the Mortgage and Home Finance 
Conduct of Business. And in addition to this, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) gave 
additional advice to businesses about how to treat customers who struggled to meet their 
CMPs during the pandemic.
Looking into what happened, Mr and Mrs L were granted six payment deferrals in line with 
the recommendations made by the FCA. The deferred payments will have been built back 
into their outstanding loan balance, which is why their CMPs went up shortly after the 
payment deferrals ended. So, Im satisfied Barclays treated them fairly and in line with the 
FCAs guidance at the time. 
Following this, Mr and Mrs L only made part payments for around 18 months, except for one 
payment that was made in full. Unlike the payment deferrals agreed as part of the FCAs 
pandemic guidance, any arrears accrued due to the part payments would need to be kept 
separate from the mortgage balance. This is why Barclays is unable to accept Mr and 
Mrs Ls proposal to add the arrears to the mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs L have been receiving correspondence about their arrears including letters that 
advise them their home could be repossessed. I know Mr and Mrs L are unhappy about this, 
but they didnt make their full CMPs for a significant period of time. In these circumstances, 
the arrears are immediately due as they should have already been paid in order to maintain 
their mortgage agreement. So, Barclays will correspond with them until this is resolved. 
Barclays is within its rights to request the arrears be paid in full, but instead, it is offering to 
set up an arrangement so Mr and Mrs L can clear the arrears over a set period of time. In 
order to set up a repayment plan, Barclays has to complete an Income and Expenditure 
assessment with Mr and Mrs L. Id like to point out that any lender would likely require the 
same in these circumstances. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs L think Barclays has completed this process a few times now and 
that it still hasnt agreed a repayment plan, but its often necessary to complete the process a 
few times to ensure the plan is appropriate by the time it is put in place. Particularly given 
Mr and Mrs L and Barclays have been unable to agree on a monthly repayment amount. 
From what Ive seen, Mr and Mrs L havent been prepared to pay an amount that Barclays 
thinks is acceptable. Mr and Mrs L have proposed paying back the arrears with low 
payments over a long period of time. But, considering what Ive said above, that Barclays 
could demand the arrears be repaid in full, I dont think Barclays decision not to accept 
Mr and Mrs Ls long-term suggestion is unreasonable. 
I say this because Mr and Mrs L have provided information about their regular outgoings a 
few times now, and their disposable income appears to be greater than the amount theyre 
prepared to pay Barclays to clear their arrears. Mr L has said that any sum greater than the 
£137.84 a month theyve offered would be difficult for them. But Mr L hasnt given much of 
an explanation as to why. The Income and Expenditure assessments theyve completed 
should be an accurate reflection of what they will need to spend on a monthly basis. So, the 
remaining funds should be available and Mr and Mrs L will be expected to use as much of 
that as possible to clear their arrears as soon as possible.
Ive thought about what Mr L has said about his health condition and I understand that this 
situation is causing him significant stress. It must be a very difficult time for both Mr and 
Mrs L, but I still dont think theres much more Barclays can do. Ultimately, Mr and Mrs L 
need to pay back the arrears they owe, or they risk losing their home. Barclays will continue 
to correspond with them until a suitable arrangement has been reached to try and avoid that 
happening. So, I think it would be in Mr and Mrs Ls best interests to contact Barclays again 
to reach a suitable arrangement.Mr L has also complained about the phone call he had with a Barclays adviser, specifically 
that he was laughed at during the call. Barclays has already accepted the advisers 
behaviour was inappropriate and offered Mr and Mrs L £300 to say sorry for that. I havent 
got a copy of the phone call to listen to, but as Barclays has accepted what Mr L has said 
about the call, and I think the crux of the complaint is really about the repayment plan, Im 
satisfied Barclays offer is reasonable in the circumstances.
In summary, while I empathize with Mr and Mrs Ls situation, they still owe Barclays for the 
arrears they accrued over the period they were unable to meet their CMPs in full. I think 
Barclays has attempted to work with them to resolve the issue and considering everything, I 
think Barclays has treated Mr and Mrs L fairly in terms of that. But Barclays has offered 
some compensation for the way its adviser handled a call with Mr L and Mr and Mrs L can let 
us know if they now wish to accept that. In the meantime, if Mr and Mrs L want to avoid any 
further problems, I think they should contact Barclays again and arrange a suitable 
repayment plan for their arrears.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman