DRN-2941918
The complaint
Mr A complained to Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) that a repair was delayed under his 
home emergency policy and led to lost rental income.  
What happened
Mr A made a claim on his policy on 12 August 2020 as he had no hot water provision at his 
property. Fixing the fault wasnt straightforward and the property was without hot water until 
25 September 2020, when the fault was fixed.
I wont go into much detail about what happened during this period as the sequence of 
events is well know to both parties. Aviva was unable to contact Mr A for a few days, but the 
delay in restoring the hot water was predominately because it took two visits to initially 
diagnose the problem and try and fix it. Then another related issue was identified which 
resulted in further delay, as the parts were not immediately available. 
Aviva acknowledged its part in causing the delay and offered Mr A £200 in compensation for 
the inconvenience caused. Mr A let his property to a managing agent. He said his managing 
agent was unhappy it had lost rent for the period the flat was without hot water. As it was the 
second time it had happened, Mr A said he had to agree to reduce the managing agents 
rent by 50% over a two-month period, which Mr A said resulted in a financial loss to him of 
£800.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She said the managing agents 
business was based on short term lets and she said the managing agent confirmed in an 
email it would absorb the loss. Mr A disagreed, so the case has been referred to an 
ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 19 July 2021. I said:
As Aviva has acknowledged it was at fault, my decision will focus on whether the £200 it 
has offered is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Mr A doesnt 
believe it is fair and has said he has lost one months rent (£800) because of the delays.
The flat was without hot water from 12 August 2020 to 25 September 2020, so for a period of 
around six weeks. I have reviewed what happened during this period.
Aviva acknowledged the delays which caused the tenanted property to be without hot water. 
Aviva said, this is due to our delays in obtaining the replacement parts and ultimately not 
resolving the issue. Avivas own analysis concluded the insureds tenants were without Hot 
Water for a total of 18 days over our acceptable wait time due to awaiting parts and sourcing 
the correct engineer to attend.
I have considered whether I think this is a reasonable conclusion. Aviva required three visits 
to diagnose the issue. I can see the first visit was inconclusive and perhaps five days were 
lost due to this. But, I can see the second visit diagnosed the issue and once repaired, it 
seemed to work for a week before another separate issue was diagnosed.
Between the first diagnosis and repair for the faulty stat, 9 days elapsed but three or four 
days were lost as Aviva were unable to reach Mr A to arrange a follow up appointment. For 
the second diagnosis, 16 days elapsed between diagnosis and repair.
The policy doesnt specify an expected service standard for repairs to be made, but it does 
exclude any losses caused by any delays obtaining spare parts. Aviva cant be expected to 
have every spare part on its van, but it also should be expected to provide a prompt service 
if it sells itself as an emergency service. I think Aviva have underestimated the delay and I 
think 25-30 days is a more reasonable assessment of the additional time the repairs took 
due to delays.
As Aviva have caused this delay, I have reviewed whether it has caused a financial loss for 
Mr A. Aviva has argued it didnt. So, I have looked at the evidence Mr A has provided to 
support his view that he did suffer a financial loss. Mr A has rented his property to a 
managing agent for a long time. The managing agent sub-lets the property to short-term lets, 
with some of the business being repeat business.
Mr A has provided evidence that shows the tenant who was renting at the time terminated 
his rent with the managing agent early as he had no access to hot water. Mr A has also 
provided emails from the managing agent that says it was unhappy with the circumstances 
as it was the second time in 12 months it had suffered a loss due to a similar incident. The 
managing agent wrote to Mr A and said it wouldnt absorb the loss as it was unable to rent 
out a property that had no hot water. Mr A told our service that he agreed with the managing 
agent that he would not charge him for one months rent, as it wasnt able to sub-let the 
property.
Mr A has a long-term relationship with his managing agent. This is the second issue he has 
had in 12 months, so I can understand why he would agree to forgo one months rent to 
maintain his relationship with them. His property was uninhabitable for that period as it had 
no hot water and so the managing agent wouldnt have been able to sub-let the property. I 
think it was reasonable for him to do this. I have checked Mr As bank statements and I have 
seen that his income from the managing agent was reduced for the next two months (50% in 
each month). As Aviva were responsible for the delays and it resulted in a financial loss for 
Mr A, I dont think it has been fair in declining his claim for lost revenue. Mr As claim falls 
within the Electrics section of the policy and whilst the terms and conditions exclude losses 
as a result of delays in acquiring spare parts, I think the delays were additional to these and 
caused by Aviva. Therefore, I uphold this complaint, I intend to require Aviva to settle Mr As 
claim, paying him £800 for the lost rent. As Mr A has been without this money, I intend Aviva 
to pay interest at 8% a year simple from the date of the claim to the date it pays Mr A.
Aviva has already paid Mr A £200 for the inconvenience of the delays. I think this is fair, so I 
wont be awarding any further compensation.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr A accepted my decision. Additionally, he said if Aviva had fixed his original issue properly 
earlier in the year, then this later issue wouldnt have reoccurred. He also said, some of the 
delays caused by Aviva were due to them trying to contact him to get access to the property 
as opposed to using the contact he gave (the managing agent).
Aviva said [It has] not seen any evidence that there was a tenant staying in the property at 
the time of the claim or that there was a tenant scheduled to stay that had to be cancelled due to the lack of hot water. Therefore, [it doesnt] believe there is any evidence that the 
letting agent has lost out financially whilst the claim was ongoing. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision. The points made in the recent responses were already considered 
when I made my provisional decision. I think there is evidence to show Mr A has suffered 
financial loss for the additional delays that Aviva caused.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mr A:
£800 for one months lost rent caused by the delays
Plus, interest at 8% a year simple*  from the date of the claim to the date Aviva pays 
Mr A
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Aviva Insurance Limited to take off tax from this 
interest. Aviva must give a certificate showing how much tax its taken off it if Mr A asks for 
one.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman