DRN-4162288
The complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax put the mortgage he held jointly 
with his former partner, onto a nil payment plan without his agreement or knowledge. When 
he objected, Halifax said it would cancel this. But it didnt cancel, and didnt tell him it hadnt. 
What happened
Mr C said he had a mortgage, held jointly with his former partner. He moved out of the 
property in July 2022, and stopped paying the mortgage then. Mr C said he found out in late 
November 2022 that earlier that month, Halifax had agreed his former partner could stop 
paying the mortgage for a time, while attempts were made to sell the house. Mr C said that 
decision was taken by Halifax without his agreement or even knowledge, and he said it 
would affect his credit score and his chances of getting another mortgage.
Mr C told us he rang Halifax to cancel the agreement, and it said it would do so. But then it 
changed its mind. Mr C said Halifax didnt contact him to tell him the agreement had 
remained in place. And he said if his former partner had been able to make a unilateral 
decision on the joint mortgage, to put a payment plan in place, then he ought to be able to 
take a unilateral decision to take it off again.
Mr C said he updated his address with Halifax in July 2022. He showed us correspondence 
from Halifax which acknowledged his change of address. But he said Halifax continued to 
send all his mail to his old address. Then, after hed complained about the payment plan, it 
started to send him post with his former partners name on it. 
Mr C said he was accruing debts which were out of his control. He said this was happening 
because the joint owner of the property was refusing to market it at a price which would 
attract a quick sale. Mr C wanted the debt to be cancelled by Halifax, and for Halifax to 
repossess the property. 
Halifax accepted it had told Mr C it would cancel the payment plan on this mortgage. It said it 
shouldnt have told Mr C that. It didnt think it should cancel the plan when no one was 
offering to pay the mortgage. And Mr C had been clear on the call he wasnt going to pay. 
Halifax said it had tried to call Mr C back to explain, but couldnt get in touch. So Halifax also 
accepted that Mr C would have understood the plan had been cancelled. 
Halifax said it should have made clear on the call it had with Mr C that it wouldnt cancel the 
plan if he wasnt going to make payments. Halifax said if it had cancelled the plan, arrears 
would still have accrued on the mortgage, because no payments were being made. Having 
the plan in place meant no legal action was taken on the arrears.
Halifax showed our service that there were no payments into this mortgage for December 
2022, or January or February 2023, the period covered by the plan. It said these arrears 
would be reported on Mr Cs credit file, and it didnt think it had made a mistake about that. 
Halifax showed us that it had written to Mr C when the payment plan was first put onto the 
mortgage, but it sent this to the property address. Halifax said it hadnt received an updated 
address from Mr C until 17 January 2023, when he raised this complaint. So Halifax didnt 
think it was its fault that Mr C hadnt received its letters about the account. And it had told 
him it wouldnt write to either him or the other party to the mortgage while a plan was in 
place. 
Halifax said it had Mr Cs new address now, and it was sending him information on the 
mortgage. Halifax paid Mr C £40 for the distress it had caused, but it wouldnt do more than 
this.
When this complaint came to our service, Halifax said it had since realised that Mr C had 
updated his address with it on 27 July 2022, long before the plan was put onto the mortgage. 
So it should have been sending its correspondence to the right address for him much earlier 
than it did. It said unfortunately it hadnt added this information to his mortgage account at 
the time. Halifax didnt increase its offer of compensation, it still thought it had resolved this 
case fairly.
Mr C also wrote to update us. He said hed agreed to sell the property in June 2022. Hed 
requested a payment holiday then, but he said Halifax turned him down, because it wouldnt 
agree this on properties which were up for sale. Mr C said with hindsight this seemed unfair. 
Mr C told us that his former partner delayed the agreement of an estate agent to market the 
property. And almost immediately after one was finally appointed, his former partner then 
changed her mind, and started court proceedings. Mr C said a different agent was appointed 
at a hearing in November, but the valuation was out of date, it didnt reflect a recent drop in 
property prices in his area. 
Mr C said it was only when the house was marketed in early December that he discovered a 
third party had been paying the mortgage after he moved out. Mr C said that Halifax told him 
that when it made decisions, it favoured whichever one of the joint mortgagees who was 
paying the mortgage currently, despite Mr C having paid for years before this. But Mr C said 
in this case, it wasnt one of the two joint mortgagees making the payments. 
Mr C said he thought this third party could keep paying, and thats why he wanted Halifax to 
cancel the plan. Mr C said that keeping the plan in place was only encouraging his former 
partner to hold out for the most money from the house instead of encouraging the quick sale 
that was so desperately needed. Mr C said he felt the property wouldnt sell at that price, and 
he couldnt require a reduction by himself. So he said repossession seemed like the only 
way forward. 
Mr C said that after the plan expired, he was told that his former partner had applied for a 
hold on the account. He was unhappy about how this had been handled too, and Mr C said 
that hed made a further complaint about this.
Mr C said hed received the payment of £40 from Halifax. And he said the house was now 
being sold, after the judge at a more recent hearing had ordered that the price be reduced. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Mr Cs correspondence 
address should have been updated by Halifax in July 2022. So he said Halifax should pay 
Mr C a total of £150 in compensation, less the £40 already paid. But our investigator didnt 
think Halifax made a mistake by refusing to remove the payment plan. Mr C had been clear 
that he wouldnt pay the mortgage, and Halifax shouldnt have agreed to cancel the payment 
plan in those circumstances. Halifax agreed to that, but Mr C didnt. He said we still hadnt told him why one party could 
change the mortgage without the agreement of the other, or why his request to cancel the 
payment plan was rejected. Mr C said this would have long term effects on him, and he said 
it just caused months of additional arrears, while the property was unsold. Mr C said those 
arrears meant that he was unlikely ever to be able to get a mortgage again, and also 
affected other important financial arrangements. 
Mr C said Halifax didnt attempt to contact him to tell him it wasnt going to cancel the plan 
after all. He had no missed calls or texts, and he thought if Halifax couldnt speak to him 
about this, it should have written. Mr C said hed also given Halifax his new address on the 
call when he tried to cancel the payment plan. 
Our investigator didnt change his mind. He said Mr C had been very clear that he wouldnt 
pay the mortgage himself. And in circumstances where no payments were being made by 
either party to the mortgage, it was generally better for a payment arrangement to be in 
place, as this shows other prospective future lenders that steps were being taken to manage 
the situation. Our investigator said he was satisfied that it was fair for Halifax to agree the 
arrangement, without getting Mr Cs consent first.
Our investigator also said he thought Halifax had tried to call Mr C back, as hed seen 
evidence of this. Halifax hadnt then realised its mistake in not properly updating Mr Cs 
address. Our investigator said hed suggested Halifax pay more compensation because it 
should have written to Mr C. But he said that because Halifax hadnt realised its mistake at 
this time, this letter still wouldnt have reached Mr C. 
Our investigator thought Halifax had correctly reported the missed payments on Mr Cs credit 
file. And he said he wouldnt look at what happened after Mr C made his first complaint, as 
that was all Halifax had had a chance to respond to, in this case. 
Mr C continued to disagree. He said that he believed it was up to him how he managed his 
loans, and he would then be responsible for the consequences of any decisions he had 
made. But he didnt think this was for anyone else to decide. Mr C also said hed been told in 
November that there was no difference between a payment plan with nil payments, or 
mortgage debt accruing without a plan in place, which is why hed asked Halifax to remove 
the plan. Mr C said a third party had paid the mortgage since July 2022, and he assumed 
this would continue. But Mr C said hed paid the mortgage for years before this, and 
someone paying for a few months shouldnt be favoured in decisions. 
Mr C said only one attempt at contact wasnt acceptable. And he repeated that hed updated 
his address again on the call in November, so he should have got any letter sent after this. 
Because no agreement was reached, this case then came to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax has accepted that Mr C did give it his new address on 27 July 2022. And Ive listened 
to the call where he did so. After this date, all Halifaxs correspondence should have been 
sent to Mr Cs new home. We know it wasnt. Ive also heard, on calls on 1 December, that 
Halifax used this new address to identify Mr C. So I dont think he could reasonably have 
been expected to realise then, that Halifax still wouldnt send its correspondence out to this 
new address.I dont think that what Halifax has done would have been different, if Mr C had received its 
correspondence. (Ill explain why Ive reached that view below.) But I do think Mr C should 
have been kept properly informed about developments and changes on his mortgage. For 
that reason, I agree with our investigator that Halifax should pay Mr C some additional 
compensation because of that. 
When Mr C called to discuss the payment plan on the mortgage on 1 December, he was 
concerned that hed requested a payment holiday some months earlier, but that had been 
refused. The agent explained that the current arrangement wasnt a payment holiday, and 
arrears were still accruing. 
Mr C then called back. He wanted the payment plan removed, and was repeatedly told that 
could be done for him. Halifax then decided it wouldnt remove the plan after all. 
I do think Halifax should then have contacted Mr C again to let him know the plan was still in 
place. Although Mr C doesnt appear to have told Halifax that he thought the plan was 
making things worse, he wasnt given the opportunity to do so, because he didnt know right 
away that the plan hadnt been cancelled. I think he should have been told this, and given 
the opportunity to express his views. 
But again, I think its unlikely things would have been different in December, even if Mr C 
had been told the payment plan was still in place. Halifax had explained that this was a joint 
mortgage, and Mr C would remain equally liable for payments until the property was sold. So 
the only way to avoid any negative mark on his credit file, was for someone to make the 
payments. 
Halifax had already spoken to the other joint party, and as Halifax had agreed to take no 
action when no payments were received, it had presumably accepted that this person wasnt 
in a position to make payments. Mr C was clear he couldnt pay either  he had rent to pay. 
Halifax is under a legal duty to tell credit reference agencies, when payments to a mortgage 
arent being made. If its a joint mortgage, Halifax has to report this onto the credit files of 
both of the people who are liable to pay the debt. So I dont think it was wrong for Halifax to 
do so. 
I know our investigator said that a payment plan does usually look a bit better, on a credit 
file, than just missed payments. I dont think this is something Halifax had said to Mr C, and 
its told our service that when someones on a nil payment arrangement, like this one, it just 
reports the missed payments, not an arrangement to pay. I can see that Halifax has just 
reported missed payments, not a payment plan, so I think its done what it said it would do. 
That means the main advantage of this plan was that it meant Halifax didnt start any legal 
action on this account. I know Mr C thought Halifax wasnt really helping, as he thought the 
property was being marketed at too high a price, and the plan was just allowing this to 
continue. But I think it was reasonable for Halifax to allow a little time for the property to sell. 
Halifax would charge for legal action taken to enforce this debt, and those costs would have 
been added to Mr Cs mortgage. So, notwithstanding Mr Cs concerns about the pricing of 
the property, I still think it was reasonable for Halifax to give some time for the property to 
sell. I dont think Halifax should have removed the plan in the three months Im considering 
here. 
When Mr C complained to us, he said he thought that the only way to sell the property would 
be for Halifax to repossess it. But I understand that Mr C then addressed the marketing of this property as part of his divorce proceedings, and publicly available records suggest that 
the property has since been sold. I think its likely that this would always have been the most 
expedient and cost effective way to address this issue.
I dont think Halifax was favouring either party when it made decisions about the nil payment 
plan on this mortgage. It put the plan in place when it was told by the person whod been 
paying, that they were going to stop. I dont think it needed to talk to Mr C, or obtain his 
agreement, before it did that. 
Ive noted above that Mr C should have been told about the plan. Thats not because I think 
it was unfair for Halifax to act without his agreement, its because Mr C should have been 
offered the opportunity to pay the mortgage himself. I understand Halifax did write, but Mr C 
didnt get that letter because of Halifaxs mistake about his address. 
However, Ive also got to bear in mind that Mr C did become aware of the plan, he then 
spoke to Halifax, and he was clear he couldnt pay. So I think it was then reasonable for 
Halifax not to remove the plan. 
Mr C has also expressed concerns about what happened later, after this plan lapsed. But I 
wont look at those concerns here. The complaint Mr C initially brought to our service doesnt 
deal with a later hold on the account, or with the names on correspondence sent to Mr C. 
And I dont want to delay a resolution on this issue by reopening the investigation now. So I 
make no comment on those issues. My conclusion is just that for the three months that 
Halifax had this nil payment plan in place, I think it was reasonable for the plan to be there. 
I understand that Mr C has been very upset by what Halifax has done here, and he feels that 
his credit file is being affected by something he isnt really responsible for. I appreciate that 
this has been a difficult time for Mr C, and that he thinks Halifax hasnt helped. But I think 
that it has taken reasonable steps here  and thats why, although I do think it failed to keep 
Mr C properly informed of what those steps were, I dont think things would have been 
different if it had done. Thats why, like our investigator, I do think that a total payment of 
£150 provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. 
Mr C told us he got the £40 that Halifax previously offered, so my decision below would 
require Halifax to pay the remaining £110, if it hasnt already done so.My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax must pay Mr C a total of 
£150 in compensation for this complaint. Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax can count 
towards that total payment of £150, any payment it has previously made to Mr C for this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman