DRN-3698184
The complaint
Mr H complains about how AXA Insurance UK plc (AXA) didnt offer him enough for his 
vehicle when he made a claim on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H had a motor insurance policy with AXA covering his vehicle. His vehicle was involved in 
a collision, and Mr H made a claim.
AXA notified Mr H that his vehicle would be collected by its approved repairer, who Ill refer 
to as C. Mr H didnt want to deal with C, so AXA used another company who Ill call H. 
H valued the vehicle at £4,750, and the cost of repairs as £2,158.66. Mr H wasnt happy with 
this amount and AXA re-assessed the cost of repairs as £2,452. But AXA also noted that 
parts werent in stock, so a cash settlement would be the best option.
Mr H said he wanted his vehicle written off, and he wanted to retain the vehicle. 
AXA offered to settle the claim by paying Mr H the original valuation figure of £4,750, or 
£3,135 if he retained the written off vehicle. 
AXA paid Mr H £250 compensation for some incorrect advice and poor communications 
during the claim. Mr H has clarified that this does not form part of his approach to this 
service.
Mr H remained unhappy with AXAs valuation and he brought his complaint to this service.  
He says the vehicles value is around £10-£12,000 and he asks for settlement by AXA of this 
amount.
Our investigator looked into Mr Hs complaint and didnt uphold it. She said she thought AXA 
had acted fairly and reasonably and in line with its policy terms. 
Mr H didnt agree with the view. He asked that his complaint was reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it and Ill explain why.
I can see from AXAs policy wording that it will pay the market value of a vehicle. In the 
policy wording it defines the market value as:
The cost of replacing your car in the UK with one of the same make, model, 
specification, mileage, age and condition.
Our investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for vehicles but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable.
Ive done research into Mr Hs vehicle and Ive found that UK valuation guides dont include it 
in their listings. I can see from the file that Mr Hs vehicle is an unusual model in the UK 
because it was imported. So, Ive looked at the evidence provided by both Mr H and AXA.
Mr H has supplied copies of adverts showing that a similar vehicle would be valued between 
approximately £10,000 and £12,000. The adverts are in a different currency, and the 
vehicles arent in the UK, although I understand that the adverts show the price as including 
delivery to the UK.
Ive looked at AXAs evidence. It approached a specialist importer of vehicles into the UK 
and asked for an opinion on the vehicle value if it was being bought and sold on the second-
hand market in the UK. The importer said they thought the value would be between £2,000 
and £3,000. 
The importer also said as Mr Hs vehicle wasnt newly imported, its value couldnt be 
compared to similar vehicles available overseas as more value is added to fresh imports. I 
can see there was discussion about a UK advert for a similar vehicle priced at £2,995 and if I 
look online I can find other classified adverts for similar vehicles around £2,000-£3,000.
Its difficult to say whether these individual examples are reliable, which is why this services 
approach is to use the valuation guides where we can. But I find AXAs evidence persuasive. 
Its asked a specialist in the field who has provided a value, backed with evidence, and has 
detailed why the overseas adverts arent a suitable comparison to the UK price.
Overall, Im satisfied that AXAs settlement offer of £4,750 was fair and reasonable and I 
dont require it to increase this.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman