DRN-3058131
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about their stock market linked savings bond with Santander UK Plc 
(Santander). They are unhappy with the maturity value and say the bond should have 
performed better based on the amount they invested, and the returns advertised.
What happened
In March 2015 Mr and Mrs B were advised by Santander to invest a total of £1.03miliion into 
a range of investments. This complaint relates to the recommendation to invest £500,000 of 
that investment into a stock market linked savings bond, which was designed to return the 
initial investment with a minimum return of 0.5%, up to a fixed maximum of 50%.
The bond matured on November 2020 with Mr and Mrs B achieving a return of £2,500 in 
addition to their original investment  a 0.5% gain. Unhappy with this, they complained. They 
say they cant recall during their numerous advisory meetings that Santander said their 
return could be so small. 
Santanders final response said the product literature set out how the interest return would 
be calculated. It also said Mr and Mrs B also wanted to achieve a greater potential return 
than fixed rate bonds and other deposit-based savings accounts, but with a lower risk than 
their equity-based investments, so the bond met their investment objectives. Santander 
rejected the complaint saying it had advised them suitably.
Our investigator looked at the case, but he didnt uphold the complaint. He said it was 
unfortunate the impact of the pandemic on the market meant their return was much lower 
than it might otherwise have been, however he couldnt find Santander at fault as the bond 
had operated in the way it was designed. The investigator also considered the suitability of 
the bond, and noted the bond was in line with Mr and Mrs Bs investment objectives and 
attitude to risk. Overall, he didnt think the bond was unsuitable for them.
Mr and Mrs B did not agree with the investigators findings. They said the bonds value 
wasnt acceptable considering the amount invested and the number of years it had been in 
force. As no agreement was reached, the case was passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to decide whether Santander has treated Mr and Mrs B fairly and reasonably in the 
circumstances of this case, noting the product literature Santander issued. The bond term 
sheet says:
What is the minimum I will get back?
At maturity you will get back your initial deposit plus at least your minimum interest 
return, which will be 0.50% gross/0.09% AER.
What is the maximum I will get back?
Your interest return at maturity will be the greater of your initial deposit plus either:
the minimum interest return; or
all of the percentage growth of the FTSE 100 Index (which is after averaging) 
up to a maximum of 50% gross/7.65% AER of your initial deposit.
Under key risks, both the term sheet and bond guide also say:
The percentage growth of the FTSE 100 Index is determined by comparing the final 
level of the FTSE 100 Index (which is after averaging) with the starting level which is 
taken at the end of the commencement date at the end of the fixed term.
Im satisfied the product literature makes clear the bond would use the average of the FTSE 
closing price each day over that six months leading up to the bonds maturity. If the final 
figure was lower than the starting position, the bank would pay the minimum return, but if 
higher, then it would pay up to the fixed maximum return.
Ive considered Mr and Mrs Bs comments that the adviser told them theyd achieve between 
2-4% per annum at maturity. But Im not persuaded they were told something different based 
on the clarity of the documents Ive seen. I say this because having reviewed the 
information, Im satisfied the key points about how the investment would work werent buried 
in small print, but sufficiently highlighted and in clear language such that they could 
understand the terms and how the final return would be calculated. Although their 
investment experience was limited, Ive taken account of the responsibility Mr and Mrs B had 
to read the literature and understand the investment they had undertaken, not least because 
of the amount involved. So, I think Mr and Mrs B ought to have been aware that the return 
could be just 0.5%.
Im satisfied the plan worked as it should, and the literature was clear about that. If the FTSE 
didnt rise over the relevant period (with averaging taken into account) Mr and Mrs B would 
only get back what they invested plus a small gain. Thats what happened, so undoubtedly, 
while it will be disappointing to Mr and Mrs B, thats what the bond was designed to do.
Although Ive looked at how the plan worked because Mr and Mrs B have told us the 
investment bond hasnt given them the return they were expecting, Im also of the view that 
theyve displayed concerns about whether they were sold the right product. I say this 
because if the return wasnt what they were expecting, but this is in fact how it worked, this 
calls into question their understanding of the investment and therefore whether it was 
suitable for them in the first place. So, for the sake of completeness, Ive considered whether 
the advice theyve been given was suitable for their circumstances and requirements.
At the time Mr and Mrs B were both retired and had won a substantial lottery sum. They had 
opted to invest a portion of their win across a number of investments with Santander 
including stocks and shares ISAs, an Open-Ended Investment Company (OIEC) and a bond. 
Given the period of time that has passed since the sale of the policy, there is limited sales 
documentation available. However, its not in dispute that Mr and Mrs B had a low attitude to 
risk for this portion of their investment. And that they wanted to achieve capital growth over 
the medium to long term that could exceed the return they might otherwise have received by 
leaving their capital in fixed rate bonds or on deposit. So, I think Mr and Mrs B understood there was a risk of little return in the hope of preserving their capital. Crucially, this was a risk 
they were willing to take to potentially get a better return.
Mr and Mrs B agreed to commit a portion of their total investments to the bond, which 
guaranteed to protect the original amount invested after five and a half years. Although their 
capital would be in use for the duration, Mr and Mrs B dont appear to have required an 
income from this investment or access to it as they had £300,000 in an interest-bearing 
account with another bank and additional fairly liquid investments such as their ISAs. To my 
mind, Santanders recommendation to invest £500,000 in this particular product, although 
sizeable, wasnt an unreasonable sum to invest taking into account this portion represented 
approximately 37% of their overall wealth, and because the nature and terms of the 
investment were consistent with the objectives Mr and Mrs B wished to achieve. 
However, I acknowledge these products can be complex, and arent always suitable even if 
the capital was guaranteed. The investment presented the potential risk of receiving little 
return, but Im satisfied Mr and Mrs B were made aware of this possibility. Im also mindful 
that rates available from ordinary savings accounts at the time were very low so there were 
limited ways in which to achieve better returns without risking their capital.
Here, Mr and Mrs B had the opportunity to make 7.65% a year, which was a very good 
return for the time compared to risk free savings accounts and similar places they could 
have put their money without risking their capital. There was a chance the bond would give a 
very minimal return. But it was clear that as long as the FTSEs final average index was 
higher than the start, Mr and Mrs B would get a return significantly better than savings 
account rates. Im satisfied that this was a risk they were willing and able to take with this 
portion of their overall wealth in the hope of that return. 
Despite the risk of the FTSE falling and the impact this would have on the return, taking into 
account Mr and Mrs Bs objectives and financial situation, Im inclined to believe the 
recommendation was suitable and in line with the level of risk Mr and Mrs B were prepared 
to take, as it offered the potential to outperform the returns on a deposit account over the 
same period. So, while the performance was disappointing, the bond operated as it ought to 
have done. It follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint or make any award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Farzana Miah
Ombudsman