DRN-4379973
The complaint
Mrs L complains about the lack of communication and harassment by Barclays Bank UK 
PLC. Mrs L would like an apology and a call from a manager.
What happened
Mrs L has a mortgage with Barclays Bank PLC that is in arrears. She has an arrangement to 
pay off these arrears over time. There have been interruptions to the arrangement, and it 
has then been re-set and started again. The background to this complaint is thar Mrs L has 
been having financial difficulties for several years. I note that at the beginning of January 
2022. Mrs L had been unemployed for then 15 months and had accumulated arrears. At that 
stage an arrangement plan was set up for Barclays with the idea that the arrears would be 
paid off over 48 months. A payment shortfall in March 2022 meant a letter being sent from 
the bank and then a phone call to look at a revised arrangement. That occurred again in 
July. Then in October when Mrs L said that she had paid money to the incorrect account. 
Then in January 2023 Mrs L got a broken arrangement letter because of a shortfall in 
December 2022. Instead of £239.96 being paid, Mrs L paid £227.12. Although Mrs L said 
she hadnt been updated, Barclays referred her to a letter informing her in on 22 November 
2022 of a rate increase coming into effect in December. 
Mrs L said that she tried to get through to Barclays on several occasions but couldnt. 
Barclays accepted its failure of service and paid compensation to Mrs L of £250. Mrs L then 
raised a further complaint about the difficulties she had setting up a payment plan over the 
phone on 24 February 2023. Mrs L says the agent had system issues and a call back was 
arranged which didnt happen and Mrs L got a notice threatening repossession. Barclays 
upheld the complaint for the inconvenience of the rearranged appointment but said that it 
had tried to contact Mrs L on two separate occasions. It offered Mrs L £100 for the 
inconvenience. Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as in 
his view Barclays had made reasonable attempts to contact Mrs L to get the payment plan 
sorted. Mrs L disagreed and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This is a file where Mrs L has been in substantial arrears on her contractual monthly 
payments (CMP) for some time which began when she lost her job during the Coronavirus 
Pandemic. The file shows that from January 2022 when Mrs L got another job she has been 
in a payment arrangement with Barclays. There have been problems with the arrangement, 
and it has been re-set several times. Part of the background has been rising interest rates 
and as the arrangement is based on the CMP plus a certain figure this seems to have 
caused issues as the CMP went up. I see that at one stage Mrs L may not have been told 
that the CMP was going up and underpaid because of that but also I noted that in December 
Barclays says that it informed Mrs L it was going up but there was a shortfall in that month. 
My general view of this complaint was that on the whole, Barclays was acting 
sympathetically towards Mrs L as witnessed by the fact that if the arrangement was broken it 
was subsequently renewed. On the other side Mrs L appears to be dealing with the arrears 
positively. Because there are arrears, it will involve Barclays closely monitoring the situation. 
One of the issues is to ensure that Mrs L is able to afford the extra payments given 
increased living costs and thats why there have been requests on several occasions for 
income and expenditure accounts. Also unfortunately, because there is a closer relationship 
between Barclays and Mrs L there are more chances for things to go wrong e.g., phone calls 
dropped and not returned etc. I understand that Mrs L finds these encounters uncomfortable 
but If I look at he overall picture, there has been good progress in reducing the arrears and 
although there have been breaches of the arrangement, it has generally been kept on track.
I dont propose to adjudicate on every incident between the parties and comment on every 
phone call missed or not. I believe its fair and reasonable to take an overview of the 
relationship. As I say I believe that Barclays has fairly dealt with Mrs L in her financial 
difficulties and maintained the agreed payment arrangement. There is a question of pre-
litigation letters which appear to issue when there have been interruptions to the 
arrangement. We would expect lenders to give borrows adequate warning of what potentially 
might happen if the arrangement wasnt maintained, and these appear to be for that 
purpose. 
This particular complaint relates to events at the end of February 2023 when Mrs L says an 
agent contacted her to discuss the income/expenditure position, but Mrs L says that the 
system wasnt working, that she didnt get a call back and that then she got a letter from 
Barclays threatening repossession. The background to this was that in early February it 
seems that Barclays was trying to have a conversation with Mrs L about her 
income/expenditure and for whatever reason this didnt occur and so as this was outstanding 
a letter was sent threatening repossession in the absence of an arrangement and inviting 
Mrs L to re-contact Barclays. Mrs L has received several similar such letters in the past 
which are intended I believe by showing what may happen if no contact is made to 
encourage contact with the lender. Mrs L had of course at this stage understood she was in 
contact with Barclays. 
My view of this is that there are faults on both sides. The notes indicated that Barclays was 
trying to contact Mrs L at the start of February2023 to have this conversation about the 
income/expenditure position and perhaps Mrs L should have done more to facilitate a 
conversation at a time suitable to her which would have avoided the issues at the end of the 
month.  But equally Barclays should have been in a position to process Mrs Ls 
income/expenditure information at the end of February when it got through to her and 
recognised that she was making contact which would have avoided the letter going out. In 
the circumstances Barclays apologised and offered compensation of £100. I note that Mrs L 
asked for an apology, and it has been given. I also believe that the compensation offered by 
Barclays is fair and dont require it to pay further compensation.
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle this complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Barclays should pay Mrs L £100 unless it has already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 Gerard McManus
Ombudsman