DRN-4079017
The complaint
Mr P complains Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely Loans approved his loan before 
carrying out sufficient checks, and this caused him to be given a loan that was unaffordable.
What happened
Mr P took out a £3,000 loan with Oakbrook in November 2021. It was to be repaid with 12 
monthly payments of £281.42.
Mr P complained the loan was unaffordable, and the lending caused him financial difficulties. 
Likely Loans looked into Mr Ps concerns and issued their final response. In this, they 
explained they were satisfied they carried out sufficient checks, and those checks 
demonstrated the borrowing was affordable for Mr Ps circumstances at the time. As such, 
they didnt uphold his complaint. Mr P remained unhappy, so referred his complaint to our 
Service.
Our Investigator didnt think Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. He felt Likely Loans checks 
were reasonable and proportionate. But even if they had conducted additional checks, 
having seen Mr Bs bank statements for the three-month period before the loan was taken 
out, our Investigator didnt think they evidenced the loan would/might have been 
unaffordable.
Mr P disagreed with our Investigator, so his complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I know this will come as a disappointment 
to Mr P, so Ill explain my reasoning below.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ps complaint.
Likely Loans were expected to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks so that they 
could understand if any lending would be affordable for Mr P. The relevant rules dont set out 
specifically what constitutes reasonable and proportionate checks. However, relevant checks 
should include things such as a customers income (over the full term of the loan), and their 
outgoings. And these checks should be reasonable and proportionate to the amount of credit 
being provided, the amount of repayments, and the term of the loan.
Our general approach to proportionate checks accepts that in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, the lenders checks may be less thorough  in terms of the information it 
gathers and relies on. So, this is something Ive considered in Mr Ps case as Ive seen 
nothing to suggest hed had loans from Likely Loans before.
Mr P took out a £3,000 loan in late November 2021, with monthly repayments of £281.42. 
Likely Loans say they approved this loan after Mr P confirmed his annual income as £38,000 
and provided a copy of a payslip to confirm his monthly income was around £1,700. Hed 
also told them he lived with his parents. They also carried out a number of checks, including 
a credit check to understand his outgoings and financial circumstances. After doing these 
checks, Likely Loans considered the loan would be affordable because Mr P would have had 
a disposable income (after the loan repayment) of around £450.
Ive seen the data from Mr Ps application and the payslip he shared with Likely Loans. Ive 
considered this alongside a copy of Mr Ps credit report that he sent to us. Having done so, 
I dont consider there was anything in this information that ought to have caused 
Likely Loans to conduct further checks.
Mr P may argue that he had previously used payday loans and had a default. But these 
events occurred more than two years before he applied for the borrowing from Likely Loans. 
And this is why I dont agree they should be used as a reason to say the loan complained 
about was unaffordable.
However, even if Likely Loans had carried out further checks, Im not persuaded they would 
have resulted in a different outcome. I say this after reviewing Mr Ps bank statements that 
covered August to October 2021. These showed Mr Ps account was generally always in 
credit and there was nothing to indicate any kind of compulsive spending. In addition to this, 
a large proportion of his money tended to be used towards food and leisure activities. This 
suggests he wasnt struggling financially when he applied for the loan.
Given the above, Im satisfied Likely Loans checks were reasonable and proportionate. 
While Mr P may have fallen into financial difficulties after taking out the loan, Ive not seen 
anything to persuade me Likely Loans ought to have known that could happen when 
reviewing his application. Its for these reasons I cannot agree Likely Loans lent to Mr P 
irresponsibly.
For the reasons above, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint about Oakbrook Finance Limited 
trading as Likely Loans.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman