DRN-1510334
 
The complaint
Mr C has complained about Chubb European Group SE. He isnt happy about the way it 
dealt with a claim under his travel insurance policy.   
What happened
Mr C made a claim through his travel insurance policy after his bag was snatched and 
stolen. Chubb looked into the claim and paid his wifes claim but asked to interview Mr C. 
But Mr C wasnt happy about this. He was happy to provide a statement or be interviewed 
over the phone, but he didnt want to have the inconvenience of being interviewed face to 
face.
So, Mr C complained to Chubb and then this service. Our investigator looked into things, but 
they didnt uphold his complaint. Although they could understand Mr Cs frustration, as he 
didnt want to be inconvenienced, they didnt think Chubb had done anything wrong.
As Mr C didnt agree the matter has been passed to me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Im not upholding Mr Cs 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
I can understand why Mr C is frustrated. He feels it isnt fair that his wifes claim has been 
settled when his hasnt. And he simply doesnt want to face the inconvenience of being 
personally interviewed. 
But insurers are entitled to look into the circumstances surrounding a claim and often appoint 
investigators to look into claims and interview consumers about events leading up to the 
theft or loss. And in this instance Chubb has explained that the high value of the claim and 
the fact that Mr C had a similar claim recently has meant that it wants to look into things 
further and to interview Mr C.
I dont think this is unreasonable and Im sure Chubbs investigator will fit round Mr C and his 
personal circumstances the best they can in order to limit the inconvenience caused. So  I 
dont think this would be much more inconvenient than a telephone interview in any event. 
Furthermore, the policy outlines that a consumer has to cooperate with the insurer when 
investigating a claim.
So, overall, I dont think that Chubb has acted unreasonably here. It has further questions it 
wants answering and a face to face interview will allow it to advance the claim and I would 
expect Mr C to cooperate. I will simply leave it to Mr C to agree a convenient time to be 
interviewed so Chubb can advance the claim.
My final decisionIt follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman