DRN-2703769
The complaint
Miss L complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua was irresponsible in offering her a credit 
card in 2015. Shed like it to write off the balance and to refund all the interest already paid.
What happened
Miss L applied for an Aqua credit card in September 2015. Her application was approved 
with an initial credit limit of £300. However, Miss L says shes only been able to make 
minimum payments over the years and hasnt been able to pay off the balance despite the 
low limit. She feels thats shes caught in a negative spiral of debt and that shell never be 
able to repay the balance. And the stress and anxiety caused by this has impacted on her 
health. Miss L feels that, taking into account her credit record at the time of the application, 
Aqua was irresponsible in approving her application. Shed now like the balance to be written 
off and a refund of all the interest paid.
NewDay disagreed. It said Aqua was a second chance lender so it was designed to offer 
credit to customers with a lower credit score or with some adverse markers on their credit 
files. When Miss L applied, it had carried out checks on her credit history and while she had 
some unsecured debt, this was covered by her salary and there were no adverse markers to 
suggest that she wouldnt be able to manage the card. However, it had given her a low initial 
limit of £300 which it considered to be affordable and this hadnt been increased since then.
It acknowledged Miss Ls current financial problems but said it hadnt been aware of them 
until it received the complaint in 2020. It offered to refund three late payments as a gesture 
of goodwill but said the interest and charges had been applied in line with the terms and 
conditions of the card so it didnt agree to refund them or to waive the outstanding balance.
Our investigator felt NewDay had carried out appropriate checks before accepting Miss Ls 
application in 2015 and thered been nothing in those to suggest the card or the credit limit 
were unaffordable. For that reason, she couldnt agree that NewDay had been irresponsible 
to offer this card to Miss L.
Shed also looked to see when NewDay had been aware of Miss Ls financial problems but 
she couldnt see that it had known about this until after shed brought her complaint and for 
that reason, she wouldnt have expected NewDay to have taken this into account before 
then. 
As Miss L didnt agree, her complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the heart of Miss Ls complaint is her view that NewDay was irresponsible to offer her a 
credit card in 2015 and that this, together with her inability to repay it since then, has made 
her financial difficulties worse and affected her health.
Ive every sympathy for the position Miss L finds herself in. I appreciate the difficulties shes 
faced and the impact that must have had. However, in order to direct NewDay to refund the 
interest or to write off the balance, Id need to see information to show it had made a 
mistake. In this case I dont consider thats the situation as Ill now explain.
The way we look at complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints is 
set out on our website, including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and 
law. Ive taken all this into account when considering what Miss L has said.
Like all lenders, NewDay has to take reasonable steps to ensure that any lending it makes is 
appropriate and affordable. Theres no specific list of checks a lender needs to make but 
they need to be proportionate to the amount to be borrowed and the borrowers financial 
circumstances.
But Ive also taken into account that NewDay is a second chance lender, that is it markets 
itself at borrowers with a less than perfect credit record. So, its not surprising for it to lend to 
borrowers with a lower credit score or with some adverse data on their credit file. 
Nevertheless it has to be satisfied that any lending it offers is affordable taking into account 
the borrowers personal and financial circumstances.
Ive seen that when Miss L applied in 2015, NewDay carried out a review of her application. 
It took into account her income, that was shown as £25,666. It also took into account her 
credit history and that she had no accounts in arrears, no defaults, no payment 
arrangements or debt management plans and no public records against her. And while she 
had had some payday loans, only two were active at the time and these appeared to be 
being managed appropriately. I should add that with regard to the pay day loans, NewDay 
wasnt required to have multiple credit reference reports at this time as this requirement 
didnt come into effect until March 2016 so it was reasonable for it to rely on what it had.
And although NewDay noted that Miss L had high indebtedness and a below average 
income, its internal scoring concluded the loan was affordable. Miss L may disagree but I 
dont consider that was unreasonable on the information that was available. 
Ive seen what Miss L has said about her finances and how shes been unable to pay off her 
balance over the years. Id agree that this means she has paid more for her credit than 
would otherwise have been the case but I cant see that there was anything in the 
application or credit checks to suggest that the initial limit was unaffordable at the time. And 
it seems NewDay did reflect on Miss Ls credit history because it only offered her a low credit 
limit of £300 and hasnt increased it since then.
Ive seen that some adverse information did become clear in December 2015 but I have to 
asses NewDays decision at the time it was made and , having done so, I cant reasonably 
say that its decision to lend to Ms L in September 2015 was irresponsible. 
Ive also looked at whether NewDay should have done more to help Miss L when she got 
into financial difficulties. Ive seen Miss L says she did make NewDay aware but NewDay 
says it doesnt have any record of this before she raised her complaint in 2020. I should 
explain that where theres no clear information on any point I have to look at what is 
available and make my decision on the balance of probabilities. Ive taken into account what 
Miss L has said but this isnt supported by the system notes provided by the business or by any other information Ive seen. In the circumstances I cant reasonably say it should have 
been aware or taken any action to assist before then. 
NewDay does have a responsibility to its clients if they fall into difficulty and in this case, I 
can see that, since its become aware, its agreed a repayment plan and closed Ms Ls 
account to avoid any further spending. That should help Miss L with her repayments- and 
with her finances.
I realise Miss L will be disappointed by my decision but, for the reasons set out above, I dont 
think NewDay was irresponsible in offering Miss L a credit card in 2015. And for that reason, 
I wont be upholding Miss Ls complaint or asking NewDay to write off the balance or to 
refund any of the interest paid to date.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman