DRN-3313740
The complaint
Mr F complains that he was given unsuitable advice by Carnwyllon Wealth Management Ltd 
(CWM) to transfer the benefits from his defined benefit (DB) scheme with British Steel 
(BSPS) to a personal pension.
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation 
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, one 
of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund 
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when 
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31 
March 2017. 
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Fs employer would be set up  the BSPS2. 
In October 2017, members of BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 22 
December 2017. 
Mr F approached CWM for advice in July 2017 as he was worried about his DB pension. 
CWM completed a fact find and a risk assessment. Mr F says CWM gave him information 
about a specific personal pension product and told him this new plan would be as good as 
his BSPS pension. As CWM didnt have the right regulatory permissions to advise Mr F on a 
DB pension transfer they referred him to another firm, which Ill refer to as Firm B for this 
advice. 
Firm B advised Mr F to transfer his DB benefits to a new personal pension and the transfer 
went ahead in October 2017. Mr F says he wasnt told about the risks of a transfer and the 
few short meetings he had were rushed and he was simply told to sign the relevant 
documents. He says he never received a suitability letter and he doesnt recall seeing some 
of the documents he has since been provided during the course of his complaint. He doesnt 
think he was given suitable advice and feels both CWM and Firm B are responsible for him 
losing valuable guaranteed benefits by transferring. He also thinks the pension product that 
was recommended was unsuitable. 
Mr F made complaints against both firms. CWM said they didnt provide the pension transfer 
advice. They had referred him to Firm B who was responsible for this advice. Firm B has 
since gone into liquidation and so the Financial Ombudsman Service cant consider the 
complaint against them. 
Mr F referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and our investigator didnt 
uphold his complaint. Mr F disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me for a decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr F is unhappy that he was advised to transfer out of his BSPS scheme, 
however the firm responsible for this advice as well as the product recommendation is Firm 
B. They were the firm who had the relevant permissions and provided the formal 
recommendation both to transfer out of BSPS, where to transfer to and how to invest. They 
also provided the required confirmation that Mr F had received qualified advice to the DB 
scheme. Its worth remembering that Mr F could not have transferred his DB pension without 
Firm Bs advice. 
I considered whether CWM should be held for Mr Fs losses here, however I dont think they 
do. I dont know exactly what CWM discussed with Mr F. Whilst I dont doubt that Mr F has 
described his honest recollections, the paperwork from the time of the advice does not 
indicate that he was provided with a personal recommendation by CWM to transfer. 
Its possible CWM were speaking positively about transferring out and about the pension 
product which Mr F ended up transferring into. The intention was that if Mr F transferred out, 
CWM would have provided ongoing advice on the pension if Mr F wanted this. And CWM 
and Firm B were sharing the advice fees. So CWM may have been hoping Mr F would 
transfer. And Ive considered the possibility that CWM inadvertently strayed into advice, even 
though I havent seen sufficient evidence to say that this is what happened. However, even if 
they did, in my view none of their interactions with Mr F and possible failures in this regard 
ultimately caused the potential losses he suffered.
Mr Fs representatives say CWM and Firm B should both be liable for his losses. They say 
both firms advised him to transfer and there was a joint venture between the firms. They say 
CWM failed to act in Mr Fs best interest and treated him unfairly by knowingly collaborating 
in a manner that led to unsuitable advice. 
CWM did not have the required permissions to give advice on a DB pension transfer, so they 
couldnt be expected to recommend Mr F not to transfer. I think there was nothing generally 
wrong with referring Mr F on to a firm who could provide advice on his DB pension. 
Mr Fs representatives say CWM referred a number of clients to Firm B and most were 
advised to transfer out. However, even if this was the case, I think on balance its more likely 
CWN referred customers to Firm B on the understanding they would provide suitable advice 
rather than on the premise that Firm B would recommend a transfer whether it was suitable 
or not. 
I dont think its reasonable to expect that a firm who does not have permissions to provide 
DB pension transfer advice should identify whether advice given by a firm who does have 
those permissions was unsuitable. I think CWM were allowed to expect and rely on Firm B, 
who were regulated and had the relevant permissions and advisers with the necessary 
qualifications, to provide suitable advice. 
It was ultimately Firm Bs obligation to provide Mr F with independent and suitable advice. 
And if it wasnt suitable for Mr F to transfer and Firm B, as the experts in this field, had 
clearly told him so and provided reasons why, I dont think any previous discussions with 
CWM would have likely made Mr F go against this advice. In summary, I think it was Firm Bs advice that caused Mr F to transfer and that they are fully 
responsible for any losses if their advice was unsuitable. I dont think Mr Fs potential losses 
here are caused by CWMs actions and so I dont consider it fair or reasonable to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman