DRN-4007039
The complaint
Mr A complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) irresponsibly gave him a loan that he 
couldnt afford.
What happened
On 1 May 2008, Mr A applied for a loan with Santander. The loan amount was £11,000, 
the term was 60 months and the monthly repayment was £248.97, not including the 
payment protection insurance. The account defaulted 16 June 2009. 
In 2022, Mr A complained to Santander to say that the loan shouldnt have been opened 
for him because it wasnt affordable and that Santander ought to have made a better 
effort to understand his financial circumstances before providing him with credit. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr A didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Santander will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mr As complaint is that Santander made credit available that was unaffordable. It is not 
straightforward trying to determine affordability because Mr A has not been able to provide 
any bank statements from the times in question or any credit information from the times. So, 
I have no way of knowing the volume of any credit Mr A may have had or how Mr A was 
managing any existing credit he had at the time the lending decisions were made. 
I have considered the monthly repayments in relation to the income Mr A told us he had 
at the time and this is insufficient to make the loan automatically unreasonable. I say this 
because the monthly payment for the loan itself was £248.97. And when bringing his 
complaint to us Mr A told us his take home income in May 2008 would have been £1350 
per month. 
In thinking about this complaint, I have also noted that Mr A told Northampton County 
Court in September 2009 that he had been unemployed for nine months. Whilst this 
information doesnt shed any light on the affordability of the loan in May 2008, it explains 
that there were other factors at work which lead to the loan defaulting in June 2009. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Mr A to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that 
more thorough affordability checks would have led Santander to think that the credit it 
provided Mr A was unreasonable. 
I know that Mr A will be disappointed with my decision, but I want Mr A to know that I 
considered all the submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found 
sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman