DRN-4156925
The complaint
This complaint is about an application Mrs H made to Aviva Equity Release UK Limited for a 
further advance on her lifetime mortgage. The application was declined, and Mrs H believes 
this is unfair. 
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mrs H and Aviva Im also aware that 
the investigator issued a response to the complaint, which has been shared with all parties, 
and so I dont need to repeat all the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mrs H being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of what led to the complaint, 
rounding the figures where appropriate, and then focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I 
didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Mrs H has had the lifetime mortgage since 2006. In 2018, a further advance application was 
initially declined, but then granted on appeal. Mrs H made another further advance 
application in 2022, which was also declined, and this time the appeal wasnt successful. 
When Mrs H complained to Aviva, it offered her £100 compensation for a lack of clear 
information over the reason(s) for declining to lend. But the decision not to lend stood, and 
so Mrs H brought the complaint to us. Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld, so it has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, what follows are my conclusions and the reasons for them.
No one is entitled to borrow money; and even when theyve borrowed before, theyre not 
automatically entitled to borrow again. But a lender must treat customers fairly. In the context 
of an application for a further advance, that means assessing it in accordance with the 
banks lending criteria and being mindful of what mortgage regulation requires of it. Lenders 
criteria evolve over time, to reflect changes in the regulatory and economic climate, as well 
as lenders changing appetite for risk. These criteria are commercially sensitive and not 
generally made public.
In Mrs Hs case, Aviva decided not to grant the further advance because the valuation report 
identified that the propertys construction  almost 40% of the external walls are 
single-skinned  didnt meet its current lending criteria on acceptable security. The valuation 
also reported a second issue, to do with flood protection, that was later noted as a mistake 
and withdrawn on review. 
To be clear, Aviva didnt make a mistake when it refused to lend; it was legitimately entitled 
to do that once the valuation identified the structural issue. Meanwhile, that wasnt Avivas 
doing either; it had relied, quite reasonably, on the information provided in the valuation, 
which was carried out by a qualified third party. 
Even the incorrect reference to a second reason for refusal was made in good faith, insofar 
as it too relied on the content of the valuation. That said, Avivas responded fairly by 
clarifying the position once the review process revealed that flood protection wasnt an issue 
after all, apologising and paying Mrs H £100 compensation.
Ive also looked at how Aviva handled the application generally. It received the application 
from a third party intermediary that was acting for Mrs H. That being the case, it was entirely 
appropriate that Aviva communicate with the intermediary rather than with Mrs H directly. Im 
also persuaded that Aviva dealt with the application in a timely fashion. Only 16 days 
elapsed between Aviva receiving the application and confirming the decision not to lend after 
checking things with the valuer.
Ive no doubt it was a huge disappointment to Mrs H that Aviva decided not to lend her the 
money she wanted. But Aviva did all that Id expect it to in the circumstances. It reviewed the 
initial decision not to lend, just as it had done in 2018. On that occasion, the review led to a 
change of outcome, primarily because the purpose of the extra lending was to pay for 
essential repairs to preserve the structural integrity of the mortgaged property. That wasnt 
the case in 2022. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint or make any order or award against 
Aviva Equity Release UK Limited.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman