DRN-1819183
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), trading as Halifax, mis-sold them payment 
protection insurance (PPI). 
What happened
In 1990, Mr and Mrs R took out a PPI policy in a Halifax branch when they were applying for 
a mortgage. The policy protected their mortgage repayments on a 50:50 basis if one of 
them was unable to work because of an accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs R disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account here. Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs 
complaint for reasons that Ill explain. 
Mr and Mrs R say that the PPI was presented to them by the mortgage advisor as part of the 
mortgage and it wasnt made clear to them that it was optional. But I need to bear in mind 
that this all took place almost thirty years ago. And memories of what was said at such 
meetings do tend to fade with time. So I dont think it would be fair for me to conclude that 
this is what is most likely to have happened based only on what Mr and Mrs R think they 
recall now.
BoS doesnt still have any paperwork from the time. Given it was so long ago, I dont think 
this is that surprising. Businesses arent required to keep such records for this period of time. 
And Mr and Mrs Rs memory of what happened doesnt seem that vivid or detailed either 
which, again, isnt really surprising. To uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint on this point, Id 
have to think its more likely than not that BoS didnt make it clear to them that they had a 
choice about taking PPI and it didnt get their agreement to it.
I accept that its possible that the BoS advisor did wrongly mislead Mr and Mrs R into 
thinking the PPI was part of their mortgage. But from what we know about how BoS normally 
sold these policies, on balance, I think its more likely that the advisor did make it clear that 
the policy was optional and that Mr and Mrs R actively decided to take it. However, I can 
understand why they might not remember this now.
Both BoS and Mr and Mrs R say this was an advised PPI sale, so Ive taken this to be the 
case. This means that BoS needed to ensure that the PPI policy was suitable for 
Mr and Mrs R. I cant now know what steps it took to ensure this was the case. But from what I know of their circumstances at the time, I cant see any reason why it wouldnt have 
been suitable. I say this because:
 
Mr and Mrs R appear to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of 
its main exclusions or limitations.
 
Mr and Mrs R say they didnt need the PPI cover because they had good employee 
benefits and some savings. And they say they could also have relied on each other 
and their families for financial support in need. But this policy would have paid out in 
addition to their other means. It would have provided up to twelve months cover if 
one of them became unemployed and up to twenty-four months cover if one of them 
was off work because of an accident or sickness. And a mortgage is a big financial 
commitment  one where ones home is potentially at risk if the repayments arent 
kept up. So I still think they would have valued the extra security which the policy 
gave them.
 
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs R. And as the 
policys premiums were paid monthly, they could have cancelled it if it no longer met 
their needs.
 
As well as making sure the PPI was right for them, BoS also needed to give Mr and Mrs R 
clear enough information about the PPI for them to decide if they wanted it. I think its 
possible that the information wasnt as good as it should have been. But for much the same 
reasons that I didnt think the policy was unsuitable, I dont think better information would 
have changed their minds about taking it. I think theyd still have thought it gave them useful 
cover at an affordable cost.
So, from what Ive seen, I dont think Mr and Mrs R have lost out because of anything BoS 
may have done wrong when it sold them this PPI policy. 
Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs R have said about why they still think the PPI was mis-
sold. But this hasnt changed my mind about not upholding their complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 July 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman