DRN-2051052
The complaint
Mr P complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a packaged bank account (PBA). 
What happened
Mr P had had a bank account with Lloyds since 1986. This wasnt a PBA and so didnt incur 
a regular fee. 
In 2002, the account was changed to a Gold account. This was a PBA which cost £8 per 
month. It came with benefits including worldwide travel insurance, commission-free travel 
money, Sentinel Card Protection, £100 interest free overdraft (subject to an overdraft being 
approved) and reduced loan rates.
In 2005, the account was changed to a Platinum account, which was also a PBA. As I 
explain below, Ive not looked into the sale of the account in 2005. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said they thought the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. Mr P didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Mr P also complained about the sale of his Platinum account. Lloyds said that it didnt 
have to investigate that complaint, because of the time limit rules that apply to complaints. 
The adjudicator agreed that the rules, which are set down by the Financial Conduct 
Authority, meant we couldnt investigate that sale. So the adjudicator looked only into the 
sale of the Gold account  and thats what Ive done too. 
Mr P has also expressed strong dissatisfaction with the way he says Lloyds didnt give 
him certain information about the account in later years; and advice he says it gave him 
about the link between his credit card and the PBA. Ive not looked into this specifically, as 
it doesnt seem Lloyds has responded to that at this stage  but, from the information I 
have, it seems unlikely there would be strong enough evidence of what was said at the 
time by Lloyds and Mr P, based on the records now available. Thered have to be 
reasonable evidence before we could fairly say Lloyds had acted wrongly in that way  
and it would be difficult to gather that evidence now. I realise this is very frustrating for 
Mr P, as he is sure he has lost out as a result of how Lloyds acted. 
So, in this decision, Im looking only at what happened when the Gold account was sold in 
2002.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint about the 2002 sale. Ill explain why.
Mr P says that Lloyds shouldnt have advised him to take the Gold account, because it 
wasnt suitable for his needs and he couldnt afford it. He didnt need the benefits as he 
already had mobile phone and travel insurance and didnt need the preferential interest 
rates. 
Ive considered these points, and also generally looked at whether the PBA was mis-sold. 
I think Mr P knew he didnt have to take the PBA  hed already had a fee-free account for 
many years, so knew he could bank with Lloyds without taking out a PBA. So it wasnt 
mis-sold in that way.
Lloyds recommended the PBA to Mr P, so Ive thought about whether it was a reasonable 
fit for his circumstances. Mr P has confirmed he had a need for travel insurance, as hes 
said he travelled abroad and already had travel insurance. And he already had an 
overdraft, so would have benefited from the reduced overdraft rates. 
So it does seem that Mr P could have benefited from signficant parts of the Gold account, 
even if some of the others benefits may not have been of interest to him. So Lloyds wasn't 
recommending him something that was of no use to him. I think it was an appropriate 
recommendation.
I havent seen evidence that Mr P was in financial difficulties at the time, such that a 
recommendation of extra expenditure might have been irresponsible by Lloyds. 
It would then have been up to Mr P to decide if the monthly fee was worth paying, in 
return for those benefits that were useful to him. As Ive said, Lloyds offered the Gold 
account as a choice to Mr P and didnt force him to take it. 
It would also have been up to Mr P, once hed decided to take the Gold account, to cancel 
any other products he had (such as duplicate travel insurance) so that he didnt waste 
money. 
As this happened so long ago, I cant be sure how well Lloyds explained all the aspects of 
the Gold account. But I cant see that there was information that was likely to have 
changed whether Mr P took the account. 
Overall, I dont think the PBA was mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman