DRN-3594751
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained about an interest-only mortgage they used to hold with 
HSBC UK Bank Plc. They say the mortgage was mis-sold in 2008, as they were assured 
that, as Premier Banking customers, extending the 12-year term would not be an issue. 
However, when the mortgage term came to an end, HSBC declined to extend the term. As a 
result, Mr and Mrs C say they were caused considerable distress and upset, before they 
were able to arrange a new mortgage with another lender.
To settle the complaint, Mr and Mrs C want HSBC to pay them compensation of £10,000. 
Mr C has dealt with the complaint throughout on behalf of himself and Mrs C.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
I dont need to repeat everything here. I will instead concentrate on giving the reasons for my 
decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any 
information that might lead to Mr and Mrs C being identified. So for these reasons, I will keep 
my summary of what happened quite brief.
In July 2008 Mr and Mrs C took out an interest-only mortgage with HSBC over a 12-year 
term, on a non-advised basis. From 2015 onwards HSBC sent annual reminders that the 
mortgage term was due to end in 2020 and that repayment in full would be required.
In February 2020 Mr C contacted HSBC to ask for a term extension. Mr C said that, since 
receiving a letter from HSBC the previous August about repaying the mortgage in full, he 
had become increasingly concerned because it wasnt possible to meet this demand.
Mr C said he and Mrs C were assured in 2008 that there would be no problem having the 
term extended when it was due to expire in 2020. Mr C asked for a further 12-year term 
extension, taking the end date of the mortgage to 2032. Mr C also complained that the 
mortgage had been mis-sold.
Unfortunately, HSBC didnt respond to Mr Cs request, leaving him to chase the bank for 
several months. At the same time, HSBC wrote to Mr and Mrs C asking for their proposals 
for repayment of the mortgage. On 15 July 2020 HSBC issued a final response rejecting the 
mis-sale complaint. The bank apologised for the delay in responding, which was due to the 
pandemic, but invited Mr and Mrs C to contact the bank to discuss their options.
However, Mr C wasnt able to speak to anyone at the bank, so he emailed explaining that 
the bank hadnt addressed his request for a 12-year term extension. On 21 July 2020 Mr C 
put forward proposals to repay the £148,000 balance, over a two-year term extension.
Sale of a property abroad, which was anticipated to raise approximately £120,000. 
However, due to Covid, it wasnt possible to travel to arrange this.
Use £40,000 of their savings.
Use £50,000 from the proceeds of sale due to Mrs C from another property (of which her 
share was 20%).
Mr C was due repayment of Directors Loans of £30,000 over the next 18 months.
Mr C had agreed to license an intangible asset owned by his company, at an agreed fee 
of £75,000 payable on a monthly schedule to be paid by April 2022.
Mr and Mrs C had net income of £3,150 per month, and no dependents or unsecured 
debt. They could therefore pay an additional £12,000-£15,000 per year over their 
repayment plan.
Therefore, according to Mr and Mrs C, they had available  or potentially available  
resources of over £280,000 and that they would select which of these they chose to utilise in 
order to make staged repayments over a two-year term extension.
HSBC agreed to a term extension to 1 January 2021 to allow Mr and Mrs C to sell their 
property abroad. Mr C didnt think this was enough and explained hed been talking to 
someone at the bank about a 2-year extension. 
In August 2020 HSBC issued another final response letter, addressing its poor 
communication. The bank acknowledged it had taken too long to respond and paid £350 
compensation.
In October 2020 Mr and Mrs C arranged a new mortgage with a different lender and repaid 
their mortgage to HSBC on 26 October 2020.
Mr and Mrs C complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An investigator looked at 
what had happened. He was satisfied that HSBCs customer service could have been better, 
but thought that the £350 offered was in line with what hed have recommended.
In relation to the mis-sale complaint, the investigator didnt think this should be upheld, as he 
was satisfied the mortgage hadnt been mis-sold. However, in response, HSBC said it 
thought the complaint had been made too late. The investigator looked at this point, but 
thought that it was only when the mortgage was due to expire that the cause for complaint 
arose, and that this was within three years of the complaint being brought to us. HSBC 
accepted what the investigator said about this and consented to us considering the 
complaint. The bank agreed with the investigators findings that the mortgage hadnt been 
mis-sold.
But Mr C didnt agree with the investigators findings. He thought HSBC was wrong to 
challenge the time limits to bring the complaint, and he insisted that the mortgage had been 
mis-sold. Mr C also said that, due to the distress caused at a time when a family member 
was going through a crisis, HSBC should pay compensation of £10,000.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mis-sale of the mortgage: Ive noted what Mr C has said about what he believes is an 
unreasonable challenge to the time limits made by HSBC. I will explain here that, under our rules, HSBC is entitled to question whether or not a complaint has been made in time, and it 
is for us to determine whether or not this is the case. Generally the investigator would have 
raised this issue with HSBC before looking at the merits of the complaint, but in this case 
HSBC wasnt asked if it gave consent until later in our involvement in the complaint, after the 
investigator had initially looked at the merits. I am not sure I would have reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator about the time limits that apply here, but because HSBC 
accepted what the investigator said about the time limits and consented to us looking at the 
merits of the complaint, I will make no further comment on this point.
Turning now to the merits of the mis-sale complaint, Im satisfied this was a non-advised 
sale, conducted on an execution-only basis. The mortgage term is clear from the documents, 
and Im satisfied Mr and Mrs C were aware, from the mortgage offer, the annual statements 
and the letters from HSBC sent from 2015 onwards, that Mr and Mrs C were aware of the 
impending end of the mortgage term. There is nothing in the documentation to reflect that 
HSBC ever gave any guarantee of a term extension. 
In the circumstances, Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs C were misled by HSBC or that 
they misunderstood that they had a 12-year interest-only mortgage that would need to be 
repaid in 2020. I think its likely that both Mr and Mrs C and HSBC probably expected in 
2008 that extending the term wouldnt be a problem, but this was before the financial crash 
(which happened shortly after the mortgage was taken out) and the consequential impact of 
this on the mortgage market. I think its likely that Mr and Mrs C were told in 2008 that there 
ought not to be a problem extending the mortgage term, but there is no evidence to 
persuade me that HSBC ever guaranteed this. 
In the circumstances, Im not upholding this part of the complaint.
Term Extension: Mr and Mrs C initially wanted a 12-year term extension, but later amended 
this to a two-year extension, based on their proposals to make staged repayments, as set 
out above. HSBC wasnt able to agree, but did extend the term to January 2021. Before that 
date, the mortgage was repaid, on 26 October 2020. 
Im not persuaded it was unreasonable for HSBC to decline a 12-year extension, or the two-
year extension proposed by Mr and Mrs C. Their repayment plans were not guaranteed to 
come to fruition, and so HSBC might have been left in the same position two years later. I 
think the bank gave reasonable consideration to the proposals and, having done so, was 
entitled to decline them. I think the extension granted by HSBC to 1 January 2021 was 
reasonable.
Customer Service: I am glad to see that HSBC has acknowledged its customer service 
could have been better. I accept that most of the issues affecting communication took place 
at the start of the pandemic, when many businesses were struggling to offer a normal level 
of service. However, Mr C was given the run-around when he was trying to discuss his 
options with the bank, with promised calls not being made, and correspondence not being 
replied to until the bank was told a complaint was being made.
I fully understand how frustrating this was for Mr C. He believes that a payment of £10,000 is 
justified for the upset he and Mrs C were caused at a time when they were going through a 
difficult and worrying situation with the health of a family member. However, we dont award 
damages in the way that a court might. So although I dont underestimate the upset 
Mr and Mrs C were going through as a result of their family members illness, I cant hold 
HSBC responsible for this, although I do accept that Mr and Mrs C could have done without 
the worry of having to chase the bank during this time.Overall, I think the compensation of £350 already paid by HSBC is fair, proportion and 
reasonable for the delays and lack of response by the bank to Mr Cs correspondence. I am 
therefore not ordering HSBC to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman