DRN-3535253
The complaint
Mr C complains that IG Index Limited (trading as IG) reversed the profits he made on a 
position he held. He also complains that IG closed his account.
What happened
Mr C had two spread betting accounts with IG. In January 2021 Mr C saw hed made a profit 
of over £3,000 on one of his positions and closed it. A few days later on 2 February 2021, IG 
amended the trade and reversed the profit.
IG explained to Mr C that the stock which was the subject of the position had undergone a 
stock consolidation of 10:1. Whilst that consolidation was reflective in the price, the size of 
Mr Cs position hadnt been updated. It considered this a Manifest Error and reversed the 
profit to ensure Mr Cs account was in the position it ought to have been in.
Mr C complained and said he acted in good faith and was entitled to the profit that was 
confirmed in his statement of account. He said he should be able to contractually rely on that 
statement. After some lengthy communication, and payment of £100 to recognise that IG 
couldve told Mr C prior to reversing the profit, IG gave Mr C notice that it would close his 
accounts in 30 days. Mr C feels this was unjustified.
Our Investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She explained that IGs terms 
allowed it to reverse the trade profit because it wasnt something Mr C ought to have had, it 
was due to an error. The Investigator also felt that IG was entitled to close Mr Cs accounts 
and hadnt acted unreasonably.
Mr C disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to reach a decision and explained his 
reasons why he disagreed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Before I explain further why this is the 
case, I think its important to recognise the detailed submissions Mr C has made, which I 
have read in detail and considered carefully. However, my decision focuses on what I 
consider the be the central issues and doesnt address each submission Mr C has made. I 
do not mean any discourtesy by this, but it is a reflection of the informal nature of this 
service.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised, and its not necessary for me 
to answer every question Mr C has raised in order to reach my decision in this case. My role 
is to consider the evidence provided by both parties and reach a decision based on what I 
think is fair and reasonable.
Reversal of trading profit
Mr Cs statement of account hes provided showed that he made profit on a position he 
closed relating to stock in M. M underwent a stock consolidation of 10:1  which meant that 
shareholders would receive one share for every ten held. Each share would then be worth 
ten times the value. The stock consolidation took place on 27 January 2021 with new shares 
issued on 29 January 2021.
Mr Cs position in his IG account reflected the new price after the stock consolidation but his 
position hadnt been changed. IG confirmed this was an error. This meant Mr Cs position 
was showing as being ten times the size it shouldve been when he closed his position on 29 
January 2021. As such, the profit he could see wasnt accurate.
IG didnt realise there was an error until 2 February 2021, when it reversed Mr Cs profit 
made from the position. Mr C has said throughout this complaint that he acted in good faith 
and is contractually entitled to that profit. Hes said IG shouldnt be able to cause damage to 
him by its own error. Ive thought carefully about this but I dont think IG acted unreasonably 
here.
The terms of Mr Cs agreement with IG provide for this very scenario. There is a section of 
terms specifically relating to Manifest Error. IG defines Manifest Error in term 11(1) as an 
error that we reasonably believe to be obvious or palpable and its terms say that it can void 
or amend the terms of a bet based on an error like this without Mr Cs consent. It further 
says, under 11 (3) that in the event IG chooses to exercise its rights under term 11(1) then 
any money Mr C has received in connection with the error must be returned without delay.
Im satisfied that the change in price of the stock in M but no change in the size of position 
was within IGs definition of a Manifest Error and therefore it was entitled to reverse the profit 
Mr C made. Mr C argues that if it was a manifest error, IG wouldve picked up on it sooner, 
however I dont think its unreasonable it took some time given the number of positions and 
trades that happen daily through IG accounts.
Essentially, Im satisfied from the evidence that Mr C was never entitled to the trading profit 
that was on his statement of account for his position in M on 29 January 2021 as there was 
an error. So, I dont think IG has acted unfairly, or caused him any financial loss by reversing 
the profit.
I do note IG paid Mr C £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by not 
alerting him to the issue prior to reversing the profit. I think this is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint to recognise the impact. And I do note that IG was entitled to 
take the action it did.
Closure of account
Mr C and IG had lengthy correspondence about the issues he encountered. IG then told Mr 
C that it was closing his accounts and gave him 30 days notice. Mr C doesnt feel this is fair.
I note from the agreement Mr C entered into with IG that it can close his account with 30 
days notice. This is set out in the terms at 27 (1) and 28 (3). Theres no requirement to give 
a reason but I can see IG did so, it outlined why it was closing Mr Cs accounts and it gave 
him the required notice to do so. Looking at everything, Im satisfied IG has acted fairly and 
reasonably in doing so.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman