DRN-3582971
Complaint
Mr E has complained about a personal loan Chetwood Financial Limited (trading as Live 
Lend) provided to him. He says the loan was provided irresponsibly as he already had 
substantial outgoings, loans, credit cards and other debts.
Background
Live Lend provided Mr E with a loan for £4,300.00 in August 2019. This loan had an APR of 
15.7% and the total amount to be repaid of £4,974.99, which included interest fees and 
charges of £674.99, was due to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of around £207.
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr E and Live Lend had told us. She thought that 
Live Lend unfairly provided Mr E with this loan and recommended that the complaint be 
upheld. Live Lend disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review complaint.
My provisional decision of 24 June 2022
I issued a provisional decision  on 24 June 2022 - setting out why I wasnt intending to 
uphold Mr Es complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a 
summary of my findings. 
I started by setting out that weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable 
and irresponsible lending on our website and that I used this approach to help me decide   
Mr Es complaint.
I then went on to explain that Live Lend needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice, what this meant was that Live Lend needed to carry out proportionate checks to 
be able to understand whether Mr E could afford to repay before providing this loan. Our 
website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Live Lend said it agreed to Mr Es application after he provided details of his monthly income 
and some information on his expenditure. It said it cross-checked this against information on 
a credit search it carried out which showed his existing Mr Es commitments were relatively 
well maintained at the time of the application. According to Live Lend there had been some 
use of payday type lending but this was more than two years before this application. In Live 
Lends view all of the information it gathered showed that Mr E could comfortably afford to 
make the repayments he was committing to. On the other hand, Mr E said he was already in 
financial difficulty and couldnt afford his loan.
I carefully thought about what Mr E and Live Lend said. 
Our investigator was concerned that Live Lends credit checks showed that Mr E was at right 
at the limit on most of his existing revolving credit commitments. I explained that ordinarily, 
Id agree that this might well be a reason why it would be proportionate to expect a lender to 
do further checks. However, I was mindful that the total amount Mr E already owed wasnt 
particularly high and what was being advanced here was enough to clear all of Mr Es 
existing debts and at a lower interest rate too. 
So I was satisfied that the proceeds of this loan could have been used to clear all of Mr Es 
existing credit. I accept that that this might not have happened. But as this was a first loan 
and Live Lend provided sufficient funds to clear all of Mr Es outstanding credit balances, I 
was satisfied that it was reasonably entitled to believe that Mr E might do this in this 
instance.   
I did accept that Mr Es actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the information Live Lend obtained. I also acknowledged that if 
Live Lend had gone into the depth of checks Mr E appears to be saying it should have  
such as obtaining bank statements  it would have realised why Mr E might not have been 
able to make his payments and may well have reached a different answer. 
But I thought that the key here thing was that the circumstances of the lending here didnt 
warrant obtaining bank statements. Live Lend was providing a loan for a relatively small sum 
 especially when compared to Mr Es income. And given the circumstances, I would have 
expected it to have had a reasonable idea of Mr Es income and committed non-
discretionary spending, which it did here, rather than carry out a complete review of Mr Es 
finances.
I also explained that it is only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in 
circumstances where a lender did something wrong. Given the circumstances here, and the 
lack of obvious inconsistencies, I didnt think that reasonable and proportionate checks 
would have extended into the level of checks Mr E was suggesting.  As this was the case, I 
didnt think that Live Lend did anything wrong when deciding to lend to Mr E - it carried out 
proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which suggested the 
repayments were affordable. 
So overall and having considered everything, I was minded to conclude that Live Lend didnt 
treat Mr E unfairly or unreasonably when providing him with his loan. And this meant that I 
wasnt intending to uphold Mr Es complaint. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Live Lend didnt provide anything further for me to think about.
Mr E responded to say that the £4,300.00 lent wasnt enough to clear all of his existing debts 
as he owed more than £8,000.00 at that time. Any sort of thorough check other than a credit 
check would have shown the loan was unaffordable.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mr E for his further comments.Ive considered Mr Es further points but Ive not been persuaded to change my opinion here. 
I say this because while Mr E has said that he owed over £8,000.00 this isnt what showed 
on the credit search Live Lend carried out. I think that this may be because Mr E has 
referred to the full credit limit available on some of his revolving credit facilities rather than 
the amounts outstanding at the time. Furthermore, one of the loans Mr E has referred to is of 
a type that wouldnt normally show up on a regular credit search. Id also point out that the 
information Mr E has provided is incomplete and doesnt clearly demonstrate that he owed 
over £8,000.00 in August 2019 either.
So I dont think that Live Lend saw that Mr E owed over £8,000.00. All it saw was that Mr E 
owed just over £4,100.00 and the funds from this Live Lend loan were enough to clear these 
debts at a lower interest rate than what Mr E was already paying.
As this is the case, while I sympathise with what Mr E has said about his financial position 
and his thoughts about the need for a more thorough check, Im satisfied that what Live Lend 
did went far enough given the circumstances of this case. So I think that Live Lend was 
reasonably entitled to conclude that Mr E could afford the repayments to his loan and as this 
is the case, I dont think that it acted unfairly or unreasonably to him. This means that Im not 
upholding this complaint.  
I appreciate this is likely to be very disappointing for Mr E  especially bearing in mind hes 
previously been told he shouldnt have been provided with this loan. But I hope hell 
understand the reasons for my final decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have 
been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 24 June 2022, Im not 
upholding Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman