DRN-3498211
The complaint
K, a limited company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc offered it a business credit card 
but when it applied it was declined.
What happened
K says it was told in October 2021 after applying that it wasnt eligible for the card as it had 
more than one director and was operating in the property business. The director who made 
the application for K was concerned about the impact on credit scores.
HSBC said it hadnt made any mistake as K wasnt eligible for this particular Kinetic product 
type under its criteria.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Although HSBC was 
promoting this product the outcome of any application wasnt guaranteed. And the original 
decision not to provide the product was appealed in November 2021 but this wasnt 
successful. HSBC had set out on the website that:
1. The first step is to check that HSBC Kinetic is right for you.
Are you a Sole Trader or single director, sole shareholder ltd company?
HSBC had Ks agreement as part of the application for any credit searches. And it was 
obliged to report information accurately to credit reference agencies. It wasnt unusual for 
general promotional material to continue to be sent and K would have the option to set its 
marketing preferences.
She said she was sorry to hear that the director of K who applied said he had just come out 
of hospital and he wasnt able to go through the terms and conditions. He had been 
contacted to ask what line of business K was in and considered that the application could 
have been cancelled then. Instead he was pursued to continue the application. He wasnt in 
the right state of mind to make the application. She noted that but could only consider the 
complaint on the information available and given that there was no guarantee of success. 
The person taking the information may not have known all the criteria.
K didnt agree and wanted the complaint to be reviewed. The director said that the process 
was one sided. He wasnt able to go through the terms and conditions and he had explained 
his position to HSBC staff. He could have been helped and was disgusted by the way I had 
been treated. There had been mistakes in the application showing he wasnt capable, and 
he told HSBC that this was due to his condition.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the strong feelings of the director here and his personal position. He clearly had 
the impression from his contact with HSBC and the process of the application that K would 
be eligible. And unfortunately, there were some fixed facts here about K that made it 
ineligible under HSBCs criteria. Those were that it had two directors and is in the property 
business.
I note from publicly available information that the other director for K was appointed during 
2021. That may not have been known to HSBC at the time of the application. I am unclear 
why if one director was unwell and felt incapable of acting for K here, the complainant, he 
continued to do so in this capacity.
HSBC wasnt providing advice on this product. Id expect it to have answered questions 
about it correctly. But it wouldnt be in a position to assess an application during the process 
and give K guidance about it. I cant know exactly what was said to the director but Im afraid 
he decided to proceed on behalf of K. The outcome of the application could never be 
guaranteed, and HSBC used its own criteria and made a commercial decision. It reported 
any credit searches as it was required to do.
I can see why the director thinks that K oughtnt to have applied and I understand that. But 
Im looking at whether HSBC made a mistake or acted unreasonably and Im afraid that I 
dont think that it did in dealing with K.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman