DRN-1882701
 
The complaint
Mrs B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) was unable to send a 
payment from her bank account over the counter in branch. 
What happened
Mrs B holds a current account with NatWest and in March 2020 she visited a branch with the 
intention of transferring £3,000 from this account to someone elses. 
However, the NatWest staff in branch told her that they were unable to follow her instruction 
to do this over the payment counter  so she would have to either come back the following 
day or visit a different branch. Mrs B was unable to come back the next day, so she travelled 
to the alternative branch that NatWest told her about. But when she arrived, this branch was 
closed. Therefore, she claims to have been unable to make the payment, which was needed 
so the recipient could pay a building company. Because the payment didnt reach that 
person in time, planned building work was delayed for a number of months. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs B raised a complaint with NatWest. It responded by explaining that 
the staff in the first branch were unable to send the payment for her in this way due to the 
pandemic conditions in place at the time, which meant that the service available in branch 
was limited. Essentially, there were insufficient members of staff present so that the payment 
could be made over the counter. NatWest apologised that it didnt check whether the second 
branch was open before it redirected Mrs B there. And that a call was disconnected while 
she was subsequently trying to raise her complaint. Overall, it offered £30 compensation in 
an attempt to put things right. 
Mrs B remained unhappy, so she brought the complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into it and he thought the £30 compensation that NatWest offered was 
reasonable in the circumstances  so he didnt recommend that this be increased. NatWest 
accepted this opinion.
Mrs B does not accept. Considering the delay in building works and the miscommunication, 
she believes NatWest should increase its offer to more like a £100 in compensation. 
Because Mrs B does not agree, the complaint has been escalated to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Its not in dispute that, at the time Mrs B visited branch, the UK Government had declared a 
national pandemic in light of the overwhelming impact caused by COVID-19. 
NatWest has submitted that it had limited staff available at the first branch that Mrs B visited, 
as a result of this impact. A decision was made to therefore only accommodate self-service 
account movements  which is why a member of staff did not make the payment for Mrs B 
over the payment counter. 
This was of course an extraordinary time for most, unparalleled with what has been 
experienced before. Consequently, I see that this may have caused some difficult 
operational conditions for NatWest. As such, I have no reason to doubt that it was short 
staffed and forced to limit certain services.
I determine the complaint by reference to what is, in my judgment, fair and reasonable in all 
of the circumstances of the complaint. Accordingly, the challenges faced by NatWest during 
this period, and what constituted good industry practice at the time, form part of my 
consideration. 
As the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) set out its expectations of financial 
businesses during the pandemic. As a regulated bank, NatWest was expected to follow such 
direction. In March 2020, the FCA made a statement setting out its advice on the opening of 
bank branches. Amongst other things, this stated that, in line with the present UK 
Government announcements, banks should keep branches open where possible. It also 
encouraged banks to support customers  whilst managing the risks in play. 
The first branch Mrs B visited was open and providing a service to customers  all be it with 
certain limitations on what assistance could be provided. So, certain account movements 
were possible, but appear to have been somewhat restricted to what could be performed on 
the self-service counters provided. In light of the expectations of retail banks at the time, Im 
not satisfied that this constituted a failure by NatWest. Rather, I find it in keeping with the 
FCAs guidance to provide a branch service to customers that was feasible in the 
circumstances.
Nevertheless, the FCA expected regulated businesses to continue to take reasonable steps 
to support customers during those challenging times. And, in my view, it would not be an 
unreasonable expectation for members of staff in branch to check whether another branch 
was open  before offering customers the option of visiting there. I can appreciate the 
inconvenience caused to Mrs B by travelling to the second branch, only to find out upon 
arriving there that it was closed. Also, being disconnected during a call to a business can be 
frustrating  not least when the purpose of the call is to express a reason for complaint. 
Because of this, I agree that an award of compensation should be awarded. 
The power to make such an award is provided for in DISP Rule 3.7.2 of the FCA Handbook, 
which sets out that I can award fair compensation for distress or inconvenience experienced 
by a customer. But such an award must be a proportionate reflection of the impact that a 
businesss actions (or inactions) have had on that customer. The investigator considered 
NatWests offer of £30 to be reasonable. And having considered the service Mrs B received, 
I think this award is a proportionate reflection of the impact caused to her. So, it follows that I 
do not require NatWest to change it. Mrs B submits that the impact caused also extends to the knock-on effect of the payment not 
being received by the recipient. That said, Mrs B has not provided compelling evidence to 
substantiate this. But, for the avoidance of doubt, I do not deem it necessary for Mrs B to 
provide such evidence to reach what I see as a fair outcome to the complaint. 
I say this because, as mentioned, our service can generally only consider an award of 
compensation based on the impact caused to the customer  which would therefore solely 
be Mrs B in this case. Yet, the impact described appears to have predominantly caused to 
the intended recipient of the payment  whom is not strictly a customer for the purposes of 
this complaint.  
In any event, I do not consider that NatWest should have to award compensation for the 
impact caused to Mrs B because of the problems experienced by the intended recipient; 
because I also conclude that this impact is not a reasonably foreseeable consequence of 
NatWests actions (or in actions) and is likewise too remote from the cause. 
So, in all of the circumstances of the complaint, I find £30 to be fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2020.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman