DRN-2503368
The complaint
 Ms P is unhappy that QIC Europe Ltd has rejected her home insurance claim for loss of a 
bracelet while on holiday.
What happened
 Ms P took out a policy with QIC through a price comparison website in 2019. In March 2020 
she lost a bracelet while on holiday. She made a claim to QIC under the personal 
possessions cover in the policy. She had originally bought the bracelet abroad in 2000 when 
it cost her the equivalent of £1,347. She produced the receipt and a photo and on the basis 
of that QICs jewellers valued the bracelet at £4,650.
QIC said that when she took out the policy out Ms P was asked whether she had any 
valuables worth in excess of £2,000, and whether she required cover for personal 
possessions (worth less than £2,000 each) away from home, to which she replied yes. But 
it said that she had been careless in not having had the bracelet valued in more than 20 
years. It said that if she had declared the true value of the bracelet it would have imposed 
warranties of having an up to date valuation every three years and having the setting of the 
stones and clasps examined every three years by a jeweller. As Ms P hadnt had any such 
valuation or inspection carried out, QIC declined the claim in full. It pointed out that the 
circumstances of the loss indicated that the clasp may have been faulty so if the inspection 
warranty had applied Ms P would have been in breach of it and it would have been directly 
linked to the loss.
On referral to this service Ms P said she believed she should be able to set a value that she 
wants her property insured for, so if she only insured it for £2,000 thats what she believed 
she should receive. She also said that she had no idea the bracelet was worth that much. 
Our investigator thought that Ms P could be said to have taken reasonable care in applying 
for policy as she answered the questions to the best of her knowledge and didnt know the 
value of the item had increased so much when she bought it. She recommended that QIC 
pay the claim up to the policy limit of £2,000.
QIC objected, pointing out that although consumers are required to answer questions to the 
best of their knowledge, they still had to take reasonable care. And bearing in mind the item 
was purchased 20 years ago and its policy documentation warns consumers to check on the 
value of items, it still felt that Ms P hadnt taken reasonable care.
The matter has been referred to me for further consideration.
     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 As our investigator has pointed out, under the terms of the Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), a consumer needs to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out an insurance policy. 
Ms P purchased her policy through a price comparison website and then through the 
brokers website. In the course of that Ms P was asked the following questions:
Is a total of £10,000 enough to cover all valuables? Answer  yes
How much cover do you need for valuables inside your home? Answer - £10,000
Do you have any valuables or personal items worth over £2,000 each?  Answer  No
Do you require cover for any personal possessions (worth less than £2,000 each) away 
from home  Answer  Yes
How much total cover do you need for personal possessions away from home?  
Answer - £3,000
On the basis of those questions, so far as personal possessions cover away from home is 
concerned, Ms P specifically said she only required cover for such items worth less than 
£2,000. So if she was aware, or could reasonably ought to have been aware the bracelet 
was worth more than this she essentially wasnt asking for cover for it.
This begs the question of whether Ms P was aware or reasonably ought to have been aware 
that the bracelet was worth more than £2,000. She had bought in in 2000 and it cost the 
equivalent of £1,347. Whilst she mightve expected it to go up in value, Im not convinced 
that she reasonably ought to have been aware that the bracelet would now be worth more 
than three times what she paid for it.
This case is finely balanced, not least because Im not convinced that Ms P paid any detailed 
attention to her answers. But I think that I can fairly say that she answered the questions to 
the best of her knowledge and questions like How much cover do you need? are to my 
mind ambiguous as they could be interpreted to mean the consumer can choose a figure for 
cover which might not represent the full value of their contents. So I think that Ms P did act 
with reasonable care, to the limit of her knowledge. Ive noted that the jewellers 
recommended to QIC that claim should be paid, subject to the single article limit, which I 
think is reasonable and allowed for under the terms of the policy.
If QIC had known the true value of the bracelet, it would have applied the warranties for 
valuation and inspection, as Ive said above. The valuation had no bearing on the theft but 
its possible that had the bracelet been inspected, it could have ensured the clasp was tight, 
and it might not have fallen off Ms Ps wrist. But that is a moot point as we dont know the 
actual circumstances of the loss. So I dont think it would be fair for QIC to rely on breach of 
these warranties as a further reason to decline the claim.
Putting things right
 QIC should reconsider the claim for the bracelet subject to the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy, including the single article limit of £2,000. 
My final decision
 I uphold the complaint and require QIC Europe Ltd to act in accordance with what Ive said 
under Putting things right above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman