DRN-1805552
The complaint
Mr F has complained about Scottish Widows Limited. He is unhappy about the way it dealt 
with his pensions when wanted to take his benefits.
What happened
Mr F held three pensions with Scottish Widows. He contacted them in June 2019 asking for 
illustrations of his potential benefits. He was told these would be provided within five working 
days, but they werent. When he made contact again he was told that the usual time was ten 
days and not five.
Mr F was provided with an illustration but this was based on an incorrect retirement date. He 
was also told that calculating his tax-free cash (TFC) entitlement and annuity information 
may take three weeks.
Mr F raised his concerns with Scottish Widows on 2 July 2019. He was provided with a TFC 
valuation for his s.32 policy, but he queried this. Scottish Widows wrote to him on 23 
September 2019 with a TFC calculation along with the formula it had used. This said the 
TFC was around £14,000.
Mr F responded and pointed out that the calculation was incorrect. Scottish Widows 
reconsidered and then wrote to Mr F on 25 October 2019 telling him that the TFC was over 
£16,000. 
Scottish Widows has upheld Mr Fs complaint. It has paid him three separate amounts 
totalling £500 to compensate for the distress caused by its delays and it providing incorrect 
information.
Mr F doesnt think the compensation offered is enough. He says that he lost out on a 
property purchase because of the delays in receiving his TFC. He says the stress and 
inconvenience has impacted on his marriage. He says that £3000 would be a more 
appropriate award.
The complaint was considered by an investigator. He felt that the sum of £500 was fair 
redress. He acknowledged that there had been delays, but he didnt think Mr F ought 
reasonably to have committed to buying a house until he was actually in receipt of the funds.
Mr F didnt accept that view and asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigator and with his reasoning. I dont uphold this complaint as I think 
the payments Scottish Widows has made are fairI can fully accept that the delays in providing information will have caused Mr F frustration at 
a critical time in his life. He was planning his retirement and his pensions were clearly an 
important factor in his planning. It must have been particularly irritating to be given incorrect 
information about his TFC from his s.32 plan. He had made a similar complaint about that in 
2017. He didnt have the correct figure for the TFC until late October 2019, over four months 
after his request for illustrations in June 2019.
Mr F has provided evidence of a property purchase he hoped to make. He had an offer 
accepted on a property but unfortunately the vendor withdrew. It appears that the vendor 
may have withdrawn due to potential delays, and so I can see that these issues with Mr Fs 
pensions may have had some impact on the transaction. But the transaction appears to 
have been at an early stage when it collapsed and fell through in August 2019. Other issues 
may have arisen which may have prevented the purchase going ahead. For example, it 
seems Mr F may have been relying on securing a bridging loan. 
Mr F hasnt provided evidence of any actual losses he suffered as a result of the aborted 
purchase, although I can understand that this will have added to his frustration. But even if 
Mr F had lost out, I dont believe it would be fair or reasonable to hold Scottish Widows 
responsible for any actual loss. Thats because I dont think it would have been reasonable 
for Mr F to enter into a binding transaction, or to commit to substantial costs, purely in 
anticipation of his receiving the pension funds rather than waiting until the funds were 
received.
So for these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint. Scottish Widows did make errors in the 
handling of Mr Fs pensions, but it has acknowledged these and offered compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience it has caused. It has paid Mr F £500, I think that is fair in all 
the circumstances.
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint. I 'm satisfied that the offer Scottish Widows has made is fair in 
all the circumstances, so I make no further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2020.
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman