DRN-4212066
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the decision made by Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd (AIE) 
following a claim made under his car insurance policy.  
What happened
In September 2022 Mr D purchased a car insurance policy. Mrs D was also recorded in the 
Certificate of Motor Insurance as a named driver. The policy terms explained:
Driving and Use of Vehicle 
We will not pay for any claim under any Section of your Policy occurring whilst a 
vehicle which we cover is being:
5.25 Driven by any person:
Who is not permitted to drive in your Motor Insurance Certificate
In February 2023 AIE received notification of a claim made by a third party under Mr Ds 
policy. AIE contacted Mr D to inform him of the claim. Mr D contacted AIE and advised that 
his son (who Ill refer to as A) was driving the car at the time without his consent.
 
Mr D was told his claim would be declined. Mr D informed AIE that he would be looking to 
press charges against A. Mr D was told that hed need to provide AIE with evidence of this 
so that the claim could be assessed. Mr D obtained a letter from the police with a crime 
reference number. The letter confirmed Mr D had made a police report but didnt refer to A.
Mr D complained to AIE about the handling of his claim, saying that it had been unfairly 
declined as evidence of a police crime report had been provided. 
AIE told Mr D that they wouldnt be paying out on his claim in line with his policy terms for 
unauthorised use of his car. Mr D was asked to provide evidence of prosecution by the 
police for AIE to further assess his claim. Mr D was unhappy with this response, and brought 
his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
The investigator found that AIE had acted reasonably in reaching their decision to decline Mr 
Ds claim on the basis that they didnt have what they needed to assess it, and didnt ask AIE 
to do anything in settlement of his complaint. Mr D asked for his complaint to be referred to 
an ombudsman. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it has been passed to me for decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure the parties that although Ive only summarised the background to this 
complaint, so not everything thats happened or been argued is set out above, Ive read and 
considered everything thats been provided.
I understand it has been a difficult time for Mr D. But having reviewed the evidence I dont 
think AIE need to do anything more in settlement of this complaint. I can understand this is 
likely to come as a disappointment to Mr D but I hope my findings go some way in explaining 
why Ive reached this decision. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I 
havent commented on any specific point its because I dont believe it has affected what I 
think is the right outcome.
When we investigate a complaint about an insurers decision on a claim, our role is to 
consider whether the insurer handled the claim in a fair and reasonable manner. So Ive 
considered the evidence to determine whether AIE have acted fairly and reasonably in 
reaching their decision on Mr Ds claim.    
Ive considered the claim history, including the police crime report, and the additional 
evidence request made by AIE to progress Mr Ds claim. In doing so I think the request for 
evidence showing prosecution of A has been reasonable, and in line with what wed expect 
for a claim of this type. 
Mr D feels strongly that he has already provided AIE with a police crime report showing 
notification to the police about what had happened. But this evidence only refers to thanking 
Mr D for making a report. There is no explanation for what has been reported, the contents 
of the report, or the person(s) involved. I think it was reasonable for AIE to ask for further 
evidence such as a copy of the actual police report, charge sheet, and any evidence to 
support charges brought against A.
I appreciate Mr Ds disappointment with this outcome. This situation has clearly left Mr D 
feeling stressed, upset, and financially out of pocket. But I cant ask AIE to pay for the claim, 
given the evidence thats been provided, and uncertainty surrounding the claim details. I 
havent seen any evidence to persuade me that AIE actions have been wrong, or unfair. So I 
wont be asking AIE to do anything in response to this complaint. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons provided I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman