DRN-2797512
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Allianz Insurance Plc has unfairly declined a claim shes made on her 
equine insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs L is represented by a third-party in bringing this complaint. References I make to her 
actions include those of her representative.
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to the parties so Ive only provided a 
summary here.
Mrs L owned a horse  which Ill refer to as R  insured by an equine insurance 
policy underwritten by Allianz 
She contacted Allianz in November 2020 to let it know R had medical problems 
which would mean it needed to be euthanised (put to sleep)
Allianz let Mrs L know for the death benefit to be paid, the treating vet would need to 
confirm British Equine Veterinary Association (BEVA) criteria for euthanasia had 
been met 
Mrs L submitted a Humane Destruction Request form and a claim to Allianz 
The claim was declined as the BEVA guidelines hadnt been met
Mrs Ls vet provided a report which was considered by Allianzs vet 
A discussion between the two vets followed and the claim was rejected again
Mrs L complained to Allianz but it didnt change its position 
Our investigator considered the complaint and he didnt think the BEVA guidelines 
had been met and pointed out both vets agreed. He didnt uphold the complaint
Mrs L asked an ombudsman to make a decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When making a claim on an insurance policy, the onus is on the policyholder to show the 
issue being claimed for is covered by the policy terms. Its common that insurance policies 
dont cover every risk and insurers generally arent expected to pay claims where the issue 
isnt covered or is specifically excluded, under the policy terms.
When assessing this complaint, Im not required to overlay animal welfare concerns and that 
may mean my decision seems rather matter of fact. I mean no offence adopting this 
approach, its simply that my role requires me to consider whats covered by the policy as its 
written, while keeping in mind what I consider to be fair and reasonable to both Mrs L and 
Allianz.
What does the policy say?
The policy includes cover for death claims and explains the criteria that needs to be met in 
those circumstances:
Criteria for death claims  if your horse is put to sleep, to claim under this policy your 
horses condition must have met the BEVA Guidelines for the Destruction of Horses 
I consider this requirement to be clear and not misleading. 
Ive listened carefully to the phone call between Mrs L and Allianz and this requirement was 
reiterated clearly to Mrs L when discussing the claim, before R was put to sleep. Allianz 
explained Mrs Ls vet would need to confirm the relevant BEVA guidelines had been met for 
the death claim to be covered.
Did the injury meet the BEVA guidelines?
Our investigator explained clearly our approach to claims of this kind involving the BEVA 
guidelines for the destruction of horses so I dont propose to repeat what he said in my 
decision.
The report from Mrs Ls vet in November 2020 confirmed that she and Allianzs vet had 
discussed the case and commented:
The BEVA guidelines for immediate humane destruction were also discussed and 
we agreed that the horse did not fulfil the criteria for immediate humane destruction
I acknowledge Mrs Ls vet said the treatment was unlikely to be successful and that 
euthanasia was the most appropriate action in this case. I note she also acknowledged that 
this kind of situation where the requirements of the BEVA guidelines havent been met, even 
though the long-term prognosis isnt a good one, are often not covered by insurance policies.
And I know that Mrs L says she made the decision to have R euthanised as she considered 
it in Rs best interests. I understand why Rs welfare would have been Mrs Ls priority but 
that doesnt mean the insurer is required to pay the claim. 
Im satisfied Aviva was clear what the criteria was both in the policy documents and during 
her call with Mrs L and it hasnt acted unreasonably in declining the claim as the criteria 
wasnt met.
Permanent Loss Of Use (PLOU) cover
While handling the complaint, Allianz mentioned PLOU cover and said this might have 
covered the claim. But as its accepted by the parties that Mrs Ls policy doesnt include this 
cover, I dont need to make any findings on whether it might have been relevant or not.
Other issues
Mrs L made further comments relating to the actions of other equine insurers. While I 
acknowledge what she says here, my decision focuses on the specific circumstances of her 
claim and complaint rather than the actions of the wider insurance industry or the regulator.
In conclusion, I dont think Allianz has acted unfairly in declining this claim for the reasons 
Ive explained.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman