DRN-3680994
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 1993 
alongside a store card. The PPI was added to the account at the same time Mrs S took out 
the card.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA), as the insurer, should accept 
responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA as the seller in my 
decision.
Mrs S says AXA mis-sold her the PPI. Our adjudicator felt the complaint shouldnt be
upheld. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so this complaint has been passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Hs case.
I dont think this policy was mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Ive seen a copy of the store card application Mrs S saw and signed. In this there is a 
separate section for PPI where the box has been ticked to agree to the PPI cover. Mrs S 
says that she didnt complete the form herself. She says this was completed by the sales 
assistant and she was just asked to sign the form  so she says she was never given any 
choice about the PPI. Ive considered what Mrs S has said and Ive looked carefully at the 
application form. 
The section for PPI is in the centre of the form and clearly includes different options to select 
 for PPI and for card protection cover. In this section only the yes box for PPI has been 
ticked, but the box to say no to the PPI was clearly positioned right below this. Mrs S signed 
the form to agree to its contents, so while she may not have completed the form herself, it 
was her responsibility to read the application form and check what had been entered before 
signing to agree to it. As the PPI selection and the options to accept or decline the cover are 
clearly visible, and the form has been signed by Mrs S  I cant say she didnt know the 
policy was optional or that she didnt consent to add it to her account. 
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs S so it didnt have to check if the policy was right for
her. But it did have to make sure Mrs S got the information she needed to decide if the PPI
was right for her. Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear
as it shouldve been, but based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it doesnt 
look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limitations on the PPI cover  so I 
think it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. And I dont think better
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
Upon a successful claim the PPI wouldve paid 15% of Mrs Ss outstanding monthly balance
until she had returned to work or her outstanding balance had been paid off. Mrs S says she 
was entitled to six months full sick pay, followed by six months half six pay. She also said 
she had some savings. Ive considered everything Mrs S has said, but I still think the policy 
wouldve been useful to her and Ill explain why. The PPI policy wouldve paid out in addition 
to Mrs Ss employee sick pay, and I think this wouldve been particularly useful for
her especially at the point her sick pay dropped down to half pay. And the PPI wouldve also 
paid out had Mrs S been made unemployed. And so, l still think the policy wouldve been 
useful for her and I dont think better information wouldve put her off taking out the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman