DRN-3195921
The complaint
Mr B complains about the charge for excess mileage that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services 
UK Limited, trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance, has made after he voluntarily terminated the 
hire purchase agreement under which a car had been supplied to him.
What happened
A new car was supplied to Mr B under a hire purchase agreement with Mercedes-Benz 
Finance that he signed in October 2016. The car had a price of £34,500, Mr B paid a deposit 
of £5,481.81 so the amount of credit was £29,018.18 and the total amount payable was 
shown on the agreement as £38,591.81. Mr B agreed to make 48 monthly payments of £400 
for the car to be supplied to him. If he wanted to purchase the car at the end of the 
agreement hed have to pay an optional purchase payment of £13,900 and a purchase 
activation fee of £10.
The agreement said that Mr B had the right to terminate the agreement and that Mercedes-
Benz Finance would be entitled to the return of the car and half of the total amount payable 
under the agreement (which was shown on the agreement as being £19,295.91). Mr B 
voluntarily terminated the agreement early in July 2020 and he returned the car  its 
mileage was recorded as 47,237 on the return programme car appraisal form that was 
completed at that time. Mr B was then charged £641.09 by Mercedes-Benz Finance for an 
excess mileage of 8,903. 
He complained to Mercedes-Benz Finance about the excess mileage charge and said that it 
isnt able to charge him for excess mileage under the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Mercedes-
Benz Finance said that, as Mr B hadnt exercised his right to purchase the car, an excess 
mileage charge had been raised because the return mileage exceeded the mileage 
allowance (which had been re-calculated on a pro-rata basis in line with the length of time 
that hed had the car). It said that the Consumer Credit Act permits it to determine whats 
reasonable condition and, as excess mileage has a negative effect on the value of the car, 
its not considered reasonable and it retains the right to charge for it following the voluntary 
termination of an agreement. It said that the liability regarding excess mileage was accrued 
before termination of the contract, at the point that Mr B signed the agreement and that his 
balance remained as £641.09.
Mr B wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. He says that he 
returned the car in excellent condition and that his total liability at the point of voluntary 
termination is limited to 50% of the finance agreement, which hed already paid. 
Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. He was persuaded that 
the provisions of the Consumer Credit Act dont allow Mercedes-Benz Finance to seek 
payment of excess mileage charges when an agreement has been voluntarily terminated. 
He recommended that Mercedes-Benz Finance should waive the excess mileage charge 
(but he said that if Mr B had paid it, Mercedes-Benz Finance should refund it to Mr B, with 
interest) and that it should remove any adverse information that its recorded on Mr Bs credit 
since he voluntary terminated the agreement.
Mr B has accepted those recommendations and has confirmed that he hasnt paid the 
excess mileage charge. Mercedes-Benz Finance hasnt responded to our investigators 
recommendations so Ive been asked to make a decision on this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The agreement includes wording thats prescribed by regulation about a consumers right to 
voluntarily terminate an agreement and says, under a heading which says: Termination: 
Your Rights:
You have a right to end this agreement. To do so, you should write to the person 
you make your payments to. We will then be entitled to the return of the vehicle and 
to half the total amount payable under this agreement (£19,295.91). If you have 
already paid at least this amount plus any overdue instalments and have taken 
reasonable care of the vehicle you will not have to pay any more.
The agreement also says:
If you return the vehicle to us and have exceeded the total permitted mileage, which 
is based on an annual permitted mileage of 15,000 miles, an excess mileage charge 
of 6.00p excluding VAT for each mile will be payable by you for each additional mile 
exceeding the total permitted mileage.
Sections 99 and 100 of the Consumer Credit Act set out the right that a consumer has to 
voluntary terminate their hire purchase agreement and the liability that is due on termination. 
The terms of the agreement, including those relating to any excess mileage charges, are 
required to comply with those sections. Section 99 says:
(1) At any time before the final payment by the debtor under a regulated hire 
purchase or regulated conditional sale agreement falls due, the debtor shall be 
entitled to terminate the agreement by giving notice to any person entitled or 
authorised to receive the sums payable under the agreement.
(2) Termination of an agreement under subsection (1) does not affect any liability 
under the agreement which has accrued before the termination .
So any liabilities which accrue prior to termination are not affected by the termination. If the 
excess mileage charge has accrued before the voluntarily termination of the agreement, I 
consider that it would be consistent with the provisions of section 99 for Mercedes-Benz 
Finance to make that charge to Mr B. 
But I consider that the excess mileage charge accrues after the agreement has been 
terminated. The agreement says that the excess mileage charge applies  If you return the 
vehicle to us and have exceeded the total permitted mileage  and the excess mileage 
charge is then calculated on the basis of the cars mileage after it has been returned  so it 
would only be known after the agreement had been terminated. For these reasons, I 
consider that Mercedes-Benz Finance cant charge for excess mileage in these 
circumstances under section 99.
Section 100 says:
(1) Where a regulated hire-purchase or regulated conditional sale agreement is 
terminated under section 99 the debtor shall be liable, unless the agreement provides for a smaller payment, or does not provide for any payment, to pay to the creditor the 
amount (if any) by which one-half of the total price exceeds the aggregate of the 
sums paid and the sums due in respect of the total price immediately before the 
termination 
(3) If in any action the court is satisfied that a sum less than the amount specified in 
subsection (1) would be equal to the loss sustained by the creditor in consequence of 
the termination of the agreement by the debtor, the court may make an order for the 
payment of that sum in lieu of the amount specified in subsection (1).
(4) If the debtor has contravened an obligation to take reasonable care of the goods 
or land, the amount arrived at under subsection (1) shall be increased by the sum 
required to recompense the creditor for that contravention .
Section 100(1) allows Mercedes-Benz Finance, in effect, to charge the consumer for half of 
the total price of the car under the agreement so, if theyd already paid that amount, they 
wouldnt have to pay anything more. Section 189 of the Consumer Credit Act defines total 
price as  the total sum payable by the debtor under a hire-purchase agreement or a 
conditional sale agreement, including any sum payable on the exercise of an option to 
purchase, but excluding any sum payable as a penalty or as compensation or damages for a 
breach of the agreement....
Section 100(4) allows for the amount payable to be increased if the consumer had failed to 
take reasonable care of the car. The agreement requires the car to be returned in 
accordance with Mercedes-Benz Finances vehicle return standards, which are included as 
part of the agreement, and says that compensation will be payable for a breach of that 
obligation. Thats a separate requirement to the requirement to pay for excess mileage. 
Theres no requirement in the agreement for Mr B not to exceed the total permitted mileage 
so I dont consider that exceeding that mileage would be a breach of contract. I consider that 
the agreement sets out the maximum mileage that the car can be driven before additional 
charges become payable. Im not persuaded that exceeding a mileage limit would be 
considered to be failing to take reasonable care of the car or that the excess mileage charge 
would properly be considered to be compensation for a breach of contract. But Im also not 
persuaded that any excess mileage charge would properly be considered to be included in 
the total price of the car under section 100(1) because the charge accrues after the 
agreement has been terminated. 
I dont consider that the provisions in the agreement that refer to excess mileage charges 
would reasonably be considered to be payable because Mr B had failed to take reasonable 
care of the car and I dont consider that Mercedes-Benz Finance can charge for excess 
mileage in these circumstances under section 100(4).
Section 173 of the Consumer Credit Act says that a term in an agreement is void to the 
extent that its inconsistent with a provision in the act. For the reasons that Ive set out 
above, I dont consider that the provisions of the agreement concerning excess mileage 
charges on a voluntary termination of the agreement are consistent with the protections of 
the Consumer Credit Act. I consider that those provisions are void to the extent that they 
relate to excess mileage charges when the agreement is voluntarily terminated.
Although Ive reached that conclusion based on the provisions of the Consumer Credit Act, 
Ive also considered whether the wording contained in the agreement would cover a charge 
for excess mileage being made if the agreement is voluntarily terminated. The termination 
notice thats included in the agreement doesnt refer to an excess mileage charge if the 
agreement is voluntarily terminated. The notice says that the consumer can terminate the 
agreement if theyve paid half the total amount payable under the agreement. The total amount payable is clearly set out in the agreement but the agreement also refers to an 
excess mileage charge if the car is returned and the total permitted mileage has been 
exceeded. Theres a conflict in the agreement between those provisions - and the specific 
wording to be included in the termination notice is prescribed by regulation.
The car could be returned to Mercedes-Benz Finance for a number of reasons, but Im only 
considering it being returned if the agreement has been voluntarily terminated. The 
agreement says, immediately above the signature: This is a Hire Purchase Agreement 
regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Sign it only if you want to be legally bound by its 
terms. I consider that it would be reasonable to expect a consumer to have read the whole 
agreement before signing it and, if theyd done so, they would be aware of the termination 
notice and also the excess mileage charge. 
I consider that the agreement could have been more clearly drafted to specify that the 
excess mileage charge would be payable if the agreement was voluntarily terminated and 
the total permitted mileage had been exceeded. But I consider that the excess mileage 
terms do enough to qualify the termination notice set out in the agreement. I consider that 
the contractual terms of the agreement alone would give Mercedes-Benz Finance the right to 
charge for excess mileage in those circumstances. 
But, as Ive already said, the excess mileage charge isnt permitted under sections 99 and 
100 so is void and, even though the agreement does provide for an excess mileage charge 
to be added to this amount, I find that its unable to charge Mr B for the excess mileage in 
these circumstances. 
Putting things right
Mr B hasnt paid the excess mileage charge and I find that it would be fair and reasonable 
for Mercedes-Benz Finance to now remove the excess mileage charge of £641.09 from his 
account. If its recorded any adverse information on his credit file relating to that charge, I 
find that it would also be fair and reasonable for it to remove that information.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I order Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited, trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance, to:
1. Remove the excess mileage charge from Mr Bs account.
2. Remove any adverse information about that charge that its recorded on Mr Bs credit 
file.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman