DRN-3068742
The complaint
Mr B complains about a number of issues relating to his account holdings held with 
Nationwide Building Society and the overall service he has received.
What happened
Mr B has raised a number of complaint points in relation to his accounts with Nationwide. 
Broadly speaking these can be categorised as:
Issues encountered when attempting to make a payment from a debit card to a credit 
card resulting in a £12 fee being charged.  
Problems contacting Nationwide by phone and being mis-advised to visit a branch.
Confusion about a compensation payment.
Nationwides handling of his complaints.
Nationwide looked into Mr Bs complaint points and responded across several final response 
letters. It upheld Mr Bs complaint about the service received in branch and credited his 
account with £150 compensation in recognition of the inconvenience caused. And it agreed 
to refund a £12 fee incurred on his credit card as gesture of goodwill. But it didnt agree with 
all the complaint points Mr B raised about how his complaint was handled and the 
correspondence he received. 
Unhappy with the responses, Mr B raised a complaint with this service. One of our 
investigators looked into it, but he didnt uphold it. He felt Nationwide had addressed Mr Bs 
concerns and had paid fair compensation. So, he didnt ask Nationwide to do anything more.
Mr B didnt agree and ultimately the case has been passed to me to reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached similar conclusions to those set out by the investigator, for 
what are broadly the same reasons. I appreciate Mr B will be disappointed, so Ill explain 
why.
But First Id like to point out Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint above in far less 
detail than Mr B. And Im not going to respond to every single point made by him. No 
discourtesy is intended by this. Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects 
the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I 
havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to 
comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is a fair outcome. 
I also think it would be helpful if I set out our remit. We dont interfere with how a firm  in this 
case Nationwide, runs its business or the policy decisions it makes about the services it 
offers. We are not the regulator. As a dispute resolution service, our role here is to decide if 
Nationwide has treated Mr B fairly. And, if it hasnt, we consider if compensation for financial 
loss and/or material distress and inconvenience is due.
As mentioned above Mr B has made several complaint points. These all generally stem from 
Mr B being unable to complete a payment to his credit card account using his bank account 
debit card. I can see there is some dispute over what Nationwide said about the call Mr B 
made when he tried to make his credit card payment. But, like the investigator, Im satisfied 
that Nationwide said it hadnt got a record of the call, not that Mr B didnt make the call.
In any event, I can see Nationwide refunded the £12 fee incurred because the payment 
wasnt received on time. Im satisfied this is fair as it puts Mr B back in the position he would 
have been in had he been able to make the payment during the call.  
 
I agree that Nationwide could have handled matters better when Mr B needed to reset his 
password. Mr B was directed to a branch  during the Covid pandemic, but was told by the 
branch it couldnt re-set the password when it later transpired that it could. But Im satisfied 
that this mis-information didnt unduly inconvenience Mr B given he told our investigator that 
he needed to attend the branch on an unrelated matter and the password was subsequently 
re-set over the phone. So, I think the £150 compensation paid by Nationwide is fair.   
I note Mr B has raised several points about how his complaint was handled by Nationwide. 
Generally, this service doesnt comment on issues about complaint handling as its not a 
regulated activity we cover. But I can see the investigator did respond to Mr Bs points. I 
wont repeat all the details again here as much of this doesnt affect the overall outcome of 
the complaint. 
But I have noted that Mr B feels Nationwides correspondence overturned its decision to 
uphold part of his complaint. I can see there was a lot of correspondence between Mr B and 
Nationwide  much of which overlapped the same complaint points and other letters referred 
to different complaint points. So, I can understand why there might have been some 
confusion over whether some elements of Mr Bs complaint were being upheld and a 
compensation payment being made. But ultimately, Im satisfied that Nationwide paid Mr B 
£150 compensation, so it follows Im satisfied that it didnt overturn its decision to uphold part 
his complaint and that Mr B has received the compensation offered.
 
I also note that Mr B finds it frustrating that, when he contacts Nationwide to provide 
feedback/make it aware of problems he has encountered relating to its customer service or 
the services it provides, it treats his comments as a complaint and responds defensively. But 
the rules about complaint handling require businesses to treat an expression of 
dissatisfaction as a complaint and that it has to respond accordingly. In responding to such 
issues, a business has to say whether it agrees or doesnt agree with the issues raised. So, 
while Mr B might think this is defensive, Im satisfied in this case that Nationwide was setting 
out its position with regard to the complaint points Mr B raised which its entitled to do. 
Mr B has mentioned some other issues while our investigator was looking into Mr Bs original 
complaint points. Particularly, he mentions concerns about an unpaid direct debit. I 
appreciate that Mr B feels these issues are simply a continuation of the problems hes 
experienced with Nationwide. But as the investigator has explained, these are new points 
which need to be referred to Nationwide in the first instance. So, I cant comment on this 
further. Overall, while I can see the situation as a whole has caused Mr B distress and 
inconvenience, I think the compensation payment of £150 and a refund of the £12 fee fairly 
reflects the impact what happened had on Mr B. So, Im not going to tell Nationwide that it 
needs to do anything more in regards the complaint points I have considered.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint because Nationwide Building Society has 
already paid compensation that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman