DRN-3664214
The complaint
Mr L complained about Lloyds Bank plcs handling of disputed transactions. He wants 
significantly more compensation than Lloyds offered him.
What happened
Mr L had a Lloyds credit card with a credit limit of £5,500, which hed opened in October 
2020.  Between 15 and 22 December 2020, ten transactions debited Mr Ls Lloyds credit 
card. These took place on six different days, including a Saturday. On 23 December, he rang 
Lloyds and said he hadnt carried out these transactions, which totalled £9,763.32.
Mr Ls genuine card, and correct PIN, had been used. Mr L told Lloyds he hadnt lost his 
card, and he hadnt written down his PIN. So Lloyds refused Mr Ls claim that he hadnt 
authorised the transactions himself. It told Mr L this by phone on 23 December.
But on 30 December, someone in Lloyds made a mistake and wrongly credited Mr Ls credit 
card with the ten disputed transactions for £9,763.32. This put Mr Ls account into credit by 
£4,337.87. Mr L didnt contact Lloyds to query this, and spent the credit balance.
On 13 April 2021, Lloyds realised it had made a mistake by crediting Mr Ls account when it 
had declined his disputed transaction claim, and it re-debited the £9,763.32. But it didnt tell 
Mr L it was going to do this. Mr L complained on 14 April. 
Lloyds replied on 15 April, saying it was sorry that it hadnt notified Mr L about the re-debit. It 
paid him £100 for the upset. Mr L was also on an introductory 0% offer, and Lloyds also told 
Mr L that if he needed longer to repay the money, it would extend his 0% promotion.
Mr L contacted a representative from a claims management company, and his 
representative wrote to Lloyds on 1 June. This letter said that Mr L had been at work at the 
time of the ten disputed transactions between 15 and 22 December 2020. 
Lloyds replied on 21 June asking for Mr Ls authorisation for the representative to act for 
him. When this was received, Lloyds wrote back on 15 July. In this letter, Lloyds said that the 
location for most of the disputed transactions was about an hour from where Mr L worked. 
But it said that as the transactions had taken place more than six months ago, it couldnt find 
out what time theyd been made. So Lloyds said it would write off and refund the disputed 
£9,763.32. 
Lloydss 15 July letter said it would refund the ten transactions within three to five working 
days. Mr Ls statement shows that it refunded all ten transactions on 14 July. Nine of them, 
totalling £8,998.32, were credited straightaway, but there was a systems problem with the 
remaining one. The systems problem was resolved and last one finally credited on 17 
August. 
Mr L wasnt satisfied. He contacted this service, represented by a claims management 
company.  On Mr Ls behalf, the claims management company said Mr L had suffered 
inconvenience, stress, anxiety, inference that hed behaved fraudulently, and pain. It said 
hed also suffered financial loss because hed paid the claims management company £980 
for its services.
The claims management company said Mr L wanted Lloyds to pay him £10,000 
compensation plus £1,000 for the claims management companys services.
Mr L also told the investigator that hed been concerned about his credit file, and had had to 
use savings to pay off part of the balance. He also said it had meant hed had to move out of 
rented accommodation to move back with his parents, and had experienced distress.
The investigator said that it had been reasonable for Lloyds to have held Mr L responsible in 
December 2020 for the disputed transactions. The evidence had suggested that hed 
authorised the payments, and Mr L hadnt offered any new evidence when Lloyds turned 
down his claim on 23 December. 
But the investigator thought Lloyds had made an error when it had incorrectly refunded Mr L 
 and when it hadnt told him it was going to re-debit the money. He thought Lloyds should 
award Mr L some compensation. Theres been some confusion about the amount. In the 
investigators View, he said Lloyds should pay another £200, but in correspondence referred 
to a total of £200, ie an extra £100.  Lloyds replied saying that it was willing to pay Mr L an 
additional £100, making £200 in total.
Mr Ls representative didnt agree. He said that for a major corporation to be liable for gross 
negligence towards a customer, being slapped on the wrist was demeaning. He said that the 
lesson theyd be expected to learn wouldnt fit such an insignificant amount of compensation, 
considering the billions of trade and profits and the millions Lloyds gambled daily in trading 
rooms. He said that Mr L wouldnt have been aware of the Financial Ombudsman Service 
without him, so Mr L should be compensated for the representatives fees. The 
representative said that if the claim were to be determined by judicial means, Mr L would 
certainly have been awarded a costs order. Mr Ls representative asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. Before doing so, I considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I explained that the only element for me to decide in this 
complaint is compensation, so Ive considered the relevant factors to determine what would 
be fair and reasonable. 
How compensation is worked out
When considering compensation, we look at two aspects: financial loss, and compensation 
for distress and inconvenience. The purpose of compensation is to put an individual back in 
the position theyd have been in, if the error hadnt occurred. Our role is to resolve individual 
complaints between financial businesses and their customers. It isnt to punish a business, 
as Mr Ls representative would prefer. Anything wider and more general in nature would be 
the role of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
As explained on our website, we're all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and 
a certain level of frustration and minor annoyance is expected. For us to make an award 
we'd need to see that the impact of a business's mistake was more than someone would 
expect to experience as part of everyday life.Other factors wed take into account include the time a business took to sort out a mistake. 
We also consider whether theres anything a customer could have done to reduce the impact 
of a businesss mistake. 
We don't normally pay compensation to someone else complaining on a customers behalf. 
Mr Ls representative said that Lloyds should pay £1,000, in addition to the £10,000 Mr L is 
requesting, in order to pay for his fees. But this service is free, and although Mr L was quite 
entitled to use a representative if he wished, its not essential. Ive also checked that Lloyds 
final response letter did include  as all final response letters have to  referral rights to this 
service. So Mr L would have been aware of our service through this final response letter. 
The letter provided contact details for us, and enclosed the leaflet about this service. So if Mr 
L chose to use and pay a representative, this was his choice, but we wouldnt award extra 
compensation because of that choice.
What Lloyds did and didnt do wrong 
A claim for compensation has to be linked to whatever Lloyds did wrong. So in my 
provisional decision, I looked at what Lloyds did, and didnt, do wrong in relation to Mr Ls 
complaint.
First, I found that it was reasonable for Lloyds to have held Mr L responsible for the ten 
disputed transactions in December 2020. Mr L still had his card, and the genuine card  as 
shown by the chip, which cant be copied or cloned - had been used for transactions. Mr Ls 
PIN had also been used, and Mr L said he hadnt written this down. There are 10,000 
possible combinations of a four-digit PIN, so it was unlikely a fraudster could have guessed 
this. 
I didnt have the call recording from 23 December 2020, but there was no record that Mr L 
raised a complaint following Lloyds decision during that call. I recognised, however, that 
only a week later, Lloyds mistakenly credited Mr Ls account. Mr L said he thought this 
meant Lloyds had changed its mind, though I found it surprising he didnt contact Lloyds to 
check.
So I didnt find that Lloyds was wrong to decide in December 2020 that Mr L was liable for 
the transactions. 
Lloyds did make a mistake when it wrongly refunded Mr L in December 2020. But this was to 
Mr Ls advantage. He had money credited to his account which  on the outcome of the 
claim for the disputed transactions  he wasnt entitled to. Mr L spent that money, so he had 
an advantage from this mistake.
Lloyds also made a mistake  one which did impact Mr L adversely  when it failed to notify 
Mr L that it was going to re-debit the disputed money on 13 April. Lloyds was entitled to re-
debit that money, on the evidence it then had about the disputed transactions which 
indicated Mr L was most likely to have authorised them, either by carrying them out himself 
or by giving someone else his genuine card and PIN. But Lloyds should have warned Mr L, 
in order to avoid the shock of seeing the debits.
I also considered whether Lloyds made a mistake in relation to the re-investigation of Mr Ls 
claim. Mr Ls representative wrote to Lloyds on 1 June to say that Mr L had been at work an 
hours journey from the location of the disputed transactions. This was new information, not 
raised by Mr L in December. In December, Mr L hadnt complained about the rejection of his 
disputed transaction claim, and he hadnt put forward the information about his workplace. 
By June, the records of the timing of the transactions on the five different dates in December, were no longer available. As it no longer had the evidence, Lloyds agreed to 
refund Mr L. Looking at the time it took Lloyds to investigate, I found that Lloyds 
investigation of this new evidence was reasonable. I found that the refunds were also made 
in an acceptable timescale after that decision. As Ive set out above, nine of the ten 
transactions were successfully credited to the account the previous day, 14 July, and were 
all backdated to the relevant dates. In regard to the one which had system problems where 
the credit didnt go through successfully, the account shows that there were multiple 
attempts to credit it and it went through on 17 August. 
So I considered Lloyds didnt make errors in relation to the investigation raised in summer 
2021.
This meant that the errors which I found Lloyds made were:
- It wrongly refunded Mr L in December 2020. But this was to Mr Ls advantage. He 
had money credited to his account which  on the outcome of the claim for the 
disputed transactions  he wasnt entitled to. Mr L spent that money, so he had an 
advantage, not a disadvantage, from this mistake.
- It failed to notify Mr L that it was going to re-debit the disputed money on 13 April. It 
should have done so.
I went on to look at compensation relating to the error about re-debiting the disputed money.
Financial loss
Mr Ls credit card was on a 0% interest introductory deal, throughout the period of this 
complaint. So no interest was debited on any transactions during this time. This meant there 
was no financial loss resulting from the re-debiting of the transactions on 13 April.
Distress and inconvenience
In order to award compensation under this heading, Id need to be satisfied that the distress 
and inconvenience was caused by Lloyds failure to notify him that the disputed amounts 
would be re-debited.  
I realised that it would have been an unpleasant shock to discover that thee disputed 
amounts had been re-debited. But Lloyds had told Mr L in December that it was holding him 
liable, and I considered it would have been reasonable for Mr L to have contacted Lloyds 
when he received the unexpected, and mistaken, credit later in December. If Mr L had 
simply told Lloyds in December that hed been at work at the relevant times, Lloyds could 
have checked this against the times of the transactions and the complaint could have been 
definitively resolved at that time.
Mr L said hed had to use savings to pay some of the disputed amounts, because he was 
concerned about his credit file. I could see that Mr L paid £4,310 to his account on 2 June, 
which brought the balance within his £5,500 credit limit. I could understand why Mr L would 
have done this, and I recognised that it was an inconvenience, albeit for a short time. But I 
couldnt say that this was attributable to Lloyds failure to warn Mr L it was going to re-debit 
the money. The balance at that point exceeded Mr Ls £5,500 credit limit because of the 
fraud, and because Mr L had spent the credited money without having checked with Lloyds 
in December. It would have been the same situation if Lloyds had warned Mr L that it would 
re-debit the money.Looking at timescales, the transactions were re-debited on 13 April 2021. Mr L raised his 
complaint on 14 April, and on 1 June his representative told Lloyds that Mr L had been at 
work at the relevant times. So Mr L knew that his complaint was being considered within a 
relatively short time. And as Ive set out above, I found that Lloyds processed the new 
evidence within reasonable timescales. So the period when Mr L would have been 
concerned was relatively short. 
Mr L also claimed that because of Lloyds, he had to move out from his rented 
accommodation to move back with his parents. He didnt provide any financial evidence to 
back this up  such as his overall financial situation, income, savings, and his rental 
agreement including notice periods. But in any case I wasnt persuaded that this was a result 
of Lloyds failure to notify Mr L that it was going to re-debit the credit it shouldnt have made. 
The timescale was also relatively short  within about six weeks of his 14 April complaint, his 
representative had put forward the new evidence for consideration. Its likely that any rental 
would have needed a notice period. And it would also be surprising if Mr L, having paid his 
representative a significant sum to act for him, took such a big decision on the assumption 
that his representative wouldnt succeed in changing the outcome.
So I wasnt persuaded that Lloyds mistake in not telling Mr L about the re-debit had all the 
consequences in terms of distress and inconvenience, which Mr L and his representative 
have set out. I considered some compensation would be fair and reasonable for Lloyds not 
having warned Mr L that it was going to re-debit the credit it shouldnt have made in 
December. I considered that a total of £200 would be fair and reasonable for that. Lloyds 
paid Mr L £100 in April 2021, so that leaves £100 still to pay. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Lloyds confirmed that it accepted the findings of my provisional decision.
Mr Ls representative said that reluctantly, his client had accepted he would get no further 
with this service. He said Mr L accepted the recommendations. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered the evidence, and in the light of the responses to my provisional 
decision, I consider my provisional decision was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Lloyds Bank plc to pay Mr L a total of 
£200 for distress and inconvenience caused by its failure to notify him that it was going to re-
debit the erroneous credit in April 2021. Lloyds has already paid Mr L £100, so that leaves 
£100 still to pay.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman