DRN-2912225
The complaint
Mr K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard irresponsibly increased
his credit limit, which caused him financial difficulty. 
What happened
Mr K opened a credit card account with Barclaycard in May 2012. He was given an initial
credit limit of £3,500.
Barclaycard increased his credit limit a number of times. The increases relevant to this
complaint are as follows:
Date Credit Limit New Credit Limit
02/11/2015 £5,000 £6,500
26/01/2016 £6,500 £11,500
23/06/2016 £11,500 £16,500
Mr K stopped making payments to the account in August 2016, and it was later defaulted
and closed. In September 2017 Barclaycard accepted a payment of £9,108 in full and final
settlement of the account, which at that time had a balance of £18,214.69.
In August 2020 Barclaycard wrote to Mr K to advise that it had been reviewing the way it set
some of its customers credit limits and could see the limit it had given him may have been
higher than it should have been at the time. It said it was going to pay £75 compensation for
any distress or inconvenience it may have caused.
Mr K complained to Barclaycard. He said that because of the higher credit limit hed been
provided he had struggled financially and defaulted his account.
Barclaycard agreed it might have set his credit limit higher than it should have done
historically. But it didnt agree it had caused Mr K to default on his account. It said he
managed his account well and took advantage of several offers. And that it didnt have any
evidence hed made it aware of his financial circumstances so that it could offer support.
Mr K wasnt happy with this response, so he brought his complaint to our service. He asked
us to look at the credit limit increases he was given from November 2015 onwards. And
explained that he wanted Barclaycard to remove the default from his account and refund the
amount he had paid to settle it in September 2017.
Our investigator didnt feel Barclaycard had completed full and proportionate checks before
giving Mr K these credit limit increases. And said that if it had, they thought the limits would
have been deemed inappropriate for Mr K.
To put things right the investigator asked Barclaycard to remove all adverse history from Mr 
Ks credit file and increase its offer of compensation to £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. But thought it was fair Mr K had paid to settle the account as hed 
had the benefit of spending the credit.
Mr K said he was disappointed with the level of compensation suggested. But that he would
accept the findings. However, Barclaycard didnt agree with the investigators view. So the 
case was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision about this complaint on 16 June 2021. 
My provisional decision 
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The letter Barclaycard sent to Mr K in August 2020 recognised that his credit limit was
increased at a time when its lending decisions could have been more robust. However this
doesnt automatically mean that it would have, or ought to have, considered that the credit
limit increases it gave to Mr K were unaffordable for him.
What I must consider is whether, in line with its responsibilities, Barclaycard carried out
reasonable and proportionate checks as to creditworthiness and affordability before it gave
Mr K these increases. If I find that it didnt, then I have to decide whether, if it had, it likely
would or ought to have concluded that the credit limit increases were unaffordable for him.
Barclaycard has given us details of the automated process by which it assessed these
increases for Mr K. It largely used external source data from credit reference agencies, as
well as information it knew about Mr Ks account.
Barclaycard says it will only lend where it considers a customers expenditure to be
sufficiently less than their income. Mr K didnt have any regular large' expenditures, debts or
other sources of credit that I can see from the information hes provided to us. And on
Barclaycards assessments he scored well and met its lending criteria.
The first credit limit increase from £5,000 to £6,500 in November 2015 was relatively small
compared to the later increases and came after Mr K had been managing his account well at
the £5,000 limit for over 3 years. I can see our investigator noted Mr K had made a large
transfer from his account to his bank in August 2015. But I can see hed made a similar
transaction in October 2014. And following that hed cleared the outstanding balance on his
account in full with a large payment in July 2015. So I dont think it would be fair for me to
say Barclaycard should have considered this to be of concern at that time.
In this context I think the checks Barclaycard carried out were reasonable and proportionate
to the size of the first increase. And I dont think it ought reasonably to have suspected the
increase wasnt affordable for Mr K. I can also see that Mr K continued to meet the payments
required on his account in the immediate months after this increase was given.
However, Barclaycard further increased Mr Ks limit by £5,000 to £11,500 in January 2016.
This meant Mr Ks credit limit had more than doubled in a 3-month period.
6 months later Barclaycard increased his limit by another £5,000 to £16,500. The result
being that Mr Ks credit limit had more than tripled within an 8-month period.Given the size and proximity of the second and third credit limit increases I think it would
have been reasonable and proportionate for Barclaycard to have taken extra steps in its
creditworthiness assessments. Rather than relying largely on external data, I think it would
have been reasonable for it to have made enquiries as to the level of Mr Ks income, and not
just considered projected income to expenditure ratios.
Mr K banked with Barclays for much of the period concerned here, and his bank statements
support what hes told us, which is that at the time of these credit limit increases he was
unemployed and in receipt of benefits. His bank statements dont show any other clear
sources of regular income.
Had Barclaycard made enquiries into Mr Ks income, I think it would have, or ought to have,
concluded that his income wasnt enough to sustainably meet his regular spending habits
and make the payments due on these higher amounts of credit.
After these increases were awarded Mr K made the minimum repayments due on this
account until August 2016. After this late payment charges and over limit fees began to
accrue. I only have access to Mr Ks bank statements up until January 2016 when hes told
us he changed current account provider. But his account balance at that time was less than
£100, having steadily decreased since Mr K had made a large balance transfer to the
account from his credit card in August 2015. And from what Mr Ks told us, his
circumstances didnt significantly change in the following 18 months.
Mr K has told us that he borrowed the money used to settle this account from friends as he
felt he had no other options. And that he is still paying them back. Hes also told us how this
debt has negatively impacted on his living arrangements and social life.
Normally, where I find a business has made a mistake or treated a consumer unfairly, I
would tell the business to put the consumer back in the position they would have been in had
the mistake not happened. But in this case, thats difficult to do as Mr K has had the benefit
of spending the funds Barclaycard provided.
I can see Barclaycard has already offered Mr K £75 compensation its letter dated August
2020. And when it agreed the settlement figure for his account in September 2017 it
effectively wrote off 50% of the outstanding balance on the account at the time which
amounted to over £9,000.
Like our investigator Ive concluded that the amount written off here totalled more than any
interest and charges Mr K would have paid as a result of the last two credit limit increases he
was given. And its any extra costs incurred, on top of the credit he spent, that Id be looking
for Barclaycard to refund to him here. So whilst Im sorry to hear of the difficulties Mr K has
been experiencing, and the impact this has had on him, I think the offer Barclaycard has
already agreed was more generous than any monetary award I would have directed it to
make in these circumstances.
Im also satisfied Barclaycard took steps to ensure it was treating Mr K fairly in light of his
financial difficulties when it accepted this offer. I can see from its notes that it clarified where
he was getting the money to make the settlement from, and that he was not going to be
under pressure to repay it at a faster rate than he could afford.
I do however intend to direct Barclaycard to remove the default and any other adverse
information recorded about this account on Mr Ks credit file after 26 January 2016. I am
instructing it to act from this date, as this is the date at which the first increase Ive found to
be irresponsible was given.Responses to my provisional decision
Mr K responded to my provisional decision to say that he felt £75 was a very low amount of 
compensation, but he accepted my decision. 
Barclaycard responded to say that as it previously agreed a full and final settlement with 
Mr K it had recorded with Credit Reference Agencies that the account was partially settled. 
And it is concerned my direction that it remove adverse information about the account from 
Mr Ks credit file would mean this is no longer accurately reported.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank both parties for responding to my provisional decision. Ive thought about what 
theyve said. But Ive reached the same conclusions for the same reasons I set out in my 
provisional decision.
I dont underestimate the financial difficulties Mr K has experienced, and Im pleased he was 
willing to accept my decision. I appreciate he is disappointed I havent asked Barclaycard to 
pay him more compensation. But I still think that its settlement agreement with Mr K which 
saw it effectively write-off over £9,000 from his account balance amounts to more than any 
monetary award I would look to make in circumstances like this. So I wont be asking it to 
increase the level of compensation from the £75 its already offered.
I note Barclaycards concerns about amending Mr Ks credit file. But given the circumstances 
of this case, Im satisfied my direction is fair. Barclaycard increased Mr Ks credit limit by a 
considerable amount in a very short period of time. And as Ive explained in my provisional 
decision, I think that if it had carried out sufficient checks it would have found these 
increases were in fact unaffordable for Mr K and not have given them to him. Ultimately it 
was these increases which left Mr K in a situation where he was not able to settle his 
account balance in full. So I dont accept Barclaycards point about this. And I think it is fair 
that his credit file is amended to reflect the situation he would have been in had the 
increases not been given. 
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr K Barclays Bank UK PLC should:
Remove the default and any adverse information recorded about this account on Mr 
Ks credit file after 26 January 2016
Pay him the £75 compensation it previously offered him (if it has not already done 
so).
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to put things right as Ive set out 
above.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 
Jenette Lynch
Ombudsman