DRN-3801393
The complaint
Mr B complains that Sainsbury's Bank Plc unfairly refused to stop an unauthorised payment 
or recover it through the chargeback process.
What happened
Mr B tells us that he wanted to book a two-night stay at a hotel, who Ill refer to as R. Hed 
stayed at this hotel before, so he searched for them online and made his reservation through 
what purported itself to be Rs booking page. He was quoted £378, which he was happy 
with, so he submitted his credit card details and authorised the payment. 
Shortly afterwards, Mr B received email confirmation of his booking which showed the total 
amount charged was £573.91. He immediately contacted the hotel to find out why hed been 
overcharged. And he was told hed booked through a third-party website, rather than with the 
hotel directly. 
As the transaction hadnt gone through yet, Mr B contacted Sainsburys Bank and asked it to 
put a stop on the payment. He explained that he hadnt authorised this higher amount and 
he thought the website hed used was a scam. 
Sainsburys Bank said it couldnt stop the transaction but instead it must allow the payment 
to credit the account before either marking it as fraudulent or raising a dispute. It said this 
was the banks policy. 
Mr B wasnt happy with this response and contacted Sainsburys Bank several times to get it 
to intervene. But the payment left Mr Bs account.
The matter was passed to the dispute team who concluded that this was a valid transaction. 
It said Mr B had willingly booked and paid for the hotel. And the hotel had confirmed theyd 
received the booking and Mr B was able to complete his two-night stay there. As such, it 
didnt think there were grounds to dispute the transaction.
Mr B raised a complaint, which he brought to our service. But our investigator didnt uphold it 
as she was satisfied Sainsburys Bank had done all it could in the circumstances. As Mr B 
didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me to decide. And in October 2022, I issued the 
following provisional decision.
My provisional decision
Cancelling the payment
As a UK payment service provider, Sainsburys Bank must follow the statutory rules set out 
in the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (the regulations). 
Amongst other things, the regulations set out the obligations of a payment service provider 
when executing a payment order. A payment order is defined in section 2 of the regulations 
as any instruction given by the payer (in this case Mr B) to their respective payment service 
provider (Sainsburys Bank), requesting the execution of a payment transaction.
According to the regulations, the payment is to be regarded as having been authorised by 
the payer if he has given his consent to the execution of the transaction. 
The regulations state that the payer may withdraw his consent to a payment transaction at 
any time before the point at which the payment order can no longer be revoked. In other 
words, Mr B could cancel the payment up until a certain point. Under regulation 83 
(Revocation of a payment order), a payment service user may not revoke a payment order 
after it has been received by the payers payment service provider.
By Mr Bs own admission, he accepts that he authorised the payment (although I appreciate 
there is a dispute over the amount) and that hed received confirmation of the payment 
shortly afterwards.
So Mr B made the request for the execution of the payment when he submitted the order 
online  and Sainsburys Bank received this request as the payers payment service 
provider. Therefore, Im satisfied that Sainsburys Bank could not reasonably or lawfully be 
expected to have revoked the payment.
This is set out in the terms and conditions of Mr Bs account, which says under 12.3 of the 
general conditions that authorisation for a transaction may not be withdrawn (or revoked) by 
you or an additional cardholder after the time it is received. Which is in line with the 
regulations. 
As such, Im satisfied Sainsburys Bank followed the correct procedure by allowing the 
payment to go through and then passing it to the dispute team afterwards for consideration.
Raising a chargeback
The chargeback process enables the card issuer  in this case, Sainsburys Bank  to settle 
disputes between a customer and a merchant, provided that the circumstances of the 
dispute fall within the scheme rules.
The rules are set by the card scheme operator, whose symbol is on the card. And its for 
Sainsburys Bank to review the evidence and decide whether the claim falls within them. If it 
doesnt, or if Sainsburys Bank thinks the claim is unlikely to succeed, then it may decide not 
to raise it. Theres no automatic right to a chargeback, nor is it a guaranteed method of 
getting a refund.
Sainsburys bank has considered whether theres a claim which would fall within the 
chargeback rules and that would be likely to succeed. And it decided there wasnt. Ive 
thought about whether this decision is fair, based on the evidence Ive seen. And I think it is. 
Ill explain why. 
There is a chargeback code for goods or services not received. I dont think this code is 
applicable here, because Mr B did receive the services he paid for  i.e. the stay at the hotel.
Another chargeback code for this claim could be goods or service were either not as 
described or defective where it would need to be established that the merchant did not 
honor the terms and conditions of the contract with the cardholder. The rules define this as 
including, but not limited to, 100 percent money back guarantee, written promises, or return 
policy. But again, the merchant did honour the contract  as Mr B was able to complete his 
stay.There arent any other applicable chargeback codes, and the claim does have to fall within 
one in order to be raised. Ultimately, Mr B paid for a service which he received when he 
stayed at the hotel. I appreciate he feels misled about the price, but I cant see that hes 
provided any evidence to show that he has grounds for a successful chargeback. So Im 
satisfied Sainsburys Bank acted fairly when deciding not to raise one.
Treating as fraudulent
Im aware Mr B believes hes been the victim of a scam and that he was redirected to a third-
party website which portrayed itself as being the hotel. He was misled into making the 
payment, believing it to be £378, but was charged a higher amount with no prior notice.
But after reviewing the evidence, Sainsburys Bank wasnt persuaded this was the case. It 
said its most likely Mr B didnt realise he was booking through a third-party. It was satisfied 
the fees shown on the email confirmation for tax and service charges were clearly set out on 
the third-party website and that Mr B wouldve had to have confirmed his agreement to these 
fees and the terms of booking before proceeding with the transaction. As such, it didnt think 
the transaction was fraudulent. 
Ive reviewed the evidence myself to decide whether this was a fair decision for Sainsburys 
Bank to reach. 
Im aware that Mr B used an internet search engine to look up the hotel, so Ive done the 
same. Ive found that several third parties who offer hotel booking services come up in the 
search results and that the hotel itself isnt the first in that list. Mr B hasnt been able to 
provide any evidence to show what link he clicked on and whether in fact it was the hotels 
official website.
However, Ive found that when going onto the hotels official website and clicking on book 
now, it redirects you to a third-party booking service. It isnt the same third-party that Mr B 
used although it is part of the same company, and it appears this particular third-party 
includes its fees within the quoted price rather than separately. But Im mindful that it doesnt 
appear that the hotel offers an online booking service directly, and that Mr B wouldve always 
had to have used a third-party had he chosen to make his reservation online. And the cost of 
doing so wouldve almost always included tax and charges. 
I appreciate Mr B feels that hes been scammed. But my understanding is that the third-party 
did make the booking with the hotel. And as Mr B was able to complete his stay there at no 
additional cost, its fair to assume that the third-party passed on the money he paid for these 
services. So I can understand why Sainsburys Bank werent persuaded that this was a 
scam, as normally a scammer would keep the funds without delivering the goods or services 
advertised.
Section 75
As Mr B paid for the hotel using his credit card, he also has potential recourse under section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). I cant see that Sainsburys Bank has 
considered this claim under section 75, therefore Ive looked at what shouldve happened if 
they had done so.
Section 75 of the CCA allows consumers who have paid for goods or services on a credit 
card to claim against their credit provider for any breach of contract or misrepresentation on 
the part of the supplier of the goods or services.Ive considered whether Mr Bs claim meets the technical requirements of section 75, and 
Im satisfied it does. I say this because the amount in dispute is over £100 but less than 
£30,000, and there is an established debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) relationship between 
Mr B, Halifax and the third-party  although not with R.
Mr B alleges that the third-party didnt make the fees and charges clear prior to booking. So 
this could be a breach of contract for failing to carry out reasonable care and skill when 
displaying important information; or it could be a misrepresentation for making a false 
statement about what price is being charged. So Ive thought about whether there is enough 
evidence to satisfy a claim under section 75. 
Ive been on Rs official website and clicked through the booking process. Ive also been on 
the third-partys website and clicked through the booking pages for R. Having done so, I can 
see that the fees and charges are shown as being included in the price right up until the end. 
I havent made a booking, so I cant say for the certain that the price doesnt change after 
payment is made, but Mr B hasnt provided any evidence to show that it does. 
From the information I have available, the third-party website shows the price of the hotel 
stay inclusive of fees and charges. So its not clear why Mr B thought he was making a 
payment for a lower price. Im not satisfied, on the evidence available, that theres been a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation here. So Im not inclined to direct Sainsburys Bank 
to pay a claim under section 75. But Ill consider any further evidence Im supplied by the 
deadline set out above.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr B doesnt accept my provisional decision. Hes reiterated the following points:
the charges werent shown prior to payment.
he believes hes been the victim of an online scam.
Sainsburys Bank shouldve stopped the payment before it left his account. 
Hes questioned whether its reasonable to expect him to have proof of the change in price 
such as a screenshot of the webpage before payment.
Sainsburys Bank didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst Ive thought about Mr Bs response, Im satisfied Ive already addressed his points in 
full within my provisional decision and I dont intend to repeat what Ive already explained. 
I understand hes disappointed with my decision, but I can only make a finding on the 
evidence I have available. So whilst I accept that he may not have felt the need to take a 
screenshot of his transaction, I havent been able to recreate what happened online to 
satisfy myself of his version events. 
As neither party had any further submissions for my consideration, I see no reason to 
deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional decision.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman