DRN-1767279
The complaint
Mr F complains about the way Assurant General Insurance Limited handled his mobile 
phone insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr F had mobile phone insurance with Assurant through his package bank account. In 
August 2019 he lost his mobile phone and he claimed on his insurance. Assurant accepted 
his claim and sent him a replacement which arrived the next day  a Saturday. 
But Assurant accidentally sent him the wrong make of mobile phone. Assurant apologised 
for the error and told Mr F it could deliver the correct device on Tuesday, but no sooner due 
to the bank holiday. Assurant suggested Mr F use the other phone in the meantime. Mr F 
said this wasnt an option because he needed his phone for work over the weekend. And the 
alternative make of phone wasnt compatible with the system application he needed to use. 
Mr F then asked for the matter to be escalated to the complaints team.
The following day Mr F spoke to the complaints team. The complaints team told Mr F it 
would take 1-5 days for it to investigate his concerns. And that the only thing it could do was 
deliver Mr F a phone at the first available opportunity - which was Tuesday. Mr F pointed out 
that this didnt solve his problem and suggested it authorise a cash settlement or payment so 
he could buy a suitable replacement. The complaint handler said this would need to be 
authorised by a manager who wouldnt be available until Monday. It was agreed theyd call 
Mr F back then.
The next time Mr F spoke with Assurant was on Tuesday when he called because a 
replacement phone hadnt arrived. Assurant told Mr F this hadnt been ordered because Mr 
F hadnt agreed to this solution yet. At this point Assurant offered Mr F the choice of a 
replacement device or cash settlement and Mr F agreed to the replacement. 
Mr F contacted Assurant the next day as he was expecting the phone to arrive. But Assurant 
told him it wouldnt arrive until Thursday because the next day deadline had been missed  
due to the time of his call the previous day. At this stage Assurant also agreed to pay Mr F 
£12.99 for a phone charger. Mr Fs replacement phone was delivered the next day. 
In response to his complaint, Assurant offered Mr F £30 compensation for the delay and 
inconvenience caused by the incorrect phone being sent. But it didnt accept that it had 
acted unreasonably in resolving this mistake, it highlighted that Mr F had refused the offer of 
an earlier swap.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. They felt Mr Fs particular circumstances made the 
error particularly inconvenient (due to his work) and they felt Assurant couldve resolved the 
problem sooner than it did. They asked Assurant to pay Mr F £100 for distress and 
inconvenience caused.But Assurant disagreed. It said the insurance policy terms and conditions stated it would not 
cover any losses similar to profit or work opportunities. Assurant also said it didnt offer Mr F 
a manager call-back on the Sunday. So, the matters been passed to me to decide. 
After reviewing the evidence, I felt it was likely Id reach a different decision than 
the investigator. So, I shared my provisional findings with Assurant and Mr F so both had 
the opportunity to make any comments or provide further evidence. My provisional 
findings were:
What I provisionally decided - and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Assurant made a mistake in sending Mr F the wrong phone. And its accepted 
this and apologised to Mr F. Mr F was not only unhappy with the error, but with how 
Assurant handled this afterwards. So, as well as considering the impact of this mistake on 
Mr F, I need to consider whether Assurant could have done anything to resolve it sooner.
Mr F didnt receive his phone until the Thursday, so five days later than he would have done 
without the error. 
Assurant explained it couldnt deliver a replacement phone for three days because of the 
bank holiday. And this was using the next day delivery option. So, Im satisfied it offered to 
deliver a replacement at the earliest opportunity and that these further delays were outside 
of Assurants control.
But Mr F didnt think this solution was suitable - which is why he complained. One of the 
concerns Mr F raised, is that Assurant didnt authorise a cash settlement in this time to 
reimburse him for buying another phone. But I can see that Mr F later refused the cash 
settlement when offered as he didnt think the amount was sufficient. So, I dont intend to 
consider this any further here  as I dont think Mr F wouldve taken this option, even if it had 
been made available sooner.
However, Assurant didnt deliver the phone at the earliest opportunity. Assurant told us a 
replacement phone wasnt ordered over the weekend because Mr F didnt agree to this. And 
having listened to those phone calls, I agree that Mr F didnt accept the replacement option. 
So, I cant say Assurant was unreasonable in not placing this order. But what was agreed at 
the end of Mr Fs conversation with the complaints department on Sunday, was that a 
manager would ring him back. And this doesnt appear to have happened. 
Had a manager called Mr F, I think its likely a phone would have been ordered at this time. I 
say this because a phone was ordered following his conversation with Assurant the following 
day. So, I think Mr F would have received his phone by Wednesday, possibly earlier 
dependant on the time of the call and delivery cut offs. And for these reasons, I think 
Assurant could have resolved this error sooner. Given this, I do think that it was responsible 
for at least one of the two additional days Mr F was without a phone. I also think this was 
poor customer service.
So, Ive then considered the inconvenience caused to Mr F because of these mistakes. I 
appreciate Mr F wasnt without a phone during this time as Assurant told him he could use 
the one it mistakenly sent. 
Whilst Mr F wasnt sent a charger, he told our investigator he bought one on the Saturday. 
And Im aware Assurant has reimbursed him for this cost. So, Im satisfied Mr F had access to a working phone during this time and that he hasnt lost out financially. However, I 
recognise it would have been a further inconvenience having to buy a charger. 
But Mr F says the temporary phone wasnt suitable for him. Mr F told Assurant the make 
wasnt compatible with the system application he needed to use for work. So, he said this 
error was particularly inconvenient for him. I would always take into account a consumers 
individual circumstances when considering the trouble and upset caused. And despite what 
Assurant said, I dont think its relevant that Mr Fs policy doesnt cover loss for work. What 
Im considering here is the inconvenience caused to Mr F because of their mistake - not 
whether Assurant should pay out for this loss under the policy. That being said, I do think it 
would be particularly unusual for an employer to require staff to have a particular make of 
device for work purposes and not provide this to them. And so, I asked Mr F to provide 
further information or evidence to support his account. But he didnt provide any. And without 
evidence to show that his particular circumstances meant the working phone wasnt suitable, 
Im not going to consider making an award for this.
Mr F also raised concerns about the inconvenience of swapping over the phone Assurant 
accidentally sent him with the correct phone it later dispatched. And I do recognise it would 
have taken some time to do this, but it doesnt take very long to factory re-set a phone. So, I 
think any inconvenience suffered would have been minimal.
Ive noted Assurant already compensated Mr F £30 for its error. And overall, I think the 
inconvenience caused by the delays was minimal, as Mr F had a working phone throughout 
this time. So, I think £30 is fair compensation in the circumstances. And for all of these 
reasons, I wont be asking Assurant to do anything further here.
What I've decided  and why
Neither Assurant nor Mr F had anything to add. 
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And Im not minded to change my 
findings.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my decision is that I wont be asking Assurant General 
Insurance Limited to do anything further here. Im aware that Assurant General Insurance 
Limited has made an offer to pay £30. I conclude that such an offer is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances. My decision is that Assurant General Insurance Limited should pay Mr 
F £30 if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 17July 2020.
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman