DRN-2103198
The complaint
Ms A complains that Santander UK Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in 2003. The policy was taken out in 
one of the banks branches and provided Ms A with cover for accident and sickness.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Ms A didnt agree 
saying, in summary, that:
She remembers the member of staff didnt read from a script and was in a hurry to finish 
the meeting as soon as possible.
She was told she had to take the policy with the mortgage. At no time was she told it was 
optional.
If shed known the policy was optional, she wouldnt have taken it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms As complaint.
The PPI was sold around 17 years ago so, inevitably, some of the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive, or contradictory. In cases like this, I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms As complaint for the following reasons:
Ms A says the PPI was presented as part of the mortgage application and that she was told 
she had to take it and shes provided her recollections of what happened at the meeting. Ive 
taken this into account, but Ive also considered the paperwork that would have been 
completed at the time. Ms A would have had to complete and sign a separate application 
form for the PPI and a separate direct debit mandate. So I think it would have been 
reasonably clear, from the need to complete a separate application, that it was a different 
product and separate from the mortgage. And there must have been some discussion about 
the PPI because Ms A chose accident and sickness cover only and declined to be covered 
for unemployment.
Overall, despite what she says now, I think it more likely than not that Santander made Ms A 
aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take it.
Santander recommended the PPI and it doesnt look like it was unsuitable based on what 
Ive seen of Ms As circumstances at the time. I say this because:
Ms A was eligible for the policy given her circumstances and the terms and conditions.
Ms A told us she would have received up to three months pay from her employer if she 
couldnt work due to sickness or an accident and that she had some savings. But the PPI 
would have paid out in addition to Ms As work benefits and for up to 12 months. The 
mortgage was a significant long-term financial commitment and Ms As home was at risk 
if she didnt keep up with the repayments. Given her family situation at the time, I think 
this would have been of importance to her. So, overall, I dont think her existing 
arrangements made the PPI unsuitable.
Ms A wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits such as 
those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As 
she could have benefitted from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely she needed 
better advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
Its not clear whether cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Ms A before she 
agreed to purchase it. I think its possible she wasnt told how much it would cost each 
month until after the mortgage had started. For this reason, I have considered whether 
clearer information about the cost would have affected Ms As decision to purchase the 
policy. I've found that shed chosen to take out the policy and would have known she 
would have to pay something for it. The policy was competitively priced and, although 
I note Ms As comments about this being an extra cost, apparently affordable. So I think 
it unlikely she would have made a different decision if better information about the cost 
had been provided.
Its possible the information the bank gave Ms A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Santanders recommendation 
was unsuitable and I dont think Ms A would have made a different decision about taking out 
the policy if better information had been provided to her. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman