DRN-3411904
The complaint
Mr Q complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC hasnt closed his account as he requested.
What happened
Mr Q has a current account with Barclays. He was also a member of Barclays Blue 
Rewards scheme  where eligible customers can earn cash rewards with Barclays if they 
meet the criteria of the scheme. These rewards are paid straight into a Rewards Wallet. 
Mr Q says he went into a branch in June 2021 because he wanted Barclays to close his 
account. In his complaint to this service, he says Barclays then gave him information that 
made him agree to keep his account open  specifically that if he was no longer receiving 
the Blue Rewards benefits, then he would no longer be charged a fee. 
Mr Q said he asked for written confirmation of what hed been told in branch by 9 July 2021 
and would be happy to keep his account open on this basis. However, he says he specified 
that if Barclays wasnt able to provide such confirmation by 9 July 2021, then it should close 
his account and give him the money in it.
Following this, Mr Q says he received no such written confirmation from Barclays by the 
deadline hed set. So, he says he went into branch again and asked Barclays to close his 
account and give him the money in it. Mr Q says Barclays didnt action his requests, despite 
asking on several occasions both verbally and in writing. So, he raised a complaint. 
Barclays said it hadnt received Mr Qs complaint. However, following this services 
involvement, it reviewed matters and issued a final response letter. Barclays said it hadnt 
been able to speak to Mr Q about the matter, so couldnt fully investigate his complaint. 
However, from the review it had carried out, it couldnt see any requests from Mr Q to close 
an account.
Mr Q brought his concerns to this service. One of our investigators reviewed matters and 
didnt recommend that Mr Qs complaint be upheld. In summary, and amongst other points, 
she didnt think it was clear whether Mr Q wanted to close his current account or his 
Blue Rewards account. She also explained that it was difficult to say for certain what had 
happened, given that both parties had conflicting versions of events. But she couldnt see 
why Barclays wouldnt have responded to Mr Qs requests, had it received his letters.
Barclays didnt dispute our investigators findings, but Mr Q did and, in summary, repeated 
some of his earlier points. He also said it was his account that he asked to be closed, as 
opposed to the Blue Rewards account. But even if Barclays was confused, the fact that it 
didnt close either account means it chose to not follow his request. As an agreement 
couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me to review afresh and decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Q has brought other complaints to this service. However, this decision will only address 
his complaint related to the closure of his account and the issues that I consider to be 
materially relevant to the crux of that complaint. However, Ive given careful consideration to 
all of the submissions made to date, in relation to this complaint. And, where theres a 
dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the evidence.
As I understand it, Mr Q wanted more time to make further submissions. Its unclear to me 
whether this was in relation to this complaint, or other complaints with this service. However, 
I dont think this is necessary in relation to this complaint. I say this because I think Mr Q was 
given enough time to make submissions before this complaint was passed to me to decide. 
And, I have enough information to reach my decision. Ill now set out my reasoning. 
Mr Q says he asked Barclays to close his account and give him his money multiple times 
over June and July 2021, both verbally and by handing letters to branch staff. As I 
understand it, Mr Q has said when referencing his account, he isnt referring to the Blue 
Rewards account, or wallet. So, on balance, Im persuaded that Mr Q is likely referring to 
his current account. However, for completeness, Ill focus my decision on whether I think 
Barclays received a request to close any of Mr Qs accounts with it. 
Barclays says it did receive correspondence from Mr Q in June 2021, which was left on a 
table in a branch. Barclays has said it doesnt keep letters in its branches for more than a 
month, so isnt able to provide copies. However, Barclays notes suggest that the content of 
the correspondence included a number of other points, none of which appear to be related to 
a request to close an account.  
Ive also seen a copy of Barclays response to the correspondence Mr Q left. In summary, 
this addresses a number of points. But, similarly, none of these appear to address a request 
to close an account. Ive noted that there is mention of an update Mr Q was sent the 
previous month, related to the Blue Rewards. However, Barclays explained that this was just 
a generic terms and conditions update that is sent to all qualifying customers. And, his 
Blue Rewards account would remain open until the qualifying criteria was no longer met.
Ive thought very carefully about the contents of Barclays response here. And, having done 
so, Im more persuaded this suggests Barclays is responding to a concern from Mr Q that his 
Blue Rewards would close, as opposed to a request for it to close. So, on balance, Im not 
persuaded that Barclays interpreted the contents of Mr Qs correspondence here as a 
request to close an account. And in any case, as I understand it, Mr Q has been clear that it 
wasnt the Blue Rewards account he wanted to be closed.
Ive also considered that whilst Barclays isnt able to produce a copy of the correspondence 
it said Mr Q left in the branch in June 2021, it has provided contact notes which shows it 
logged receipt of it, and the contents, on its systems. So, given that Barclays logged receipt 
of the correspondence it said it did receive, I think its likely that any other correspondence 
received by Barclays over the period would have also been recorded on its system.
In support of its position, Barclays has also provided a statement from the staff at the branch 
Mr Q attended. In summary, the statement outlines that the branch has no record of Mr Q 
asking to close an account and says this wouldve been something they couldve helped 
Mr Q with at the time. And Ive considered that one of the members of staff Mr Q did speak 
with has since left. However, the statement says that the other members of the branch were 
asked, none of whom remember a request to close an account. So, on balance, Im more 
persuaded that it didnt receive Mr Qs request. I say this especially as the branch staff say they would have tried to help Mr Q with his request in branch, had they been aware of it  
and Ive no reason to think that they wouldnt.
I noted that Mr Q has provided what appear to be copies of the letters he says he handed 
into members of the branch staff in June and July 2021. Ive considered these very carefully. 
However, having reviewed these letters, Im not persuaded these demonstrate that Barclays 
received Mr Qs request to close his account. I say this because the letters appear to be 
copies and not the original letters that Mr Q says he handed in at the branch. So, Im afraid 
these dont persuade me that Barclays received the original letters Mr Q said he provided. 
So, whilst I dont dispute what Mr Q has told us here, on balance, and taking all the available 
evidence into consideration, I think its more likely than not that Barclays didnt receive 
Mr Qs requests to close any of his accounts. I know Mr Q will be disappointed with this 
outcome and I appreciate his strength of feeling on the matter. But, overall, given that Im not 
persuaded that Barclays received his requests to close his accounts, I cant say its treated 
Mr Q unfairly here. 
Since the complaint has been with this service, matters have progressed and Mr Qs 
Blue Rewards account has now been closed, given that Barclays said Mr Q no longer meets 
the eligibility criteria for it. Barclays has since said that should Mr Q wish to close his current 
account, he can do so by either visiting the branch with identification or by phone. I think 
what it has suggested here is reasonable in the circumstances. It follows that I wont be 
asking Barclays to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman