DRN-3411434
The complaint
Ms M complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited didnt give her a warning that her life 
assurance policy would lapse without value if she stopped paying premiums.
What happened
Ms M took out a life assurance policy in 2000. The policy transferred to Aviva. In 2013, Ms M 
stopped paying the premiums into her policy. She continued to receive policy statements. In 
2020, her policy lapsed without value.
Ms M says that she called Aviva each year and was told her policy was still on track and 
that she didnt need to pay anything towards it. She said she understood that to mean that it 
would still support the £100,000 sum assured. She said she was relying on this policy being 
in place for her dependents. In 2020, Ms M was sent a letter to say her policy had lapsed 
without value and she complained.
Our Investigator didnt think Aviva had done anything wrong. She explained that the terms of 
the policy said that it would lapse as soon as it no longer had a value if premiums were 
stopped, and she said the statements Aviva sent showed clearly that the value was 
continually decreasing. As Ms M hadnt paid any premiums since 2013, the policy had 
lapsed in line with the terms. The Investigator also explained the evidence showed it was 
likely Ms M was sent a letter explaining the policy had become paid up. And she said the 
contact records didnt show the calls that Ms M referred to.
Ms M disagreed. She said that she felt shed been misled in the phone calls with Aviva. She 
asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. I know Ms M will be disappointed with this outcome but Id like to explain why I 
dont think Aviva has done anything wrong.
The policy Ms M took was a reviewable whole of life policy. It was set up to provide 
£100,000 of cover for a monthly premium. The schedule Ms M was sent at the time said that 
the contribution was £15 per month until the Plan Benefits become payable  so I dont 
think she was led to believe this was a policy that would continue for life without paying the 
premiums. Ive looked at the information Ms M wouldve been provided about the policy. I 
can see that theres a section titled Non-payment of contributions and it says:
If the cash value reduces to nil during this period, the policy will terminate immediately 
without payment.
So, I think Ms M was made aware that if she stopped paying her premiums, her policy could 
end. And I can see this is what happened.
Ms M says she was told during phone calls that her policy was on track. Im not sure what 
was discussed in the calls she had with Aviva, so we asked it for its contact notes. Aside 
from the call in 2020, the last call it had logged from Ms Ms husband about the policy was 
from 2015. Due to the length of time that has passed, Aviva doesnt have the contents of that 
call and I dont think this is unreasonable. And Ive not seen evidence of any subsequent 
calls to enable me to say its likely Ms M was told she shouldnt pay into her policy. So, I 
cant reasonably conclude from the evidence that Ms M was misled by Aviva during phone 
calls.
Whilst I understand that it must be upsetting to Ms M that she no longer has a policy in 
place, I do think she was given the right information about what would happen if she stopped 
paying premiums. I can see she was given annual statements which showed the value of the 
plan was reducing each year, and Im satisfied that the plan only lapsed when that value 
became zero. I can also see from Avivas archive notes that a letter was sent out to Ms M 
when the policy became paid up. So, I dont think Aviva has done anything wrong in this 
case. I think Ms M was given enough information to know the consequences of not paying 
her policy premiums.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman