DRN-3139862
The complaint
Miss M complains Nationwide Building Society (NBS) continually harassed her despite their 
previous grace period agreement with her. 
What happened
Miss M has a credit card account with NBS. 
Miss M says she initially contacted NBS at the end of January 2021, to inform them she was 
dealing with a debt advice charity, to help manage her financial affairs and she was given a 
grace period of 30 days pending the debt charity contacting NBS. Miss M says she was then 
charged a late payment fee on her credit card account and telephoned NBS in mid- February 
2021, to complain as her other creditors hadnt been charging her. Miss M says she then 
was repeatedly harassed by NBS with text messages and phone calls, one of the messages 
indicated they would telephone her later or write to her, but this never happened. 
Miss M says NBS called her on 3 March 2021 and a member of NBS staff was rude to her, 
so she disconnected the call. Miss M says over the next week she received a number of 
calls during one of which she refused to discuss her account details, as the caller refused to 
provide their name and the other telephone calls she ignored knowing they were coming 
from the same source, because she had the same security concerns. Miss M says this has 
caused her great anxiety during a period she was undergoing medical treatment and doesnt 
feel NBS, in their last response to her, have been honest when they suggest they have only 
contacted her on two occasions in March 2021. Miss M feels NBS should pay her substantial 
compensation for the unnecessary harassment she has suffered.
NBS says they were entitled to attempt to contact Miss M as the grace period had ended 
and they had heard nothing from her or the debt charity she was working with, but 
subsequently agreed a further grace period. Additionally, while the late payment fee charged 
in February was correct, NBS says as a gesture of goodwill they have refunded this, along 
with £50 by way of apology because their agent hadnt been precise enough with Miss M, 
when discussing the credit card account details with her. 
Miss M wasnt happy with NBSs responses and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. He 
felt that NBS were entitled to contact Miss M regarding her account with them, given the 
grace period had ended and they had heard nothing further from her or the debt charity 
dealing with her finances. The investigator says he saw no evidence to suggest NBS staff 
had been rude to Miss M while on the telephone with her. The investigator didnt feel the fact 
NBS had made a number of attempts to contact her, unsuccessfully on occasions, meant 
this constituted harassment, merely they were trying to establish what was happening since 
they had provided the grace period. 
Miss M didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I was sorry to learn Miss M has gone through a difficult time with both her health and 
financial situation and this must have been worrying for her. When looking at this complaint I 
will consider if NBS acted unreasonably when attempting to contact Miss M, post the grace 
period they had agreed with her. 
The first thing to say is Miss M has provided a comprehensive breakdown of the course of 
events and while that has proved helpful, I wont be commenting on every point she has 
made, as I dont feel its necessary in order to come to a full and impartial decision here. 
Thats not to say I havent considered everything she said  I have. 
Miss Ms complaint centres around the way she has been treated by NBS during a time 
when she was experiencing financial difficulties and health problems, in particular the 
unnecessary number of attempts to repeatedly telephone and text her between the 3 & 9 
March 2021. Miss M also makes the point in one of those texts she was told she would be 
telephoned later or written to and NBS failed to do this. Miss M accepts she didnt answer 
some of those calls, but this was because in an earlier telephone call, a member of NBS 
staff refused to identify themselves and was rude to her, so she was protecting herself for 
security reasons. Miss M has also mentioned she was charged a late payment fee, but this 
has since been refunded, so I wont be making direct reference to that matter as this was 
agreed as a gesture of goodwill rather than NBS making any error in charging it. I can see it 
was explained to Miss M, interest and charges would continue to apply during a grace period 
approved. 
I understand the points made here and its understandable, given the issues Miss M was 
facing at the time, she would have been experiencing a degree of stress and anxiety, and 
any interaction may have been difficult for her. That said, I have seen the telephone 
transcript of the telephone call Miss M refers to of 3 March 2021, in her complaint letter to 
this service dated 26 April 2021. Miss M suggests the caller from NBS was rude and refused 
to provide her name, but from the information I have seen, Miss M never asks the caller for 
her name. In this call Miss M says she is surprised she has heard from NBS as her financial 
affairs were being dealt with by a debt advice charity and she doesnt want to be pestered or 
harassed. Miss M complains the caller doesnt even understand her account history and 
suggests the caller should have checked this before calling her. After the operator explained 
she needed to go through security, before gaining access to the account background, she 
placed the telephone call on hold and then the call disconnects. While Miss M may not have 
welcomed the call, I cant see any evidence from the transcript, the caller was being rude, 
even if that is how Miss M felt it came across. Its fair to say on occasions, discussions like 
this can be  subject to interpretation, but that doesnt mean such interpretations should 
always warrant compensation and from what I have seen I dont think it does here. 
Its worth mentioning that on 30 January 2021 Miss M discussed her financial situation with 
NBS and they agreed a 30-day grace period, meaning they wouldnt make further contact 
with her during this time, after she had explained she was now dealing with a debt advice 
charity. In that telephone call the agent explains interest and charges would still be 
applicable and they would contact her again if they hadnt heard from Miss M before that 
time. So, while Miss M in the telephone call on 3 March 2021 says she was surprised to 
have heard from NBS, it was made clear to her as part of the grace period arrangements, if they hadnt heard from her or the debt advice charity by 2 March 2021, they would be in 
touch.
Here, neither the debt advice charity nor Miss M had made contact with NBS during the 
grace period agreed to discuss the way forward for repayment of her debt. Miss M has 
pointed out that may well have been because the charity was very busy, and although I can 
understand Miss M was expecting them to have contacted NBS, before these calls and 
attempted contacts were made, I cant hold NBS responsible for fact no one had updated 
them. 
With that in mind, while Miss M may not agree, I am satisfied NBS were entitled to know 
what arrangements were going to be made to repay the outstanding debt on her credit card 
account, and I cant say it was unreasonable of them to establish this by attempting to 
telephone/text her after the grace period had passed. Miss M says she received a text 
saying NBS would telephone her and if they couldnt get through, they would write to her, but 
they didnt - but I can see they telephoned her the next day, so its fair to say they have done 
what they said they would. 
While Miss M feels the number of contacts points made were excessive, this could have 
been prevented if Miss M had either asked the debt charity to contact NBS on her behalf, or 
telephoned them herself, before the grace period had come to an end. While I can 
understand that might have been stressful for her in the circumstances, its not reasonable to 
expect NBS to be left without knowing the way forward, on the outstanding debt. 
It follows on balance, I am satisfied NBS, when telephoning and texting Miss M, were 
attempting to seek a way forward for the repayment of the debt rather than, as Miss M feels, 
unreasonably harassing her for its repayment.  
I was pleased to see following a further grace period extension agreed by NBS, they have 
since been contacted by Miss Ms debt advice charity to discuss a way forward.
While Miss M will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of NBS. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman