DRN-3423847
The complaint
Mrs I complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red Sands) declined
her claim and cancelled its cover, following an escape of water at her property, under her
building insurance policy.
Mrs I is represented by Mr G in this matter. But I will refer to Mrs I for ease of reading in my
decision
What happened
In August 2020 there was an escape of water from a supply pipe situated in Mrs Is loft. The
leak was noticed when builders carrying out work at the property arrived in the morning. The
water supply was isolated, but significant damage was caused throughout the house.
Mrs I made a claim to Red Sands. It sent loss assessors to inspect the damage and
investigate the claim. Red Sands wrote to Mrs I in March 2021 to tell her the claim had been
declined. It also says the policy was to be cancelled with effect from the date conversion
work was being undertaken.
Red Sands says there is a continuing duty on the policyholder to inform it of any changes to
the information supplied. It says Mrs I is expected to complete any changes online. Its
system then adjusts the policy in response to the change being made. It says Mrs I had
vacated the property and works were underway to convert it to a House in Multiple
Occupation (HMO).
Red Sands says the property was undergoing a two-month project to convert it into a HMO.
It points to a planning application that had been submitted to this effect. It says the scope of
the works was to carry out internal reconfiguration and the installation of a full fire alarm
system. It says this involved accessing and working on all areas of the property. Red Sands
says Mrs I advised she had vacated the property while the work was ongoing. It says empty
properties undergoing building work are a decline risk due to the extreme hazards
presented. It was for this reason the claim was declined.
Mrs I referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator decided to uphold her complaint.
She says the policy doesnt define unoccupied, but this would commonly be accepted to
mean longer than 30 days. She found no evidence Mrs I was away for longer than this.
The underwriting information shows, unoccupied with building work is an auto-decline for
cover. Our investigator highlights that the criteria doesnt say building work on its own is an
auto-decline for cover. She says the work being undertaken at the time of the escape of
water was the erection of a plasterboard wall and the installation of a fire alarm. She didnt
think Red Sands had shown this constituted a material change to Mrs Is circumstances that
would impact on risk.
To resolve the complaint, our investigator thought it fair for Red Sands to reinstate the policy,
remove the record of the policy cancellation, consider the claim in line with the remaining
terms and pay £150 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Red Sands disagreed. It says the cost of works at circa £18,000 was very expensive if this
was for the limited work claimed. It says the scope of works described was likely to take
around two months to complete. It says there was a delay in it receiving details of the
plumber who fixed the source of the leak. And when it did interview him, after several
months, he was unable to confirm why the leak had occurred.
Red Sands refers to problems with misinformation and conflicting information when trying to
establish the facts of Mrs Is claim. It says had she informed it of the intended works, as
required by its policy terms, it wouldnt have accepted the risk. Our investigator didnt change
her view and the business asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in March 2022 explaining that I was intending to not uphold 
Mrs Is complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its the responsibility of a policyholder to prove, at least on the face of it, that they have a
valid claim under one of the insured events (fire, theft, escape of water etc.) covered by
the policy terms and conditions. If they are able to do so, then the insurer must pay the claim
unless it can rely on one of the policy exclusions or conditions to show otherwise.
Damage caused by an escape of water is covered by Mrs Is policy. This isnt in dispute, so I
neednt consider this further. In order to decline the claim Red Sands has relied on the
following policy terms and conditions.
The terms of business section of the policy terms says:
It is essential that you answer all our questions honestly as this could affect the outcome of
a claim that you make or lead to cancellation of your policy. Any changes should be made by
you as soon as they happen at www.now4cover.com/mycover/login.
The My Details section says:
This document my details, along with my cover and our terms of business forms your
contract of insurance. To maintain your cover, check the details below are correct. If not
amend them now at www.now4cover.com/mycover/login. Changes to this information must
be updated as soon as they occur for your cover to remain in force. Information you supply
that is not correct could lead to this insurance being cancelled and a claim not being paid.
The My Details section of the policy documents sets out the information Mrs I gave when
taking out the policy. This says:
The house is detached, constructed in 1990, 2 storeys high with brick walls and a tile roof. It
is not listed and is not currently undergoing building work.
Also:
You live there with 3 other adults and 1 child under the age of 18, there are no permanent
lodgers, and other than those named policy holders there are no residents with criminalconvictions. The house is not let through letting or hosting sites. It is generally occupied
during the day and night. The property is likely to be empty for up to 30 consecutive days.
Based on this information, which was copied to Mrs I when agreeing the policy online, the
terms require her to update Red Sands whenever there is a change to the information she
had provided. Mrs I confirmed the property was not undergoing building work when she
agreed the policy In March 2020.
Building work commenced in August 2020 when Mrs I employed the services of a building
contractor. Red Sands says that this was part of the conversion work to a HMO. It has
provided information showing the planning application that was submitted for this purpose.
From the schedule of works provided by Mrs Is contractor in July 2020, the work involved:
the removal of brickwork and installation of a lintel; installation of a window; installation of a
new partition wall in the family room; new doors; a new suspended ceiling in the kitchen; a
new fire alarm system throughout the property; installation of electric locks and energy
saving switch as well as painting of the newly formed rooms. The work is costed at £18,000
including VAT.
Red Sands says that the reconfiguration work detailed by the contractor is significant and its
experts consider it likely that this would take two months to complete, not the three weeks
suggested.
Red Sands says the building work shouldve been reported as stated in its policy terms. It
says Mrs I can update her policy online by following the instructions provided in her policy
documentation. I understand its system then checks the changes against the businesses
underwriting conditions.
Red Sands has supplied details of its underwriting criteria. This says:
Unacceptable / auto decline criteria:
Use  unoccupied with building work.
Mrs I says she went to live with her son in August 2020 when the works were being carried
out. This happened a few days before the escape of water occurred. She says this was
because it was inconvenient to stay at the property whilst some of the work was undertaken,
but there was no intention to be out of the property for, any longer than was necessary and
certainly no longer than the 30 days which are allowed on the policy.
Red Sands says the damage caused by the leak was exacerbated because the property was
unoccupied, and the leak continued until the builders had returned the house. Meaning the
leak had potentially continued through the night.
I have thought about whether Red Sands behaved reasonably in concluding Mrs I shouldve
updated her policy - and because she didnt - declining her claim and cancelling her policy.
Building work is something that has an impact on the material risk faced by an insurer. When
Mrs I took out her insurance cover she told Red Sands there was no building work currently
ongoing. Whilst I have no doubt that this information was correct at the time, the policy terms
and conditions informed Mrs I she must update Red Sands as soon as changes occur or
cover may not be in force and a claim may not be paid.
Red Sands has shown that had Mrs I informed it of the building work its underwriting criteria
meant it will have declined to provide cover given that the property was also unoccupiedwhilst the building work was taking place.
I acknowledge the point raised that Mrs I didnt intend being out of the property for longer
than the 30-days mentioned in the policy terms. But it remains that the policy terms required
her to update Red Sands of the building work being carried out. The business confirms that
had she done so it wouldve requested that she seek cover elsewhere.
I acknowledge Mrs Is comments that it was internal renovation work that was being carried
out not building work. And that the HMO application was at an early stage and no decision
had yet been made on this. I cant see that the policy terms differentiate between internal
renovations and building work. But I think Red Sands view is persuasive that the scope of
works show significant building works were underway and Mrs I shouldve told it about this.
Finally, Mrs I queries why the policy renewed given Red Sands decision to cancel it. The
business says the claim was still under investigation at the time of renewal in March 2021.
This is why the renewal continued. It says it will cancel the policy and refund any premiums
back to the date Mrs I moved out of the property in August 2020. If it hasnt done so already
it should provide confirmation of the cancellation and refund of premiums. Mrs I can contact
Red Sands and raise a complaint separately if she is concerned about this.
Having considered all of this, although I sympathise with Mrs I that she has to pay for repairs
to her property, I dont think Red Sands behaved unfairly in declining her claim and
cancelling the policy for the reasons it gave. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore.
I said I was intending to not uphold this complaint.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Red Sands responded to say it had no further comments to add.
Mrs I didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any further submissions or provided further evidence for me to 
consider, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman