DRN-3550677
The complaint
Miss T complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC lent to her irresponsibly, when it offered her
up to £800 in July 2015, through a credit card agreement. Miss T wanted Barclays to pay
back all the money it charged for this lending, and to take any marks off her credit file.
What happened
Miss T told us that when she took out this card, she was struggling with debt as a result of 
payday loans. She said shed never been able to pay off more than the minimum monthly 
amount. She said when she took out the card, she was renting a home, and on a low 
income. Her outgoings were greater than her income, and Miss T thought if Barclays had 
looked at her bank account, it wouldve realised she was reliant on loans.
Miss T thought Barclays was irresponsible when it lent to her. She wanted it to refund all the
interest and fees shed been charged, and to remove the negative impact on her credit file.
Barclays said it carried out appropriate checks in July 2015, when Miss T applied for the
account. And it had never increased her credit limit, so the only lending decision it made was
in July 2015 when it agreed to lend her up to £800.
Barclays said the checks it did at the time didnt show up anything to make it think Miss T
couldnt afford to pay back the money it was offering to lend her. It sent us the information it
obtained at the time, and copies of Miss Ts bank statements for the months prior to her
credit application.
Although Miss T complained to us more than six years after this decision was taken, our
investigator said he thought we could look into this, and Barclays agreed.
Our investigator didnt think the business lent to Miss T irresponsibly  which meant he didnt
think this complaint should be upheld. He said that he had to look at whether Barclays knew
or ought to have realised that the lending was likely to have been something that Miss T
couldnt afford, when it made the decision to lend her money. And that means looking at the
checks that Barclays did at the time Miss T made the application.
Our investigator set out the basis of Mis Ts application, and he said he hadnt seen anything
to make him think Barclays ought to have been concerned that Miss T wouldnt be able to
pay this money back. He said that, although Miss T said shed had numerous payday loans
when she made the application, the credit check Barclays did at the time didnt show that.
Our investigator hadnt identified any signs that suggested the lending was likely to have
been unsustainable at the time of the application.
Miss T didnt agree. She said she wanted an ombudsman to consider her complaint. Miss T
then asked how to send additional information to us, but she hasnt sent us anything further
to consider.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Miss T told us that she was already in financial difficulties when she took out this card. 
But what I have to consider is whether Barclays ought to have realised this at the time. 
So I would start by looking at the information Barclays received, both from Miss T 
herself and from the credit reference agencies it asked at the time.
Miss Ts application information says that she was living at home. Her total expenditure 
was low, but that isnt necessarily a cause for concern when someone says they are 
living with parents.
Barclays had understood from Miss Ts application that she had an income of around 
£1,250 per month, and monthly commitments of around £350. So what Barclays was 
offering to lend Miss T was roughly the same amount as the disposable income it 
thought she had each month. And Barclays checks didnt show a high number of 
payday loans.
I know that Miss T had an account with Barclays. That means Barclays was aware of 
some additional information about Miss T, when it agreed to this lending. It knew how 
shed been operating her bank account.
Ive considered that additional information, and I dont think this ought to have raised
concerns for Barclays either. Ill explain why I think that.
In the months before she took out this card, Miss T was making regular repayments to a 
debt management company, of a little over £100 per month, and payments to a debt 
recovery company of £22.50. But it looks from the statements Ive seen as if these 
payments both stopped at the start of April, which is some time before Miss T applied for 
this card. So I dont think this ought to have been a cause for concern for Barclays.
Barclays said if Miss T was really renting a property herself, not living with her parents, 
then it didnt know that. I cant see monthly rent payments on Miss Ts account, so I 
think its reasonable for Barclays to have accepted what Miss T said about this.
Ive considered everything both sides have told me here, and I think Barclays did carry 
out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself Miss T would be able to repay 
the lending it was offering her, in a sustainable way. I dont think Barclays ought to have 
been concerned at this stage, so that it ought to have carried out additional investigation 
into Miss Ts financial position. And I think Barclays then made a fair lending decision.
I do understand that Miss T hasnt been able to repay this money, and Im sorry to hear 
about the difficulties shes had. But I just havent been able to see that Barclays ought to 
have realised this was likely to happen, when it made its lending to her.
Miss T also complained Barclays didnt help her when she contacted it to say she was 
experiencing financial difficulties. Barclays showed us notes it took at the time, which 
say it reduced the interest for Miss T on her existing balance. It also offered to put her 
on a payment plan, but it said Miss T refused that, because it would affect her credit file.
When a lender is told that someones in financial difficulties, our service does expect 
them to respond positively and sympathetically. But the lender doesnt have to make 
sure theres no impact on someones credit file from any help it offers. Here, Barclays 
gave Miss T two options, one which made some reduction to her repayments, and 
another which would presumably reduce those payments still further, but which would show up on her credit file. I dont think that Barclays was wrong to make these offers to 
Miss T, and I dont think it failed to provide support to her when she contacted it.
I know that Miss T will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Barclays hasnt replied. Miss T sent further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss T wanted me to consider some further information. 
She said that she entirely rejected that Barclays had given her options to help her deal with 
her debt. She said she understood wed only seen notes of the call, and wanted to know if 
there was any correspondence sent at the time which outlined this, or whether Barclays 
could produce the phone call to back up what it had said. 
The notes that Barclays has shown us date from March 2016. I would not expect Barclays to 
have retained a call recording for this length of time. And the notes themselves suggest this 
issue was resolved over the telephone, so unfortunately I think its unlikely that Barclays will 
be able to produce corroborative evidence in support of this call. 
When there are conflicting accounts, as here, I have to decide whats more likely to have 
happened. And Barclays does appear to have made notes of the call at the time. So I still 
think its likely that Miss T was offered two options at this time, including one which would 
have lower repayments, but would also mark her credit file and affect future applications for 
credit. 
Miss T said that her Barclays current account, which she had used as her main account for a 
while, showed all her outgoings and incomings. She said she had never been left with a 
decent amount at the end of the month which would suggest that the credit card balance 
would be affordable for her to repay.
Miss T repeated that in 2015 she was in debt and getting loans from other companies in 
order to get by. She said Id stated repayments on her debts stopped a short time before the 
credit card was approved. But she said that was wrong, and she had sent her current 
account statement from a different bank as proof. She listed the payments that were made 
out of this account, and said these showed she was not in a position to be approved for a 
credit card with Barclays at all, let alone with an initial credit limit of £800.
The statements Miss T sent dont cover all of the debt repayments she told us about, but I 
can see that the account with this other bank does show a number of the payments that 
shes listed. So I accept that she was still making a significant number of debt repayments 
when she was offered this credit card by Barclays. 
But what I have to think about here, is what Barclays was aware of, when it made its 
decision to lend Miss T this money. 
I set out in my provisional decision above, that the credit checks Barclays ran in July 2015 
didnt show a high number of payday loans. So I didnt think Barclays would have been 
aware of the extent of Miss Ts other lending, from the checks it did then.I had no reason to doubt what Miss T said about the extent of her short term lending, even 
though that didnt show up on Barclays checks. Short term and payday loans didnt always 
show up on credit files at this time, so its not surprising that Barclays wasnt alerted to this 
by the checks it did.
But if Barclays ought to have known about all this short term lending through some other 
means, then I might still say it shouldnt have lent to Miss T. 
Thats why I looked at the account she held with Barclays at the time. Because thats 
information that was available to Barclays when it made its decision to lend Miss T money. 
So I wanted to see if anything on that account ought to have alerted Barclays to the problem. 
But I couldnt see any evidence of all the ongoing lending that Miss T told us about, on that 
account. 
We now know why that is. This lending was being repaid from a different account, not held 
with Barclays. So Barclays simply wouldnt have known about this at the time. 
Having seen the repayments Miss T was making from her other current account, I can 
understand why she feels so strongly that this additional lending from Barclays wasnt 
affordable for her. But Barclays has shown us it simply didnt know about this at the time it 
made this decision. And I havent been able to see that it should have known about this. I 
cant hold Barclays responsible for the fact that Miss Ts short term lending didnt all show up 
on her credit file, or that she was repaying this money from a different current account. 
I know that Miss T will be disappointed, but I havent changed my mind. Im satisfied that 
Barclays didnt lend Miss T money that it knew, or ought to have known, she couldnt pay 
back. Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman