DRN-3982685
The complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) sold his credit card 
debt to a third-party firm without taking his personal circumstances into consideration. Mr P 
would like Barclaycard to write his debt off.
What happened
Mr P opened the credit card account in 2006. Barclaycard sent him a notice of default in 
June 2013, and Mr P responded to say he would only be paying £1 per month to his debt. In 
July 2017 Barclaycard sold Mr Ps credit card debt to a third-party firm and told him the 
balance was still payable. In June 2020 Barclaycard responded to Mr Ps request for a copy 
of his credit agreement to say that it couldnt provide a copy, but the debt was still payable. 
Mr P states that Barclaycard are members of Lending Standards Board and its code of 
practice states that instead of selling accounts when they were aware of his situation and his 
limited ability to make payments for many years, they should not have sold the account but 
should have written off the outstanding balance. 
Mr P complained to Barclaycard and said they have always been aware of his financial 
position and mental health. He said its treatment of him ever since and especially since 
February 2020 has made matters much worse, hence his further complaint.
Barclaycard responded to Mr P saying his debt was legally enforceable. Barclaycard said Mr 
P was bound by the terms and conditions of his credit agreement and these allow it to 
provide information to credit reference agencies and sell the debt to a third party. 
Subsequently the third-party business told Mr P his credit card debt had been written off so 
that nothing further was owed on the account. Mr P was pleased his circumstances had 
been recognised, but said he wanted compensation for Barclaycards actions and the stress 
it had caused. 
Mr P referred his complaint to our service, but our investigator didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. He said that the Standards for Lending Practice state that where a firm is aware a 
customer has an ongoing mental health or critical illness affecting their ability to repay their 
debt, the debt shouldnt be sold. But he said theres nothing in notes from 2010 onwards to 
indicate that Mr P had a vulnerability, or that Barclaycard ought reasonably to have been 
aware he was vulnerable. He said Barclaycard gave Mr P notice before selling on the debt.
Mr P wasnt satisfied with this response and requested his complaint be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. He said he had told Barclaycard on many occasions of his situation which it 
didnt record or has destroyed. And anything Barclaycard has said about its handling of the 
account is not factual and cant be relied upon.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has brought a complaint about a similar situation, but this has been considered 
separately as it involves a different business. The present complaint is relevant to his credit 
account ending 4**1. I have accepted that Mr P brought a new complaint about this account 
to Barclaycard in October 2020, and so it isnt time-barred. Barclaycard responded to Mr Ps 
further complaint in January 2021 and in so doing gave him referral rights to our service. 
Ive considered the timeline of events and communications in Barclaycards handling of Mr 
Ps credit card account to see if it acted within the terms and conditions of the account and 
treated him fairly. I have seen that the debt wasnt transferred to a third-party immediately it 
got into arrears, and I have seen that Barclaycard gave Mr P reasonable notice about the 
transfer of the debt by means of a notice of assignment. 
Mr P has referred to the Standards for Lending Practice, which he says Barclaycard 
breached. This code states that where a firm is aware that a customer has an ongoing 
mental health or critical illness that affects the customers ability to repay their debt(s) or that 
a customer is terminally ill, the debt(s) should not be sold.
Ive looked carefully at Barclaycards records to see what it knew about Mr Ps situation 
including its notes of emails and calls. I can see its requests to Mr P to make payment of the 
minimum specified sum to maintain the outstanding repayment arrangement, and that over 
time Mr P also raised other issues. However, I havent seen any note of a communication 
from Mr P to indicate that he has suffered the difficulties that he has described to us.  
From the records, I think the transfer of Mr Ps account from Barclaycard to a third-party firm 
was carried out in accordance with the relevant term of the credit card account and wasnt in 
breach of the Standards for Lending Practice. I sympathise with Mr P for the problems he 
has faced with his health and finances, but Im pleased his credit card debt has now been 
written off and that he will not face any recovery action. 
I havent seen anything to contradict the conclusion reached by the investigator that 
Barclaycard was unaware of Mr Ps issues at the time of the transfer of his account or that it 
treated him unfairly. Its inherently stressful to be in a debt situation, but as I havent found 
that Barclaycard acted wrongly, I dont think it would be fair for it to pay Mr P any 
compensation for the stress he has suffered. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman