DRN-2951945
The complaint
Mrs C complains about how National Savings and Investments (NS&I) dealt with her change 
of address.
What happened
Mrs C says she tried to update her address on NS&Is records for over 12 months but 
without success. She says she failed security questions and so her account access was 
suspended. Mrs C says she submitted a change of address form to NS&I in 2019 and has 
been caused stress and frustration as a result of what took place. She says she was asked 
about a transaction from 2015 and says NS&Is compensation offer of £50 doesnt go far 
enough and would like about £200.
NS&I says it doesnt have a record of receiving the change of address form in 2019. It says it 
decides on its security questions and process and says Mrs C omitted the signature date 
when she returned the change of address form to it in 2021. NS&I accepts it ought to have 
managed Mrs Cs time expectations and has apologised as well as paying £50 
compensation for that part of the complaint.
Mrs C brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought part of the delay was caused by Mrs C returning the signature form undated and 
thought there was no record of NS&I receiving a similar form in 2019. The investigator 
thought it up to NS&I to decide on its security process and thought the £50 compensation 
appropriate for that part of the complaint.
Mrs C doesnt accept that view and questions why NS&I didnt call her to apologise and 
maintains its customer service was poor.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall conclusion as the investigator and for the 
same reasons. I appreciate Mrs C will be disappointed by my decision.
I appreciate Mrs C says she sent NS&I a change of address form in 2019. But NS&I says it 
doesnt have a record of receiving it. In those circumstances I cant be sure what took place 
or fairly hold NS&I responsible for not updating the address in 2019.
I also appreciate Mrs C says it was unreasonable of NS&I to ask her security questions 
about transactions that took place in 2015. I make clear to Mrs C that we are not NS&Is 
regulator and so its not our role to direct it or comment on such matters. And that its up to 
NS&I to decide when exercising its commercial judgement what security questions it asks of 
its customers. I also think it likely that Mrs Cs account hadnt been used in some time and 
that it likely that was the reason why such a question was asked. So, I dont think NS&I 
acted unfairly by restricting account access where it had security concerns.
Im satisfied that Mrs C sent NS&I a change of address form in early 2021 but that form 
contained an undated signature. So, I dont think NS&I acted unfairly or made a mistake by 
rejecting that form and find it was entitled to do so. I dont think that issue added significantly 
to any delay.
There is no issue here that NS&I could have managed Mrs Cs timescale expectations more 
appropriately. I can see that NS&I has apologised for that and paid £50 compensation. I find 
that compensation amount fair and reasonable and that it fairly reflects that overall Mrs C 
didnt suffer any financial loss and that part of the delay here was caused by the omitted date 
of signature. I also think it up to NS&I to decide how it communicates with its customers 
about such matters and if it responds, as here, in writing to a complaint.
Overall, I cant fairly order NS&I to increase its compensation offer and I accept Mrs C will 
remain unhappy about this complaint. I find this brings an end to what we in trying to resolve 
this dispute informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman