DRN-3555464
The complaint
Mr B has complained that a contractor of Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited 
trading as LV caused damage when he made a claim for an escape of water under his home 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr B made a claim for an escape of water from the ceiling in his property which caused 
damage to his home. His insurer LV appointed an engineer to attend Mr Bs home and 
carried out a repair to stop the leak from a tank in the loft. 
Mr B said that after the repair was carried out, his shower didnt work and there was no hot 
water. He believed LVs engineer caused the damage. He wants LV to pay for a replacement 
pump. 
LV said it wasnt responsible for the issues with the pump. But for the inconvenience caused 
to Mr B it paid him compensation of £100. 
Mr B remained unhappy and so he asked us to look at things for him. 
Our Investigator thought Mr Bs complaint shouldnt be upheld. After reviewing the evidence 
provided by both Mr Bs plumber and LVs contractor, she didnt think it showed that LV was 
responsible for the shower not working after the leak was repaired. 
Mr B didnt agree. He provided further information from his preferred plumber and wants an 
ombudsman to decide. He says all he knows is since the repair was carried out the shower 
didnt work and this cant be a coincidence. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As part of the repair works, LVs engineer drained the tank to fix a leaking overflow pipe. The 
engineer said he drained the tank sufficient enough to replace the ball crane, and fix the 
overflow at the top of the tank. Mr B didnt hold Home Emergency Cover with LV  but the 
repairs were carried out as a courtesy to mitigate any ongoing damage. 
Mr Bs plumber said that the pump had debris built up, which clogged this and stopped it 
from working. The plumber believed this was as a result of the work carried out by LVs 
engineer. Mr Bs plumber said he cleaned and tested the pump. It wasnt working properly 
and was faulty. He reported that as the pump was drawing in air this had caused the hot 
water impeller to burn out. 
LVs engineer attended Mr Bs home and agreed that the pump needed replacement. But 
they didnt agree it was related to the repair works they carried out. They said their repairs 
didnt require the system to be drained, but for the water level to be lowered in order to carry 
out the repairs. So they say their works were not related to issues with the pump.
Mr B says that when the water level was lowered and the pump started to work, it drained 
the remaining water faster than it could be filled and this led to debris being pulled in. Mr B 
has paid for a replacement pump and other works totalling £930.00.
However, the first repairs carried out by Mr Bs plumber to replace the pump didnt fix the 
issue. He reported that the cold feed to the tank should have been installed on the opposite 
side to the outlets. The plumber didnt believe it was coincidental that after making these 
adjustments, the shower worked. He reported that the shower had worked before the tank 
had been replaced. But LVs engineer didnt replace the tank. Mr Bs plumber went to report:
The Pump stopped working due to air entering the cold water pipework. This was 
caused by the way the tank had been installed with the cold water fed to the tank 
directly above the outlet feeding the shower pump. The pump would initially work 
however after 10 to 15 seconds the air introduced to the tank by the water from the 
feed valve would be drawn causing it to labour and eventually stop.
The issue was rectified when Mr Bs plumber moved the cold water feed to the tank to the 
opposite side away from any outlets from the tank.
While it isnt clear who was responsible for installing the cold feed to the tank, we know that 
this wasnt part of the works carried out by LVs engineer.
So as theres nothing to show the works required were connected to the repair carried out by 
LVs engineer, Im satisfied that LV isnt responsible for the failure of the pump and the costs 
of the repairs carried out by Mr Bs plumber. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B. And I understand he is of the view that it cannot be a 
coincidence. But I think the information shows that there were issues unrelated to the repair 
carried out by LVs engineer that caused the pump failure. And so I dont think LV needs to 
do any more. I think the compensation it paid of £100 is fair and reasonable to resolve the 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman