DRN-3268840
The complaint
Ms P complains about the level of service received from Society of Lloyds (SOL) following a 
subsidence claim against her home insurance. 
Reference to SOL include their agents. 
What happened
The background to the complaint it well-known to all parties. So, rather than repeating in 
detail what happened, instead Ill summarise my understanding and focus on what I consider 
to be materially relevant to the complaint. 
In summary, Ms P reported subsidence damage to SOL in 2018. She thought the damage 
was being caused by a tree outside her property, which was owned by the local council. She 
also contacted the council around the same time as reporting the claim. 
SOL contacted the council in August 2018 to request the tree be removed. SOL said after 
prolonged delays, the tree was removed around March 2019, and the stump later, around 
August 2019. SOL said the main issue had been resolved by the council when removing 
vegetation from the tree, and the stump didnt pose any significant cause for concern. 
Once the tree was removed in March 2019, SOL said further work needed to be undertaken, 
such as continuing to monitor Ms Ps property to ensure the main cause of damage had 
been established. Ms P was advised a scope of works could be arranged and the works 
would go to a tender process with contractors to bid. 
Around August 2019, SOL told Ms P that stability was starting to occur based on the 
monitoring reports, which they shared with her. And in November 2019, it was confirmed that 
stability had been achieved. 
Ms P felt the claim was significantly delayed by SOL and the council. She felt the council 
took far too long when removing the tree, and SOL should have started works around 
August 2019. She said contractors had told her they were able to start in August 2019 and 
would have been able to complete them by December 2019. 
SOL said they werent responsible for the delays caused by the council when removing the 
tree. And in any event, they had taken reasonable steps to regularly chase for updates in 
order to progress the claim. In respect of the repair works starting in March 2020, they said 
further monitoring, a tender process and getting a scope of works approved, amongst other 
things, resulted in the work starting when it did. They didnt agree they had caused any 
unreasonable avoidable delays. 
Once the repair work was completed, Ms P wasnt happy SOL failed to provide her with the 
relevant documentation to confirm her property was structurally adequate. 
Ms P also didnt think it was fair for SOL to require her to pay a policy excess. She said the 
main cause of damage was due to a tree owned by the local council. And their failure to act 
promptly when removing it caused further damage to her property. She said SOL should 
pursue the local council for their outlay, her excess and her loss of rent. 
Regarding loss of rent, Ms P said she had a lodger that stayed with her for many years prior 
to the 2018 claim. And due to the damage, she was unable to rent one of her rooms. She 
told us shes out of pocket of approximately £14,000 in respect of this. 
SOL looked at whether Ms Ps policy offered a loss of rent benefit which it did. But they said 
as Ms Ps property wasnt uninhabitable  as she was living there throughout the claim 
process  she wouldnt be able to benefit from the policy in this respect. Ms P didnt agree 
and felt SOL treated her unfairly. 
Ms P hasnt paid the policy excess. She also complained that her policy premiums 
significantly increased when she renewed, and her excess for subsidence claims has 
increased from £2,500 to £5,000. Ms P also said her neighbour experienced subsidence 
damage and their insurer pursued the council to recover their outlay, and their policy 
premiums were only marginally impacted in comparison to hers. 
Ms P was satisfied with the work undertaken by SOL, however, there remain snagging 
issues that now need to be put right. Ms P remained unhappy with how things were handled, 
so she complained. 
SOL responded to the complaint but didnt agree to uphold it. As such, Ms P approached our 
service for an independent review. 
An investigator here considered the complaint and recommended it be upheld. He 
considered the way things were handled and felt SOL had acted reasonably when 
progressing the claim to completing repairs. He didnt think they were responsible for 
causing avoidable delays. 
He did however feel that SOL should pay Ms P some compensation for the lack of 
communication around her claim for loss of rent. He agreed with SOLs decision to decline 
this part of Ms Ps claim but said she had raised this to the loss adjustor on several 
occasions, and her expectations werent reasonably managed. So, he recommended SOL 
pays her £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Both Ms P and SOL didnt agree with our investigators view. Ms P maintained SOL had 
treated her unfairly, and SOL didnt think £150 compensation was fair. As both parties didnt 
agree, the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions recommended by our 
investigator, for broadly similar reasons. I accept this will come to both parties as a 
considerable disappointment, so Ill explain why. 
Ive used subheadings for ease of reading. 
Delays 
I accept there were delays experienced here during the claim process. But I dont find these 
delays were as a result of SOL directly causing them, or indeed could have been reasonably avoided by them. 
I understand why Ms P was frustrated with the length of time it took for the tree to be 
removed once it was established this was the most likely cause of damage. And I note she 
said the delays caused further damage to her home. But Im unable to hold SOL responsible 
for the delays caused by a third party  which in this case was the council. Nor can I 
consider the conduct or the actions taken by the council within this decision. What I can 
consider is whether I think SOL took reasonable steps to proactively progress the claim. 
Im satisfied the evidence Ive seen demonstrates SOL took reasonable steps to contact the 
council on several occasions in order to progress matters. They first contacted the council in 
August 2018, but unfortunately the tree wasnt removed until March 2019 which I appreciate 
would have been frustrating for Ms P, as this was prolonging the claim repairs. But Ive seen 
SOL regularly chased the council for updates which is something Id expect them to do - and 
had threatened to contact a Member of Parliament due to the lack of progression. 
I note it took a further few months for the tree stump to be removed. As above, whilst I am 
unable to hold SOL responsible for this, Ive seen evidence to show they regularly contacted 
the council for updates. And in any event, I note SOLs loss adjuster stated the tree stump 
left in situ wouldnt have significantly impacted Ms Ps property at that stage, because the 
vegetation had already been removed. So, as there were no leaves or branches, the water 
uptake from the ground would have been minimal. So, whilst I appreciate this would have 
been frustrating for Ms P to have to chase SOL for updates, I havent been persuaded SOL 
caused avoidable delays here which impacted the claim. 
The other delays of concern here were when the works started. Ms P says the works should 
have started much sooner than they did, which was achievable around August 2019 when 
the tree had been removed. 
I appreciate Ms Ps argument here. And I say this because she told us contractors informed 
her at that time, they were available to start works and gave an approximate completion date 
of December 2019. The claim repairs didnt start until March 2020. So, I do understand Ms 
Ps concerns in this respect. 
Having said that, I understand the removal of the tree formed one part of the overall claim 
process. In order to establish the tree was the main cause of damage, SOL continued to 
monitor the property until stability was confirmed in November 2019. This was key as lasting 
and effective repairs wouldnt have been achieved if the monitoring still showed movement 
whilst repair work was undertaken. Talks between Ms P and SOL started around August 
2019 about forming a scope of works and a tender process, but I also note it was confirmed 
between August and November 2019, that movement was still being recorded. 
In addition to continued monitoring, SOL also said several matters were being organised 
such as signing off the scope of works and tender process, approving contractors, 
organising a pre-contract meeting and setting a start date, amongst other things. SOL also 
said the works started later than expected due to the contractors requiring time to finish work 
already committed to prior to the tender process. 
To conclude here, I do accept there were delays experienced throughout the claim process. 
But, for the reasons mentioned above, Ive not been persuaded I could hold SOL responsible 
for causing avoidable delays, or failing to take reasonable steps to progress matters for Ms 
P. 
Whether SOL should pursue the council and the policy excess Ms P feels strongly that SOL should pursue the council as she holds them responsible for 
the damage caused to her property. As such, Ms P has held back paying her policy excess 
for the claim. I hope Ms P understands I accept why she feels strongly about this aspect of 
her complaint. 
So, whilst I can understand Ms Ps reasons for withholding her excess, its important I now 
refer to the policy terms, which says: 
Excess 
The amount shown in your schedule or endorsement(s) which you will be 
responsible for paying in the event of each and every claim. 
This means Ms P is required to pay an excess upon each claim made to SOL. So, even 
though Ms P feels strongly that the council are responsible for the damage caused and SOL 
should pursue them for their claim outlay, the contract of insurance is between her and SOL. 
And given SOL accepted the claim and fulfilled their contractual obligations by carrying out 
repairs, Ms P is required under the contract of insurance to pay her excess. 
Im afraid Im unable to direct SOL to pursue the council for their outlay. Ive seen they have 
said they would pass Ms Ps file to their solicitors to determine whether there is any prospect 
of success of pursuing a further claim. But this is a decision for SOL to take based on the 
legal advice from their solicitors. So, I wont be directing SOL to pursue the council for their 
outlay. 
Loss of rent 
Ms P provided a tenancy agreement which demonstrates she had a lodger living with her 
prior to the 2018 claim. And I understand this is a very important aspect of her complaint. 
Ive seen Ms P raised this aspect several times within her complaint, and during the claim 
process  namely, to SOLs loss adjuster. Ms P said shes had a lodger stay with her for 
many years for a source of income but couldnt do this due to the damage caused by the 
claim. 
Before I address the compensation amount recommended by our investigator in respect of 
the lack of communication regarding Ms Ps loss of rent, Ill firstly consider whether I think 
Ms Ps claim for her loss of rent was fairly declined. 
Ill now refer to the policy terms which says: 
C  Loss of Rent/Alternative Accommodation 
i) The rent you would have received but are unable to recover while the home 
cannot be lived in following loss or damage which is covered under the events 
insured under numbers 1 to 11 in Section 1  Buildings  Standard Cover; 
Whilst I do agree Ms Ps policy entitles her to loss of rent under some circumstances, I 
havent been persuaded SOL unfairly declined this aspect of her claim. I say this because 
Ms Ps property could be lived in  Ms P stayed there whilst the repair works were 
undertaken. I appreciate her reasons for not having a lodger stay with her was due to the 
damage caused, but as her property wasnt deemed uninhabitable, I cannot agree SOL 
unfairly declined this aspect of her claim. 
Returning to the compensation amount recommended by our investigator. He felt SOL should have done more to communicate to Ms P much earlier on that, as her property was 
able to be lived in, the loss of rent benefit wouldnt apply. And given Ms P had raised this 
with their loss adjuster, he felt SOL should have done more to manage her expectations. 
Ive seen all parties disputed this aspect. Ms P said the compensation amount of £150 
doesnt go far enough to recognise the time shed spent dealing with the complaint. 
Whereas, SOL said their loss adjuster had advised Ms P on some works she could have had 
done in order to enable a lodger to stay with her, such as adjusting the doors so they could 
be securely shut. 
Ive given very careful consideration to this aspect. Ultimately, Ive seen evidence that SOLs 
loss adjuster was aware very early on during the claim process that Ms P was concerned 
she felt unable to rent her room out to a lodger. And whilst it appears some advice was given 
to Ms P in 2018 regarding how she might be able to undertake some temporary work, Im 
also in agreement her expectations regarding loss of rent could have been handled much 
better. Its clear to me this was a very important aspect of Ms Ps complaint. I say this 
because Ive also seen the email chain from 2019 where its stated that a main concern was 
she lost income from not being able to have a lodger at her property. SOLs response to this 
appears to suggest that the recovery of these losses would be pursued against the local 
council. 
In another email, the loss adjuster again says they had advised Ms P to have the doors 
adjusted in order to allow a lodger to stay. And that the loss of rent aspect would be left for 
the moment and be dealt with when raised. But its clear this was raised. 
Overall, given this aspect was very important to Ms P, I also think some compensation is due 
for SOLs failure to manage her expectations. She was living in the property whilst the claim 
process was ongoing, and as above, the policy terms are clear that loss of rent would only 
be covered if the home wasnt able to be lived in  which it was. Therefore, I also think £150 
compensation is fair and reasonable here. 
I do agree with SOLs comments to some degree. This was a challenging claim period for all 
parties, which involved several parties and various claim aspects. And whilst they have 
mentioned hindsight here, I do still think there were opportunities to manage Ms Ps 
expectations much sooner regarding the loss of rent aspect which was clearly very important 
to her  and also clear cover wouldnt be provided. 
Increased premiums and subsidence excess increase 
Ms P was particularly concerned when her insurance premiums increased, and her excess 
for potential future subsidence claims was increased from £2,500 to £5,000. I note Ms P said 
her neighbour also had a subsidence claim and their insurance premium only increased 
marginally in comparison to hers. In order to consider this, Ive looked into whether Im 
satisfied Ms P was treated fairly by SOL and in the same way they would have treated other 
customers. 
SOL has provided information from a senior underwriter which sets out their underwriting 
guidelines. And this information explains the reasons why Ms Ps premiums were increased, 
and her excess payment for potential future subsidence claims was also increased. I 
appreciate Ms P will want to know why both her insurance premiums and subsidence excess 
increased as she feels this was unfair. I must explain this information is commercially 
sensitive, so I am unable to share this in detail. However, having carefully reviewed this, Im 
satisfied Ms P has been treated fairly by SOL, and in the same way they would have treated 
other customers in respect of these aspects of her complaint.Returning to Ms Ps point regarding her neighbours premiums. Unfortunately, I am unable to 
provide further comment to this as I am only able to consider how she was treated by SOL in 
the circumstances.   
Summary 
Overall, whilst I appreciate my decision will come as a considerable disappointment to Ms P, 
I think the claim was handled fairly and reasonably by SOL. Im not satisfied they prolonged 
the claim unfairly or failed to take reasonable steps to keep it progressing. Although I do 
agree her expectations could have been managed a lot better regarding the loss of rent 
aspect of her claim. So, for the reasons given above, I think a payment of £150 
compensation is a fair and reasonable way to put matters right. 
Putting things right
I agree with our investigators recommendations, for broadly similar reasons, that SOL 
should pay Ms P £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused for the 
communication and failing to manage her expectations regarding the loss of rent aspect of 
the claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive mentioned above, I uphold it. I now require Society of Lloyds to pay Ms 
P £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman