DRN-2683923
The complaint
Miss P complains that the vehicle she acquired through a conditional sale agreement 
financed by Moneybarn No.1 Limited trading as Moneybarn wasnt of satisfactory quality.
She wants the money shes paid to be refunded and compensation.
What happened 
The facts are well known to the parties so Ill only summarise them.
Miss P tells us that within a few days of acquiring the vehicle she reported a problem with 
the airbag light. She says that she was later assured by one of the dealerships garages that 
everything was repaired and fine. In May 2019 Miss P states that the vehicle failed an MOT 
test due to problems with the airbag. She says that Moneybarn wouldnt assist other than 
one payment relating to the front rear wishbone bushes. Miss P has explained that she 
couldnt afford the repairs and repayments along with her additional travelling costs. And she 
asked Moneybarn to collect the vehicle. She says shes now been left in debt.
Moneybarn issued a final response letter (FRL) to Miss P in which it confirmed that she had 
acquired the vehicle in August 2018 through a conditional sale agreement. The FRL rejected 
her complaint other than for one item regarding the front rear wishbone bushes for which it 
said it would pay £180. And it said that the other items were wear and tear related.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He pointed out that the vehicle 
had travelled over 25,000 miles since supply. And he didnt think there was sufficient 
information to say it hadnt been of satisfactory quality at the time of supply.
Miss P wasnt satisfied with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint 
an ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Miss P experienced problems with this vehicle. And I understand that shed be 
upset at the additional expense she faced. Unfortunately, with older, high mileage vehicles 
the risk of things going wrong is that much greater than with less used models. 
Im aware that Miss P is also not happy that Moneybarn is chasing her for the debt and she 
says its adding charges. But as Im unable to see that this formed part of the original 
complaint to Moneybarn, its not something I can deal with here. Miss P may want to 
consider making a separate complaint about this aspect with Moneybarn.
Moneybarn hasnt provided any information directly to this service in relation to this 
complaint. So Im relying on what Miss P has told us and the documentary evidence shes 
supplied along with what I found when researching the vehicles MOT history.
Where information is incomplete, unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Miss Ps conditional sale agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and our 
service is able to consider complaints relating to it. Moneybarn supplied the vehicle so its 
responsible for complaints about the quality of the vehicle.
I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. Relevant law here includes the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). The CRA states that in order to conform to contract 
goods must be of satisfactory quality when supplied. 
Satisfactory quality is defined as being what a reasonable person would consider to be 
satisfactory. And this would include aspects of price, previous use and durability.
When supplied to Miss P the vehicle was around seven years old with 92,000 miles covered.
So its to be expected that various parts of the vehicle will probably require replacing sooner 
rather than later. And I can see that Miss P replaced brake discs and pads in May 2019. 
These would be considered to be wear and tear items.
Miss P reported an airbag light fault shortly after acquiring the vehicle. Im not sure what if 
any repairs were carried out. Ive not been supplied with any job sheets. But I infer that this 
issue didnt affect the running of the vehicle until the MOT failure.
At the time of the MOT failure on 8 May 2019 the odometer reading recorded was 
117,150miles. So the vehicle had covered around 25,000 miles since supply. This is well 
above average mileage for normal domestic use.
The MOT failure was based on the airbag being non-operational, and issues with a faulty 
front lamp; and both front suspension arm bushes being excessively worn. And there was a 
tyre below the legal tread depth.
None of the MOT history records any previous issue with the airbag. And whilst there are 
various items mentioned in previous advisories those are largely related to maintenance 
items which are identified as likely to require attention in due course.
Ive concluded that the most likely reason for the vehicle failing its MOT in May 2019 was the 
gradual deterioration of items due to wear and tear. By any standards, the vehicle was able 
to cover substantial mileage after supply before the need for repairs was identified. And the 
repairs which were needed relate to items which might reasonably be anticipated to require 
maintenance or replacement in a vehicle of this age and mileage history.
I accept that Miss P will be disappointed at this outcome. And I note that shes said shes 
going to take legal action against Moneybarn if the complaint isnt upheld. Its up to Miss P to 
decide what steps she may wish to take. But my decision brings to end the involvement of 
this service.
I find that theres insufficient information to show that the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory 
quality at the time of supply to Miss P. Accordingly, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept or reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman