DRN-4176186
The complaint
A company that I will refer to as H, complains about the settlement, by Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited (RSA), of its business interruption insurance claim made as a result of 
the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
The following is intended merely as a brief summary of the key events. Additionally, whilst 
various other parties have been involved in correspondence, etc. for the sake of simplicity I 
have just referred to H and RSA. 
H operates as a restaurant business and held a commercial insurance policy underwritten by 
RSA. As a result of the government-imposed restrictions introduced as a result of the 
COVID-19 pandemic, H had to temporarily close. H claimed for its losses under the policy. 
This complaint relates to a claim for losses relating to a period from 20 December 2020. 
Ultimately, RSA agreed to meet Hs claim. However, H is unhappy with the settlement 
offered. Primarily, this is because RSA deducted the money H had received from the 
Government via the Coronavirus Job Retention Scheme (furlough). RSA said this was 
either a saving on a cost to Hs business or the principal of indemnity meant this deduction 
was appropriate. 
Hs complaint was referred to the Ombudsman Service. Our Investigator didnt think RSA 
had acted unfairly in deducting the furlough payments from the settlement. He felt the 
payments were made because businesses had been forced to close as a result of the 
pandemic and measures taken to limit the spread of COVID-19. That these payments acted 
to cover Hs employment costs, reducing the Hs overall financial losses. And that if RSA did 
not deduct this sum, H would receive a settlement greater than the actual loss suffered. 
H remained unsatisfied, reiterating its argument that any saving of employment costs was 
not caused by the same damage being covered by the policy. As our Investigator has not 
been able to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As part of my considerations, I have taken note of various case law. Included in this is the 
judgment in Stonegate Pub Company v MS Amlin and Others [2022] EWHC 2548 (Comm) 
("Stonegate"), which both parties have already referred to. 
A number of issues were initially raised by H during the events leading to this complaint. 
However, at this point the key issue is whether or not it is fair and reasonable for RSA to 
deduct money H received as furlough payments relating to the relevant period of indemnity 
from the settlement of the claim relating to this period. H has effectively said that the policy 
was drafted by RSA, and clearly sets out how savings should be dealt with. And the claim 
should be interpreted in line with this. 
The period in question is that from 20 December 2020. H says that its business was 
interrupted at this point by an insured event. The insured event is, in simple terms, the 
closure of its premises on the advice of the Government as a result of COVID-19 manifesting 
at its premises. It appears to be an accepted fact that COVID-19 did manifest on Hs 
premises a few days prior to 20 December. However, the relevant clause is a composite 
one, requiring all of the relevant elements to be present  i.e. that, as a result of this 
manifestation, the Government advised H to close or placed restrictions on its premises. 
My understanding is that H was already closed by this point in time, due to existing 
restrictions the Government had imposed in relation to previous cases of COVID-19. RSA 
has accepted that H has a valid claim, but this point is relevant as H could already have 
been receiving furlough payments prior to the insured event. 
The furlough scheme was first introduced during the March 2020 lockdown. The decision to 
extend the scheme for the period relevant to this complaint was made at the end of 
October/start of November 2020. So, at the time of the insured event, H may well have 
already been receiving furlough payments. 
Hs main argument is that the damage it is claiming for only existed after the decision had 
been made to pay businesses furlough, so these payments were not caused by the damage. 
Firstly, it is necessary to consider what the policy says about the settlement of claims. The 
policy provides cover for:
the amount by which the Gross Revenue ... during the Indemnity Period shall fall 
short of the Standard Gross Revenue  in consequence of the Damage.
Gross Revenue is defined as: 
The money paid or payable to the Policyholder for work done and services rendered, 
in course of the Business, at the Premises.
And Standard Gross Revenue is:
The  Gross Revenue  which would have been obtained during the Indemnity 
Period, if the Damage had not occurred and allowing for trends of the Business or 
circumstances which would have affected the Business irrespective of the Damage 
occurring"
Damage has a specific definition in the policy. But I agree with H that, in relation to the 
clause under which the claim has been considered, it means the circumstances of that 
clause. 
The policy also contains the following provision:
Savings 
If any of the charges or expenses of the Business payable out of  Gross Revenue 
 cease or reduce in consequence of the Damage the amount of such savings 
during the Indemnity Period shall be deducted from the amount payable
The judge in Stonegate found that, in relation to the circumstances of that case, furlough 
payments could be deducted from the claim settlement. Hs policy and circumstances are 
different in some ways to that considered in this case, but I do think there are some parts of 
the judges reasoning that can be drawn upon. The wording of the policy was different to that in Hs case, but essentially said similar things. 
That loss of income due to an insured event was covered, but that any saving of cost that 
the claimant had made as a result of the insured event could be deducted from this. The 
judge did not have to consider, in the judgment, whether the introduction of the furlough 
scheme was as a result of the insured event, as the parties to the case had accepted that it 
was. But the judge did think that furlough payments were a saving that could be deducted 
from the claim. He made this finding initially based on the policy wording, but also in relation 
to the general legal position. 
It should also be noted that the Stonegate judgment related to the closure of premises, in 
part, prior to the introduction of the furlough scheme. So, the decision to introduce the 
furlough scheme that benefitted the parties in that case was made after the insured event. 
Yet this was not seen as an issue preventing this being considered, effectively, as a saving 
under the resulting from the insured event. This point was ultimately not disputed, so we do 
not have the benefit of any legal reasoning from the judgment. But the fact it was not 
disputed and that the judge did not consider any discussion of the point to be necessary is to 
my mind indicative of how it should be viewed.
H has argued that the savings provision in its policy does not apply. It has said that any 
reduction in the expense of meeting employment costs was not in consequence of the 
insured event, as the insured event only occurred after the decision had been made to pay 
businesses furlough. I can appreciate the weight in this argument. 
However, even if I accept Hs argument here, and agree that the furlough payments do not 
fall within the scope of the savings provision, it is still necessary to consider RSAs other 
reason for deducting the payments from the settlement. 
Essentially, RSA has referred to the general principle of indemnity on which the majority of 
insurance is based. This effectively says that the purpose of the insurance is to return the 
claimant to the position they would have been in had it not been for the circumstances that 
caused the insured loss. And that a policyholder should not benefit from the claim so that 
they are put in a better position than they otherwise would be.
H has said that the general principle of indemnity is overridden by the set methodology 
contained in the policy wording, namely the savings clause. And I have noted the judges 
comments at paragraph 271 of the Stonegate judgment:
I doubt that, if the relevant savings are not within the savings clause, they fall to 
be taken into account as a matter of the general law, because the parties have 
agreed that there should be recovery of BIL and have agreed how this should be 
calculated, and it would appear to me that the general law could not be relied on to 
produce a result different from that specifically provided for. But if I am wrong about 
that, and the general law is potentially applicable, my view is that it would produce 
the same result as I have found to be the case by application of the clause.
However, it is necessary for me to think about the situation in the round and consider all of 
the relevant circumstances. I also note that a court when considering this situation might 
stick more rigidly to the methodology set out in the policy. But, whilst I must take account of 
the law, I am not bound by it where I do not think it would lead to a fair and reasonable 
outcome in all the circumstances. 
H has also referred to paragraph 289 of the Stonegate judgment, which refers to the findings 
of an Australian court in relation to a similar government-support payment scheme. The 
Australian court had found that payments from the support scheme were not deductible from 
insurance settlements, as the payments had not been caused by the insured event. The 
judge in Stonegate explained that the policy wordings were different and so he had come to a different conclusion. 
However, the Australian courts had also come to a different conclusion in terms of the 
causation of the restrictions that had been introduced. The spread of COVID-19 in Australia 
was different to that in the UK, and the Australian courts essentially did not consider that 
each and every occurrence/manifestation of COVID-19 in Australia was a proximate cause 
of the restrictions in Australia. So, the court also did not consider that the payments were 
caused by a particular case of COVID-19. Whereas the UK courts considered that each case 
of COVID-19 was a potential proximate cause of the restrictions. 
So, whilst I can see Hs argument here, I think that the different wider context means a direct 
comparison is not straightforward. It should also be noted that an Australian judgment has 
limited weight in the UK. Additionally, as mentioned, I am not necessarily bound by UK law in 
reaching a fair and reasonable decision.
Looking at the situation broadly, H suffered losses as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. As 
a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, H received payments from the Government. It is 
notable, as pointed out by the judge in Stonegate, that the Government did not say that the 
payments being made were intended to benefit only the recipient and not their insurer. It is 
also the case that this situation is fairly novel. 
In this case, the insured event is linked to a very specific manifestation of a disease, that 
was the partial cause of widescale restrictions. H was closed because of the multiple cases 
of COVID-19 that occurred. Each of these has been found to have been a proximate 
concurrent cause of the Governments decision to introduce the restrictions. That at least 
one of those cases manifested at Hs premises means that it is able to claim on its policy. 
And it is the combination of this manifestation and the resulting restrictions that is the insured 
event set out in the policy. The restrictions themselves were aimed at limiting the spread of 
COVID-19 and so protecting lives.
The furlough scheme on the other hand was not introduced directly as a result of cases of 
COVID-19. Its purpose was not directly related to the disease, in that it was not designed to 
limit the spread of the disease or protect lives. The scheme was introduced because 
businesses were being impacted by the wider circumstances surrounding the pandemic. The 
level of impact businesses generally felt was itself an indirect consequence of numbers of 
cases, as these led to further restrictions on those businesses. But the purpose and direct 
cause of the various iterations of the furlough scheme were not necessarily the same as 
those for introducing the restrictions that caused H to close.
I acknowledge that, had there been no manifestation at Hs premises the other cases of 
COVID-19 at that time would likely have meant that H would still have been required to close 
during the indemnity period. Hs manifestation was one of a large number of concurrent 
causes of the restrictions. H would also have been able to claim under the furlough scheme 
in this situation, even though it would not have suffered an insured event. 
However, I dont think that just because the cause of an additional payment received by a 
claimant, such as H, is slightly different to the cause of the claim means it should be 
discounted. The underlying cause of both was the pandemic  and I think it is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this particular case that both should be seen as having 
the same cause, i.e. the insured event. 
Ultimately, in this particular case, I think it is fair and reasonable to consider the insured 
event to be more than just the specific manifestation at Hs premises. I do appreciate a court 
might come to a different conclusion on this point, but I consider this to be the fair and 
reasonable approach in the circumstances of this case. The purpose of insurance is to return the insured party to the position they would have been 
in had it not been for the insured event. So, whilst noting the comments in Stonegate above, 
I consider it is fair and reasonable for RSA to apply the indemnity principle to the claim in the 
manner outlined in that judgment. 
As the Government made a payment to H that reduced the loss H suffered during the 
indemnity period, and the Government did not indicate that this payment was intended to 
benefit only the insured to the exclusion of the insurers, I consider it was fair and reasonable 
for RSA to deduct the relevant furlough sums from the claim settlement. I appreciate that this 
is not the outcome H was hoping for. But I do consider it fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this particular case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman