DRN-2751224
The complaint
Mr E complains that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) unfairly handled and settled a third party 
claim on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr E has a motor insurance policy with Covea. Although hes the policy holder, there are 
three named drivers on his policy.
On 3 October 2019, Mr E says one of the named drivers made light contact with a vehicle 
that was badly parked in a train station car park. He says there was no damage to either 
vehicle. So no insurance details were exchanged.
But the third party thought their car had been damaged by the contact. They initially made a 
claim on Mr Es insurance policy to have that damage repaired. 
When Mr E was first told about the claim against his policy, he thought it was a potential 
scam. He felt that some of the information hed been told didnt add up. 
Covea arranged for an independent engineer to inspect Mr Es vehicle on 7 November 2019. 
They say the engineer noted damage which matched with the reported circumstances and 
the damage which the third party had reported. 
Covea issued a letter to Mr E on 22 November 2019 as theyd been told the third party 
intended to issue court proceedings against them in relation to the claim. Given what they 
knew about the circumstances of the incident, they say their intention was to make a 
payment to the third party on a Without Prejudice basis in order to mitigate further costs.
Mr E complained to Covea on 2 December 2019. His complaint included the following points, 
amongst other issues that I will touch upon in my decision:
- Covea had failed to provide him with a copy of their complaints procedure after his 
request.
- He wanted all records of the claim expunged from his insurance record. Alternatively, 
he wanted to see documentary proof of the claim, including information from the third 
partys insurer.
- Covea had given him misleading information from the outset.
In their final response, Covea upheld part of Mr Es complaint. They acknowledged that they 
hadnt provided a copy of their complaints procedure. And apologised for this. But they didnt 
uphold the rest of his complaint. 
Covea said that although the third party was no longer pursuing the claim, they couldnt 
remove the record of the case from their own systems or the database used by insurance 
companies which holds all reported incidents, regardless of whether a claim is made or not.
Covea also said that unfortunately they werent able to provide any of the information hed 
requested due to data laws. They said that they didnt feel that Mr E had been misled about 
the claim. 
Covea said that theyd allowed Mr Es No Claims Discount against this claim as a gesture of 
goodwill. And confirmed that the incident wouldnt impact his No Claims Discount in future, 
although his future premiums may be affected.
On 11 December 2019 the third party told Covea that they no longer wanted to pursue their 
claim.
Unhappy with Coveas final response, Mr E brought his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He felt Covea had been fair and reasonable in the 
handling of his complaint. Mr E didnt agree so his complaint has come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at all the evidence Im not going to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied there was an incident. The third party reported it. Mr E 
told Covea that his vehicle made light contact with a third party vehicle. Even when theres 
no obvious damage, such an event should be reported. So Im satisfied that Covea acted 
fairly and reasonably when they said Mr Es car had been involved in an incident.
I know Mr E disagrees, but the incident shouldve been reported and had to be put on the 
incident database, regardless of how Covea decided to settle it. In line with most other motor 
insurance policies, Mr Es policy terms state:
We are entitled to decide exactly how to carry out any legal proceedings or settle any claim 
and to:
-take over and defend or settle any claim in the name of any person, company or firm 
insured by the policy
So it was up to Covea to decide how to settle the claim.
When deciding on how to settle the claim, Covea arranged for an independent engineer to 
inspect Mr Es vehicle. That inspection noted damage that matched the damage reported by 
the third party. Mr E had already confirmed that his car had made contact with the third party 
vehicle. So when the third party told Covea that they intended to issue court proceedings 
against them, Im satisfied Covea acted fairly when they decided to make a payment to the 
third party. They intended to do that on a Without Prejudice basis. This wouldve meant that 
Mr Es legal rights wouldnt be affected. 
From what Ive seen, Covea made sure the record on the incident was an accurate reflection 
of what happened. I understand that Mr E wants all records of the claim removed from his 
insurance record. But Im not persuaded that it should be. Ill explain why.
Covea said in their final response letter: we are obliged as your insurer to maintain a record 
of all incidents which have occurred in your name, regardless of whether we are informed for 
notification only purposes (in instances where a customer does not wish to pursue a claim 
for damages) or a claim is made. A claim would also remain on our records regardless of 
costs incurred or the outcome of liability. I can confirm that this is correct. Covea have shown that they incurred costs for the incident. Although the third party 
withdrew their claim, Covea had paid an engineer to inspect the damage to Mr Es car in 
order to confirm the third partys initial claim. Therefore the incident has been recorded as 
settled on the incident database. 
Covea have confirmed that they cant amend the incident database record from settled to 
notification only because costs were incurred on the claim, despite the fact that the costs 
were very low. So Im satisfied that the incident database record relating to this incident is 
both correct and necessary. And I wont be asking Covea to remove it.
Mr E also complained to Covea about the following issues, although they werent directly 
addressed in their final response letter:
- Covea had failed to carry out due diligence and to follow procedure
- Covea had failed to keep him informed
- Covea hadnt reported facts accurately
- Covea hadnt acted in his best interests
- Covea hadnt obtained all relevant information accurately
Ive looked at everything Mr E and Covea have provided in order to investigate these 
complaints. Ive found no evidence that Covea failed to carry out due diligence or follow 
procedure, except for their failure to provide a copy of their complaints procedure, which 
theyve already acknowledged and apologised for.
I can see that they did keep Mr E informed, writing to him on 20 November 2019 and 22 
November 2019 with an update on the claim. And replying to his complaint letter, which they 
received on 9 December 2019, on 13 December 2019.
While I can see that there was an initial misunderstanding about the incident, leading to Mr E 
thinking he was being scammed, I dont have any evidence to blame Covea for it. 
Ive not seen evidence of Covea failing to act in Mr Es best interests. They intended to settle 
the potential claim on a Without Prejudice basis which wouldve protected his legal rights.
And I can see that Covea took reasonable steps to obtain all the information they needed in 
order to settle the claim.
 
I know this isnt what Mr E was hoping to hear. I know Mr E feels very strongly about his 
complaint. But I dont consider that Covea did anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Es complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman