DRN-3462962
The complaint
Ms W complains TSB Bank plc didnt offer her an alternative way of authenticating that didnt 
involve phones when it implemented strong customer authentication.
What happened
Ms W had several accounts with TSB, including two current accounts (one to receive her 
pay and one to pay bills) and a couple of savings accounts (including an ISA). Shed been a 
customer of TSB for many years, had difficulties with her finances in the past and has 
developed a system for managing her finances because of this that worked well. The system 
is important for her as she has disabilities that affect her memory and her mental health.
In February 2021 Ms W contacted TSB to say she was having difficulties managing her 
accounts online  which is an important part of her system  because she wasnt able to 
receive one-time passcodes as she didnt have a mobile phone or a landline she could use 
for this purpose. TSB looked into Ms Ws complaint and said that it had chosen to 
authenticate its customers by sending one-time passcodes to mobiles or landlines  and 
without registering a mobile or landline number she wouldnt be able to us online banking. 
TSB said that Ms W could use its telephone banking service instead  having accepted that 
her local branch had closed. Alternatively, TSB said that Ms W might want to move her 
accounts elsewhere and, if so, it was happy to help her do so.
Ms W was unhappy with TSBs response and complained to us. She said that the FCA had 
issued guidance saying firms should be offering alternative ways of authenticating that didnt 
involve phones and that in any event TSB relying on phones only also meant that it was 
discriminating against her. In the meantime, Ms W moved one of her current accounts  the 
one to pay bills  to another bank that offers its customers a card reader, amongst other 
things, so that they can authenticate.
One of our investigators looked into Ms Ws complaint and said that they didnt think TSB 
had treated her fairly. They recommended that TSB pay her £150 in compensation and offer 
her an alternative way of authenticating that didnt involve phones. TSB agreed that it could 
have done more to help Ms W  accepting that shes a vulnerable customer  and agreed to 
pay her £150 in compensation. In addition, it offered £50 towards the cost of a basic mobile 
phone or help moving her accounts. Ms W appreciated TSBs out of the box solution but 
didnt accept it as she felt TSB had missed the point and she wasnt sure £150 was a fair 
resolution. She asked for a decision from an ombudsman. So, Ive looked into her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
background
The majority of the facts in this complaint arent in dispute. However, before I say what I 
think about this complaint, I think it would be helpful to say a bit about Ms Ws background 
and the way she manages her finances.
Ms W had been a customer of TSB for many years before she complained about the way it 
had gone about implementing strong customer authentication. Its clear during this time, and 
in particular before she started using online banking regularly, that Ms W has had problems 
managing her finances as she has memory problems. Its also clear that the ability to use 
online banking  which she can access when she needs to (particularly when she 
remembers something late at night that she might forget by the following morning) and which 
allows her to see whats happening to her accounts (she finds it easier to see information 
than listen to information)  has been invaluable in her getting on top of her finances.
Ms W is able to use a mobile phone, but she doesnt have her own personal mobile phone. 
She has a work mobile but cant use this mobile for her own personal business. Her partner 
has a mobile phone too, which she uses from time to time, but they work away for long 
periods of time, so this isnt an option she can rely on. And finally, she used to have a 
landline, but she hasnt replaced the handset ever since it broke given the volume of scam 
calls she used to receive. In short, she doesnt have regular access to her own phone. In the 
circumstances, given what Ive said about how she manages her finances, I can understand 
why she told TSB she didnt want to use its telephone banking  shes a visual rather than 
verbal person  and why she was worried that she might not be able to access her online 
banking easily going forwards given TSBs reliance on phones to authenticate its customers.
strong customer authentication
Ms W was happy with the way her online banking operated until TSB introduced changes to 
the way its online banking worked. Those changes involved, amongst other things, sending 
a one-time passcode to their customers mobile phone or landline so that they could 
authenticate themselves.
TSB has told us that it made changes to its processes in order to implement new regulations 
that came into effect in September 2019 that affected the whole banking sector  namely the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs). Those regulations required payment service 
providers (PSPs) to apply strong customer authentication in certain circumstances. Those 
circumstances are set out in in Article 100 of the regulations which says:
A payment service provider must apply strong customer authentication where a 
payment service user
(a) accesses its payment account online, whether directly or through an account 
information service provider;
(b) initiates an electronic payment transaction; or
(c) carries out any action through a remote channel which may imply a risk of 
payment fraud or other abuses.
The FCA gave PSPs until March 2020 to implement strong customer authentication for 
online banking and has given the e-commerce industry until March 2022 to implement strong 
customer authentication for online payments. The e-commerce industry includes card 
issuers, payment firms and online retailers. There was, of course, nothing to stop firms 
bringing in strong customer authentication sooner than that, if they wanted to do so.
The Payment Services Regulations  which implemented an EU Directive from 2015 
commonly known as the revised Payment Services Directive  define strong customer 
authentication as:authentication based on the use of two or more elements that are independent, in that 
the breach of one element does not compromise the reliability of any other element, 
and designed in such a way as to protect the confidentiality of the authentication data, 
with the elements falling into two or more of the following categories
(a) something known only by the payment service user (knowledge);
(b) something held only by the payment service user (possession);
(c) something inherent to the payment service user (inherence);
In short, strong customer authentication involves, amongst other things, checking that the 
person accessing a payment account online or initiating an electronic payment is permitted 
to do so. PSPs have to authenticate the person in question using factors based on 
knowledge, inherence or possession and must use at least two independent factors 
when doing so. They cant, for example, check using only knowledge based factors, but 
they can check using one or more knowledge based factors and one or more possession 
based factors.
TSBs approach to implementing strong customer authentication
I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable of TSB to implement strong customer 
authentication  its an important measure to help combat fraud. Nor do I think it was unfair 
or unreasonable of TSB to use one-time passcodes to help prove possession.
Ms W doesnt disagree with strong customer authentication  but she believes that TSB 
hasnt acted in line with FCA guidance because it has only offered methods of authentication 
that involve phones. She believes that this is discriminatory as well as breaching the FCAs 
guidance. In the circumstances, I think it would be helpful to explain what the FCA has said 
about strong customer authentication and its expectations.
What has the FCA said about strong customer authentication and its expectations?
The Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA) has published several papers about strong 
customer authentication and its expectations and it has written to firms about this too. In a 
paper published in June 2019  Payment Services and Electronic Money  Our Approach  
the FCA described its approach to the PSRs and payment services and e-money related 
rules in its Handbook. In paragraph 20.21 of its paper the FCA said:
We encourage firms to consider the impact of strong customer authentication 
solutions on different groups of customers, in particular those with protected 
characteristics, as part of the design process. Additionally, it may be necessary for a 
PSP [Payment Service Provider] to provide different methods of authentication, to 
comply with their obligation to apply strong customer authentication in line with 
regulation 100 of the PSRs 2017. For example, not all payment service users will 
possess a mobile phone or smart phone and payments may be made in areas without 
mobile phone reception. PSPs must provide a viable means to strongly authenticate 
customers in these situations.
The FCA has, in my opinion, made it clear in its paper and elsewhere that businesses 
shouldnt rely on mobile phones alone to authenticate their customers and should provide 
viable alternatives for different groups of customers. The FCA has, in my opinion, also made 
it clear in this paper and elsewhere that this includes people who dont possess a mobile 
phone or a smart phone and not just those who cant use one. The FCA has talked, for 
example, about managing the potentially negative impact of strong customer authentication on different groups of customers particularly the vulnerable, the less digitally engaged or 
located in areas with limited digital access. And the FCA has also talked about the need for 
firms to develop strong customer authentication solutions that work for all groups of 
consumers and has said that this means they may need to provide several different 
authentication methods for your customers.
Why is Ms W complaining?
As Ive already mentioned, Ms W isnt complaining about the fact that shes unable to 
authenticate because she cant use a mobile phone  she can use a mobile phone and does 
use one. Her complaint is about the fact that TSB doesnt offer ways of authenticating that 
dont involve phones because she doesnt have regular access to her own phone  one of 
the mobiles she uses is a work phone (so not one she wants to use for personal matters or 
can use for personal matters) and the other mobile she uses is her partners (who is often 
away working for long periods of time). That means I have to decide whether or not TSB 
ought to have been providing alternatives that didnt involve phones before Ms W 
complained and whether or not what it has done in all the circumstances is fair and 
reasonable.
Should TSB have done more for Ms W?
The FCA guidance doesnt, in my opinion, say that businesses shouldnt only offer 
alternatives that allow authentication by phone. The guidance talks about mobile phones and 
smart phones, rather than landlines, and the importance of providing different methods of 
authentication that dont involve mobile phones or smart phones. A landline could, therefore, 
be seen as an alternative method of authenticating, and for many people who dont own or 
cant use a mobile phone or a smart phone, it might well be an option that works well. Nor do 
I necessarily agree with Ms W that TSBs approach in itself was discriminatory. I can, 
however, see how it put Ms W in a very uncomfortable and difficult position  sufficiently so 
for her to decide that after many years shes leave TSB and open up an account elsewhere. 
Thats despite the fact that this would mean having to learn a whole new way of managing 
her finances.
In its response to our investigators view, TSB accepted that in this particular it could have 
done more for Ms W given her vulnerabilities. In the circumstances, it agreed to pay Ms W 
£150 in compensation and £50 towards the cost of a mobile phone. So, I think its fair to say 
that TSB accepts it could have done more in this case. Had TSB offered Ms W a card reader 
then Im satisfied that this would have resolved her complaint. I say this because thats what 
the bank shes moved to offered, and shes told us that the card reader is very easy to use 
and is something she never needs to take out of the house. Ms W uses a laptop at home to 
log into her online banking, and its clear given her comment about never having to take her 
card reader out of the house that she only uses her online banking when at home. In this 
case, I do think that the basic mobile phone TSB offered to help buy would or could have 
been used in a similar way to the card reader than Ms W now uses. In other words, it could 
have been used simply to receive one-time passcodes and stayed in Ms Ws house, allowing 
her to log onto her online banking using her laptop whenever she needed to. I can see why 
Ms W didnt accept TSBs offer  because of how she reads the FCA guidance, on which I 
dont entirely agree with her  and why she generally doesnt like phones. But I do think this 
was a helpful suggestion that TSB made, and one that could have solved the problem. It 
was, however, a suggestion that TSB only made after our investigator had issued their view. 
Ms W had already moved her main account by then. I dont think that was unreasonable of 
her to do, and I do think that this has ended up causing her a degree of distress and 
inconvenience, including being worried about being unable to manage her accounts online 
when TSB originally made its changes and having to learn a new system. The distress and 
inconvenience Ms W was caused inevitably had a lot to do with the difficulties shes had managing her finances.
Putting things right
I asked Ms W to let me know how much compensation she thought would resolve her 
complaint, and I sent her a link to guidance weve published on how we approach awards 
and the types of awards we make. Ms W said she thought she ought to receive up to £1,500 
in compensation given the impact this had on her health and, in particular, the fact that she 
had a system to manage her finances which shes learnt over the years and no longer does.
I accept that the problems Ms W had accessing her accounts online  an important part of 
her system  had a big impact on her, not least given her history. In this particular case, 
however, having considered carefully the additional comments Ms W has made, I think an 
award of £500 rather than one of up to £1,500 is fair and reasonable. So thats the award Im 
going to make.
My final decision
My final decision is that I require TSB Bank plc to pay Ms W £500 in compensation in full 
and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2022.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman