DRN-1575012
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that BUPA Insurance Limited declined Mrs Ws claim under her 
private medical insurance.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W have joint private medical insurance, insured by BUPA. In May 2019 Mrs W 
had tests and surgery through the NHS. Mr W had contacted BUPA about the situation but 
he says Mrs Ws consultants advised that it was best for the surgery to be done under the 
NHS.
After surgery Mrs W went to the intensive care unit then to a ward. Mr W says Mrs W had a 
difficult weekend when she wasnt seen by a doctor for 36 hours. On 20 May Mr W claimed 
on the policy on Mrs Ws behalf for her to be transferred to the private facility at the hospital 
for post-operative matters.
The same day BUPA sent Mrs Ws treating consultant a form to get information so it could 
assess if Mrs Ws circumstances were covered by the policy. The treating consultant 
returned the form the next day. BUPA didnt think there was enough evidence for it to accept 
the claim. It asked Mrs Ws treating consultant for clarification about her medical needs 
which he provided.
BUPA declined the claim. The policy didnt cover convalescence, rehabilitation or 
supervision, other than receiving eligible treatment, which the policy defined. BUPAs 
medical team said the evidence from the treating consultant didnt show Mrs W needed 
eligible treatment so there was no cover under the policy.
Mrs W remained in a NHS bed in the hospital and was discharged at the beginning of June 
2019.
In summary, Mr and Mrs W complain that:
 BUPA declined the claim due to its inflexible and inadequate assessment process. 
They say BUPA shouldnt have just relied on the treating consultants evidence.
 Mrs Ws needs as at 20 May meant she needed specialist attention from medical 
professionals so she met the 'eligible treatment' policy definition. They said for BUPA 
to suggest that Mrs W just needed convalescence was wrong and insulting. Mr W 
sent us photos of Mrs W on 26 and 29 May which he said supported their point
 BUPAs administrative processes, including its NHS/BUPA transfer office being 
closed at weekends and bank holidays, were inadequate and caused them additional 
distress. BUPA should have been helping them and providing Mrs W with a service 
they paid for.
Mr and Mrs W wanted BUPA to: provide Mrs W with the private hospital services detailed 
under their policy; give Mrs W a written apology for declining her claim and the distress that 
caused; give a refund of the policy premium of £5,425; pay substantial compensation for 
their distress, inconvenience and expenses they had since 20th May 2019.
Our investigator thought BUPA fairly declined the claim.
Mr and Mrs W disagree and want an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read Mr Ws detailed comments and note hes referred to us as a financial watchdog. 
I want to clarify that our role is to resolve complaints between financial businesses and their 
customer. Were not a regulatory body.
Were not designed to tell a business that it must change its business processes. BUPA 
made a commercial decision not to have the NHS/BUPA transfer office open at weekends. 
BUPA told Mr W why that office wasnt always contactable. While I understand Mr and 
Mrs W found the transfer team not being open at the weekend inconvenient I cant tell BUPA 
when it should open the transfer office.
I need to decide whether  BUPA fairly and reasonably declined the claim, and I think it did. 
I dont uphold the complaint. Ill explain why. Ive read all the detailed information both 
parties have sent. I wont refer to all the information in my decision but Ill focus on the main 
points.
The policy is clear theres no cover for staying in a private facility if its primarily used for 
convalescence, rehabilitation, supervision or any purpose other than receiving eligible 
treatment. Theres also no cover for nursing care or any other services which could have 
been provided in a nursing home.
The policy defines eligible treatment. Very briefly, its treatment of an acute condition so 
long as the treatment isnt excluded under the policy.
The policy defines acute condition as:
a disease, illness or injury that is likely to respond quickly to treatment which aims to return 
you to the state of health you were in immediately before suffering the disease, illness or 
injury, or which leads to your full recovery. 
The policy has an exception that it will pay for eligible treatment for rehabilitation in certain 
circumstances, all of which must be fulfilled. The policy defines rehabilitation as treatment 
aimed at restoring health or mobility or to allow the policyholder to live an independent life, 
such as after a stroke or an accident. 
When Mr W made the claim to transfer Mrs W on 20 May BUPA wanted medical information 
to assess if the claim was covered. BUPAs request was reasonable. The policy says BUPA 
may ask for such information. Its standard practice for insurers to request medical 
information so it can assess and give a decision on a claim before a policyholder incurs 
private costs which the policy may not cover. 
BUPA sent The funding application  NHS to private transfer form to Mrs Ws treating 
consultant to complete. The form asked specific questions, including what treatment Mrs W 
had as at that date and whether she now needed surgery, acute medical treatment or medical assessment. The treating consultant ticked the box for medical assessment. 
The form then asked Please give details of the treatment/assessment plan below (please 
include details of planned investigations, IV ABTX, IV fluids, etc).
The treating consultant answered 'physio, diet, re-couperating (sic) post operatively.' 
That evidence wasnt enough to show BUPA Mrs Ws transfer should be covered by the 
policy. So BUPA contacted the treating consultant for further information. The treating 
consultant responded that:
She is on normal diet. She is on oral analgesia. The form does clearly state the operation 
she has had.
As Mr W had told BUPA that Mrs W was not fully mobile, in pain and only just started taking 
nutrition it asked the treating consultant for more information including pain scores, mobility 
status, nutritional status, and outstanding investigations or treatment for Mrs W which 
required an inpatient stay.
Om 23 May the treating consultant responded:
pain score 4/10 
member is mobile 
on a full diet 
no outstanding treatment or investigations 
would like to keep her in until early next week due to fraility.
BUPA declined the claim it said the treating consultants evidence showed that the transfer 
to a private facility was for post-operative recuperation with no active treatment for an acute 
condition. At Mr Ws request BUPAs medical director reviewed the case and on 23/24 May 
confirmed the decline.
Mr Ws mentioned the delay in BUPA making its decision. I think there was no unnecessary 
delay. BUPA had to wait for the treating consultant to respond but it was pro-active in trying 
to get the information and kept Mr W informed.
Im satisfied that BUPA fairly and reasonably declined the claim on the medical evidence it 
had at that time.
Mr W says the medical evidence the treating consultant gave wasnt correct. He says Mrs W 
was unwell, immobile, taking regular painkillers, catheterised, showing high infection levels 
with a stomach drain for her wounds. Ive seen Mrs Ws discharge notes which includes 
information about her condition when she went back from the ward to her discharge. Mr W 
sent BUPA those notes in early June when Mrs W had been discharged. 
But, even if I thought the medical evidence from the discharge notes supported that Mrs W 
had been having treatment for an acute condition, the important point is that BUPA could 
reasonably understand that the treating consultant would give it the correct up to date 
information on Mrs Ws treatment and planned treatment. BUPA could fairly rely on the 
treating consultants evidence to assess the claim.
Mr W says BUPA assessment process is inadequate as theres over reliance on the treating consultant who may complete the transfer form incorrectly due to lack of BUPA training, 
pressure of work, unavailability or for some other reason. Im satisfied that the form was very 
clear about the information BUPA needed the treating consultant to provide. BUPA isnt 
responsible for any error the treating consultant made in completing the form.
BUPA could have declined the claim on the basis of the treating consultants first response. 
But as Mr W had told BUPA contrary information about Mrs Ws condition it fairly asked the 
consultant for more information as Id expect it to.
The treating consultant ultimately gave detailed information about Mrs Ws condition. BUPA 
could reasonably understand his evidence was accurate and rely on the evidence. The 
evidence didnt show that Mrs W was receiving eligible treatment. 
Mr Ws photo on 26 May shows Mrs Ws wounds. Its not clear if he sent BUPA the photo on 
that date. But after that date he told BUPA that Mrs W had a vac dressing on a surgical site 
due to infection. BUPAs medical directors opinion was that vac therapy could be done in a 
community setting and on the evidence the inpatient element was still recuperation and not 
covered. BUPA had no medical evidence which showed to the contrary. 
Mr Ws photo of 29 May appears to show Mrs W in pain, which would be upsetting for both 
of them. Its not clear whether he sent the photo to BUPA around that date. Even if he did 
the photo wouldnt outweigh all the medical evidence BUPA had at that time that led it to 
fairly decide there was no cover under the policy terms. 
Mr and Mrs W were very distressed that BUPA wouldnt cover the transfer to the private 
facility. But as I think BUPA fairly and reasonably dealt with and declined the claim theres no 
basis for me award Mr and Mrs W any compensation. Theres also no basis for me to say 
BUPA must refund the policy premiums. Mr and Mrs W had private medical insurance for 
that policy period, but each claim is subject to being covered by the policy terms and this 
claim wasnt covered on the medical evidence BUPA had.  
Mr and Mrs W also say BUPAs administrative processes were inadequate and caused them 
additional distress. Ive explained above the position about the office closing times. The only 
other matter I can see Mr W complained to BUPA about was he was given a number to 
speak to a manager at BUPA. He understood that was a direct line but it was a generic 
number so he said he wasted time when he could have been with his wife. 
BUPA accepts it should have given Mr W clearer expectations as the office was a contact 
centre so it could be difficult to get through to specific individuals. I dont think that issue 
means BUPA has to pay Mr and Mrs W compensation.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman