DRN-3043150
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 
1998. Mrs R says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, (Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which include much of 
Mrs Rs circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations 
and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here. 
Mrs R was employed at the time by an IT company as a trainer and had been there over two 
years according to her credit card application. Shes told us she was entitled to at least three 
months full sickness and redundancy pay and had £500 in savings she couldve used to help 
pay her card if she couldnt work.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the mis-sale complaint but thought Halifaxs offer to pay back 
some of the cost of the PPI, because of the non-disclosure of high commission and profit 
share Mrs R paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Mrs Rs representatives disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated complaint points and arguments theyd previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
Mrs R also complained to us about an error Halifax made in the course of sending out its 
offer of redress for the high commission. She asked that we consider the distress and other 
consequences caused by this error. Ive explained I thought this might fall outside our remit 
and I invited Mrs R to make representations about this.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Rs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Rs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Halifax should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that Halifaxs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Finally, Ive decided I 
cant consider Mrs Rs complaint about Halifaxs mistake in its sending of its redress offer. 
Ive summarised my reasons for each of these conclusions below.
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
Mrs R has said PPI was just included on her card, but her credit card application form 
had a box to mark if the PPI  which it called Credit Card Repayment Insurance - was 
wanted. Above the box, and one for another product, it said: If you want these services 
please mark the relevant boxes. On Mrs Rs form, which she signed to take the card, 
the PPI box is marked - and I think she wouldve known that if she didnt want it the box 
for it shouldnt be marked. The mark and all other details of her application are printed on 
the form and, with all the above in mind, I think it likely the printed details reflect what 
Mrs R and Halifax discussed at the meeting before the form was printed for her to sign. 
So I think Halifax made clear Mrs R didnt have to take the PPI and she chose to take it.
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mrs R. Shes told us Halifax didnt give advice or 
recommend the PPI to her. But if Halifax did recommend the PPI, Halifax had to check 
the PPI was right for her. So I think its fair to proceed on that basis, as it means Halifax 
had to do more. That said, the evidence about Mrs Rs circumstances at the time shows 
the PPI wasnt unsuitable for her. For example, she was eligible for it and although she 
had some savings and work benefits, the PPI wouldve paid out for longer. Also shes 
told us she was financially stretched, so I dont think she couldve easily absorbed a loss 
of income if disability or unemployment stopped her working. So I think she had a need 
for the cover. Also, from what shes told us and the details on her application, it looks like 
the cover was affordable.
Also, nothing about Mrs Rs employment or occupation wouldve made it difficult for her 
to claim - and she didnt have any pre-existing health issues that the policy wouldve 
made it hard for her to claim for. There were also no additional restrictions on cover for 
mental health or back problems.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found she chose to take it, and I dont think she wouldve done 
without at least a broad idea of what it covered, so it looks to me like she wanted this 
type of cover. It wasnt unsuitable for her, as I concluded above, and it seems like the 
benefit wouldve been useful for her if something went wrong in the circumstances it 
covered. With all Ive said above in mind, I dont think the cover was too dissimilar to 
what its likely Mrs R thought she was buying from the information its likely she was 
given. So, bearing in mind also the cost, the benefit and Mrs Rs other means, I dont 
think she wouldve declined the cover had Halifax done anything more.
Overall, I consider Mrs R wouldve still taken the PPI. Given her circumstances, I think it 
couldve provided a useful benefit at a difficult time if she couldnt work in the circumstances 
it covered. I also think it was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting. 
And, in those circumstances, I think she wouldve taken the policy in any event.
Mrs Rs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; that these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and that the duty of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor 
value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had 
on the chances of making a claim.Mrs Rs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Rs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Rs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs R.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and, if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so, Ive decided Halifax should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Halifaxs offer, to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness 
caused, is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Halifax didnt tell Mrs R about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this 
case. So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Halifax and Mrs R was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
Halifax didnt tell her about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case; 
I dont think Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs R, because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mrs Rs representatives have made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint, including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on her complaint.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipIn summary they have said Mrs R should get back all the money she paid for the policy 
because: Halifax failed to tell Mrs R about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, 
the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that 
meant the policy was poor value, they say I should find that Mrs R wouldnt have taken the 
policy had she known about the level of commission and she should receive a refund of all 
the premiums she paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- a court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a court 
would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a consumer 
would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; and
- the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge the 
considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance about 
mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) and that the 
impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it should be 
considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mrs R in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Halifax not disclosing the high level of 
commission to her before she purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mrs Rs representative suggests, driven to conclude that she wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Halifaxs failure to disclose the level of commission, for the 
reasons Ive given above;
I think it was fair for Halifax to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mrs R paid for her PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mrs R 
with the policy Ive concluded above she would still have taken if Halifax had done 
everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Halifaxs payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where applicable) in 
line with the FCAs guidance to firms, is fair in all the circumstances.
As Halifax has already paid Mrs R compensation on this basis, I dont consider it should do 
anything further for this. Mrs R has asked me to consider also the impact of the error Halifax made when, as well as 
its offer of a refund of commission, it also sent her an offer of a full refund by mistake. I told 
her I thought this was something that might be outside my remit  and I explained why and 
asked for her representations. Having reconsidered all I have, I havent received anything to 
change my view. So I dont think this matter is within my jurisdiction. My reasons are that I 
think it is a complaint about complaint handling and not about the provision of (or failure to 
provide) a financial service. So this matter falls outside my remit and it follows that I cant 
award any extra redress for it. Im sorry that this may disappoint Mrs R.
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont think Halifax needs to do anything further.
Im grateful to Mrs R for her courtesy and the prompt attention and assistance shes given us 
throughout our consideration of her complaint.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mrs Rs complaint or make any award in 
favour of her for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Bank of Scotland Plc should pay Mrs R an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable). 
As Bank of Scotland Plc has already paid compensation on this basis, I do not consider that 
Bank of Scotland Plc should do anything more.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs R to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 December 2021. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman