DRN-2696477
The complaint
This complaint is about a Scottish Widows-branded interest-only mortgage Mrs N took out 
with Lloyds Bank PLC. Mrs N says the mortgage was unsuitable and irresponsibly lent.
What happened
The main facts of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
in detail here. Instead Ill give a brief summary (using my own words) and then focus on 
giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive 
ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Mrs Ns first interest-only mortgage with Lloyds was taken out in 2006 on her first property; 
this mortgage was arranged on the advice and recommendation of a third-party 
intermediary. A year later, Mrs N moved to a new house, and Lloyds agreed to port the 
debt over to a new mortgage over her new home, on the same terms as before.
Recently, Mrs N wished to sell her current home but has found it to be worth less than the 
mortgage balance, which is largely unchanged from when she took it out.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted what Mrs N said about this complaint being solely about the 2007 mortgage 
arranged directly with Lloyds. I agree with her up to a point. In this decision, I can only 
consider what Lloyds did or didnt do; Ive no remit to consider the actions of the 
intermediary. 
But her current circumstances dont just arise from the 2007 mortgage arranged directly with 
Lloyds; as I said in the preceding section, the terms of the current mortgage were carried 
over unchanged from the 2006 mortgage, so both transactions are relevant to the outcome. 
That means I have to place the respective responsibilities of Lloyds and the intermediary in 
their proper context even though, as Ive said, the decision deals solely with Lloyds actions.
In a case such as this, I have to take account of the regulatory standards that applied at the 
relevant time; I cant judge what Lloyds did in 2006 and 2007 against the regulations as they 
stand today. Nor can I take account of any hindsight that the passing years have brought.
At the relevant time, where a mortgage application was made through a third-party 
intermediary such as a mortgage broker, there was no obligation on the part of the lender to 
replicate the role of the intermediary. The responsibility for any advice that may be given 
about suitability (of, for example, interest-only rather than capital repayment) and explaining 
how the mortgage would work lay with the intermediary rather than with the lender. 
Starting with the 2006 mortgage, ensuring the mortgage and the means for repaying it were 
suitable for Mrs Ns circumstances, was the intermediarys responsibility. Lloyds had a duty 
to lend responsibly which, generally speaking, it could at that time discharge by relying on 
the information supplied by the intermediary. If, in Lloyds commercial judgement, it was 
satisfied with the information provided by the intermediary about Mrs Ns income and plans 
for repaying the loan, it was within its rights to do so. 
The regulatory position wasnt significantly different in 2007, when the second mortgage was 
arranged; the only material difference was that the second mortgage was arranged directly 
through Lloyds without input from the broker. Lloyds still had a duty to lend responsibly but 
given that the new loan was on exactly the same terms as before  the only difference being 
it was secured on a different property - there are no grounds for me to consider the lending 
decision to be irresponsible. I note the point Mrs N has raised about what was recorded as 
the repayment vehicle for the interest-only mortgage in 2007, and Ill come back to that in a 
moment. 
In the meantime, the absence of the intermediary from the 2007 transaction didnt 
automatically make Lloyds responsible for advising Mrs N and ensuring the mortgage was 
suitable for her. Then, as now, the rules of mortgage regulation allowed lenders to provide 
mortgages on either an advised or a non-advised basis. Where the latter occurred, as was 
the case with Mrs Ns 2007 mortgage, responsibility for ensuring the mortgage was suitable 
for the borrowers circumstances lay with the borrower themselves rather than the lender; i.e. 
Mrs N and not Lloyds. 
I said Id come back to the question of the vehicle for repaying the interest-only mortgage; I 
do that now. In the 2006 transaction, the repayment vehicle was given by the intermediary 
as Mrs Ns pension. Mrs N has said that was wrong, and if thats the case, shed need to 
take that up with the intermediary. Its not something I can deal with here.
In the 2007 transaction, Lloyds recorded the repayment vehicle as other; Mrs N says it 
should have checked this with her and had it done so, shed had realised at the time she 
didnt have a suitable repayment vehicle and opted for capital repayment instead. I 
understand Mrs Ns logic there, and on first glance, it makes perfect sense. However, I come 
back to the point about having to assess Lloyds actions against the regulatory standards 
that applied at the time. 
In 2007, there was no obligation on lenders to check what arrangements a borrower had in 
place to repay an interest-only mortgage. Indeed, they didnt even have to check that a 
borrower had an arrangement in place. All they were required to do in 2007 was make sure 
a borrower knew they needed to have an arrangement in place. Lloyds met that requirement 
by virtue of the mortgage offer from 2007; it also reinforced the message in the annual 
statements it sent Mrs N. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman