DRN-3927366
The complaint
Mr B complains Santander UK Plc closed his account with no reason. They issued a cheque 
in the wrong name which delayed access to his funds. He would like substantial 
compensation.
What happened
Mr B had three accounts with Santander including two business accounts.
Santander blocked Mr Bs accounts to carry out a review.
Following the review Santander decided to close the accounts with immediate effect on 
21 October 2021.
Santander issued cheques for the closing balance in the business accounts. Santander have 
agreed that they made an error and made the cheques out in the wrong name. Following 
numerous calls by Mr B they reissued the cheques and offered Mr B £50 compensation.
Mr B brought the complaint to our service. 
Mr B also told us he had been charged fees for two months which he didnt think he should 
be liable to pay.
One of the investigators looked at the complaint. She thought Santander had acted fairly 
when they closed Mr Bs accounts. But she thought the £50 compensation offered for the 
error wasnt enough. She recommended Santander pay Mr B £100 for the inconvenience of 
having to chase Santander on the phone numerous times for them to reissue the cheques in 
the correct name.
Although Santander agreed to the proposal Mr B didnt agree with the view. He thought £500 
was reasonable as he had been inconvenienced in making calls to Santander and he had 
suffered a delay in receiving his funds because of the banks errors.
As there was no agreement, I was asked to consider the complaint.
In my provisional decision I said:
Account review and closure
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mr Bs account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied Santander were complying with these 
obligations when they reviewed Mr Bs accounts. 
This is reflected in Santanders terms and conditions. These say Santander can block an 
account or card to meet its legal obligations and delay payments if needed to carry out 
further checks. The terms and conditions of the account also allow Santander to close and 
suspend accounts immediately in some circumstances.
Santander closed Mr Bs accounts with immediate effect. As the investigator explained its 
generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, 
banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a good reason to do so, this 
service wont usually say that a bank must keep a customer or require it to compensate a 
customer who has had their account closed.
Ive considered whether Santander acted fairly in closing Mr Bs accounts. Ive looked at the 
terms and conditions of his accounts and Im satisfied they did. The terms and conditions 
outline that the bank in certain circumstances can close an account immediately. In this case 
Santander closed Mr Bs account without notice. For Santander to act fairly here they 
needed to meet the criteria to apply their terms for immediate closure  and having looked at 
these terms and all the evidence Im satisfied that the bank has applied the terms fairly. And 
it was entitled to close the accounts as its already done. 
Cheques
Mr B has said Santander issued him cheques in the wrong name. Santander have accepted 
they made an error and have offered £50 for their mistake. Our investigator thought that 
Mr B had been put to a lot of extra trouble to correct this error and he had made numerous 
calls to Santander before the matter was sorted and new cheques were issued. Because of 
this she thought Santander should pay compensation of £100.
However, Mr B didnt think that was enough. He thought £500 better reflected the 
inconvenience that was caused to him. 
I have considered what happened to Mr B and the error made by Santander. I accept Mr B 
had to make numerous calls to Santander to correct the situation and I appreciate that Mr B 
was without his funds for a few more days as a result of the error. I know Mr B wanted £500 
compensation, but I think £100 is in line with what we would award in the circumstances and 
is in line with the inconvenience he experienced. 
I accept that Mr B was without his funds for longer than he would have been due to the time 
it took for Santander to reissue the cheques in the correct name. Because of this I think Mr B 
should be paid 8% simple interest for the time he was deprived of his funds because the 
cheques were issued in the wrong name. The original cheques in the incorrect name were 
issued on 22 October 2021. The new cheques were issued on 28 October 2021. I am 
therefore minded to ask Santander to pay interest at 8% on £10,203.23 for the period 
between 22 October and 28 October 2021.
Monthly fee
Mr B mentioned he was charged monthly fees for his account. He has told us that he is 
unhappy he was charged two monthly fees when he didnt have access to his account. I 
have looked at the bank statements and I can see he was charged a fee of £7.50 for the 
period 12 September 2021 to 11 October 2021. Mr B had access to his account during that 
time, so I think it was fair for Santander to charge him a fee for that period. 
He was also charged £7.50 for the period between 12 October 2021 and 22 October 2021 
when the account closed. Having looked at the statements I can see that Mr B wasnt able to 
use the account after 11 October because of the block on the account. He was charged for a 
full month even though the account closed on 22 October 2021. I do not think this is fair, so I am minded to ask Santander to refund the fee of £7.50 for the period between 12 October 
2021 and 22 October 2021 when the account was closed. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr B has accepted my provisional decision. Santander have also accepted my provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Mr B and Santander have not provided any further comments, I have nevertheless 
re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I have seen nothing to change my mind 
and so my provisional findings stand.
Putting things right
To put things right I think Santander should pay Mr B:
£100 compensation for Mr Bs inconvenience
£7.50 refund of one months fee
Interest at 8% simple on £10,203.23 for the period between 22 October and 
28 October 2021
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I am partially upholding this complaint. 
I require Santander UK Plc to pay Mr B:
£100 compensation for Mr Bs inconvenience
£7.50 refund of one months fee
Interest at 8% simple on £10,203.23 for the period between 22 October and 
28 October 2021
HM Revenue & Customs require Santander UK Plc to withhold income tax from the 
abovementioned interest. Santander should give Mr B a certificate showing how much is 
taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman