DRN-2642362
The complaint
 Miss M is unhappy with the way her insurance company Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc
(RSA) has dealt with claims under her home insurance policy for accidental damage to a
floor tile and a leak in a shower room.
What happened
Miss M contacted RSA and reported a leak from an upstairs shower room. She said that it
had been present for some time. At that stage she did not wish to proceed with a claim as
she intended to try to resolve the leak herself. Miss Ms plumber put an investigation hole
into the hall ceiling beneath the shower and the shower was resealed. There was further
leaking, and a second plumber attended and put an investigation hole into a bedroom
cupboard next to the shower room. No leak was found. Miss M later asked RSA to carry out
trace and access under her policy to try to find the source of the leak.
RSA obtained a report which stated that there was no leak at that time. The report said there
was no damage to the shower room, but water staining was noted to the beams in the
hallway ceiling. Damage was noted to the hallway ceiling and bedroom cupboard where
earlier investigations had been carried out.
RSA refused the claim as they stated that the leak was caused by a failure of the shower
installation which is not covered under the policy. They refused trace and access as there
was no leak when they attended the property. They suggested that the leak only occurred
when the shower was used which supported their view that it was the shower that was
leaking rather than anything else. They agreed to cover the cost of the repairs caused by the
earlier investigations to the hall ceiling and bedroom cupboard in the sum of £1,184.74.
Miss M also reported cracking to a number of floor tiles in the downstairs of her house. This
was the subject of a separate complaint to the ombudsman which was not upheld. However,
during the investigation of this complaint, Miss M reported accidental damage to one of the
floor tiles in her kitchen. She says that this was chipped when she dropped a glass jar.
Miss M obtained her own report from a civil engineer who confirmed that the damage to the
tile was caused by an impact.
RSA initially declined to accept the accidental damage to the tile but have now agreed to
cover this under the accidental damage section of the policy. They agree to pay for the cost
of replacing one tile subject to the £200 excess.
Miss M is not happy with this as she is unable to find a suitable match for the tile which has
now been discontinued. She also believes that any replacement should include lifting the
kitchen cabinet which sits on the chipped tile.
Our investigator did not uphold either part of Miss Ms complaint. He agreed with RSA that
they should only cover the cost of replacing the one chipped tile. Miss Ms separate
complaint about cracking to a number of other tiles had not been upheld and these tiles
would therefore have to be replaced by Miss M at her own expense. The investigator thought
it was therefore not reasonable to expect RSA to replace other tiles which Miss M would be
replacing herself in any event.
In relation to the shower room leak, the investigator said there was no evidence of an
ongoing leak and therefore agreed with RSA that trace and access would not apply.
Miss M then reported further leaking and produced photos and a video of water dripping
from the hall ceiling. Miss M also obtained a report from a plumber who said there was a
leak but could not say where it came from without lifting tiles and sanitaryware. Our
investigator put this new information to RSA who said that it did not change their view. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 25 February 2021.  I said:
There are two parts to this complaint and I will deal with them separately.
Leak in the shower room
There is no dispute that there has been a leak from the upstairs shower room. The issue is
where does it come from, and is further investigation covered under the policy to establish
the source of the leak.
Miss Ms buildings insurance policy covers physical damage to the building caused by water
escaping from a fixed water system. It excludes any damage to the water system itself.
The buildings insurance also includes trace and access. The policy says, we will pay for the
cost of removing and replacing any part of the building necessary to repair a household
heating or water system that has caused an escape of water or oil.
As is usual, the policy contains a number of general exclusions including wear and tear, and
water escaping due to poor or faulty workmanship or materials.
RSA say that they believe the leak comes from a failed shower installation which is excluded
under the policy. They also say that trace and access is excluded as they believe the escape
of water comes from the failed shower. However, I have not seen any evidence that the leak
is coming from the shower itself. I have carefully considered RSAs report and this does not
determine the source of the leak or suggest that it comes from the shower installation.
Neither does the report highlight any faults with the installation or that it is suffering from
wear and tear. I have also looked closely at the photos in the report and they show a
bathroom in fair condition with no obvious signs of wear or damp that might reasonably lead
to a conclusion that the shower installation had failed.
RSA say that the fact that there is no escape of water when the shower is not being used
supports their view that the leak is not ongoing and must come from the installation itself
rather than anything else. Although this might be one possible explanation, I do not think that
this is the only possible explanation.
Miss M has instructed three plumbers to try to resolve the issue, but without success. She
has had the shower re-sealed so it would seem unlikely that any further leaking would come
from this area. She says that she has stopped using the shower room until the leak can been
resolved. Miss M did, however, report a further leak although it is not clear whether the
shower had been used on this occasion. I have seen the photos and the video which show
fresh water staining to roof beams and water on the downstairs tiles. I accept therefore that
the leak is ongoing, even if it is only evident when the shower is being used, and that it has
not been resolved. Miss Ms plumber confirmed the leak but could not say where it camefrom without lifting tiles and sanitaryware.
I dont think, therefore, that it can be said with any certainty where the escape of water
comes from. The purpose of trace and access cover is to find the source of a leak and to put
right any damage caused in doing so. I think RSA should carry out trace and access to
establish the source of the leak, and I therefore intend to uphold this part of Miss Ms
complaint. When RSA have the results of the trace and access they will need to go on to
consider whether there is any claim under the escape of water section of the policy.
I note that RSA have already accepted that they should cover the cost of the repairs to the
hall ceiling and bedroom cupboard caused during earlier investigations and I think this is fair.
Chipped tile
RSA accept that one tile has been accidentally damaged. Accidental damage is covered
under the buildings insurance policy and RSA have agreed to pay for the replacement of this
one tile subject to the excess of £200. No estimates have been obtained by RSA or Miss M
for the cost of replacement as far as I am aware.
The outstanding issue is whether RSA should also cover for loss of match as the original
tiles are now discontinued. Miss Ms policy does include loss of match. It says where floor
coverings except carpets are damaged beyond repair, only the damaged floor coverings will
be replaced and not undamaged floor coverings in other rooms. This clause is slightly
unclear as it does not say whether the policy covers undamaged floor coverings in the same
room. On balance, however, I believe that the purpose of the clause is to ensure that flooring
in any one room matches if part of it has to be replaced. I believe that Miss M is, therefore,
covered for loss of match.
However, I agree with the view our investigator took and do not intend to uphold this part of
Miss Ms complaint. Miss M has a number of floor tiles in her kitchen and other downstairs
areas of the house that are to be replaced due to cracking. This was the subject of a
separate complaint to the ombudsman which was not upheld. As a result, it will be for Miss
M to replace these tiles at her own expense. If these tiles are discontinued, Miss M will need
to consider replacing the whole of the downstairs flooring with new tiles. The tiled flooring is
continuous throughout the downstairs of the property. Alternatively, Miss M has suggested
that she may use tiles from her utility room to replace the cracked tiles.
However Miss M decides to deal with the cracked tiles, I do not think it is reasonable to
expect RSA to replace all the floor tiles in the kitchen because of one chipped tile. Miss M
will be replacing these herself in any event.
Miss M has said that the damaged tile sits underneath one of her kitchen units. This can be
seen from the photos that she has provided. She has said that her kitchen unit will need to
be removed in order to replace the damaged tile. I accept this. As RSA have already
accepted that they will cover the cost of replacement of the damaged tile I would expect this
to be included as the tile cant be replaced without lifting the kitchen unit first. As Miss Ms
policy includes matching floorcoverings, if Miss M wishes to do this, I would expect the cost
of replacement to include the cost of lifting one tile from the utility room to replace the
damaged tile to ensure that it matches the remaining tiles in the kitchen.
If Miss M is replacing the cracked floor tiles throughout the downstairs of her house, I would
suggest that she obtains within her quote for that work, a separate and proportionate quote
for the replacement of the one single chipped tile.
If Miss M decides not to replace the cracked floor tiles, I would suggest that she obtains a
quote for replacement of the one chipped tile alone.Responses to my provision decision
RSA accepted my findings and didnt have anything more to add.
Miss M commented that the damaged floor tile sits underneath a kitchen unit and also a 
Corian work surface. She wanted to be sure that my decision would cover these being lifted 
in order to replace the tile.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision.
For the avoidance of doubt, RSA, as agreed, should cover the full cost of replacing the 
damaged tile in the kitchen, subject to excess. If this cannot be done without lifting the 
kitchen unit and Corian work surface, then this cost is included.  Either RSA should arrange 
for this work to be carried out or Miss M should provide RSA with an appropriate quote.
My final decision
My final decision is that I intend to uphold the part of this complaint relating to 
trace and access. 
I expect RSA to carry out trace and access investigations to establish the source of the leak, 
and to cover any damage caused by the investigation. In addition, RSA will cover the cost of 
repairs to the hall ceiling and bedroom cupboard as already agreed.
I do not intend to uphold the complaint in relation to the chipped tile but, as agreed, RSA 
should cover the full cost of replacing the one chipped tile, subject to excess.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman