DRN-1517432
The complaint
B, a business, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc made errors with its bank 
charges.
What happened
B discovered that NatWest had duplicated a manual credit to its account on 24 September 
2018. This had meant it received two lots of bank charges. The duplication was corrected 
but B became concerned about its other charges and continued to review these. In May 
2019 it decided to appoint a third party to help it. That third party said it had found two other 
errors and B included these in its complaint about charges.
NatWest reviewed the material provided by the third party. It did not agree that any error 
other than the duplicated charge had been made. And it had refunded this including an 
allowance for interest. 
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He reviewed a 
spreadsheet provided by B which referred to three specific errors. He said of these that:
- It was accepted that there was the error with the duplicated credit, and this had been 
corrected already.
- During the period 5 January 2019 to 1 February 2019 B had queried why it was 
charged for 64 rather than 62 automated credits. NatWest had explained that online 
banking credits were included in this category and he thought this may not have been 
apparent to B or to the third party. He had also reconciled the numbers and found 
that one credit for £356.42 on 22 January 2019 had been omitted from Bs 
spreadsheet.
- During the period 2 February 2019 to 1 March 2019 B had again queried these 
charges but there were again the correct number of automated credits charged 
including for one online banking credit.
- He didnt think NatWest should do anything more than it had already offered to.
B did not agree. The business owner said that he didnt think wed looked at all the tabs and 
information on the spreadsheet. He referred to the same errors set out above again and 
wanted the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that B maintains that there have been a series rather than one error with its 
charges. And it was concerned enough to spend £150 for a third party to undertake a review. 
That third party said it had found further errors with the charges for automated credits as 
referred to above.
This has been looked at in detail by NatWest and by our investigator. I have also now looked 
at the spreadsheet B has provided, and I agree with our investigators analysis. There is no 
other information apparent to me or any further commentary from B about any errors to 
consider.
So, it remains the case that a manual credit was duplicated in branch. That was first brought 
to NatWests attention in 2018 and I can see that it issued a final response about this on 5 
December 2018. It also dealt then with some detailed points from B about its other charges 
in 2018. As has been set out B remained dissatisfied and decided to employ a third party to 
review its further charges. That review has not led to the identification of any further errors. 
All the charges relating to the one error have been fully adjusted for.
I noted that in December 2018 NatWest had also offered to pay B £25 in compensation 
which B rejected at the time. It confirmed to me that this remained available in addition to the 
other refunds it had made. I know that B wants the third-party costs of £150 paid as well as 
compensation of £300 for inconvenience. Im afraid that it was Bs decision to arrange for the 
third party and so I cant fairly hold NatWest responsible for the cost. I accept that there was 
an element of inconvenience in 2018 when the sole error was identified but I think that the 
offer then of £25 was reasonable. So, I wont be asking NatWest to do more than pay this 
too.
My final decision
NatWest has already made an offer to settle this complaint and I think the offer is fair in all 
the circumstances. In addition to the refunds it has already made National Westminster Bank 
Plc should now also pay B the compensation of £25 it had previously offered to do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman