DRN-2539927
The complaint
M, a limited company, complains about the decision by Amtrust Europe Limited to turn down 
its claim for loss of rent under a residential property owners policy.
 
What happened
In July 2019, damage to Ms rental property was discovered by its estate agent. The 
previous tenant had caused the damage and then moved out. M made a claim under the 
policy for malicious damage and loss of rent.
Amtrust accepted the claim for malicious damage. Repairs were carried out after Amtrust 
accepted the claim, and were completed in November 2019. A new tenant moved into the 
property the following month. 
However, Amtrust turned down the claim for loss of rent. It said the policy wouldnt respond 
because the tenant had left without giving notice. Unhappy with this, M brought a complaint 
to this service. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He thought the property was 
uninhabitable because of the damage caused by the tenant, and therefore couldnt be let out 
until the repairs were complete. He recommended Amtrust pay the claim for loss of rent for 
the period when the property was uninhabitable.
Amtrust disagreed with our investigators recommendations. It put forward a number of 
arguments, including that the previous tenant was in rental arrears and so it didnt think there 
was a loss of rent to replace. In response, our investigator asked Amtrust if it would consider 
making an offer to pay a portion of the total loss of rent that M was claiming for. Amtrust 
refused, and so the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy explains that certain words in the document have special meanings which are set 
out at the beginning of the policy, or defined at the beginning of the appropriate section. And 
that to help identify those words, theyre printed in bold type. 
Under the loss of rent section of cover, the policy says:
As a consequence of Damage to the Buildings by an Insured Peril or operative 
ExtensionWe will pay up to 20% of the Buildings Sum Insured under Section 1 for the 
Loss of Rent if the Buildings become Unoccupied or partly Unoccupied and cannot be let 
out.

Notwithstanding the above, the maximum We will pay under this Section will be no more 
than the tenant would have paid to You.
Loss of Rent is defined as:
The amount by which the Rent during the Indemnity Period falls short of the Rent which 
but for the Damage would have been received.
The policy excludes:
Any Loss of Rent arising from the tenants leaving the Buildings without giving You 
notice.
Amtrust says rent is only lost if it wouldve been received if there hadnt been malicious 
damage. It points out that Ms previous tenant had stopped paying their rent some months 
before the claim was made. Consequently, Amtrust thinks there can be no loss of rent claim 
to answer. 
The damage was caused by the previous tenant (who was in rental arrears at the time) 
before they moved out. If they hadnt caused that damage and simply moved out, Im 
satisfied M would have likely been able to rent out the property to another tenant. I think this 
meets the policy definition of loss of rent. 
Amtrust has also referred to the above policy wording which says the maximum it will pay for 
loss of rent will be no more than the tenant would have paid to M. Amtrust thinks this further 
supports its argument that there was no loss of rent incurred by M because its tenant wasnt 
paying rent anyway.
Tenant isnt defined at the beginning of the policy, nor under the loss of rent section. And so 
I think its reasonable to say that for a loss of rent claim, any reference to a tenant under 
that section doesnt necessarily mean the tenant already renting the building from the 
insured.
Therefore, although Amtrust isnt required to pay more than the rent the tenant would have 
paid to M, this could easily mean the rent a new tenant would have paid to live at the 
property (if not for the malicious damage).
Amtrust also says the loss of rent claim would only be covered if the building became 
unoccupied due to an insured peril. It says this wasnt the case, and it only became 
unoccupied because the tenant moved out without giving notice, which is specifically 
excluded under the policy.
Amtrust has accepted the claim for malicious damage. Given the level of damage to the 
property, I agree with the investigator that it wasnt habitable whilst the repairs were taking 
place. Therefore, its apparent the property couldnt be let out to another tenant because of 
the malicious damage, and not just because the previous tenant had moved out without 
giving notice. And so I dont think Amtrust can rely on this exclusion to turn down the claim.
However, I accept that if thered been no malicious damage and the tenant had simply 
moved out, there wouldve been a period of time where the property would have been 
untenanted whilst M arranged for a new tenant to move in. Our investigator thought the loss 
of rent claim should only be paid whilst the property was uninhabitable (rather than up to the 
date a new tenant moved in). I think thats reasonable, because it took M around a month 
after the repairs had been completed to re-let the property. Thats likely what wouldve 
happened if there hadnt been any malicious damage, and the previous tenant had simply 
moved out without giving notice.Amtrust thinks that M caused a delay at the beginning of the claim, which meant the property 
was uninhabitable for longer than it needed to be. However, I dont think M caused any 
unnecessary delays.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Amtrust Europe Limited to pay the 
claim for loss of rent from the date of loss until the repairs were completed, and in 
accordance with any remaining policy terms. Interest should then be added at the rate of 8% 
simple per annum from the date of loss to the date of settlement.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman