DRN-3272071
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Taylormade Finance Ltd told them that its fees and any 
solicitors fees would be added to their mortgage. But shortly before they completed they 
were told that those fees would be deducted from the amount they would receive. That 
meant that Mr and Mrs B would be left with less money that they expected from the 
mortgage.
What happened
In 2020, Taylormade gave Mr and Mrs B mortgage advice. There were a number of fees, 
including a broker fee of £1,995 payable to Taylormade and £649 for conveyancing.
Mr and Mrs B complain that they were led to believe that the broker and conveyancing fee 
would be added to the mortgage and repayable over the term of the mortgage. They think 
the fees werent added and that left them with a shortfall.
I issued a provisional decision, giving both side the opportunity to make further submissions 
before made a final decision. In summary, I found that the initial advice given by Taylormade 
would have allowed Mr and Mrs B to borrow as much as they needed. But the down 
valuation of their property had reduced the amount they could borrow. I said that Taylormade 
had set out in a clear and fair way how the fees would be deduced so that Mr and Mrs B 
could maker an informed choice about what to do.
Mr and Mrs B didnt accept my provisional decision. They made a number of points, 
including:
The document they signed at the outset and the one sent by Taylormade were not the 
same  they highlighted the section saying the fee would be paid upfront.
They had an email from Taylormade, which they provided, that explains how the fees 
were going to be paid.
The down valuation has no relevance to this case.
Their point was they were told the fees were going to be added to the mortgage and they 
were taken at completion.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From Mr and Mrs Bs response, they have said they expected the fees to be added to the 
mortgage. It appears they understood that this meant they would be in addition to the 
(reduced) principal amount borrowed. But, essentially, the fees were added to the mortgage, 
albeit included in the principal balance. The fees formed part of the amount Mr and Mrs B 
borrowed  and they had agreed to pay those fees. When the proceeds of the mortgage 
were transferred to their solicitor, the fees were paid from that. It does not follow that they 
paid the fees upfront.
I consider the down valuation is relevant. That is because the maximum amount Mr and Mrs 
B could borrow  including any fees  was determined by the loan-to-value and that was 
reduced significantly from the initial advice. I consider that Taylormade set out reasonably 
what the revised offer was. It was Mr and Mrs Bs decision to proceed on that basis. I 
appreciate there has been some confusion, but I dont consider that was as a result of any 
error by Taylormade. 
For Mr and Mrs B to receive the full proceeds of the mortgage they would have needed to 
pay the fees directly to Taylormade and their solicitor from their own funds. If they had done 
so, their financial position would have been the same overall. So there is no financial loss. In 
any event, the evidence we have shows that they could not pay the fees upfront.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman