DRN-2710216
The complaint
Miss F complains Link Financial Outsourcing Limited took too long to process a refund she 
was due.
 
What happened
Miss F overpaid her account with Link by £240 so she asked Link to refund the money to 
her. 
Link agreed that it would refund her but, because of delays to its services caused by the 
pandemic, it didnt know how long it would take. Because of this Link offered Miss F £30 in 
recognition of the inconvenience the delay was causing her. They later increased this offer to 
£50 to reflect a further error theyd made  not updating Miss Fs address. Which meant they 
sent the final response letter to the wrong address. 
 
Miss F wanted £200 because the refund had taken ten weeks to be returned to her and that 
she had been struggling financially, also because of the pandemic. An Investigator 
considered her complaint, he said, in summary, he thought £50 was fair to resolve Miss Fs 
complaint. 
Miss F didnt agree. She said she wanted £100. £50 in respect of the original issue of the 
refund and £50 for letter being sent to the wrong address. 
As Miss F didnt agree with the Investigators findings, the case has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Link took too long to return Miss Fs overpayment to her and failed to 
update her address when asked and so ended up sending a letter to the wrong address. So 
what remains for me to consider is what they need to do in order to put things right.
 
Link offered Miss F £30 in recognition of the inconvenience caused by the delay in 
processing her refund. They said the delays were caused because of staff shortages during 
the pandemic. Miss F says she was struggling financially and needed the refund as soon as 
possible. Although Miss F says she was struggling financially, when the Investigator asked 
Miss F about this she said she couldve just done with the money returned sooner. 
I understand why Miss F wouldve been keen for the money to be returned as soon as 
possible and she was caused some concern because the refund took so long. Im mindful 
that this all took place during the pandemic  so Link were trying to operate in 
unprecedented circumstances and Ive taken into account the operational challenges firms 
may have faced during this time. While these challenges may have contributed to the delay 
in processing Miss Fs refund, I still find in the specific circumstances of this case it took Link 
too long to do so. Based on what shes told us, the delay doesnt seem to have caused her 
significant financial difficulties, so I find the impact of the delay is limited. For these reasons, 
I find £30 is fair in recognition of the delay.
 
Link apologised to Miss F for sending the final response letter to the wrong address and 
provided her with a copy by email as soon as it was brought to their attention. They also 
offered £20 in recognition of the worry caused. Miss F doesnt think this is enough. I can see 
why shed be concerned about this but there were few identifiable details in the letter. And as 
Link apologised, sent her a new copy and updated her address promptly when this was 
brought to their attention - £20 is fair in the circumstances of Miss Fs complaint. 
Overall, Im satisfied Links offer of £50 is fair and reasonable to resolve Miss Fs complaint. 
My final decision
Link Financial Outsourcing Limited have already offered Miss F £50 in recognition of the 
distress and inconvenience caused. I find this is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of the complaint.
 
Link Financial Outsourcing Limited should pay Miss F £50, if it they havent done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman