DRN-2094378
The complaint
Mr W and Mrs W are unhappy that British Gas Insurance Limited didnt carry out an annual 
boiler service every 12 months as part of their home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr W and Mrs W complained to British Gas that, over a number of years, it hadnt carried out 
an annual boiler service every 12 months as part of their HomeCare policy. British Gas 
replied and said that boiler services could take place more than 12 months apart as they 
were carried out once every contractual year, not every calendar year. British Gas checked 
its records and said that it had met this requirement every year except one. In that one 
instance, the premium for that year had already been refunded as part of a previous 
complaint about the annual service being missed. As the current policy year had not yet 
ended, British Gas said it still had until the end of that policy year to complete the work.
Mr W and Mrs W complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He 
said that British Gas had dealt with the complaint fairly and in line with the policy terms and 
conditions.
As Mr W and Mrs W did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 21 July 2020. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I was planning to partially uphold the complaint. I said:
Im aware that Mr W and Mrs Ws main issue is that they think that as the homecare policy 
includes an annual service that this means it should take place every 12 months. They have 
said that as this has not been the case  with the services, on average, taking place 16 
months apart  that they were not receiving the service that they had paid for.
British Gas provided me with copies of the HomeCare policy booklets covering a range of 
years, the earliest being 2011  which was around the time that Mr W and Mrs Ws first 
service was due to take place. I checked each policy booklet provided for its definition of an 
annual service. The wording in each booklet isnt identical but typically said something 
similar to this in the 2011 policy booklet:
Annual Service: for Agreements that include an Annual Service, means a visit we 
undertake in each Period of Agreement to check the elements included in your Agreement 
are safe and in good working order.
The policy booklet also describes what it meant by a period of agreement:
Period of Agreement: means the length of your Agreement shown on your Statement. 
Your Agreement begins on the date your application is accepted and normally runs for 12 
months.
On that basis, I am satisfied that British Gas explained what it meant by an annual service 
and that these would take place once in each period of agreement, rather than at 12-month 
intervals. Whilst I accept that this doesnt meet Mr W and Mrs Ws definition of an annual 
service, in my view British Gas has fulfilled its obligation in line with the terms and conditions 
of the policy by carrying out a service within each period of agreement.
Having said that, Im aware that the 2017 policy booklet said an annual service was a check 
each year to ensure your gas boiler, appliance or central heating is safe and working 
properly. However, I note that Mr W and Mrs Ws boiler wasnt serviced within that period 
and, when they complained about this, British Gas paid them £60 as a gesture of goodwill. I 
am therefore satisfied that any issues with the timing of that service have already been 
addressed as part of a previous complaint to British Gas and, given that complaint was 
submitted in 2017, that it is outside of our jurisdiction. So I am unable to consider this point 
any further.  
British Gas also provided each of the dates on which a service took place. Mr W and Mrs 
Ws period of agreement ran from October each year, but these dates provided by British 
Gas didnt include a service between October 2013 and October 2014. I asked British Gas 
about this and it said that it would have issued up to three reminders inviting Mr W and Mrs 
W to book their annual service, but that it didnt receive a reply. However, due to the time 
elapsed and that British Gas had changed systems, it was unable to provide the details and 
dates of the letters.
Ive thought about this carefully. Given that British Gas cant provide evidence of the letters 
going out, Im not clear how it can be so certain that it contacted Mr W and Mrs W so that 
they could book a service. However, regardless of this British Gas hasnt provided any 
evidence that it carried out a service in the period of agreement starting in October 2013 and 
appears to accept that it didnt. This contradicts what it said in its response to Mr W and Mrs 
Ws complaint, which was that it had missed one annual service - in the period starting in 
October 2016. So, I think it provided inaccurate information in its letter to Mr W and Mrs W 
and failed to acknowledge that it had actually missed a second service.
Having thought about all of the above, Im currently of the view that British Gas fulfilled its 
obligation to carry out an annual service by doing so once per period of agreement. This is 
because that is what it said it would do in the policy terms and conditions. However, I think 
that it failed to carry out a service in the period of agreement from October 2013 and that it 
provided incorrect information when it responded to Mr W and Mrs Ws complaint about the 
frequency of the services. On that basis, I am currently minded to require British Gas to 
refund the cost of the annual service that should have taken place in the period October 
2013 to October 2014 and to pay £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience of it 
providing inaccurate information about the boiler services being carried out.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 20 August 2020. Both parties replied before that date.
Mr W and Mrs W provided a range of comments and remained of the view that the annual 
service should take place in each 12 month period.
British Gas accepted the decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the view that this complaint is partially upheld for the reasons I 
previously gave. Ive read and considered all of Mr W and Mrs Ws comments, even if I dont address each 
point here. Mr W and Mrs W said that they remained of the view that an annual service 
should take place within a 12-month period. Although, I can understand why they hold this 
view, having reviewed the terms and conditions contained in several years policy booklets 
and any variations in these, I remain of the view that British Gas defined what an annual 
service was and in what time frame it would take place. On that basis, I think British Gas 
explained what it meant by an annual service and did what it said it would do  with the 
exception of the two years that were highlighted in my provisional decision.
Mr W and Mrs W also said that they didnt think the money British Gas paid to them 
previously was for the missed annual service in the October 2016 - October 2017 period and 
said it was speculation on my part to say that this was the case. However, as part of making 
my provisional decision I asked British Gas to provide evidence of why it had paid Mr W and 
Mrs W the money. On the basis of that, I was, and remain, satisfied that the payment was 
made in relation to the missed annual service in that period and that, as previously 
explained, it is outside of the jurisdiction of this service to now look at that issue.
Putting things right
British Gas must refund the cost of the annual service that should have taken place in the 
period October 2013 to October 2014 and pay £50 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience of it providing inaccurate information about the boiler services being carried 
out.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that the 
complaint is partially upheld against British Gas Insurance Limited because it didnt carry out 
an annual service in the period specified above. However, I dont uphold the rest of the 
complaint. As a result, I require British Gas Insurance Limited to:
Refund Mr W and Mrs W the cost of the annual service that should have taken place 
in the period from October 2013.
Pay interest on that premium at a rate of 8% simple a year* from the date that Mr W 
and Mrs W paid it to the date on which it is refunded.
Pay £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
British Gas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mr W and Mrs W accept my final decision. If it pays later than this 
it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to 
the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
*If British Gas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr W and Mrs W how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr W and Mrs W a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman