DRN-3400596
The complaint
Mr A complains that PrePay Technologies Limited trading as Prepay Solutions (PrePay) 
hasnt refunded transactions he says he didnt authorise. 
PrePay is responsible for answering complaints about payment services provided by 
Monese Ltd. As Mr As account is Monese branded, I have referred to Monese when 
explaining what has happened in this complaint as this is what he is most familiar with.
What happened
What Mr A says
Mr A says that on 16 July 2021 a total of £704.83 was taken out of his account without his 
knowledge and consent. Fourteen online card payments were made to two separate payees. 
Mr A says he was sleeping when the transactions were made and woke up to a lot of 
messages about purchases and so he logged into the app and saw the disputed 
transactions. He says the transactions were showing as pending and thinks that Monese 
should have stopped them. 
Mr A reported the disputed transactions to Monese and also blocked his card. Monese 
initially asked Mr A to contact the two merchants involved, which Mr A later did. One 
merchant responded and said it couldnt identify the transactions and the other referred Mr A 
back to his bank. Mr A provided this information to Monese on 30 July 2021. On 13 August 
Monese told Mr A that he would not receive a refund as his account hadnt been 
compromised and the payments were made using Apple Pay. 
Mr A is unhappy with Moneses decision. He says he lived alone and nobody else had 
access to his mobile phone or passcode to unlock it. He is also unhappy with the service he 
received from Monese after he reported the disputed transactions. Mr A also says that 
Monese hasnt commented on later disputed payments to other merchants. 
What Monese say
Monese say that all the transactions were authorised by Mr A and that all the payments were 
made using a device Mr A has previously used to make genuine transactions.
Monese also say that a Monese card can only be linked to Apple Pay if the Monese app is 
installed on the same device. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered Mr As complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. In 
summary, she felt that the payments were made with Mr As consent, particularly 
considering all the payments were made from a device used by Mr A before and after the 
disputed payments. The investigator said that it was unlikely the disputed payments were 
made by someone unknown to Mr A without his consent. She said this because Mr A said he 
lived alone and nobody else had access to his phone so there was no explanation for how 
someone entered his property, unlocked his phone or made the payments. And the 
payments were made very soon after benefits were paid into Mr As account, something an 
unknown third party wouldnt know about. 
But the investigator recommended Monese pay Mr A compensation of £350 to reflect the 
fact that the service it provided wasnt as good as it could have been. In particular, the 
investigator said Monese failed to make reasonable adjustments in respect of Mr As 
disability, terminated a call without a reason and didnt tell Mr A that chargeback didnt apply 
as the payments were made using Apple Pay. 
Both parties didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for a final decision, so the 
complaint has been passed to me to consider. Mr A didnt provide specific reasons. Monese 
said the award recommended by the investigator was excessive and unjustified. It accepted 
that it could have provided a greater level of support but felt that a payment of up to £100 
was reasonable. Monese noted that Mr A asked its staff to provide an immediate refund 
which put them in a difficult position, as this wasnt possible. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, I reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on what 
I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence. 
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator and for much the same reasons. Ill explain why.
Generally, Monese can hold Mr A liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself. Monese has 
provided evidence which shows that the payments were verified using Apple Pay. But the 
regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, enough to enable Monese to hold 
him liable. So, I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that its more likely 
than not that Mr A consented to the transactions being made.
I have been provided with technical evidence which demonstrates that all fourteen payments 
were made using a device with what I consider to be a unique name. Other evidence 
provided by Monese demonstrates that two previous payments, including one only weeks 
before - on 24 June 2021, were made from an iPhone with the same name. Mr A has 
confirmed that he made the payment in June. In the circumstances, I consider that the 
disputed payments were made using Mr As mobile phone. I find it hard to accept that a 
fraudster would coincidentally have made payments from another phone with the same 
name. 
Given my conclusion that its more likely than not that Mr As phone was used to make the 
transfers, I need to go on to consider whether an unknown third party could have gained 
access to Mr As mobile device without his consent to make the payments. 
Mr A has explained that he lived alone and that nobody else had access to his property, his 
mobile phone or his online banking passcode. So I find it unlikely that an unknown third party 
could have completed the disputed transactions without Mr As knowledge or consent. 
Ive also thought about the fact that the transactions were made straight after benefit was 
credited to Mr As account. Mr A has said that the only person who knew when his benefit 
was paid was his landlord and he wouldnt access the property. I consider that its more 
likely than not that someone who knew when the benefit was paid completed the 
transactions or Mr A gave consent for someone else to do so. 
Ive also considered the fact that there were still funds in the account after the disputed 
transactions had been made and there were no failed payments which might have alerted a 
fraudster to the possibility that further payment attempts wouldnt be successful. Fraudsters 
usually maximise the opportunity to take as much as possible before they are detected, and 
payments might be blocked. This hasnt happened here. I am aware that Mr A has raised the fact there were further disputed transactions to two 
different merchants after the ones Ive already discussed. I can see that one of the payments 
was a subscription set up in April 2021, so I think this was a genuine payment which failed 
after Mr A cancelled his card when he reported the disputed transactions. The other 
payments were also attempted after Mr A cancelled his card and no funds were lost. These 
payment attempts took place on 19 July 2021, after the payments that were initially reported 
to Monese, which isnt typical behaviour of a fraudster. 
Overall, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr A, I consider the most likely scenario is that Mr A 
authorised the transactions he disputes or asked someone else to make them on his behalf. 
Mr A has also complained about the service he received from Monese. I can understand why 
Mr A would think Monese could cancel a payment that was shown as pending, but this 
wasnt the case  so I cant reasonably say Monese has done anything wrong. Ive listened 
to Mr As calls with Montese and note that this was explained to him in various calls. 
When Mr A first reported the disputed transactions to Monese he was asked to contact the 
merchants himself. I think Monese was working on the basis that Mr A was making a 
chargeback request  in which case this is what Id expect and what other banks would ask 
Mr A to do. I also think that contacting the merchants is worth doing to see if they are 
prepared to provide a refund themselves. PrePay has explained to this service that it doesnt 
raise chargebacks on Apple Pay transactions. It has explained that when it has submitted 
chargebacks with the fraud code in the past these have been re-presented as rejections 
because the reason code is invalid. So I consider Monese should have been clearer with Mr 
A about the chargeback process and handled the situation better. 
A chargeback should be considered based on the circumstances of each individual case. Im 
not sure if Monese relying on the outcome of previous chargeback cases is necessarily 
correct. However, I believe that even if Monese had raised a chargeback for Mr A, it 
wouldve failed. A chargeback doesnt provide an automatic refund. Rather, all the evidence 
available has to be considered by the scheme provider. In this case, the chargeback reason 
wouldve been an unauthorised or fraudulent payment. But as explained above, Im satisfied 
that Mr A authorised the payments  which would mean the chargeback wouldnt have been 
successful.
Its clear to me that right from Mr As first call with Monese on 16 July 2021 he asked for 
additional support in initiating a claim. He explained that he had problems with reading and 
that it was difficult for him to write to the merchants. I consider the agent in that call was 
impatient and could have provided greater assistance. By 20 July Mr A specifically 
mentioned dyslexia but the agent kept referring to sending Mr A an email and then 
terminated the call inappropriately and without reason. 
In a later call on 30 July 2021 Mr A again explained that reading and writing were difficult for 
him and asked for help. He was told that the matter could only be dealt with by email. Mr A 
explained he was being removed from his home and referred to his disability, but the agent 
terminated the call. 
I appreciate that Mr A didnt contact the merchants initially. Instead he continued to call 
Monese and say it was its responsibility to contact the merchants, not his. In each call with 
Monese the message was clear that Mr A needed to take this step. But it seems to me that 
Mr A didnt contact the merchants because he needed support to do so. I consider that if one 
of the agents Mr A spoke to had provided a better service, further calls could have been 
avoided and Mr A wouldnt have suffered unnecessary stress. In one call, after saying he 
had difficulties with reading and writing, Mr A said he didnt understand and then said he was 
sweating, and the agent didnt understand his situation. So it should have been clear Mr A 
needed support.    
I also appreciate Monese is a digital bank, but it offers a call back facility. Agents should be 
able to provide appropriate advice and support in those calls. Overall, I consider that the impact of Moneses customer service failings were far greater for Mr A because of his 
dyslexia and my compensation award reflects this. At an already difficult time for Mr A, 
Monese unnecessarily added to the stress and inconvenience he suffered. In the 
circumstances, I agree with the investigator that Monese should pay Mr A £350 
compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Pre Pay Technologies Limited trading as Prepay Solutions should 
pay Mr A £350 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman