DRN-3595275
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about a service received from Compass Wealth Management 
Consultants Limited.
What happened
In 2017, Mr and Mrs H received investment advice from an adviser at Compass 
predecessor. Respective risk assessments showed Mr H had balanced attitude to risk (ATR) 
and Mrs H was assessed as having a cautious ATR. Mrs H accepted a recommendation to 
invest £15,000 in PruFund Growth ISA. Mr H selected his own funds with a different 
provider.
In August 2018, Mr H on Mrs Hs behalf, contacted Compass raising concern about 
performance of Mrs Hs ISA. They say there was no response from Compass and no further 
action was taken by or on behalf of Mrs H, at this time. Mr H, on Mrs Hs behalf, approached 
Compass end 2020/beginning January 2021 and adviser then reached out. Given the lack of 
contact over time, Compass agreed to offer reduced ongoing fees for an advisory service 
going forwards for Mr and Mrs H.
Mr H acting on Mrs Hs behalf, gave suggestions for Mrs Hs funds to be placed in particular 
investments. Mr and Mrs H say they wished to proceed on the basis of Compass providing 
ongoing advice but for them to also retain the ability to give instructions on the funds. 
Compass say they did not provide a mixed service, Mr and Mrs H had the option of an 
advisory service or an execution only service. Further, the instructions given would have 
placed the portfolio outside Mrs Hs attitude to risk. In June 2021 Compass explained to Mr 
and Mrs H that they were unable to provide the service they required and suggested they 
approach alternative provider.
Mr and Mrs H seek compensation for the service fees paid during the period October 2018 
to December 2020, the loss of capital growth on the ISA over the period October 2018 to 
June 2021 and seek punitive damages for the trouble and upset caused by having to 
progress a complaint.
Our investigator considered the complaint. She thought Mr and Mrs H had selected a service 
agreement in March 2017 that did not include annual financial planning review. She thought 
that whilst it might have been good customer service for Compass to contact Mr and Mrs H, 
Compass did nothing wrong in not offering a review given the terms of the agreement. Our 
investigator thought Compass offer to upgrade the service offered at no extra charge was 
fair and reasonable. 
By 2021 Mr and Mrs H were receiving an ongoing advisory service, our investigator thought 
that Mr H was mistaken in thinking there was also provision for an execution only service. 
She concluded that Compass did nothing wrong in refusing to accept Mr Hs suggestions as 
they werent in line with Mrs Hs ATR and explained that it wasnt for our service to interfere 
with a business decision to offer particular services. Further, our investigator had not seen 
any evidence that Mrs H had suffered financial loss, as she could have transferred to 
another fund recommended by Compass but chose not to do so. Our investigator 
acknowledged Mr and Mrs Hs disappointment in losing discounted fees when they 
transferred to another provider but she thought it wasnt fair and reasonable for them to 
benefit from a discount when they chose to move to a new provider. 
As the parties do not agree, the matter has come to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset it is helpful to explain our role. Our service provides an independent, informal 
dispute resolution service. We have no regulatory or disciplinary powers, which means we 
cant tell a business how to operate and we have no power to impose punitive awards; these 
are matters for the regulator.
Ive first considered the terms of the agreement entered into by Mr and Mrs H at the time the 
recommendation to invest in the ISA was given. A Service and Payment agreement was 
signed by Mr and Mrs H in March 2017 showing the level of service selected, which was a 
different service selected by Mr H in 2015. Annual reviews were not provided under the 2017 
selection, this was also made clear in the suitability report. So, after provision of the original 
recommendation any financial review would have needed to have been expressly requested 
and would have only been available at an additional fee. 
Compass have agreed there were customer service shortcomings during the period 2018 to 
2021. There was a failure to respond to email correspondence and whilst an attempt to 
arrange a call was made, it didnt take place. However, theres also nothing to show that Mr 
and Mrs H chased the lack of contact or made a request for a review. In my view this lack of 
contact suggests it was more likely than not that it was understood that annual reviews were 
not taking place. 
In recognition of this shortcoming in customer service in failing to contact Mr and Mrs H, 
Compass offered to provide a service that did include annual reviews at a reduced fee and 
this was accepted in January 2021. On balance, I am satisfied that this was a fair and 
reasonable resolution to this aspect of the complaint.
Mr and Mrs H say they had become  decidedly unhappy about the divergence in returns on 
their ISAs. At this point, it is relevant to highlight that the risk exposure in each ISA was 
different with Mrs H being exposed to less risk, making a more cautious investment. This 
was highlighted at the time of the original recommendation, which expressly advised Mrs H 
that the return from her ISA over time may compare unfavourably with that achievable from a 
higher risk approach. So, whilst I can see that different levels of return were achieved over 
time, that wasnt inconsistent with the clear information provided at the time the advice was 
given and Ive noted that fund valuations would have been sent regularly. It may be that   
Mrs H was hoping for a higher return but I havent seen anything to show that this particular 
ISA was unsuitable for Mrs H having regard to her capacity for loss, objectives and lower risk 
appetite.
When another Service and Payment Agreement was signed in 2021, both options of initial 
advice and no advice required (execution only) were selected by Mr and Mrs H. Mr H said he 
had wanted the same service his original adviser provided, namely that options should be 
put to him for discussion but he would make selections or give alternative instructions. I 
appreciate historically Mr and Mrs H had a closer relationship with their first adviser, who 
would act upon their investment choices outside those recommended but whilst this was a 
relationship they would have preferred Compass have been clear that they did not provide 
this service. Ultimately, it is a commercial decision for each business to decide which service they wish to provide. As explained at the outset, this isnt something our service can 
influence.
Mrs H was again assessed as having a low risk appetite and alternative funds were 
recommended by Compass in line with her risk tolerance. It is common ground that the 
recommendation was rejected and alternative suggestions were made on Mrs Hs behalf by 
Mr H, which fell outside her risk appetite. Compass maintain that under the service selected, 
Mrs H had the option to switch funds to alternative providers recommended as being suitable 
by the adviser, but she could not make personal fund selections. So, it isnt the case that no 
alternatives were available. 
I note it has been said that it was totally unacceptable for Compass not to carry out 
instructions on the portfolio even though they were inconsistent with Mrs Hs risk profile. I 
dont agree. At this stage the business was responsible for providing a suitable 
recommendation and so they were required to act in Mrs Hs best interests, considering all 
her circumstances, including her objectives and attitude to risk. Compass explained that they 
would not be doing a service if funds drifted away from the appetite for risk profile. Ive also 
noted the concession on behalf of Mrs H, that Compass would not have been able to 
implement the transactions on an execution only basis as the platforms they used were not 
suitable for the specific transactions they wanted to make. As Compass could not provide 
the service sought, I dont think it was unreasonable to say they could no longer meet Mrs 
Hs needs nor was it unreasonable to suggest movement to another provider. 
Subsequently, a move was made to a new provider. I dont think it is fair and reasonable to 
ask Compass to the pay the difference in fees charged. There was no obligation on 
Compass to offer a different service and ultimately it was Mr and Mrs Hs decision to move to 
a new provider.
Im sorry to cause disappointment, but I wont be asking Compass to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman