DRN-2979461
The complaint
Mr C complains that debit card payments were blocked by The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc 
(RBS).
What happened
On 4 June 2021, Mr C tried to make a debit card payment of £1,500. It was declined by 
RBS. 
Mr C complained that RBS shouldnt have stopped the payment. He had plenty of money in 
his account. The payment was intended to place a bet on a horse  which won. He therefore 
lost out on the winnings. Hed had many similar transactions blocked in the past. He made 
regular payments to the same betting company  so couldnt see why this one was blocked. 
Hed been told by RBS previously that it wouldnt happen again.
RBS said the payment had been blocked because of suspected fraud. This was part of their 
commitment to prevent fraud and to protect customers. If a payment meets certain criteria, 
then they are blocked  but the criteria are commercially sensitive and cant be disclosed. 
Because RBS hadnt raised Mr Cs complaint as theyd promised to, and because hed 
previously been wrongly advised that such payments wouldnt be blocked again, they paid 
compensation of £100.
Mr C brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said RBS had acted in line with their 
terms and conditions  which said they could block transactions where fraud is suspected. 
Mr Cs payment had been suspected to be fraudulent and was therefore blocked. RBS had 
texted Mr C to ask him to call them. And when he did, he was kept waiting for a long time to 
get through. He felt that the compensation of £100 paid by RBS was enough for what 
happened.
Mr C asked that his complaint be looked into by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see where Mr C is coming from - he was trying to place a bet on a horse, and the 
payment was blocked. So  he missed out on the winnings he wouldve got had he been 
able to place the bet. And  hed made lots of similar payments to the same betting company 
in the past  hes shown us his statements which confirm this. And  payments like this one 
have been blocked several other times  and have been the subject of other complaints to 
RBS in the past. RBS told us that Mr C had complained about this on four other occasions  
and theyd given him a total of £175 in compensation previously. So  I can appreciate Mr 
Cs frustration.
All that said, all banks, including RBS, must protect their customers from fraud  and its a 
fact that fraud is increasing. So  RBS have sophisticated checks in place to block payments 
if they meet certain characteristics and trends. And in this case  thats what happened. So  
they refused the payment and say they texted Mr C to ask him to get in touch. Mr C says he 
didnt get a text  but in any case, he did call RBS and they then unblocked his card  so he 
could then make further payments. Ive listened to that call  and its clear that Mr C was 
frustrated, and RBS then unblocked his card  so he could use it again. But by then, it was 
too late for Mr C as the race had been run and hed lost out.
RBS do have the right to stop a payment if its suspected to be fraudulent. Their terms and 
conditions say they can block a payment if:
we reasonably believe that you didnt authorise the instruction;
we reasonably suspect the instruction is fraudulent;
its necessary to reject your instruction to protect you or us from a crime
And in Mr Cs case  such were the characteristics of the payment that they blocked it. I 
dont know what the criteria are, and RBS told us they change all the time. The fact that Mr C 
made similar payments before wouldnt necessarily mean that they would be passed as OK 
 the fact was, that RBSs fraud system decided that Mr Cs payment looked suspicious. 
RBS have apologised for the long wait that Mr C had in getting through about the payment, 
and because he was previously told that his payments wouldnt be blocked  and paid 
compensation of £100. I think thats reasonable in the circumstances.
I can see that Mr C feels strongly about what happened  and that he lost out on the winning 
bet he wanted to place. But I dont think the RBS did anything wrong here, and so I wont be 
asking them to do anymore.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman