DRN-3925161
The complaint
Mr N complains about the advice given by Mattinson Ginty and Partners (Employee 
Benefits) Limited (MGP) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational 
pension scheme to a Section 32 Buy Out plan (S32 plan). He says the advice was 
unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss. 
Mr N says the information he received from the time of transfer shows that he would have 
got a higher pension from the DB scheme than he has done from the S32 plan. And that he 
was not told he could get a reduced pension when he transferred. 
What happened
Mr N approached MGP in 1988 to discuss his pension arrangements. He had deferred 
benefits in a previous employers DB scheme having left this employer in 1987. It was 
estimated that this pension would provide an annual income of £9,932.47 at his retirement in 
2019. 
Mr N initially wanted to transfer the benefits of this DB scheme into his new employers DB 
scheme which MGP administered. But this wasnt possible. Following some further 
discussions, Mr N decided to transfer his deferred DB scheme benefits to a S32 plan. 
In February 1988, MGP wrote to Mr N and explained what his options were in respect of his 
DB scheme. These were, essentially, to leave things as they were or to transfer his pension 
benefits into a S32 plan. The transfer value was £7,258.27 and this included some additional 
voluntary contributions he had made. 
This letter included an illustration from the S32 plan provider. Ive not seen a copy of the 
actual illustration, but the letter said that it showed, using a fairly conservative annuity rate, 
that Mr Ns fund should increase so that it could provide an annual pension of £26,931. The 
illustration used a growth rate of 12.5% per year and the potential fund shown at Mr Ns 
retirement date was £285,170. 
Going forward, in April 2019, Mr N took the benefits from his S32 plan in the form of an 
annuity. This provided him with an annual income of £7,075.63. 
Mr N complained in 2022 to MGP about the suitability of the transfer advice. He said he was 
told he would receive a greater pension than he actually did. He also said he wasnt told of 
the potential reduction in his benefits when he transferred and so he thinks the S32 plan was 
mis-sold. 
MGP didnt uphold Mr Ns complaint. It firstly said that it thought that Mr Ns complaint had 
been made too late. This is because Mr N had complained six years after the event he 
complained about and three years later than when he ought to have realised he could 
complain. 
MGP went on to look at the merits of the complaint, it said:
Mr Ns DB scheme may not have provided the benefits Mr N was shown when he 
left, this is because these were dependent on the retail price index increasing at 5% 
each year which hasnt happened. 
And the DB scheme is now closed after some financial problems. So, its not certain 
that Mr N would have received anything above the minimum it had to provide.
Whilst the S32 plan may not have performed as well as expected, this was not due to 
any actions of MGP. 
The advice was appropriate given the regulations at the time, and Mr N was fully 
informed about it at the time of sale. 
Mr N referred his complaint to our service. One of our Investigators firstly looked at the 
jurisdiction of the complaint. She said that the complaint was within the jurisdiction of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. This was because Mr N had complained within three years 
of when he ought reasonably to have been aware he could complain. This was when he took 
his benefits from the plan.  
She went on to look at the merits of Mr Ns complaint and didnt uphold it. She thought the 
advice and the information MGP provided at the point of sale was reasonable, given the 
regulatory standards at the time. And so, she didnt think the S32 plan was mis-sold. 
Mr N disagreed and said that he still thought that he wasnt informed that he could receive 
less due to the transfer. The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the 
complaint was referred to me to make a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The jurisdiction of this complaint
Our Investigator said that she thought the complaint wasnt brought out of time. This was 
because Mr N complained within three years of when he ought reasonably to have been 
made aware he could complain. Neither side has commented on what the Investigator said 
about this, and so Ive assumed there is now no material disagreement. But for the 
avoidance of doubt, I dont think this complaint was made out of time for the same reasons 
the Investigator said. 
Was Mr Ns S32 plan mis-sold
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account the 
relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Mr Ns S32 pension plan was arranged before the Financial Services Act 1986 came into 
force (on 29 April 1988). At this time there werent specific regulations that firms were 
required to follow. That said, businesses like MGP had to adhere to a framework of common 
law, and some guidelines from industry bodies.
Prior to April 1988, there was no regulatory requirement for the business to give advice, or to 
ensure that the policy was suitable. If a firm did give advice, it had a duty to advise with 
reasonable care and skill. And if it provided information, it had to not misrepresent matters. 
And, more generally, it had to not make any negligent mis-statements. Given that this transaction took place over 30 years ago its reasonable to say that I may not 
have complete information about the sale. If there is conflicting information about what 
happened and missing information, Ive decided whats most likely to have happened on the 
balance of probabilities.
Ive considered the advice Mr N was given on this basis. 
From the available documentation, it seems Mr N had been looking at the transfer of his DB 
scheme pension benefits from as early as 1987, when he was made redundant from his 
previous employer. So, its reasonable to say that this was something that he wanted to do. 
But I need to consider if MGP acted reasonably and gave Mr N appropriate information 
about the transfer. 
The correspondence I have seen shows that MGP gave Mr N information about what his 
options were at the time. The letter sent to Mr N in February 1988 essentially said that he 
could leave his pension arrangements as they were or transfer to the S32 plan. The letter 
didnt explicitly say which was the best option for Mr N, but I think its reasonable to say that 
it was positive about the transfer. So, I think MGP did encourage, and advise, Mr N to 
transfer. And that the prospect of better retirement benefits that MGP showed Mr N was 
ultimately what led him to transfer.   
Mr Ns transferred out benefits were invested in a with-profits fund, which could reasonably 
be regarded as appropriate for a lower risk investor. But it was an equity-based fund and so 
it could also be expected to provide a reasonable rate of return. The illustration that Mr N 
was provided was based on a growth rate of 12.25%, and MGP said that, due to the tax free 
status of the growth within the fund, that his was similar to an investment growth of 9% 
ordinarily. And a growth rate at this level would provide a much higher pension than his DB 
scheme, so the transfer could provide much lower returns than this and still be beneficial for 
Mr N. 
At the time of advice it was reasonable to expect higher investment returns, and funds like 
the product providers with-profits fund could reasonably be expected to provide returns 
somewhere around the level in the illustration, as they had done in the past. I dont think it 
was unreasonable to have based the transfer on these growth rates. So, at the time Mr N 
decided to transfer his pension benefits, it wouldve appeared there was a reasonable 
prospect hed be better off at retirement as a result. 
I do acknowledge that investment returns are now, and have been in the past, much lower 
than Mr N was shown at the time he transferred. There have also been lower annuity rates 
and changes in life expectancy that have led to significantly reduced prospects for pension 
plans like the one he held. But this wasnt known at the time, nor did it seem likely that this 
would be the case in the near future when Mr N met with MGP. 
Ive also thought about what I know of Mr Ns circumstances at the time of the transfer. He 
was 33 years old and had a normal retirement age of 65. So, he was many years away from 
retirement. He had joined his employers new DB scheme and the benefits he was 
transferring were relatively modest. So, this DB scheme may not have formed the mainstay 
of his retirement provisions. And from the illustration hed been provided with, there seemed 
a reasonable prospect of growing this element of his pension provision. So, I dont think the 
transfer of these benefits had too high a risk due to Mr Ns particular circumstances. 
Mr N has said that he wasnt told he would receive lower benefits than he gave up from the 
DB scheme. The illustration did say that the final pension was subject to investment returns 
and it may not return what was expected. The declaration Mr N signed at the time of sale 
said that: I confirm that I understand that since the buy out plan policy to be effected will be with 
profits the amount available on realisation may well be more but could be less than that 
required to procure the benefits which would otherwise be payable under the pension 
scheme insofar as the assets thereof would permit.
I think this does make it clear enough that the benefits provided by the S32 plan were not 
guaranteed and so could be more or less than the DB scheme benefits given up. So, I dont 
think that MGP misrepresented the transfer situation at the time of sale. 
And its worth noting that the DB scheme benefits were not entirely guaranteed. MGP says 
the pension of over £9,000 was dependent on revaluation rates based on the retail price 
index being over 5%. This hasnt been the case for a significant number of years and so the 
scheme may have provided a lower pension that this. 
Added to this, I understand the DB scheme ran into difficulties sometime after the advice 
was given and was eventually wound up. I understand that (some) members only received 
the guaranteed minimum pension part of their entitlements. This could have resulted in Mr N 
receiving far less than the pension he thought he was getting. So, its not entirely clear here 
that Mr N has suffered a loss due to the transfer. 
So, I havent seen any evidence which leads me to conclude the transaction was unfair to 
Mr N at the time of sale.  And, overall, having reviewed all the information provided I dont 
think its reasonable to say that that the advice Mr N received in 1988 was inappropriate for 
him at the time, given the relevant law and industry best practice.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman