DRN-2905884
The complaint
A business which Ill refer to as T complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt process its 
feeder account application which meant it was unable to apply for a Bounce Back Loan.
The complaint is brought on Ts behalf by one of its owners, Mrs G.
What happened
T had a business account with another bank and wanted to apply for a Bounce Back Loan. 
As its existing lender wasnt participating in the Bounce Back Loan Scheme, T decided to 
apply with HSBC. 
As part of its eligibility criteria, HSBC required all borrowers to have a business relationship 
through either a business or feeder account, before they could apply for a Bounce back 
Loan. So in July 2020, T applied online with HSBC for a feeder account.
Mrs G said she contacted HSBC about Ts application and was told if there were any issues, 
HSBC would let her know. Mrs G said she continually checked the online portal but there 
were no updates or messages. So in November, Mrs G called HSBC for an update. 
HSBC told Mrs G that Ts application hadnt been progressed. The bank said theyd tried to 
contact Mrs G by phone a couple of times and when she hadnt replied theyd closed the 
application. Mrs G asked if she could make a new application but HSBC said they werent 
currently accepting feeder account applications, but the bank said this may change in 
December.
Mrs G was unhappy as she said shed never received the calls. She told HSBC the Bounce 
Back Loan was vital to keep it afloat, so if shed known there was something outstanding for 
the application, she would have tried to resolve this immediately. Mrs G wasnt satisfied 
HSBC had attempted to call her as she hadnt received any messages, so she made a 
complaint.
HSBC didnt uphold the complaint. The bank said Mrs G had recorded that T was a 
partnership but only included her details, which meant they had needed more information 
before they could progress Ts application. HSBC said theyd called Mrs G a couple of times 
in September to discuss this, but she hadnt called back, and the application subsequently 
expired. 
The bank explained it was a borrowers responsibility to make sure the application was 
correct, and due to the volume of applications, they could only make limited attempts to 
resolve any outstanding issues. 
Mrs G didnt agree. She said shed had to say T was a partnership on the application as 
there was no option to put its actual trading structure. So she asked this service to look into 
Ts complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought it had been 
reasonable for Mrs G to declare the business type as a partnership on the basis that there 
were two owners with equal 50% shares. But he thought Mrs G ought also to have included 
the other shareholder in the application. Without this information, he didnt think HSBC had 
made an error in not progressing the application. 
He also said hed seen evidence from HSBC theyd attempted to call Mrs G and felt it was 
likely theyd done so. The investigator also said although Mrs G wanted HSBC to update her 
by email or the portal, they werent obligated to do so. And given the time that had passed, 
he thought it was reasonable that Mrs G could also have contacted HSBC sooner.
Mrs G didnt agree. She said HSBC hadnt provided evidence theyd contacted her. She also 
said shed asked for their help in completing the application but was told they werent able to, 
so shed filled out the online application as best she could. So she asked for an ombudsman 
to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Mrs G and HSBC have both provided detailed evidence about this complaint and Ive taken 
on board all their points. Where evidence is unavailable, incomplete or contradictory, I must 
reach my decision on a balance of probabilities  what I think is most likely to have 
happened given the evidence available and the wider circumstances. And I have needed to 
do that here.
Mrs G has told us she doesnt agree with HSBCs decision not to proceed with Ts feeder 
account application. She said she had to fill out Ts application on her own as HSBC didnt 
provide her with any help  despite her request to do so. I acknowledge Mrs Gs frustration, 
as she feels she completed the form to the best of her knowledge, but I think it was 
reasonable for the bank to ask for more information before agreeing to open a new account 
for T.  
I say this because, when HSBC completed their account opening checks, they identified 
some discrepancies in the information Mrs G had provided on the application form. Mrs G 
told us that on the application form, it didnt give the option for Ts business structure and 
that the closest option was a partnership, and HSBC havent disputed this was the correct 
option. However, the application was clear that all shareholders needed to be included, but 
Mrs G only gave details for herself  not the other shareholder.
As HSBC werent able to satisfy themselves the information was correct and that it had all 
the business owner listed, the bank couldnt be sure theyd be able to comply with their 
account opening checks  which ultimately allow them to fulfil their broader legal and 
regulatory obligations.  The bank has shown that they tried several times to clarify the 
discrepancy and were unable to leave incomplete applications outstanding. They have also 
told us their process is that an application will drop from their system after 90 days due to 
inactivity, which seems reasonable. 
I acknowledge Mrs G feels shes been treated unfairly because of the banks limited 
attempts to contact her. However, the Scheme itself was based on applicants self- declaring 
their information including turnover, with the aim of minimal lender involvement. And HSBC 
should have been able to rely on the information Mrs G declared on the application without 
the need to contact her for clarification. So I think it was reasonable for HSBC to cancel the 
application after this period of time, having failed to obtain the information it needed. 
Mrs G has told us she doesnt believe HSBC tried to call her as they dont have any call 
recordings. However, HSBC has already explained that this was due to the high volume of 
account applications the bank received from businesses looking to benefit from the Bounce 
Back Loan Scheme, so additional staff from other departments were needed to speed up the application process. As the Scheme was set up to enable businesses to receive funding as 
quickly as possible, I dont think it was unreasonable for HSBC to take this step. 
Ive also seen evidence of HSBCs case notes that show they tried to call Mrs G on both 
9 September and 11 September to confirm the information needed to progress Ts 
application - but were unsuccessful. Based on the call records showing the date and time the 
bank made the calls to Mrs G, Im persuaded HSBC did try to obtain the missing information 
as theyve said. Ive seen evidence from the bank showing its their standard process to 
attempt phone contact twice. So I cant reasonably say theyve done anything wrong by not 
attempting to contact Mrs G using the online portal or email, and Im satisfied theyve acted 
in line with their processes.  
Mrs G has also said she was told by the bank that she should only use the online portal for 
updates on Ts application. And that if shed been aware the bank needed information for Ts 
application, she would have contacted them immediately. As I dont have access to the call 
recording, I cant say for certain what was said. I also havent seen any evidence from the 
bank that this is their process when applicants want to apply for a feeder account. But I think 
its possible there may have been some miscommunication here and that Mrs G may have 
been told she would get online updates. 
However, Mrs G has told us T needed the feeder account opened so it could urgently apply 
for a Bounce Back Loan. She also told us she regularly checked the online portal for updates 
on Ts application but hadnt received any communication. So I think its reasonable to 
believe that if there wasnt any update from HSBC on Ts application for more than a month, 
she could have taken other steps to follow up with the bank for example by phone or email to 
check if there was an issue. But I havent seen any evidence Mrs G attempted to contact the 
bank using any method for over three months.
I recognise that Mrs G feels strongly about this and shell be disappointed with my decision. 
But based on everything Ive seen, I think HSBC reasonably cancelled Ts feeder account 
application. So I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman