DRN-1419131
The complaint
Mr G complains that he only opened an account with TSB Bank Plc in January 2019, but 
TSB told him hed opened some accounts a few years ago. He also complains that TSB 
registered him for internet banking but shouldnt have done so.
What happened
Mr G told us he only opened an account with TSB in January 2019  when he arranged to 
switch his account to TSB from a previous provider, H. However, he says TSB have told him 
that he opened a Classic Account and Easy Saver in March 2016. Hes also found out that 
hes been set up for internet banking  and he says he never asked for this.
Mr G complained to TSB but it didnt uphold his complaint. It said hed opened a Classic 
Account and Easy Saver account in March 2016 and that as part of the terms and conditions 
internet banking was set up. It agreed to pay £25 compensation as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr G maintains that he only opened his account in 2019 so he referred his complaint to our 
service. Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld because 
TSB had provided information to show Mr G had opened two accounts with TSB in March 
2016.
Mr G disagrees with the investigators view and he confirmed again that he never opened 
any accounts with TSB in 2016 so hes asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator and for broadly the same reasons. I 
appreciate Mr G feels strongly that he never opened any accounts with TSB in 2016 so I 
know this will come as a disappointment to him.
TSB provided information to our service to show that Mr G opened a current account and 
savings account with it in March 2016.
In terms of the current account, TSB provided a system screenshot showing the account 
was opened in March 2016. It also provided a copy of the current account terms and 
conditions  which are shown as signed and dated by Mr G in March 2016 - when he 
opened his account. The account number referred to on the account opening form is the 
same account number TSB used when he switched his account in 2019.
TSB explained to us that Mr G didnt use the current account or savings account he originally 
opened in 2016, so when he switched his current account to TSB in 2019 it used the same 
account number it had allocated to the current account hed previously opened in 2016. Im 
satisfied that this explanation is supported by the documents provided by TSB.
TSB provided a copy of Mr Gs authority to switch the account he held with H to TSB. This 
authority is shown as signed by him in January 2019. The switching paperwork issued by 
TSB to confirm the switch shows the same account number as the current account Mr G 
opened in March 2016.
TSB hasnt been able to provide a copy of the form when Mr G opened his savings account 
in 2016 but it has provided a screenshot to show it was opened in March 2016.
Based on the information Ive seen Im satisfied that Mr G opened a current account and 
savings account with TSB in 2016.
The terms and conditions of the current account opened in March 2016 provide that in order 
to be eligible for the account it is necessary to be registered for internet banking. Based on 
the information Ive seen I cant say it was wrong of TSB to register Mr G for internet 
banking. 
TSB confirmed to our service that the current account Mr G set up in March 2016 wasnt 
used by him until he switched his account in January 2019. Although TSB set Mr G up for 
internet banking I havent seen anything to suggest he was disadvantaged by this because 
the account was never used until the switch was completed in January 2019. TSB confirmed 
in its final response letter that it has now removed Mr Gs internet banking so I think it treated 
him fairly.
TSB provided a number of call recordings from mid-August 2019 when Mr G called it after he 
received a text message to say his Internet number had been changed. I can understand 
that Mr G might have been worried by this as he made clear during the telephone call that he 
hadnt been on the internet. I havent seen a copy of the text message Mr G received but 
TSB explained on the phone that this message was sent to him after hed been into the 
branch earlier that day to update his telephone number on TSBs systems. Having listened 
to the phone calls at the time I think TSB dealt with Mr G fairly.
TSB has already made an offer to pay £25 compensation as a gesture of goodwill by way of 
apology for any miscommunication. I agree with the investigator that this isn't evidence that 
TSB has done something wrong. Mr G should contact TSB directly if he now wishes to 
accept this.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2020.
 
Michelle Hayward
Ombudsman