DRN-4465300
The complaint
Mr R complains that Western Circle Ltd gave him loans without carrying out proper
affordability checks. Mr R says had further checks been carried out, Western Circle wouldve
discovered he had other loans with other lenders.
What happened
Mr R took four loans from Western Circle between January 2016 and February 2017. Ive 
outlined a summary of his borrowing below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountdate loan 
was fundedrepayment 
dateterm 
(months)monthly 
repayment
1 £500.00 29/01/2016 29/04/2016 3 £246.80
2 £650.00 06/06/2016 31/08/2016 3 £310.59
3 £500.00 14/11/2016 28/02/2017 4 £184.68
4 £850.00 28/02/2017 14/06/2018 3 £420.26
Following Mr Rs complaint, Western Circle issued its final response letter in May 2017. In 
summary, it said it had carried out proportionate checks which showed these loans were 
affordable. Mr R didnt agree and instead referred the complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service in 2023.
Western Circle initially said it didnt think we could consider the complaint because Mr R
referred it to the Financial Ombudsman Service more than six months after it issued the final
response letter in 2017 and so was outside of our jurisdiction. However, after it was provided
with the details as to why Mr R was late, it consented to the Financial Ombudsman Service
considering the complaint.
The merits of the complaint were then considered by an adjudicator who partly upheld it. She
didnt think Western Circle had made an error when loans 1  3 were provided. But she
upheld Mr Rs complaint about loan 4 because in her view the pattern of borrowing was now
harmful for him.
Western Circle disagreed with the proposed outcome for loan 4 because it said there were
breaks between the loans and the credit commitments which were verified as well as the
other checks, showed the loan to be affordable.
Mr R responded to the adjudicators assessment by providing a medical certificate
confirming his recent medical diagnoses.
I then issued the first provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending not
to uphold Mr Rs complaint about loans 1  3 and why, based on the evidence,
Western Circle ought to have carried out further, more in-depth checks before loan 4 was
granted. However, at the time, I didnt consider that better checks wouldve led to
Western Circle deciding loan 4 was unaffordable.
Later, following further enquiries which had been made with Mr R and Western Circle, I
became aware that there was a County Court Judgment (CCJ) that had been granted in
relation to loan 4.
Thinking about all the information provided in response to the provisional decision, including
the details of the CCJ, I issued another provisional decision where there was no change to
the outcome for loans 1  3  these were still not upheld. However, as a result of the CCJ, 
and what Mr R knew or ought to have known at the time, I didnt think it would be appropriate 
for the Financial Ombudsman Service to consider the fourth loan and I intended to dismiss 
that part of his complaint.
Western Circle accepted the findings I was intending to reach. Mr R didnt agree with the 
outcome and a summary of his comments can be found below;
He wasnt able to give his view to the Court due to his mental health at the time.
Mr R had found examples of other cases against Western Circle that had been 
upheld after bank statements were considered.
Mr R provided details of other loans he had taken from other lenders at the end of 
2015 into January 2016.
Mr R said he has evidence that the Financial Ombudsman Service has asked lenders
to remove CCJs as part of the resolution to a complaint on other cases.
After Mr Rs response, there have been other telephone calls and emails where Mr R has
made further points  all of which I considered, and a summary of these points can be found 
below. 
Mr R wasnt given an opportunity to present his arguments to the court before the 
CCJ was approved.
Mr R provided details of another case he had against a different high-cost credit 
provider who gave him a loan around the same time as Western Circle. This other 
complaint was upheld in his favour even though there was also a CCJ.
Mr R has some concerns around the legality of the CCJ because he didnt receive 
the papers it was just added against his name  he was unaware a CCJ had been 
recorded.
The amount of debt kept increasing  and was too much.
Below Ive provided a in parts (in italics) a copy of the most recent provisional decision which 
was sent to both parties on 3 November 2023. The other headings have a summary of the 
conclusions that I reached. 
Both parties were given an opportunity to provide any further submissions for my 
consideration, but a response needed to have been received by 17 November 2023.   
Mr R has sent in emails and had phone calls with a colleague of mine all of which were 
added to the file. Ive summarised Mr Rs points below.
Mr R had moved address in May 2017 and so couldnt have received the court 
papers sent to that address in July 2017. Later, Mr R provided his address history 
screen shot of his credit file, showing that his address was updated in May 2017. He 
also provided further details of the rental arrangements of renting out the property 
which meant he wasnt able to attend the property to collect any post unless the 
tenants gave permission. 
Mr R said Western Circle didnt contact him through other means such as a phone 
call or an email to tell him it was intending to start court action. Mr R didnt discover the CCJ until after it had been granted. 
He said the outcome reached in this complaint isnt consistent with the approach the 
Financial Ombudsman Service has taken with another one of his complaints that was 
recently decided. The other complaint concerned a loan that was taken out around 
the same time as Mr Rs fourth loan and in the other case a court also granted a 
CCJ. 
Mr R had other cases against other lenders, all of which Mr R says the 
Financial Ombudsman Service has said that from loan 4 further checks ought to have 
been carried such as looking at bank statements. Mr R says the approach taken in 
this case isnt consistent. 
Western Circle didnt respond to the last provisional decision, but it did, after requesting 
further information confirm that the only address it has recorded for Mr R was the address 
which was provided as part of his loan application. 
A summary of the previous provisional decisions follows before I move on to deal with 
dealing with Mr Rs most recent comments. The extracts from the previous provisional 
decision form part of this final decision.
A summary of what I said in the previous provisional decisions 
Loans 1 to 3
Below is an extract from the provisional decision about loans 1  3. For ease of reference, 
Ive include new headings in order to break up the summary of the provisional decision as 
well as my final decision where Ive addressed Mr Rs most recent comments. Below is what 
I previously said in the provisional decision about loans 1  3 and Ive put this part in italics. 
Western Circle had to assess the lending to check if Mr R could afford to pay back the
amounts hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Western Circles checks could have taken into account
a number of different things, such as how much money was being lent, the size of the
repayments, and Mr Rs income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. However, certain factors might suggest Western Circle
should have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr R. These factors
include:
Mr R having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr R having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of 
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr R coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr R. The adjudicator thought, in her
assessment, that this applied to Mr Rs fourth loan.
Western Circle was required to establish whether Mr R could sustainably repay the loans not just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr R was able to repay
his loan sustainably. It doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Rs complaint.
In my view Western Circle carried out proportionate checks before these loans were granted 
considering what Mr R declared about his income of £3,140 each month and the outgoings 
he declared. Western Circle also compared the outgoings Mr R provided against figures 
provided by a well-known debt advice charity and as a result it increased Mr Rs outgoings. 
These checks showed the loans to be affordable.
I also dont think, especially for loan three that Western Circle needed to have reviewed 
Mr Rs bank statements  as he suggested. This is due to the small gaps between loans one 
and two and two and three. Given it was early in the lending relationship, Im satisfied the 
checks were proportionate and the checks showed Mr R could afford his repayments. So, 
these loans werent upheld.
I also previously explained why Mr Rs comments in relation to the second provisional 
decision hadnt changed my mind about the complaint. 
The approach the Financial Ombudsman Service takes to cases about unaffordable lending
is well publicised and our website provides some case studies of how cases are considered.
Mr R would likely be able to find decisions in which weve decided bank statements (or other
documentation) was used to verify information.
I am required to come to a fair and reasonable outcome based on the individual
circumstances of the complaint. Mr R says he has found other decisions against
Western Circle where complaints have been upheld following an adjudicator concluding
bank statements (or other documents) ought to have been reviewed and I accept this may
be the case. 
However, in this case, I dont think it would have been required, given the loan
history and the amounts borrowed. For Western Circle to have considered the bank
statements or Mr Rs full credit report he has provided for loans 1  3 given the other
information it obtained from Mr R. In my view, Western Circle wasnt given any reason to
think the loans were either unaffordable or unsustainable, and therefore there wouldnt have
been a need for it to consider Mr Rs bank statements.
I accept that Mr R provided copies of his bank statements as well as his credit file and it is of
course possible, that had Western Circle reviewed these statements  to be clear it didnt
need to - then it may well have thought the loans may have been unaffordable for him. But
Western Circle wouldve only concluded this had it viewed the bank statements but in my
view, given everything else that it knew, it wouldve been disproportionate for it to view the
bank statements. This is because the loans looked affordable and there was no indication
these loans were unsustainable for him for any other reason.At this point in the lending relationship  which included thinking about the loan term, amount 
borrowed and the gaps between some of the loans - I do think it was reasonable for
Western Circle to have relied on the information it was given from both the credit reference
agency and Mr R to show loans 1  3 were affordable. I am therefore not upholding Mr Rs 
complaint about these loans. 
Loan 4
In the provisional decision I explained, I was going to exercise my discretion to dismiss this 
element of his complaint about this loan. The reasons why I was intending to dismiss the 
complaint were:
A court has already issued a CCJ which required Mr R to pay Western Circle. 
Mr R is in effect asking to reopen the issue about whether the loan is payable, but a 
court has already decided that it is. 
I noted Mr R didnt file a defence and he provided reasons for this including not being 
aware of the claim as well as his mental health. 
I also felt Mr R couldve and shouldve raised an unaffordable lending defence 
against the Western Circle claim. I said this because Mr R had already raised an 
unaffordable lending complaint directly with Western Circle and had received a final 
response dealing with this matter in May 2017 which was around 4 months before 
the CCJ was granted. 
I previously considered and had provisional decided that although Mr R said he 
hadnt received the claim papers, I was satisfied that on balance that the claim form 
was sent by the court to Mr R. 
Debt Balance 
Mr R queried the amount of interest that was charged by Western Circle, and I summarised 
the industry regulations around the cost cap that had been in place since January 2015 and 
how this didnt apply to the adding of court fees or other costs. 
Other Complaint 
Mr R also made some further points about how we dealt with another case, and how the 
Financial Ombudsman has asked for CCJs to be removed, I explained that I have to 
consider the circumstances of an individual case and having done so, I was satisfied that it 
isnt always possible to compare other decisions, even though, they may look similar. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This section should be read in conjunction with the findings in the provisional decision 
above, because here I am only reviewing the new submissions and comments made by 
Mr R and Western Circle. 
Loans 1  3
Having reviewed all the submissions from Mr R and Western Circle and with reference to the 
findings in the provisional decision which can be found above I am still minded to not uphold 
the complaint about loans 1  3.Mr R provided some further submissions that he was borrowing from other loan companies 
at the same time as he was taking Western Circle loans  and some of these other loan 
companies made offers to settle complaints about unaffordable lending. While that may be 
the case, I have to consider what has happened in the individual circumstances of this case, 
and having done that I am still minded not to uphold these loans. 
So, for the same reasons that I gave in the provisional decision, my view remains the same 
that Western Circle carried out a proportionate check before it granted these loans and it 
could rely on the information given to it by Mr R. I therefore do not uphold Mr Rs complaint 
about loans 1 to 3. 
Loan 4
I have reconsidered, in light of Mr Rs most recent comments whether loan 4 ought to be 
dismissed, taking account of Mr Rs submissions as well as all of the information and 
evidence that had previously been provided. 
Ive also carefully reconsidered the Dispute Resolution (DISP) section of the FCA 
Handbook, which can be found on the FCAs website. In the FCA Handbook R denotes a 
rule and G denotes guidance.
Having done so, I am still minded to exercise my discretion to dismiss the complaint about 
loan 4 without considering the merits pursuant to DISP 3.3.4AR (3) because I consider that 
the subject matter of the complaint in relation to that loan has already been the subject of 
court proceedings: 
The Ombudsman may dismiss a complaint referred to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service on or after 9 July 2015 without considering its merits if the Ombudsman 
considers that:
(3) the subject matter of the complaint has been the subject of court proceedings 
where there has been a decision on the merits 
Ive thought carefully about the evidence Mr R has provided about his address history  the 
screen shots from his credit file do suggest that he wasnt living at the address that 
Western Circle held for him. He also provided some testimony about how difficult it was for 
him to collect any post that may have been sent to the old address.
In saying that, the fact remains that a CCJ was obtained by Western Circle for the fourth 
loan and Mr R still could and should have raised this issue about affordability as part of 
those legal proceedings, given he had already raised his complaint with Western Circle 
before the CCJ was granted. I accept this may have had to have happened after the CCJ 
was granted, given Mr R says he wasnt aware of it until then, but that doesnt change my 
mind about whether it is appropriate for the Financial Ombudsman Service to review the 
fourth loan.  
 
Even if Mr R did not know about the CCJ until some months later, which in his submissions 
to our service he says is the case, he took no action at that time when he did become aware 
 such as challenging the CCJ. Now, there may be good reasons why Mr R didnt take any 
action  due to his mental health and his disability, details of which he has given us which. 
Mr R says this made things more difficult for him to deal with these matters at the time. 
Nonetheless, I still consider that these arguments about the affordability of loan 4 should 
have been raised with the court at some point since then given it issued the CCJ, rather than 
referred to our service.I have therefore decided, for the reasons above, to exercise my discretion to dismiss Mr Rs 
complaint about his fourth loan. 
Other Complaint 
Mr R has also said that he had another complaint which has been considered by the 
Financial Ombudsman Service against a different high-cost lender and in the other case, 
Mr R also had a CCJ recorded against him. He says that in the other complaint, an 
adjudicator upheld his complaint about the loan. Mr R says there has been inconsistent 
treatment with regards to how the Financial Ombudsman Service has dealt with the issues 
surrounding the CCJ. 
My role is to assess every case on the individual circumstances and facts, so there may be 
occasions where cases which appear to have similar circumstances can lead to different 
outcomes. In the circumstances of this complaint, I am satisfied that it is appropriate for me 
to exercise my discretion as afforded to me by DISP 3.3.4AR (3) and dismiss the complaint 
about loan 4. 
It may also help to explain that determinations of complaints by the Financial Ombudsman 
Service do not set any sort of precedent for how future complaints will be determined or 
indeed whether they will be determined, or whether they may be dismissed without 
consideration of the merits. 
As an aside, I also note that in the other complaint Mr R has referred to, there doesnt 
appear to have been any mention of the CCJ until after the complaint was closed. The 
adjudicator had already upheld the complaint and it had been accepted as a fair resolution 
by both Mr R and the lender. 
For the above reasons, I remain satisfied that I have applied the relevant rules correctly to 
Mr Rs case and therefore I am exercising my discretion to dismiss the part of Mr Rs 
complaint in so far as it concerns loan 4. 
Debt Balance 
I did touch on this element of the complaint in the previous provisional decision, and I see no 
reason to depart from my findings about this. Although I note that Mr R has shared 
comments about the debt balance increasing and his unhappiness with Western Circle. The 
industry regulator set a cost cap for this type of loan which was implemented in 
January 2015. What this means, in short, is that a lender cant collect more than 100% of the 
amount borrowed. Which means the most Western Circle could in theory collect for loan 4 
was £1,700.
However, the cost cap only applies to the interest and charges added (either contracted or 
not) and the cost cap doesnt include any additional charges such as court fees or costs. Ive 
not seen anything to suggest that in this case, Western Circle has breached the cost cap 
and as Ive mentioned above, a court already found Mr R liable for the outstanding balance 
and ultimately, this debt was settled with a payment for the lower amount of £1,200.
I appreciate Mr R will be unhappy with the outcome of his complaint, but I want to reassure 
him that I have fully considered all the evidence which has been provided. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decisions, Im not upholding 
Mr Rs complaint about loans 1  3 and I am dismissing his complaint about loan 4 without 
considering the merits.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman