DRN-3596810
The complaint
Mr L complains that Aldermore Bank Plc (Aldermore) gave him poor advice when it 
recommended a mortgage to him in 2018. Further, he says that because it couldnt offer him 
a timely appointment in 2021, he was forced to use another lender and ultimately pay an 
Early Repayment Charge (ERC). He would like the ERC to be refunded.
What happened
In September 2018 Mr L entered into a five-year fixed rate mortgage product following 
advice from Aldermore that it was suitable for him.
In July 2021 Mr L called Aldermore to let it know that he had accepted an offer on his home 
and wanted to discuss taking out a new mortgage. He was aware that his fixed rate deal was 
not portable per se, but that the ERC might not be payable if he took a new mortgage with 
Aldermore.
On 3 August 2021 Mr L spoke to Aldermore again, and it offered him an appointment with 
one of its mortgage advisors on 10 September 2021. No earlier appointments were 
available. Mr L was concerned about that delay, and Aldermore suggested he could go via 
an independent mortgage broker, which would remove the need for him to wait for an 
Aldermore mortgage advisor to be available. When an Aldermore advisor spoke to him on 10 
September 2021, Mr L confirmed that he was using an independent broker and so the 
appointment didnt go ahead.
Mr L ultimately took out a mortgage with a new lender and redeemed his mortgage with 
Aldermore at the end of October 2021, paying the required ERC.
Due to the delay in being offered an appointment with an Aldermore mortgage advisor, Mr L 
complained that it was unfair for him to have to pay the ERC. Aldermore didnt agree, but 
said that it would reconsider if Mr L could demonstrate that the mortgage with the new lender 
concluded before 10 September 2021. He didnt provide anything further, but was unhappy 
with Aldermores response, so brought the complaint to us.
Having reviewed the evidence, the investigator didnt think Aldermore had done anything 
wrong, so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr L doesnt accept that and asked an Ombudsman 
to look at his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it, and Ill explain why.
There are two separate questions in this case, which I will deal with in turn.
Was Aldermore wrong to recommend a five-year fixed mortgage term to Mr L in 2018?
Mr L says that, after his initial meetings and discussions with Aldermore in 2018, in which a 
five-year fixed term was settled upon, he called and spoke to someone and said that he in 
fact only wanted a two-year fixed term. That would have meant that he would not have 
been in a fixed deal by 2021 and no ERC would have been payable.
Ive looked at the paperwork from the 2018 mortgage sale which sets out the detail of the 
conversations and assessment. It says that Mr L thought a five-year fixed rate would suit 
him as he wanted some long term certainty in [his] monthly payments and that he 
said that interest rates werent going to be any lower than they were in the Summer 
of 2018.
Mr L says when he then said he wanted a two-year fixed term, Aldermore said that wasnt 
possible. However, it doesnt appear that Mr L went through any assessment for that much 
shorter term, and Aldermore has no record of any such conversation.
Fundamentally, the question is whether I think there is any evidence to suggest that 
Aldermores recommendation for a five-year fixed rate was unsuitable for Mr L. I dont. Mr 
L made no mention to Aldermore of any plans to move within that term. And seems 
focused on having certainty about monthly repayments. So the reasons why Aldermore 
recommended that product are clear and make sense in Mr Ls circumstances. Mr L chose 
to accept that recommendation, and I dont find there to have been a mistake on 
Aldermores part.
Did the delay in getting an appointment with an Aldermore mortgage advisor mean that Mr 
L had no option other than to use another lender?
In short, I dont think this is the case. Of course, it was both frustrating and disappointing 
for Mr L that he had to wait more than a month for that appointment. And inevitably those 
sorts of delays in receiving a Decision or Agreement in Principle from a lender would have 
a substantial impact on a customers ability to have a property taken off the market. So I 
dont think that Aldermore got everything right here. But importantly, I think there were 
other options open to Mr L, but that he chose to go with another lender, rather than being 
forced to.
I can see that the situation with the new house that Mr L wanted to buy moved very 
quickly, which is how things often go. He contacted Aldermore on 3 August 2021 and 
made a revised offer on the house of his choice on 4 August 2021, despite the fact that he 
knew by that point that he wouldnt be able to speak to an Aldermore mortgage advisor 
until 10 September 2021. The fact that an ERC would be payable if he exited his mortgage 
deal early was also clear from the 2018 paperwork. So, he pushed ahead knowing the full 
situation. That was his choice, of course. He could have paused on his house search until 
he had his financial situation sorted.
He says he needed a Decision or Agreement In Principle from a mortgage lender to get the 
house he wanted to buy taken off the market. He then got a Mortgage Illustration from 
another lender dated 5 August 2021, and ultimately appears to have completed with that 
lender to buy that house at the end of October 2021.
On 3 August 2021 Aldermore advised Mr L that he could try using an independent broker 
to make an application. Essentially, mortgage lenders are required to provide advice to 
potential customers  not just information. Mr L says that Aldermore had his information, 
so should have been able to just make him an offer. But this was a new mortgage 
application on a new property, requiring a full assessment and underwriting. An in-depth 
assessment was needed. An independent broker might have been able to bypass the delay in this situation. Despite Aldermore suggesting he try that route, Mr L says he 
didnt know that one would be used by them.., i.e. by Aldermore, and that doing so 
would have cost him more money. Possibly circa £2,500 or more. Of course Aldermore 
told Mr L that a broker was an option, so he did know that one would be used by them. And 
there is no evidence to support that using a broker would necessarily have cost him 
anything in the realms of the £2,500 Mr L suggests. Sometimes the lender pays a broker 
fee, sometimes the borrower does. But in this instance there is no evidence because Mr L 
chose not to try the option at all.
As mentioned earlier in this decision, Aldermore offered to reconsider Mr Ls complaint if 
he could show that he completed on his new mortgage by 10 September 2021. I assume 
that is to allow for the possibility that if his house move had really moved at pace, so the 
delay caused by Aldermores lack of appointments was identifiably the cause of him having 
to use another lender, it could consider whether compensation is fairly due. However, he 
didnt complete on his new mortgage until 22 October 2021. So Mr L could still have 
pursued possibilities with Aldermore during the appointment on 10 September 2021. 
However, he immediately ended that conversation saying he was going with another 
lender. I recognise that there might have been some complications and even potentially 
some additional professional fees (e.g. conveyancing or for valuations) linked with 
changing lenders at that point. But equally there might not. We will never know now 
because Mr L didnt pursue it at all. Had he followed the options of using a broker, or of 
exploring an offer from Aldermore on 10 September 2021, and then incurred fees as a 
result, I would be considering asking Aldermore to refund them. But he didnt. From the 
brief conversation he had with the Aldermore mortgage advisor on 10 September 2021, I 
think its clear he had decided to go with another lender in any event. But he didnt have to.
Finally, there is a very good reason why Mr L would have wanted to move lenders if 
possible, even if that involved paying an ERC. Thats because Aldermore describes itself 
as specialising, in helping people with less than perfect credit. That specialism is 
generally reflected in higher interest rates than those offered by more mainstream lenders. 
In this case, the new lender offered Mr L an interest rate almost 2% lower than the one he 
had on his fixed rate deal with Aldermore. Of course, had he pursued things with 
Aldermore, it may well have offered him a more competitive rate on a new mortgage, 
bearing in mind the general drop in interest rates between 2018 and 2021. But it would 
most likely have offered him a higher rate than the new lender. So it isnt difficult to see 
why the new lenders mortgage offer was appealing to Mr L.
In all the circumstances of this case, it isnt surprising that Mr L chose to move to another 
mortgage lender in 2021. But I dont accept that he had no choice and was forced into that 
position by the delay in getting an appointment with an Aldermore mortgage advisor. Whilst 
Aldermore was not able to offer the service levels we would normally expect, and so didnt 
get everything right, the evidence shows that Mr L chose to go with another lender, and so 
I dont find that any compensation is due to Mr L.
It therefore follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and Aldermore doesnt need to 
do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman