DRN-3291901
The complaint
Mr P and Mrs B complain about how AXA Insurance UK Plc handled a claim they made on 
their landlords insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr P and Mrs B own and rent out a residential property. In November 2020 it was damaged 
by fire. They claimed on their AXA landlords policy. The claim was accepted. 
Mr P and Mrs B were unhappy with how AXA handled the claim and its communications. 
They werent happy with the settlement figure AXA had proposed initially. 
In January 2021 AXA provide a response to a complaint from Mr P and Mrs B. They werent 
satisfied so came to this service. In June 2021 another ombudsman at this service felt AXAs 
offer of £200 compensation was fair. She didnt require it to pay any additional compensation 
or do anything differently. 
Mr P and Mrs B provided further complaint points to AXA. It responded to those in February 
2021. They werent satisfied with the response, so referred the complaint to this service. The 
other ombudsman didnt consider those complaint points in her June 2021 decision. 
AXA issued a further complaint response in February 2021. It said an incorrect settlement 
had been offered as its contractor had failed to consider damage to the propertys landing 
and stairs. AXA increased its settlement offer to take account of those areas. But it said it 
wouldnt pay for blinds, carpets and underlay, Mr P and Mrs B had claimed for, as they didnt 
have contents cover. It also offered them a further £150 to recognise its poor service. 
Mr P and Mrs B werent satisfied with the response. They would like the blinds and other 
items covered  and further compensation.   
In December 2021 one of our investigators considered Mr P and Mrs Bs more recent 
complaint points and AXAs February 2021 response. She felt its offer of compensation was 
enough to recognise any unnecessary delay it was responsible for. She felts its decision not 
to cover the blinds etc was fair as Mr P and Mrs B didnt have contents cover. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to require AXA to pay Mr P and Mrs B any extra 
compensation or do anything differently. 
Mr P and Mrs B have made several complaint points. Ive been provided with a lot of 
information. As this is an informal service, I wont respond here to every point or piece of 
information. Instead Ive addressed what I consider to be the main issues. But I would like to 
reassure Mr P and Mrs B and AXA that Ive thought about everything Ive been provided 
with. 
Mr P and Mrs B now seem satisfied with the settlement paid by AXA for buildings damage. 
It seems to have been paid in line with the quotes they provided. So Im not going to 
consider the amounts paid for each item of work.  
Ive considered the policy terms. It provides cover for buildings only  Mr P and Mrs B didnt 
take out optional contents cover. Buildings is defined as fixtures and fittings if they form part 
of the property. It doesnt refer to carpets. It gives examples of the sort of items covered. 
They are in general more structural or fixed items. So I cant say AXAs decision not to cover 
the carpets, underlay or blinds is unfair or unreasonable.  
Mr P and Mrs B are very unhappy with what they see as delay and poor communication. 
They feel AXAs acted in a deliberately underhand manner. Im only considering here events 
since the January 2021 complaint response. It seems to me that AXA might have 
progressed matters from that point a little quicker. Its communication with Mr P and Mrs B 
perhaps could have been better at times. But I havent seen anything that leads me to think it 
acted in bad faith, to deliberately make things difficult for Mr P and Mrs B or that it 
consciously tried to get away with an inadequate settlement. Unfortunately insurance claims 
can, by their nature, take time to assess, agree and settle. 
Ive considered the impact of everything on Mr P and Mrs B themselves. AXAs probably 
caused some level of unnecessary distress or inconvenience for them. But overall, I think its 
offer of a further £150 compensation is enough to recognise the impact of its mistakes and 
poor service. As part of that consideration Im conscious of the fact Mr and Mrs P were 
previously paid a further £200.  
Mr P and Mrs B would like this service to penalise AXA. They want to discourage it from 
treating others in the same way. This service doesnt act to punish firms. Instead we ask 
firms to take steps to put things right for individual customers. I think AXAs already done 
enough to recognise any mistakes it made when dealing with Mr P and Mrs Bs claim. So Im 
not going to ask it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not making AXA Insurance UK Plc pay Mr P and Mrs B any 
further compensation or do anything differently. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman