DRN-4199205
The complaint
Ms N complains that Santander UK Plc blocked, and then closed, her account without 
warning or explanation. Shes like an explanation, and compensation for the distress.
What happened
On 11 January 2023 Ms N tried to access her Santander account, only to find her access 
had been blocked. She contacted the bank but wasnt given an explanation of why or when 
she could expect to be able to use the account again. Santander then wrote to her on 
26 January to say the account was now closed. They sent a cheque for the remaining 
balance.
Ms N complained about how she was treated. Santander investigated but didnt think theyd 
done anything wrong. They said they had legal and regulatory obligations to meet, and this 
meant they had restricted her account. They didnt offer any further explanation.
Unhappy with this Ms N referred the complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
looked into what happened but didnt think Santander had done anything wrong. They felt 
Santander were acting within their obligations, and the account terms, when they blocked 
and closed the account.
Ms N disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is right to say that as a regulated financial business Santander have legal and regulatory 
obligations to fulfil when providing accounts to customers. These can include ongoing 
account monitoring to understand more about their customers and understand how they are 
using their accounts. This can mean on occasion they need to restrict the activity on an 
account to carry out a review  as happened here with Ms Ns account.
Santander havent done anything wrong by placing the account under review. I appreciate 
Ms N would like to know more about why this way. But the bank arent under any specific 
obligation to tell her why the review is being carried out. Theyve declined to provide any 
further information to Ms N, and this isnt unreasonable. I would expect any review to be 
completed promptly and without undue delay. In this case it took 15 days, which I consider 
reasonable.
Santander then took the decision to close Ms Ns account immediately. Banks can close 
accounts for legitimate reasons. But generally, they are expected to provide two months 
notice to allow the customer to find accounts elsewhere. There are only limited 
circumstances where its reasonable to close an account without prior notice. These are 
outlined in the terms of Ms Ns account.
I appreciate Ms N would also like to know the reasons for the closure  but again this isnt 
something the bank are obliged to give her. They have declined to expand on their 
reasoning to Ms N, but have provided the relevant information to our service. Im satisfied 
that under our rules this information can be treated confidential, and it would be 
inappropriate for me to detail this information in full here. But Ive reviewed the list of reasons 
Santander give to close accounts without notice and considered them against the 
circumstances. Overall, Im satisfied it was reasonable for Santander to close Ms Ns 
account without notice. This was in line with their legal and regulatory obligations, and the 
terms of the account.
The balance on the account was returned to her the same day the account was closed. I 
cant see there were any undue delays in allowing Ms N access to her funds.
Ms N has told us about the impact the immediate closure had on her, and Ive no doubt it is 
difficult to suddenly find your bank account closed. But I can only ask Santander to 
compensate for the impact of any actions where theyve been unfair or unreasonable. In this 
case Santander havent been unfair or unreasonable in blocking and subsequently closing 
Ms Ns account. So, on that basis they dont need to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman