DRN-3711218
The complaint
Ms N complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) didnt complete all 
repairs to her car after an accident when she made a claim on her car insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2021 Ms N had a collision with a dead adult deer whilst driving at night. Ms N 
said she couldnt properly assess any damage to her car as it was dark, and the car was still 
driveable. She had the car assessed by a mechanic who advised that there was slight 
cosmetic damage and a bent near side strut, and he suggested Ms N claim for the damage 
on her car insurance.
Ms N contacted Advantage to report the incident and make a claim on her policy for the 
damage that her mechanic advised her of. Advantage arranged for the car to be repaired by 
one of its approved repairers  V. Ms Ns car was collected by V at the end of December 
2021 and was ready for Ms N to collect around three weeks later.
In February 2022 Ms Ns car was due for an MOT so she took the car to her mechanic 
Advantage arranged for the car to go to its approved repairer, who carried out the repairs in 
January 2021. However, in February 2021, during the MOT inspection, it was noted that the 
near side strut was bent.
Ms N reported this to V who didnt feel it was accident related as it said the geometry test 
showed the cars wheel alignment and suspension was satisfactory. Ms N disputes this and 
said shed set out the strut was damaged when she first reported the claim.
Unhappy with Advantages response, Ms N contacted our service to further her complaint.
One of our investigators considered Ms Ns complaint. The investigator concluded that on 
the balance of probabilities and given Ms Ns testimony, that it was more likely suspension 
was bent at the time of the accident rather than between the completion of repairs and the 
MOT in February 2022. So, to put things right he said Advantage should arrange to have the 
near side strut repaired/replaced under the policy. The investigator also said Advantage 
should pay Ms N £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to her by 
failing to rectify this issue within the claim.
Advantage didnt agree and said that their report confirmed that Ms Ns car was within 
range. And that just because Ms N reported the damage when she called to make a claim, 
doesnt disprove the report completed by V that the near side strut was within range 
following the repairs. The investigator responded to say that he still wasnt persuaded that 
Advantage have acted fairly when the balance of probabilities suggests the damage should 
have been repaired after the original incident. So, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ultimately what I need to decide is whether the damage suspension strut is something that 
should be repaired under Ms Ns car insurance policy. 
Following the accident, Ms N took her car to her local mechanics to assess it and see if there 
was any damage to her car. Ms N has provided a written statement from her mechanic who 
inspected the car just after the accident. This states that although none of the damage as a 
result of the accident would prevent the use of the vehicle, theyd advise having the repairs 
done as soon as possible, as the wheel alignment would also most likely be affected as a 
result of the accident.
When Ms N called Advantage to register her claim, she made them aware of her mechanics 
initial observations. This included the fact that she was advised that the near side strut was 
damaged. This is evidenced from the claim notes Advantage have sent where the 18 
October 2021 entry says, The mechanic told me the front suspension, strut has bent. Which 
is of concern.
Im satisfied that the suspension was most likely to have been damaged in the accident. 
However, just because the car passed the alignment tests and the MOT, doesnt mean the 
car wasnt damaged. The MOT simply sets out whether the car was unsafe to drive or not. It 
doesnt mean there wasnt damage. Im satisfied that the suspension was accident-related 
damage and is damage thats covered by the policy, and therefore should be rectified by 
putting Ms Ns car back to the conditions it was in prior to the accident in October 2021.
I also find that Advantage should pay Ms N compensation of £150 for the stress of having to 
prove the damage was as a result of the accident and the inconvenience and trouble of 
having to take the car back for further assessment.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Ms Ns complaint. I require Advantage 
Insurance Company Limited to arrange to repair or replace the near side nut strut and to pay 
Ms N £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Helen Giles
Ombudsman