DRN-2223648
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Symmetric Systems Ltd, trading as Bank-Smart, are charging him for a 
successful mis-sold Payday Loan claim.
What happened
In September 2018, Mr C instructed a claims management company (CMC) to act for him in 
making claims for potentially mis-sold financial products. In April 2019, the CMC transferred 
their business to Bank-Smart. Which included Mr Cs claims. Bank-Smart continued to act 
for Mr C under the original terms hed agreed to. In 2020, after itd been referred to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, a claim for a mis-sold Payday Loan was successful. Mr C 
was awarded compensation and Bank-Smart invoiced Mr C for their success fee.
Mr C was unhappy with the fee hes being charged, and that it doesnt represent the value of 
the work that Bank-Smart did. He was also unhappy that Bank-Smart had charged a £75 late 
payment fee. Bank-Smart didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint, so he brought it to the Claims 
Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman service) for investigation.
Our investigator said that the agreement Mr C signed with the original CMC allowed them to 
transfer their rights and obligations. And in March 2019, Bank-Smart wrote to him and told 
him what was happening. And they told him that the original terms and conditions he agreed 
to would remain in force. Which included the fee theyd charge for any successful claims. 
Our investigator didnt think Bank-Smart had done anything wrong by charging their fee on 
the successful claim. And he also thought Bank-Smart had acted reasonably by refunding 
the £75 late payment fee. So he didnt think Bank-Smart needed to do anything more.
Mr C didnt agree with the investigator. Hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision, because he doesnt think the amount Bank-Smart are charging is fair. Especially 
because he had to contact the payday lender himself to get his compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The original agreement Mr C signed in September 2018 confirmed that Mr C wouldnt be 
charged for any unsuccessful claims. But, for a successful claim he would be charged 39% 
of the total value of all compensation which is awarded to you. It also said that the original 
CMC could transfer our rights and obligations under these terms to another organisation.
Mr C was advised that Bank-Smart were taking over his claims in April 2019 and, in doing 
so, the original terms and conditions he agreed to remained in force. This included the 
amount charged for any successful claim. 
Mr C was charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work 
Bank-Smart had done on any claim. This means that any work done on any unsuccessful 
claims would be done for free. But where a claim was successful, Bank-Smarts fee may be 
more or less than the value of the work they actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties 
in this type of agreement. 
So, just because Bank-Smarts fee is higher than the value of the work they did for Mr C on 
this specific claim doesnt make their fee unjustified. Although I have noted that, when this 
claim was successful, Bank-Smart charged Mr C 32% plus VAT (38.4%) instead of the 39% 
they were entitled to charge. 
On 16 March 2020, Bank-Smart emailed Mr C to tell him that his claim had been successful. 
This email also said that Mr C would need to accept the offer, and they sent him an 
acceptance form. Bank-Smarts case notes dont show that Mr C returned the form to them. 
But he did contact the Financial Ombudsman Service to accept the offer on 16 April 2020. At 
this point, the payday lender was required to calculate and pay the compensation.
On 18 May 2020, Mr C told Bank-Smart he hadnt received his compensation. So Bank-
Smart chased this for him. Ive seen a copy of the letter they sent to the payday lender, and 
a copy of the letter they sent to Mr C telling him what theyd done. 
Bank-Smart sent a further chase letter on 12 June 2020, this time by recorded delivery 
because the payday lender claimed theyd not received the first letter. And, even though the 
payday lender shouldve done this earlier, it wasnt until August 2020 that they paid Mr C his 
compensation.
I can understand Mr Cs frustration at the delay in receiving his compensation. And Ive seen 
that he chased both Bank-Smart and the payday lender for this. But this was something that 
was outside of Bank-Smarts control. They chased this on his behalf, but I cant hold Bank-
Smart responsible for the payday lenders delays  Bank-Smart werent able to force the 
payday lender to make the payment any sooner. So I wont be asking them to reduce or 
waive their fee because of this.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint about Symmetric Systems 
Ltd trading as Bank-Smart.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman