DRN-4413383
The complaint
Mr J complains that Revolut Ltd hasnt done enough to protect him against the loss of money 
to a scam.
What happened
Mr J says that he had been looking for an investment opportunity online, and identified an 
investment firm he felt was a good prospect via a networking site. He made contact with the 
investment firm, which Ill call S and, ultimately, they persuaded him to make eight 
payments totalling over £10,000, between 28 June and 30 November 2022. It appears that 
some of these payments were for investments, and some were for management fees. These 
payments were made to Mr Js own account with a cryptocurrency wallet provider  G  
and then were apparently sent on to S. Unfortunately, and unknown to Mr J at the time, S 
was not legitimate, and Mr J was in fact dealing with scammers.
When Mr J was told he would need to pay more funds in to unlock the next level of the 
investment programme he became suspicious, and when he was then told he would also 
need to make further payments in order to withdraw his existing investment, he realised that 
he had fallen victim to a scam.
In March 2023 Mr J reported to Revolut that hed been scammed. Ultimately, Revolut did not 
think it was obliged to refund any of the money lost to Mr J. Mr J remained unhappy, and 
referred his complaint about Revolut to us. As our investigator (who didnt recommend that 
the complaint be upheld) couldnt resolve the matter informally, the case has been passed to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our Investigator, and for largely the 
same reasons.
Its not in dispute that Mr J authorised the payments himself as he thought he was dealing 
with a legitimate investment firm. Broadly speaking, the starting position in law is that 
Revolut is expected to process payments and withdrawals that Mr J authorises it to make, in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the account. And Mr J will then be responsible 
for the transactions that he has authorised. 
Because of this, Mr J is not automatically entitled to a refund. But the regulatory landscape, 
along with good industry practice, also sets out a requirement for account providers to 
protect their customers from fraud and financial harm. And this includes monitoring accounts 
to look out for activity that might suggest a customer was at risk of financial harm, 
intervening in unusual or out of character transactions and trying to prevent customers falling 
victims to scams.
In this case, I need to decide whether Revolut acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mr J when he made the payment requests, or whether it should have done more than it did.
In my opinion, the first two payments  for £10 and for £4,100  just werent sufficiently 
unusual to reasonably say Revolut shouldnt have allowed the payments to go through 
without first getting in touch with Mr J to check everything was in order. I acknowledge that 
the second of these payments was for a not insignificant amount - £4,100 - but given that it 
had no transaction history for Mr Js account, Revolut would have been relying on generic 
indicators of fraud risk when this payment was made. Revolut would have had no idea of 
what might be normal for Mr Js account at that time, and while I appreciate that £4,100 feels 
like a lot of money, I dont think this was high enough to have triggered further questions 
from Revolut at that stage. So I consider that Revolut acted reasonably in allowing this 
payment to be made without further questioning. 
But by the time of the third payment, made just a day later and for a similarly high amount - 
£4,000  I think a pattern had started to emerge which should have caused some concern. 
So I think it would have been prudent for Revolut to step in at this stage and ask some 
questions about what the payments were for. 
However, having considered what happened when Revolut did later question Mr J about the 
payments he was making, I dont consider that any earlier intervention would have prevented 
Mr J from continuing to transfer his funds. I say this because when Mr J was questioned he 
didnt say anything in answer to Revoluts questions that I feel should have flagged to 
Revolut that something suspicious was going on. Mr J said that he was an active investor, 
and had used G before to make international transfers for him. He came across as someone 
who was confident in what they were doing, and who was very keen to ensure his payments 
were made. Mr J did say he was making transfers for cryptocurrency, but not all payments 
made for cryptocurrency are a result of a scam. And in this case I dont think where the 
payment was headed ought to have automatically triggered Revoluts attention given what 
Mr J had said about what he was doing.
I understand that Mr J feels that Revolut could have flagged that the company he was 
investing with was potentially suspicious, but Ive not seen anything to show that Revolut 
was aware of where the funds were ultimately being sent  it would only have had sight of 
the first part of the payment journey, which was to Mr Js own account with G.
With all of this in mind, I dont consider that intervention from Revolut at an earlier stage 
would be likely to have prevented Mr J from continuing with the payments he wanted to 
make. So I dont consider that Revolut could have reasonably prevented his loss.
Ive gone on to consider whether Revolut could have done more to recover the funds after 
Mr J reported the fraud, as in some circumstances the money can be recovered via the bank 
raising an indemnity with the receiving bank. However, in these circumstances, Mr J 
transferred money to his own cryptocurrency account before the funds were subsequently 
transferred on to the scammer. So while Revolut had an obligation to notify the recipient 
account provider of what had happened, and it did so, it wouldnt have the same obligations 
as the bank responsible for the eventual transfer to the scammers account. I also know, 
from experience of these kinds of cases, that scammers invariably will move the proceeds of 
their scams on very quickly, to avoid them being recalled. So any delay in a scam being 
reported, as there was here, means that the prospect of recovery is very slim. With all of this 
in mind, I dont consider that Revolut could have done more to recover the money that Mr J 
has lost. 
I note that Mr J has referred to the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code in his 
response to our Investigators findings. But Revolut is also under no obligation to refund the money to Mr J under the Code either, as it is not a signatory of the code and, in any case, 
the Code does not apply to payments which the payer has effectively made to themselves 
(which would have been the case here given the payments were made to Mr Js 
cryptocurrency account before being moved on to the scammer). 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr J, and Im sorry to hear he has been 
the victim of a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that Revolut can fairly or reasonably 
be held liable for his loss in these circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman