DRN-2958385
The complaint
Mrs P, trading as a business I shall refer to as B, complains about the decision of 
Covea Insurance plc to decline her claim for losses following the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
Mrs P runs B, which provides before and after school childcare. She had a out of school 
club commercial insurance policy underwritten by Covea. The policy was provided via an 
insurance broker. Mrs P has also raised a separate complaint about the broker, but the 
complaint I am currently considering relates to Coveas decision on the claim. So, I will not 
be commenting on the broker and, for the sake of simplicity, will just refer to Covea even 
where communications involved the broker. 
In March 2020, Mrs P was forced to close B as a result of the government-imposed 
restrictions introduced to limit the spread of COVID-19. Mrs P contacted Covea to claim 
under the policy. However, Covea declined the claim. Ultimately, it has said that the 
standard cover under the loss of income section of the policy responds to situations where 
damage has interrupted the insureds business. But that COVID-19 had not caused damage. 
Covea also said that an extension to the loss of income section did respond to situations 
relating to disease, but that this cover was limited to a specified list of diseases. 
Mrs P complained about this, bringing her complaint to this service. Our Investigator didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld though. She thought Covea had applied the terms of 
the policy fairly and reasonably when declining the claim. Mrs P remained unsatisfied, so her 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on Mrs P and her business, I wont be upholding her complaint. My 
reasons are substantially the same as the Investigators.
I understand that Mrs P closed B in March 2020 due to the government-imposed restrictions. 
The nature of this business was such that it wouldnt have been allowed to stay open after 
this time. So, the type of cover Mrs P is looking to claim under is business interruption 
insurance.
There are a range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering 
different risks. For example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, 
whilst others provide cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional 
add-ons. The starting point is to consider the specific policy Mrs P took out.
The standard cover provided by the business interruption/loss of income section of Mrs Ps 
policy, as well as a number of the extensions to this cover, is based on an interruption to the 
business of the insured which has been caused by damage to property. Whilst I appreciate 
the pandemic has caused substantial financial loss, I dont think COVID-19 caused damage 
to property which has led to an interruption of Mrs Ps business.
So, I dont think either the standard business interruption cover, or the extensions that rely 
on there having been damage, provide cover in the circumstances of Mrs Ps claim. And I 
think Covea acted fairly and reasonably in not meeting Mrs Ps claim under this area of 
cover.
Mrs Ps policy does include an extension to the business interruption section that provides 
cover where a disease has led to the premises being closed. But this is limited to providing 
cover in the event of certain diseases.
The Compulsory Closure extension says that a claim may be covered where a business 
has been interrupted due to compulsory closure by a public body as a result of a notifiable 
human infectious or contagious disease, either at the premises or within 25 miles of those 
premises. 
However, the policy includes the following definition of notifiable human infectious or 
contagious disease:
acute encephalitis, acute poliomyelitis, anthrax, cholera, diphtheria, dysentery, food 
poisoning, leptospirosis, malaria, measles, meningitis, meningococcal septicaemia 
(without meningitis), mumps, ophthalmia neonatorum, paratyphoid fever, plague, 
rabies, relapsing fever, rubella, scarlet fever, smallpox, tetanus, tuberculosis, typhoid 
fever, typhus fever, viral haemorrhagic fever, viral hepatitis, hepatitis A, hepatitis B, 
hepatitis C, whooping cough, yellow fever.
No other disease shall be added to the above list without our prior written consent.
Having considered this term, Im not persuaded this section of the policy would have 
provided Mrs P with cover for the circumstances of her claim. This is because COVID-19 
isnt one of the diseases listed in the definition.
When reaching this finding Im mindful that COVID-19 is a new disease that no-one had the 
foresight to cover, and that it might not have been possible for Covea to include it in the 
policy at the time it was written. But I dont think that changes anything. Thats because I 
dont think Covea intended to, or suggested they would, provide cover for all diseases. 
Covea deliberately chose to define notifiable human infectious or contagious disease by 
reference to a static list of certain diseases. 
I dont think the list is indicative of the kind of diseases that are included, I think its an 
exhaustive list. The definition says that no other disease will be included in the list unless 
this is agreed by Covea in writing and Covea has not provided this agreement. And there is 
nothing else in the policy which implies that it provides cover for other diseases, including 
any new diseases which might emerge, without such agreement. 
As Ive said above, a range of policies are available. I note Mrs Ps comments about other 
policies her broker may have sold. But my role is to consider the policy that Mrs P did have. 
Some other policies provide cover for all notifiable diseases  a list of diseases updated by 
the Government. These policies might, depending on the circumstances, provide cover for a 
claim relating to COVID-19. But this is not the type of policy Mrs P has. Instead, her policy 
has a particular definition, which is different to the what the Government refers to as 
notifiable diseases.I think the purpose and effect of the policy Mrs P has is to provide cover in the event of the 
diseases listed in the policy definition of notifiable human infectious or contagious disease 
in the policy. There are many potential illnesses and diseases that the policy does not cover 
including, for example, SARS (another type of Coronavirus). I dont think the policy can or 
should fairly be read as covering any and all diseases that fall outside of the defined list set 
out above. I note that some of the diseases that are covered are not very common in the UK. 
But I dont consider this means the term does not have effect.  
In my view, the policy clearly only intended to cover certain diseases. And I dont think it can 
fairly and reasonably be read in a different way. Mrs Ps claim resulted from a disease that 
was not included in the list of covered diseases. As cover was not provided under this area 
of Mrs Ps policy for losses resulting from business interruption caused by COVID-19, I am 
satisfied Coveas decision to decline the claim was in line with the policy, and in all the 
circumstances of this case fair and reasonable.
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means Covea should have met Mrs Ps claim. I know this decision will be 
disappointing for Mrs P, but I hope Ive provided her with a thorough explanation of why this 
policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman