DRN-2684792
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about how Aviva Insurance Limited handled their claim on their 
home insurance. 
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M had a home insurance policy with Aviva. In November 2019 the ceiling 
beneath their shower room collapsed due to a leak. They made a claim on the insurance.
Aviva sent out a contractor to look at the damage and identify the problem. The contractor 
said that the leak had come from the floor of the wet room shower, because of poor grouting. 
Due to this Aviva declined the claim as it said it was due to poor workmanship which is 
excluded under the policy. Aviva said the damage to the ceiling of the room below would be 
covered, but due to the policy excess only £65 would be payable. 
Mr and Mrs M got in their own builder who installed a shower tray and doors, to bypass the 
failed grouting. However in the process of doing this he found another leak from a pipe that 
he said was unrelated to the grouting. Mr and Mrs M contacted Aviva again to ask that it look 
at a claim for the second leak.
Aviva reviewed photos and spoke to Mr and Mrs Ms builder. It said that it thought the 
second leak wasnt from a pipe but was still from the grouting and the builder hadnt fixed it 
properly. Further it said Mr and Mrs M had known about the problem for six months without 
having it fixed so the damage would have got worse during that time. However it offered a 
total settlement of £1,061 as it agreed to cover damage to the tiled wall as well as some of 
the ceiling damage in the room below. But it wouldnt cover damage to the joists in the 
affected ceiling. 
Mr and Mrs M werent happy with this settlement as they said the full cost of repairing the 
damage caused by the second leak was around £2,400, so they didnt think it was fair. They 
complained to this service.
Our investigator contacted Aviva to let it know about the complaint. Aviva maintained its 
position on the claim settlement. It said it wouldnt offer anything further towards repairs as 
Mr and Mrs M hadnt mitigated their losses by getting the leak repaired sooner. However it 
offered £100 compensation as it said it hadnt included trace and access costs in its first 
settlement offer. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She said that Mr and Mrs M had 
stopped using the shower and had arranged for the repairs to be completed as early as 
possible, so she didnt agree they could have done more to mitigate their losses. She said 
Aviva should consider all reasonable costs relating to the claim and pay 8% interest on those 
costs. She agreed the £100 compensation Aviva had offered was fair. 
Aviva didnt agree with our investigators opinion. It said that Mr and Mrs M could have got 
the damage repaired sooner and it thought they had been using the shower during this time. 
So it didnt agree it should pay for damage that could have been avoided. It asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva originally declined Mr and Mrs Ms claim as it said the leak was due to poor grouting 
on the floor of the wet room shower. Mr and Mrs M havent disputed that this part wouldnt 
be covered under the insurance policy. And have paid for these repairs to be carried out. So 
I havent considered this as part of this decision.
However since this work has been completed, a further leak was identified. And Mr and Mrs 
M dont think its fair that the repairs relating to the second leak havent been covered in full. 
Aviva have said that it wont cover the cost of repairing all the damage as it feels Mr and Mrs 
M could have done more to stop the damage from worsening. I need to decide if it has acted 
fairly and reasonably when reaching this decision. 
The second leak was discovered when the repair work was carried out by Mr and Mrs Ms 
builder in January 2020. After initially contacting Aviva in January, they then didnt call again 
until June that year. At this stage the repair work still hadnt been completed. Aviva has said 
that due to this, the damage got worse which is why it wont cover the full cost of repairs. 
Mr and Mrs M have explained that they had arranged an appointment for the repairs in 
February 2020 originally, but this had to be rescheduled due to personal commitments. The 
rescheduled appointment was in March 2020 and this couldnt go ahead due to restrictions 
that were put in place because of the coronavirus pandemic. So I think Mr and Mrs M took 
reasonable steps to ensure the repair work was done quickly. And it wasnt their fault that 
the second appointment was cancelled and still hadnt been carried out by June. 
Further they have explained that they hadnt used the shower since the leak was discovered. 
And had relied on a second shower in a different bathroom instead. Mr and Mrs M have said 
this throughout the claim and complaint, and I have no reason to doubt that this is the case.
For these reasons I dont agree that Aviva has acted fairly by declining to pay the whole 
claim due to Mr and Mrs M not mitigating their losses. As they have tried to arrange repair 
work as quickly as possible and have stopped using the shower to try and reduce any 
damage. So I cannt see what more they could reasonably have been expected to do. 
Aviva has also commented during the claim that it doesnt agree there is a second leak, but 
instead the repairs to the first leak havent been carried out correctly. Since the second leak 
was raised Aviva has spoken to Mr and Mrs Ms builder directly and requested photos of the 
damage. However it has made no further visits to look at the new leak. The builder has 
provided a detailed account of the second leak and the photos show a new shower tray that 
would mean the times with poor grouting would no longer come into contact with the shower 
water. So I find it difficult to understand how Aviva reached this conclusion. And as Mr and 
Mrs Ms builder has inspected the damage himself and provided detail about the problem, I 
am persuaded that they have done enough to prove there is a second leak. 
For these reasons I dont think Aviva has acted fairly in its handling of Mr and Mrs Ms claim. 
I think Mr and Mrs M have done enough to prove there is a second leak that has caused 
damage. And I dont agree its fair to say they could have done more to mitigate their losses. 
So I agree with our investigator that Aviva should pay reasonable costs for the repairs to the 
damage caused by the second leak, on receipt of proof of the cost from Mr and Mrs M. This 
should be settled in line with the other policy terms and conditions. And, as I understand Mr and Mrs M have already had the repairs completed, it should pay 8% interest on this amount 
to make up for the time they have been without the money. 
I have also considered the distress and inconvenience the matter has caused Mr and Mrs M. 
While I appreciate there were long periods of time where no progress was made on the 
claim, I can see from the notes on the claim file that Aviva did try to contact Mr and Mrs M on 
a number of occasions but were unable to reach them. So I cant hold Aviva responsible for 
these delays. However Aviva has provided Mr and Mrs M with unclear information, 
particularly in regards to why it was only paying for part of the claim for the second leak and 
by not agreeing cover for trace and access in the initial settlement. And this would have 
been distressing and inconvenient for Mr and Mrs M as it left them not knowing whether the 
repair work would be covered. Aviva has offered £100 compensation to make up for this and 
I think thats fair in the circumstances.   
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I require Aviva Insurance Limited to:
 Pay the costs for the repairs required to fix the damage caused by the second leak, on 
receipt of proof of the cost from Mr and Mrs M. This should be settled in line with the other 
policy terms and conditions.
 Pay 8% interest on any amount paid from the date Mr and Mrs M paid for the repairs until 
the date payment is made. 
 Pay £100 compensation to make up for the distress and inconvenience caused.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman