DRN-3220391
The complaint
Mr L complains as a director of F, a limited company, about the way Allianz Insurance Plc 
dealt with a claim on Fs business protection insurance policy following damage caused by a 
flood at Fs premises. 
What happened
Mr L and his wife run a business  F  which is set up as a limited company. They are the 
two directors of the company. In February 2020 Fs premises were affected by a flood which 
damaged its stock and left its warehouse unusable until it had been deep cleaned. 
F made a claim on its insurance. Allianz accepted the claim for damaged items but deducted 
35% of the settlement as the policy terms said Allianz would only pay 65% of a claim for 
flood damage. F said this wasnt fair and complained to our service.
Our investigator said the policy terms had been changed to limit flood claims to 65% and as 
this was a significant change, it should have been brought to Fs attention. She said it wasnt 
fair to limit the claim in these circumstances and asked Allianz to pay the additional 35% of 
the settlement.
Allianz agreed to this and paid the shortfall (around £18,000) in December 2020. 
In the meantime, Mr L had raised some further complaints about the way Fs claim had been 
handled. He said:
there was a lack of contact from Allianz and its contractors throughout the claim;
F received no assistance for cleaning out the premises;
F had no help with pursuing their business interruption claim;
there had been a breach of data protection rules when Allianz passed information to 
other parties, including a debt collection company;  
F eventually had to cease trading, which would not have happened if the full payment 
been received for the settlement.
One of our investigators looked into these additional points but did not think this complaint 
should be upheld. He said:
Having reviewed the correspondence between F and Allianz, he didnt think there 
had been a lack of contact during the claim.
F didnt own the premises but rented them, and wasnt covered under the policy 
terms for the cost of cleaning the premises.
F had confirmed it didnt wish to pursue a complaint about business interruption so 
there was no need to comment on this.
Data protection issues were better dealt with by the Information Commissioners 
Office but in any event, since F is a limited company and not an individual, any 
information about F would not be personal data, and we couldnt consider issues 
relating to Mr L himself as hes not the complainant.
The key issue concerned the delay in paying the 35% of the claim that had not been 
paid initially. While F had provided information about some of its creditors, the 
information wasnt enough to persuade him F had been forced to stop trading as a 
result of the delay in Allianz making the payment, and it wasnt clear F would have 
been able to continue if the payment had been made earlier.
Mr L didnt agree and provided further comments. His view remained that F had been forced 
to stop trading as a result of the delayed payment by Allianz. Our investigator considered 
further evidence from both parties, including forensic accountants reports, but didnt change 
his view. He said there had been a number of factors affecting F and wasnt persuaded that 
the delayed payment was the sole reason why F had to stop trading.
Mr L disagrees and, on behalf of F, has requested an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue for F is the dispute about whether the delay in paying the full amount of the 
claim for damage was the cause of it having to stop trading. So I will deal with this issue first, 
and then consider the other complaint points.
Settlement of the claim
Allianz accepted the first investigators view that it should not have deducted 35% from the 
claim and made that payment in December 2020. So I dont need to decide whether that 
amount should have been paid. The issue is whether, as F claims, the delay until December 
2020 was the reason why it couldnt continue and had to stop trading. To uphold this 
complaint I would need to be satisfied that, but for the delay in payment, F would have been 
able to carry on. So Ive considered Fs circumstances in the period leading up to the 
decision to stop trading.
Mr L says that after the claim, F made a commercial decision to pay debts owed to smaller 
suppliers first. F still owed around £15,000 to its biggest supplier. In July 2020 that supplier 
told F that it was reporting a default marker on Fs credit score and would no longer supply it.
F says when this happened it was effectively unable to make a profit; it was crippled due to 
a lack of cash flow, with money owed to other creditors. Whereas, if it had received the full 
pay-out from Allianz, Mr L says F would have been able to pay its creditors and have at least 
£3,000 working capital. He says F would also have been able to benefit from assistance 
from government support, and in the worst case scenario could have gone dormant for a 
period and then brought the business back to life.
I accept that not receiving the full payment earlier would have had an impact on Fs 
cashflow. But I have considered the evidence provided by both sides, including forensic 
accountants report and based on these, I dont think F has done enough to show it was 
forced to end trading as a result of the delay in making that payment.
The evidence from F shows that it had money in its bank account in the period from March 
2020. It made the decision to pay smaller suppliers first. It was obviously for F to make its 
own decisions about how to manage its debts. But it had the opportunity to mitigate its 
position. Our investigator noted that F hadnt provided more detailed information about the 
debt to the main supplier or reasons why it wasnt able to pay that supplier in March 20202 
when it received a payment from Allianz.
In addition, the report provided by Allianz notes the financial issues facing F before the flood 
happened. F had been operating for some time with declining profits (suffering a loss in two of the last three years), a significant fall in turnover, and debts that were far greater than its 
assets.
F has now provided additional evidence. This shows that the tangible value of [F] as a 
busines was very low and that any compensation  must reasonably be limited to loss of 
profit. The report estimates profits of between £1,000 and £2,000 per month. But the 
information provided in this report still shows that F had only made an operating profit in one 
of the last five years. And it isnt clear to me from this report why F would have been able to 
continue if it had received the payment earlier.
Mr L has provided some additional explanation of other factors affecting the reduction in 
turnover and says F had made changes that would have led to increased profitability. He 
also says the debt was mostly in the form of loans to him and has wife, which were not debts 
that needed to be repaid. But directors loans had increased from around £120,000 in 2018 
to about £139,000 in 2019 and around £155,000 in 2020. This doesnt suggest a business 
that was thriving. Even on their own account, there had been factors that caused huge 
disruption to the whole sector not least Brexit and the loss of 60% of [Fs] marketplace.
I appreciate their evidence is that Fs business plan was broadly on target and it was placed 
to ride out the issues and become profitable. But as Ive said, to uphold the complaint I 
would need to be satisfied that it was indeed going to continue trading and make a profit but 
for the delayed payment  and it was only when that payment was delayed that F was forced  
to close. I have to weigh up the various reports and decide, on balance, whether that was 
the case. The report obtained by Allianz sets out in more detail Fs situation. Taking into 
account all the circumstances Im not persuaded it was the delayed payment that caused F 
to stop trading. There was a wide range of factors that had affected its trading for some time 
which, together with the various decisions made by F as to how to manage the situation, all 
had a bearing on what happened. 
Communication
I have reviewed the communication between Allianz and F and I havent seen evidence of a 
lack of contact from Allianz. Even if there had been, Id need to consider what impact that 
had on F and whether it caused any substantial inconvenience or financial loss. Based on 
the evidence available to me, I dont think the way Allianz corresponded with F did cause 
any such inconvenience or loss.
Cleaning
Mr L says Allianz didnt offer any assistance with cleaning Fs warehouse after the flood and 
as a result he and his wife had to spend many hours cleaning the premises.
Fs policy schedule outlines the cover in place for property damage. F had cover for 
contents, stock and property for which it was responsible, rent, and computers and office 
equipment. F didnt have cover for buildings or tenants improvements. I appreciate there 
was extensive flooding and the premises needed a lot of cleaning. But that related to the 
building itself. F didnt own the premises and wasnt responsible for them. And F didnt have 
buildings cover; that would have been the landlords responsibility. So I agree Allianz had no 
responsibility to help with cleaning the warehouse.
Business interruption
Since bringing the complaint to us F has confirmed it didnt want to pursue a separate 
business interruption claim for losses linked by the Covid-19 pandemic andsubsequent government restrictions. Instead, it wanted Allianz to compensate for the losses  
suffered as a result of Allianzs delay in paying the full settlement. Ive dealt with that issue 
above and so theres no need for further comment on this point.
GDPR
I cant determine whether Allianz breached The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) 
but I can consider how it handled information where doing that was part and parcel of the 
activity it was carrying out  in this case the insurance claim.
However, the GDPR sets out the rules relating to the protection of personal data about 
natural persons. This complaint has been brought by F which is a limited company and a 
separate legal entity from Mr L. If the data relates to Mr L then I cant comment on that as 
hes not the complainant. And if it relates to F then it cant be personal data because F is a 
limited company and not a natural person. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman