DRN-2830961
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complained that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) didnt agree to settle part of 
their claim for damage to contents under their home insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs W said during the night time the glass top of their dining table had exploded, 
covering the family room in glass fragments and splinters. As a result, their leather dining 
chairs were damaged, as well as some lesser damage to other furniture and furnishings. Mr 
and Mrs W made a claim for this to Aviva under their policy.
Aviva said the incident was a result of accidental damage and said it would cover the 
damage to the broken dining table only. However, Aviva said Mr and Mrs W had taken out 
limited accidental damage on the policy, rather than full accidental damage. It said, this 
wouldnt cover them for the wider damage to furniture and furnishings.
Mr and Mrs W were unhappy and complained as they thought the damage should be 
covered. They thought their table had exploded and thought the policy should cover the 
damage. Aviva said the damage to the table was not caused by an explosion but was 
caused by thermal expansion. It said this fell outside of the Wikipedia definition of an 
explosion, which is what it uses to check its policy definitions.
Our investigator recommended to not uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. He said the policy 
does provide cover for damage caused by an explosion, but he didnt think Mr and Mrs W 
had proven the damage was caused by an explosion. Mr and Mrs W disagreed, so they 
asked an ombudsman to review their case.  
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 20 April 2021. I said:
When our service considers a complaint, we would normally expect the policyholder(s) to 
provide evidence that a claim is valid. Therefore, I require Mr and Mrs W to present a 
reasonable argument to why they think their claim should be covered for me to uphold their 
complaint.
The nub of Mr and Mrs Ws complaint is that they think the damage to their leather dining 
table chairs should be covered by another part of Avivas policy, where it says: we will cover 
loss of or damage to contents in the home caused by: fire, explosion, lightning, earthquake 
or smoke.  Mr and Mrs W think the incident that caused the damage to their chairs was a 
result of their table exploding, so I will look at whether they have proven this.
Aviva created a debate with Mr and Mrs W about what the definition of an explosion was. 
Both parties have gone to great length articulating what they believe to be the correct 
definition of an explosion to support their respective cases for the claim. Avivas policy 
doesnt set out a definition for an explosion. Our service will usually think any undefined 
words should take their ordinary, everyday meaning.
There is no one common definition of an explosion and I have found Mr and Mrs Ws 
arguments on this to be compelling. I can see in the Oxford English Dictionary there are also 
several definitions. I have found one that perhaps fits this scenario: The violent shattering, 
bursting, or breaking apart of an object as a result of pressure, typically from within, 
scattering fragments outwards; an instance of this.
I have recently checked with Mr and Mrs W and they have confirmed they would be happy if 
their claim for the damage to their leather chairs was covered. They are not claiming for any 
other damage beyond the glass table and leather chairs. I have considered the evidence 
they have provided in respect to the chairs. The photos clearly show some of the glass is 
embedded in the leather upholstery which has caused damage to the chairs. If the table had 
just shattered I dont think the glass would be embedded in the upholstery as it clearly is in 
this case.
I think there are many definitions that reasonably explain an explosion. Aviva have chosen 
not to define this term in their policy, so in effect the word takes on its broadest meaning. I 
think the damage to the chairs fits with the everyday meaning of explosion, so I think Aviva 
have been unfair in rejecting Mr and Mrs Ws claim. Therefore, I intend to require Aviva to 
settle Mr and Mrs Ws claim for their leather chairs in line with the remaining terms of the 
policy. 
By Aviva rejecting Mr and Mrs Ws claim, it has meant a delay to them getting their chairs 
repaired, so, I also intend to award Mr and Mrs W £200 compensation for the inconvenience 
of not been able to use their dining room chairs.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs W accepted my findings and didnt have anything more to add.
Aviva didnt reply to my provisional decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint for the reasons given in my provisional 
decision.
I require Aviva Insurance Limited to:
Settle Mr and Mrs Ws claim for their damaged leather chairs, in line with the 
remaining terms of the policy (as well as the glass table that Aviva has already said it 
will settle)
Pay Mr and Mrs W £200 compensation - for the inconvenience
Aviva Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it that Mr and Mrs W accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman