DRN-3870239
The complaint
Miss D complains that she was mis-sold membership of a holiday club. Because the 
membership was financed with a loan from Honeycomb Finance Limited, she says that it is 
equally liable with the seller.
What happened
In December 2018 Miss D was on holiday in Malta with her partner, Mr G. They were 
approached by someone selling scratch cards and told that they had won a holiday. They 
would however need to attend a presentation from Azure XP Limited, a holiday and 
timeshare company. They attended the presentation, at the end of which they agreed to buy 
Azure XP Destinations Membership. The purchase was to be financed by a loan from 
Honeycomb in Miss Ds name. 
The purchase documentation recorded that Miss D and Mr G had bought a five-year 
membership with 2,160 XPs  the name given by Azure to its points system. Extras included 
a five-year Holiday Plus membership and a five-year membership of RCI, a timeshare and 
holiday club exchange service. The total price was £8,400, paid by means of the loan. The 
XPs could be exchanged for holiday accommodation and other benefits. The number of XPs 
needed for holiday accommodation would vary, depending on the exact accommodation 
booked and the time of year  more points were needed for larger apartments and in high 
season, for example.    
Miss D and Mr G signed a Membership Application Agreement on 14 December 2018. It ran 
to 16 pages in total and included details of the RCI membership, cancellation forms and 
information about the benefits of membership. 
Page 1 recorded Miss Ds and Mr Gs details, the price and the XPs bought. It included 
a statement that they had read and understood the membership terms. They both 
signed it. 
Page 2 listed the accommodation available as part of the Azure XP Destinations 
Membership  namely, apartments at a resort in Malta, yacht hire in Malta, supercar 
experiences in the UK, and motorhomes in the UK  and the XPs needed to book them.
Page 3 provided a link to the Holiday Plus website and a summary of the RCI 
membership. 
Page 4 included an acknowledgement that Miss D and Mr G had received all the 
documentation referenced and was signed by them.  
Page 5 set out the right of withdrawal within 14 days and included a withdrawal form. 
Pages 6 to 10 set out, in three parts, Standard Information, including a summary of the 
benefits and services bought and cancellation rights. Miss D and Mr G signed at the 
bottom of pages 9 and 10. 
Pages 11 to 16 contained the contract between Miss D and Mr G on the one hand and 
RCI on the other. Miss D and Mr G signed it on pages 13, 14, 15 and 16.    
Miss D signed the loan agreement on the same day.
In May 2019 Miss D complained to Honeycomb that the terms of the membership had been 
mispresented and that she and Mr G had not been given the full picture. Specifically, she 
said that they had been led to believe that they could use XPs for destinations anywhere in 
the world, but in fact they could only do so through RCI; they had not been told about the 
fees involved in using the exchange service. 
Honeycomb did not accept that the membership had been misrepresented or that it 
otherwise had any liability to Miss D. It said too that Miss D was under a duty to give Azure a 
proper opportunity to address her claims, but she had not done so. 
Miss D referred the matter to this service. In doing so, she explained that she had tried to 
book holidays in Tenerife and the Caribbean but had not been able to do so without paying 
an additional fee, contrary to what she had been told when buying the membership. 
Our investigator considered what had happened and concluded that it was likely the club 
membership had been misrepresented to Miss D. He thought too, based in part on what this 
service knew about the sales process from similar complaints, that it had not been properly 
explained. He noted as well that some of the wording used  especially in the RCI contract  
was very unclear. He accepted that Miss D had been told that she would be able to use the 
XPs to book a specific hotel in Thailand at no extra cost. 
The investigator also thought that the actions of Azure in providing incorrect information and 
not providing key information meant that the loan agreement was unfair in its entirety and 
that Miss D should be put in the position she would have been in had it not been taken out. 
He recommended that Honeycomb cancel the loan, refund any payments made under it, 
reimburse any payments made to RCI or to Azure and take over any obligations owed to 
Azure. 
Honeycomb did not accept the investigators recommendations and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.            
I did that and issued a provisional decision. In that decision I said: 
Miss Ds primary complaint is of course about the actions of Azure in selling the 
membership. Honeycomb says that this means she should pursue her claim against Azure 
and that she has not done so. I can see why that might be useful in cases such as this, 
where the complaint is that a lender is liable for claims against a supplier of goods or 
services. It might help to clarify the issues giving rise to the complaint. I do not believe 
however that Miss D was or is under any obligation to make a claim against Azure; the 
relevant legislation makes Honeycomb equally liable with Azure; its liability  if any  is not 
contingent upon Miss D having attempted to resolve things direct with Azure. 
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act statements made by a broker in connection 
with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender.  
In addition, one effect of section 75(1) of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, 
bring that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
It is clear in this case that the loan financed the purchase of the club membership. The 
company that sold the club membership was Azure XP Limited. That company is not named 
in the loan agreement, although three other companies which appear to have links to Azure 
XP Limited are referred to as credit intermediaries. It might be helpful if Honeycomb were to 
clarify the position, but I have for the time being approached this case on the basis that the 
loan was set up as a result of pre-existing arrangements between Honeycomb and Azure XP 
Limited and that both section 56 and section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act could therefore 
apply.    
I must therefore consider the claims against Azure, which I have summarised above. 
Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
A claim can for misrepresentation can also arise where one party allows the other to proceed 
under a misunderstanding, although such cases are rare and generally limited to situations 
where there is a duty to disclose certain facts  for example, where legislation requires it or 
there is a duty of utmost good faith.   
I have no doubt that Miss D and Mr G genuinely believed that they would be able to 
exchange the XPs they had bought for accommodation anywhere in the world at no extra 
cost. I am not persuaded however that this was because of anything they were told by the 
Azure representative. The benefits of membership were listed in the membership agreement 
which I summarised in the Background above. Those benefits were:
accommodation at a named resort in Malta, yacht hire, supercar experiences, and 
motorhome hire; 
Holiday Plus membership; and 
RCI membership.   
In my view, it was clear from the contractual documents that Miss D and Mr G signed that 
the only way they could use their XPs to book accommodation other than that listed in the 
first bullet point above was through the exchange schemes  Holiday Plus and RCI  
included in their membership. 
I accept that Miss D and Mr G explained that they wanted to use their membership to book 
accommodation further afield, and I believe too that they were told that would be possible. 
After all, one of the benefits of the arrangement was that they would be able to do exactly 
that  by exchanging their XPs. I am not persuaded however that they were told there would 
be no fee involved. 
In signing the membership agreement, Miss D and Mr G acknowledged they had received all 
the documents referred to. Those documents included the RCI Exchange Contract, a copy of 
which was attached to the membership contract. Miss D and Mr G signed it in four places. It 
included:
As mentioned above, an exchange fee is payable by Members when exchanging Holiday 
Ownership Rights, Current exchange fees can be viewed on www.rci.com.
As the investigator noted, some of the language used in the RCI contract was somewhat 
opaque, but I think it was clear that RCI would charge a fee if Miss D and Mr G wanted to 
use its services to swap XPs for the right to use accommodation other than that listed in the Azure XP membership contract. In the circumstances, I do not believe that the Azure 
representative said that there would be no exchange fee.  
I am not persuaded either that the representative was under any duty to correct any 
misunderstanding about the exchange fee. It was referred to in the RCI terms on a page 
which Miss D and Mr G signed. There was no reason to think therefore that they did not 
know there would be an exchange fee. 
 Section 104A and 104B claims
Under section 104A and section 104B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments. In deciding whether to make such an order, section 104C 
allows the court to take into account any linked agreement  which is likely to include in this 
case the Azure XP membership agreement. 
The investigator took the view that the way in which the membership agreement was sold 
meant that the loan agreement was likely to have created an unfair relationship between 
Miss D and Honeycomb. For the reasons I have explained, however, I am not persuaded 
that the club membership was misrepresented to Miss D. 
The loan terms were themselves clear and the loan agreement set out the key points  the 
amount of the loan, the period for which it would run, the interest rate and the monthly 
payments. It was in the form required by the relevant consumer legislation. That does not 
mean that it cannot have created an unfair relationship, of course, but I am not persuaded 
that it did. 
I concluded, provisionally, that Honeycomb had acted reasonably in declining Miss Ds 
claims and in not upholding her complaint. I did not recommend that Honeycomb take any 
further steps to resolve matters. 
Honeycomb accepted my provisional conclusions. Miss D did not, although she did not have 
any further evidence or arguments to add.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because neither party has anything to add to what has already been said here, there is no 
reason for me to reach a different view from that set out in my provisional decision. I have 
nevertheless reviewed the case afresh before reaching that conclusion.  
I stress that it is not for me to decide whether Miss D has a claim for misrepresentation 
against Azure. Rather, I must consider whether Honeycombs response to Miss Ds 
complaint was fair and reasonable, having regard amongst other things to the relevant 
provisions of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. It is my view that the response was reasonable. 
Given my findings about the way in which the club membership was sold, I do not believe 
there is any reason to think that a court would conclude that the loan agreement created an 
unfair relationship between Miss D and Honeycomb.   
In conclusion, I think that Honeycomb acted reasonably in declining Miss Ds claims and in 
not upholding her complaint.   My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Honeycomb Finance Limited to 
take any further steps to resolve Miss Ds complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 January 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman