DRN-2258663
The complaint
Mr B complains that his secured loan with Kensington Mortgage Company Limited was mis-
sold. And he complains about how Kensington has treated him while hes experienced 
financial difficulty.
What happened
Mr B took out his secured loan in 2006, borrowing around £70,000. Although it was taken out 
with another company it was immediately transferred to Kensington.
Mr B has been in financial difficulty with both his main mortgage and this loan for many 
years. He also has various health issues. Mr B is represented in this complaint by his 
daughter, Ms B.
Over the years, Kensington has taken action including court action to recover the arrears. 
At times Mr B hasnt been able to make any payments; at other times, he has maintained the 
contractual payments. In late 2018 Mr B tried to make a lump sum payment of around 
£10,000 but Kensington wouldnt accept this payment to the account until Mr B could provide 
evidence of where the funds had come from. When this wasnt provided, it returned the 
payment.
This meant that the arrears werent reduced, and in early 2019 Kensington took further court 
action. More recently, however, and following the involvement of Ms B, it has agreed a 
payment arrangement. It has agreed not to collect any payments from him for a year, 
allowing Mr B simply to pay what he can afford when he can. It has stopped charging arrears 
fees. And it has reduced the interest charged to 0% with effect from September 2019 - 
meaning every payment Mr B makes from then on will go in full to reducing the loan balance. 
It has also agreed not to contact Mr B except for letters it is required to send by regulation.
Mr B and his family have made various complaints about this loan over the years, including 
that Kensington wouldnt accept lump sums without evidence of the source of the funds, and 
about the interest rate charged to the account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs loan was originally taken out with another lender. But it was immediately transferred 
to Kensington. It was always envisaged  it says on the face of the loan agreement  that 
Kensington would be the ultimate lender. So Kensington is responsible for the lending 
decision. 
Mr B has been in arrears for most of the life of the loan. He has also been in arrears on his 
first charge mortgage.
Ms B says the loan was mis-sold, because Mr B didnt understand what he was agreeing to, 
and because it wasnt affordable for him. 
Our rules say that  if Kensington objects, which it has  we cant consider a complaint made 
outside the applicable time limits unless there are exceptional circumstances which explain 
why it couldnt have been made in time.
The loan was lent in 2006, more than six years ago  so a complaint about the sale and 
lending decision is out of time on the first part of the time limit rule. And I think its out of time 
on the second part too. Mr B was in financial difficulty from early on. And he was able to 
discuss the loan with the lender from the start, and understood how it worked. I think that he 
ought reasonably to have realised that it might not have been affordable for him from early 
on. And while I can see Mr B has significant health problems, he has been able to engage 
with Kensington and complain about other matters. So I dont think there are exceptional 
circumstances and the complaint about the sale and lending decision is out of time.
Ill turn now to the main part of the complaint, whether Mr B has been treated fairly in 
financial difficulty over the years.
As I say, the loan was taken out in 2006. Mr B has been in and out of arrears since at least 
2008. He has been in arrears on his main mortgage too, and in 2008 the mortgage lender 
took possession proceedings. Mr B managed to clear the arrears, the repossession didnt go 
ahead, and Mr B largely kept up with payments until 2012.
Between 2012 and 2014, arrears built up again. They were cleared in 2014, it seems with 
redress from a payment protection insurance complaint. 
In 2015, Mr B told Kensington he had been diagnosed with cancer. In 2016, the loan fell 
back into arrears, where it has been since. 
Mr Bs financial difficulties are related to his work. He imports goods from abroad and there 
have been problems in doing so for several years. This has left him in a difficult position. Mr 
B has also had periods of ill health, which have contributed to his difficulties.
Im sure these years have been very difficult from Mr B, and Im sorry to learn of both his 
physical and mental health concerns. Im sure its very worrying too for his family.
Ive therefore looked very carefully at everything that has happened over the years. And, 
having done so, I dont think Mr B has been treated unfairly by Kensington.
Ive explained I cant look at the sale of the loan. The fact is that Mr B did borrow the money, 
and its not unreasonable for Kensington to want it to be paid back in accordance with the 
agreement. Im satisfied that the loan has operated as it should, including through the 
charging of interest as set out in the loan agreement.
Mr B hasnt been able to keep up with payments. Im satisfied that Kensington has shown 
reasonable forbearance over the years. It has recognised Mr Bs difficult circumstances and 
while it has taken legal action, it hasnt followed through to repossess the property, instead 
allowing Mr B more time to pay. And I think it was reasonable for Kensington to want to be 
sure of the source of funds, in line with its legal obligations, before it accepted payments to 
the account.
And more recently, since September 2019, Kensington has taken significant steps to help Mr 
B. It has reduced the interest rate to 0%. And it said it would not expect Mr B to make any 
payments for a year  a period that has been extended while the complaint is with us. It will simply allow Mr B to pay what he can when he can. And the reduction of the interest rate to 
0% means that any payment he does make will be used to reduce the outstanding balance.
This is substantial forbearance, more than Kensington would do in many cases. Taking into 
account Mr Bs particular circumstances, including his health conditions, I think this is a fair 
way to assist.
I would urge Ms B to keep in touch with Kensington now this complaint is at an end. And 
Kensington will need to continue to treat Mr B fairly  as I think it has done to date
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman