DRN-2917956
The complaint
Mr J and Mrs J complain about invoices they have received from Symmetric Systems Ltd 
(trading as Bank Smart) for work theyve carried out on claims for mis-sold Payment 
Protection Insurance (PPI). 
What happened
Bank Smart sent an invoice to Mr J and Mrs J which listed a number of claims with several 
showing as breach of contract. And, it set out the fees owing in respect of each claim. Mr J 
and Mrs J complained to Bank Smart about the invoice they received. They said they 
couldnt understand how they were in breach of contract for the claims which had been 
categorised as such by Bank Smart. And they said they hadnt signed 13 Letters of Authority 
(LoA) and asked for a copy of these. Bank Smart acknowledged the complaint but, having 
not received a final response, Mr J and Mrs J referred their complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr J and Mrs J and asked Bank Smart for evidence of 
the signed LoAs. Having not received any information, our investigator recommended Bank 
Smart waive all fees. Bank Smart responded and sent a copy of a letter which they say was 
sent to Mr J and Mrs J in response to their complaint. This letter listed 20 claims which Bank 
Smart said were still ongoing and said they had attached a copy of the LoA for each claim. 
Bank Smart sent us a copy of each signed LoA. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint again and, being satisfied the LoAs had been 
signed, she thought it was reasonable for Bank Smart to charge their fee on completion of 
those claims which were successful. But, our investigator found Bank Smart hadnt provided 
evidence to show how Mr J and Mrs J had breached their contract on those claims where a 
cancellation fee was being charged so she recommended Bank Smart cancel those 
invoices. Bank Smart then provided information showing why the cancellation fees were 
being charged. Our investigator then issued a further view, this time it was to say she 
thought Bank Smart hadnt acted unreasonably in charging the cancellation fees. Mr J and 
Mrs J disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr J and Mrs J will 
be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My starting point is the terms and conditions signed by Mr J and Mrs J. This sets out the 
agreement between them and Bank Smart and says Bank Smart will charge a fee of 25% + 
VAT of any compensation recovered. 
Under the heading Cancellation, Breach and Termination, the agreement says Mr J and 
Mrs J have 14 days from the date of signing the terms and conditions to cancel the 
agreement or 14 days from the initial LoA to cancel each individual claim. The agreement 
says any cancellations after this period will be subject to a cancellation fee of up to £400 + 
VAT. 
The agreement also says, by signing the terms and conditions and each LoA, Mr J and Mrs 
J agree to cooperate with the claims process and failure to complete and return documents 
required for the claim may result in breach of the agreement and Bank Smart may seek to 
recover their reasonable costs up to a maximum £400 + VAT per claim. The agreement says 
Our reasonable costs will vary depending on how much work has been completed up to the 
point of cancellation; for example cancellation within the first 4 months of a simple claim 
could incur a fee of £100 plus VAT, whereas if the matter is complex and takes longer than 
one year the fee for each claim could be £400 plus VAT (the maximum per claim). The 
agreement also says Mr J and Mrs J must let Bank Smart know if they have previously 
claimed. This term goes on to say that failure to disclose previous/ongoing claims which are 
also registered with Bank Smart will result in their reasonable costs being charged up to a 
maximum of £400 + VAT per claim. There is a further term which says Mr J and Mrs J must 
notify Bank Smart of any settlement paid to them directly. The term goes on to say, where 
Bank Smart are notified that a resolution has been reached, Mr J and Mrs J must provide 
them with details or otherwise cover their costs in pursuing the claim.     
Bank Smart have provided a table showing an up to date position on all outstanding claims 
they are handling for Mr J and Mrs J. This shows 20 claims which are broken down in the 
following categories; breach of contract  13 claims, cancellation by client or lender  3 
claims, fees charged for successful outcome  3 claims and cancellation costs charged due 
to lender notifying Bank Smart the claim has resolved but wont disclose outcome  1 claim.    
I have seen signed LoAs for these claims so I think it was reasonable for Bank Smart to 
start the process of making enquiries with each lender and to then proceed with the claims. 
There is also evidence of communication between Bank Smart and Mr J and Mrs J as well 
as with the lenders. So, from the information Ive seen, I cant say Bank Smart have acted 
without instructions or that they were pursuing the claims without Mr J and Mrs Js 
knowledge. I havent seen any evidence which shows any of the LoAs were cancelled by  
Mr J and Mrs J within 14 days of signing, so I dont think its unreasonable for Bank Smart to 
charge fees in line with the terms and conditions. That said, I have looked further into Bank 
Smarts reasons for the charges and whether they have acted fairly and reasonably. 
There is one claim where Bank Smart have charged cancellation fees because the lender 
has told them the complaint has been investigated and resolved. I can see there is a signed 
LoA instructing Bank Smart to make enquiries with Lender C. There is then further work 
carried out where Bank Smart have written to Lender C to chase a response. Lender C then 
write to Bank Smart to say the complaint has already been investigated and resolved. They 
explain the final response letter was sent to Mr J a few months ago. Bank Smart then ask Mr 
J and Mrs J for a copy of the final response letter. There are further letters sent but I cant 
see Mr J and Mrs J respond so Bank Smart issue an invoice. Bank Smart explain they 
havent been able to calculate their success fee so they raise an invoice for the work they 
have carried out. I can see Bank Smart do provide Mr J and Mrs J with a further opportunity 
to provide the information requested in order to avoid the cancellation fees. Bank Smart 
enclose an itemised breakdown of the charges. Ive seen a copy of this and, looking through 
the work carried out, I dont think the fees they have charged are unreasonable. And, the 
terms and conditions do allow Bank Smart to charge fees for the work they have carried out 
in circumstances where they arent given details of a settlement which has been paid direct 
to a client. 
In relation to the three claims where Bank Smart have charged their success fee, I can see 
there was a successful outcome on these claims. And the lenders contacted Bank Smart 
with details of the settlement. Ive seen evidence that Bank Smart had authority to pursue 
these claims and of correspondence they sent to the lenders. Bank Smart have charged their success fee in line with their terms and conditions so I dont think their fees for these 
claims are unreasonable. 
Bank Smart have treated three claims as cancelled by Mr J and Mrs J or the lender. I have 
seen evidence of signed LoAs and Bank Smart carrying out work on these claims which 
includes sending the LoAs, getting further information from Mr J and Mrs J and engaging in 
further correspondence with the lenders. In relation to the claim which was cancelled by the 
lender, I can see they write to Bank Smart to say theyre already reviewing the claim so they 
cant action Bank Smarts authority. The cancellations have taken place after the 14-day 
period following the LoAs being signed so I dont think Bank Smart have acted unreasonably 
in charging cancellation fees. Ive looked at the itemised breakdown for these fees and, as 
well as the fees being in line with the charges set out in the terms and conditions, I dont 
think the level of fees is unreasonable in view of the work carried out. 
This leaves the 13 claims which Bank Smart are treating as a breach of contract. Ive looked 
at the information provided by Bank Smart and this shows signed LoAs for these claims, 
repeated requests for information and letters providing details of the status of these claims 
and why the information is required. Ive looked at the requests for information and can see 
they include a request for Mr J and Mrs J to complete an income and expenditure form to 
help prove they were in financial difficulty, completion of PPI questionnaires and also 
information to help the lender identify any accounts. I think these are reasonable requests for 
information and I can understand why Bank Smart wouldnt be able to proceed with the 
claims without this information. The terms and conditions do allow Bank Smart to charge 
fees for work done in circumstances where Mr J and Mrs J dont complete and return 
documents required for the claim  and it allows them to treat such events as a breach of the 
agreement. So, given that I havent seen any information to show that Mr J and Mrs J have 
responded to Bank Smarts requests, I dont think its unreasonable for Bank Smart to 
charge fees for the work they have carried out.         
I can see Mr J says hes always been aware Bank Smart can charge him. And, the reason 
he stopped signing the LoAs was because Bank Smart charged him for looking into a claim 
from years ago that had already been paid out to another business and Bank Smart felt they 
should be paid for the time they spent looking into this. I understand Mr J is concerned by 
this but the terms and conditions do allow Bank Smart to charge fees in situations where 
they have looked into a previously settled claim. I acknowledge Mr Js concern that hes 
been claiming back PPI on several accounts over many years and used a number of 
businesses to help him so he cant be expected to recall the details of all those claims. I 
understand keeping track of a number of claims  and which of those have settled  can be 
difficult but I cant say Bank Smart have acted unfairly if they have had to carry out work to 
establish a claim has settled. I dont think this scenario reasonably meets the definition of an 
unsuccessful claim  and the type which wouldnt attract a fee under the terms and 
conditions.    
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman