DRN-3076582
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr M complain that a finance agreement they entered into with Blue Motor
Finance Ltd (BMF) was misrepresented to them.  
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in August 2021. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
Mrs M and Mr M took receipt of a used car in November 2019. They financed the agreement
through a hire purchase agreement with BMF. That agreement shows the cash value of the
car as £5,995 and says a £1,000 deposit was paid. The amount of credit to be financed is
therefore £4,995 and the agreement explains that is to be paid over 61 months.
But Mrs M and Mr M say that the finance is not what they agreed to. They say they paid a
deposit of £1,000 and also received £1,000 in part exchange for their old car. They say that
means the amount of credit should be £3,995.
And Mrs M and Mr M also say the term of the agreement is wrong. They say they agreed to
a 36-month term and not a 61-month term.
Our investigator agreed with Mrs M and Mr M. He noted copies of text messages between
the dealership and Mrs M and Mr M on the date the finance agreement was signed. In those
messages Mrs M and Mr M disputed the term of the agreement theyd received and the
payments they would need to make. They said they believed they would need to pay £115
per month for 36 months and the not £120.67 for 61 months. The dealer apologised and said
it was the old agreement and he agreed that payments were £115 for 36 months.
He also thought there was evidence that a part exchange had occurred and that the value of
the part exchange had been agreed as £1,000.
So, he thought to put things right BMF should rework the finance agreement taking into
consideration the £1,000 part exchange, the £1,000 deposit and the 36-month term. He said
BMF should reimburse any extra payments Mrs M and Mr M may have paid since the
finance agreement began and he thought Mrs M and Mr M had been inconvenienced by
these issues and that BMF should therefore pay them £250 compensation. 
BMF didnt agree with the investigator. They said there was no evidence of the part
exchange or that the part exchange value had been attributed to the finance agreement.
They noted that the deposit receipt Mrs M and Mr M had provided suggested that after a
£1,000 deposit was paid the remaining balance was £4,995 they said this would have been
£3,995 if a part exchange and a deposit had been paid. So BMF asked for a final decision by
an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree that there is evidence to suggest this agreement was misrepresented to Mrs M and
Mr M, but I dont currently agree with the redress the investigator has suggested. Please let
me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs M and Mr M acquired their car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated
consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about
it.
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 explains that finance providers are liable for
what they say and for what is said by a supplier when formulating a finance agreement. As
the dealership who brokered this agreement is now out of business I think its reasonable to
consider this complaint against the finance provider.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the agreement should not have been
misrepresented to Mrs M and Mr M. So, if a false statement was made and if that false
statement most likely induced Mrs M and Mr M to enter into the agreement when they
otherwise wouldnt have, I would ask BMF to take some action.
was there a false statement of fact?
Mrs M and Mr M say that they were told the agreement would last for 36 months and that
payments would be £115 per month. I can see that the dealer sent a text message to Mr M
on the day the agreement was signed. That was in reply to Mr Ms concerns the finance was
not what was agreed, it said:
that is for the old one and went on to explain that it was were you were only putting £1k
deposit down.
Mr M therefore asks for a copy of the new agreement and a few days later on 19 November
2019 theres a text message from him to the dealer that says:
just got paperworkit says we have to pay £120 for 61 monthsyou said paying £115
for 36 months
I cant see that the dealership responded to Mr M and I think the subsequent delay was
because Mrs M and Mr M were waiting for a resolution.
So, I think its likely there was a false statement of fact made as the dealership explained the
initial agreement was wrong and the subsequent agreement was disputed by the consumers
as soon as they received it.
were Mrs M and Mr M induced into the agreement as a result of that false statement?I think its unlikely Mrs M and Mr M would have accepted an agreement that was twice as
long as they were expecting and not far off the same amount. So, I think its likely they
wouldnt have proceeded with the agreement had they known the reality of it and I therefore
think there is enough evidence to suggest the agreement was misrepresented to them.
putting things right for Mrs M and Mr M
When theres a misrepresentation we try to put consumers back in the position they would
have been in had the misrepresentation not happened.
But we wouldnt usually ask the business to put the consumer in the position they would
have been in if the misrepresentation had been true.
So, I dont agree with the investigators suggestion that BMF should reconstruct the
agreement on a 36-month basis.
I think the way to rectify matters is for BMF to take the car back and end the misrepresented
agreement.
In those circumstances they should refund any finance instalments that have been paid but
the relevant legislation allows a deduction in respect of the use consumers have had from
the car. Here I dont think Mrs M and Mr Ms use of the car has been disrupted so Im not
suggesting BMF refund any of the instalments that have been paid.
I would agree with the investigator who suggested BMF should pay Mrs M and Mr M £250 in
respect of the distress and inconvenience caused. I think its clear there has been
inconvenience here as theyve had to escalate a complaint to this service when it could have
been resolved earlier, and it would also have been distressing to think they were tied into an
agreement for much longer than theyd been led to believe was the case.
Our usual approach in these circumstances is to tell the business to refund any deposit that
has been made and to add interest to that deposit as the consumer has been deprived of the
money. Im expecting to ask BMF to refund the deposit Mrs M and Mr M paid but theres
some dispute about what that deposit is, so Ill explain my thoughts.
was there a part exchange?
I think there was. I say that because:
Mrs M and Mr M provided a copy of the advert that shows the car they previously
owned was subsequently shown for sale at the dealership. So, in the absence of any
other explanation about how it got there I think its likely that the dealership bought
the car from Mrs M and Mr M;
that is supported by copies of text messages with the dealership in which the dealer
negotiates a price for the part exchanged car. The price starts at £1,450 and is
reduced to £1,000 on the basis that there are some scratches and faults with it. 
was there a £1,000 cash deposit?
Evidence is conflicting about that.
the deposit receipt says that a £1,000 deposit has been received and the balance to
pay is £4,995. That would have been £3,995 if the deposit consisted of a part
exchange and a cash deposit. Ive already explained that I think there was a part
exchange, so I dont think the deposit receipt suggests a cash deposit was paid;On the other hand, a text message from the dealership shortly before the agreement
was reached explains I can get it (the car) to £6,040 and that includes taking your
car. If, as is suggested, that £6,040 was the balance after the part exchange, a
further sum of around £1,000 would need to be paid to reduce the amount of credit
financed to the £4,995. I think that text suggests a cash deposit of £1,000 was also
paid.
As Im unable to find enough evidence to sway me one way or the other about the deposit I
think a fair solution would be to tell BMF to refund a deposit of £1,500 consisting of a part
exchange of £1,000 and half of the cash deposit that may, or may not, have been paid by
Mrs M and Mr M. BMF will need to add 8% interest to that refund as Mrs M and Mr M have
been deprived of that money.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell Blue
Motor Finance Ltd to:
end the agreement and collect the car at no cost to Mrs M and Mr M and with nothing
more to pay;
refund £1,500 deposit and add 8% simple interest per year to that refund from the
date of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mrs M and Mr M £250 to compensate them for the distress and inconvenience
theyve been caused;
as Im persuaded Mrs M and Mr M would not have entered into the agreement had it
not been for the misrepresentation, BMF should remove any information about the
agreement from Mrs M and Mr Ms credit file. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M and Mr M didnt get in touch with any additional information but BMF did.
BMF said the part exchange didnt belong to Mrs M and Mr M but to their daughter. They 
explained that was shown on the insurance documents. So, they said any part exchange of 
the car wasnt the consumers to make. They suggested it was most likely Mrs M and Mr Ms 
daughter had traded in the car.
BMF also wondered how I could ask them to refund a deposit when I had suggested it may 
or may not have been paid. They said it was quite clear there was only ever a £1,000 
deposit.
Ive thought about what BMF have had to say but it hasnt changed my mind. I understand 
that Mrs M and Mr Ms name wasnt on the insurance documents but I dont think its unusual 
for parents to pay for cars for their offspring and Im not persuaded that means the car 
wasnt theirs to sell. And, I dont accept that its clear there was only ever a £1,000 deposit. I 
think, for the reasons Ive set out above, that is unclear. There is evidence either way and 
Im therefore persuaded that my proposed resolution to resolve this issue is reasonable in 
the circumstances.
Putting things right
Ive not been provided with sufficient additional information to change my provisional decision and that provisional decision therefore becomes my final decision on this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and to tell Blue Motor Finance Ltd 
to:
end the agreement and collect the car at no cost to Mrs M and Mr M and with nothing
more to pay;
refund £1,500 deposit and add 8% simple interest per year to that refund from the
date of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mrs M and Mr M £250 to compensate them for the distress and inconvenience
theyve been caused;
as Im persuaded Mrs M and Mr M would not have entered into the agreement had it
not been for the misrepresentation, BMF should remove any information about the
agreement from Mrs M and Mr Ms credit file.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman