DRN-1572510
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr B complain that Bradford & Bingley Building Society mis-sold them a monthly 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 1990 when they applied for 
a joint mortgage.
What happened
They took out a mortgage and PPI policy with Bradford & Bingley in 1990. They complained 
it had been mis-sold and that they were not told the policy changed from no deferment 
period to a 90-day deferment by the time they wanted to make a claim.
Our adjudicator rejected the complaint. Mrs B and Mr B disagreed with our adjudicators view 
and asked for the matter to be looked at again. They added again that the deferment period 
had been extended after the date of the PPI sale but by the time they wanted to make a 
claim. 
The policy only covered Mr B for accident and sickness, so sometimes I will only refer to 
him. But I will refer to Mrs B and Mr B where appropriate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ds and Mrs Hs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will be a disappointing result for them, 
so Ill explain why.
They complain the policy was mis-sold to them in 1990. I have seen the mortgage 
application and the PPI section completed on the form where Mrs B and Mr B ticked for 
accident and sickness cover for Mr B. As the policy was tailored to cover Mr B only for 
accident and sickness, I think it is most likely that they were told the policy was optional and 
that it could be changed to cover their particular needs. So I think they chose to buy it to 
cover Mr B.
Bradford & Bingley said the sale was non-advised, so I will continue on that basis. This 
means Bradford and Bingley had to give Mrs B and Mr B enough information for them to 
make their own assessment about whether they should buy PPI.
I looked at their circumstances at the time to see if they might have found a benefit in having 
PPI. Mr B was self-employed, so he bought a policy which could give him accident and 
sickness cover. So I think it could have given them a benefit.  
They told us they had some savings, but I think a successful claim on the policy could have 
helped them use the savings for other expenses.I dont know how Bradford & Bingley told Mrs B and Mr B about the cost and benefits of the 
policy but having decided they chose to have it to cover Mr B only, I think any detailed 
information about cost and benefits was unlikely to have changed their minds about taking it 
out.
I would also have expected Bradford & Bingley to tell Mrs B and Mr B about the exclusions in 
the policy. But as the policy was tailored to cover accident and sickness only, I dont think Mr 
B was affected by the main exclusions to do with his self-employed status. So even if they 
had been given a full list of exclusions, I dont think it would have put them off buying PPI. 
Mr B said he couldnt make a claim because the deferment period was extended, and he 
hadnt been told. Bradford & Bingley said it would have sent a letter to Mr B telling him about 
any change in the terms and conditions. And it was then a matter for him to decide if he 
wanted to keep the policy. I think it is more likely that Bradford & Bingley wrote to inform him 
of any change in the insurance terms and conditions. So I dont think its fair or reasonable to 
uphold the complaint for this reason.
Overall, I think the evidence shows Bradford & Bingley probably did make it clear PPI was 
optional, and more information about it wouldnt have changed their minds about taking it 
out. I also think Mrs B and Mr B were likely informed if there had been a change in the 
insurance terms and conditions. So Im not going to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman