DRN-2411824
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs M complain about the advice they received in 2006 to take out an interest-only 
mortgage. They say the advice was unsuitable, and they will now have to sell their home in 
order to repay the mortgage.
The advice was given by a broker for which Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited is now 
responsible.
What happened
Mr A and Mrs M took advice from the broker and took out a mortgage in 2006. Were looking 
at a separate complaint about the lender. They were buying a new property, and took the 
mortgage on an interest-only basis over a term of ten years.  
The mortgage application was made on a self-certification basis, meaning that Mr A and Mrs 
M werent asked to evidence their income. The mortgage term ended in August 2016.
In 2019, Mr A and Mrs M complained to the broker through a claims management company, 
on the basis that:
- they werent told they would need to repay the money theyd borrowed at the end of the 
ten-year mortgage term;
- no assessment was made of how they would pay the mortgage;
- no advice was given about whether the mortgage was suitable for them; and
- the broker put false information about their jobs and incomes on the application form 
without their knowledge.
Aviva said the brokers recommendation had been suitable, and the broker had discussed 
different repayment options with Mr A and Mrs M. It also said Mr A and Mrs M would have 
been asked to check and, if necessary, sign, the various documents involved in their 
mortgage application before they were submitted.
Aviva consented to our investigating the complaint, even though the advice had been given 
more than ten years before Mr A and Mrs M complained.
Our investigator thought the mortgage documents  which had been signed and witnessed  
were clear that the mortgage would need to be repaid at the end of the ten-year term. He 
also said the available paperwork from the time of the sale showed the broker had discussed 
Mr A and Mrs Ms circumstances and whether they could afford the mortgage, as well as 
interest-only and capital repayment mortgages and the costs of each, and that Mr A and Mrs 
M had signed to confirm their income details on the application were correct. He didnt think 
the advice was unsuitable.
Mr A and Mrs M didnt accept that conclusion, so their complaint has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusion as the investigator, for broadly the 
same reasons.
The brokers duty was to give Mr A and Mrs M a suitable recommendation, based on their 
needs and circumstances at the time. That included taking into account how they would 
repay the mortgage  including in retirement and at the end of the term. 
Ive carefully considered all the available documents from when the mortgage was taken out 
 including the client review form, signed mortgage application, mortgage offer, and the 
brokers letter to Mr A and Mrs M setting out the reasons for its recommendation  alongside 
records of how the mortgage was maintained in later years.
This was a self-certified mortgage. That meant Mr As and Mrs Ms stated incomes didnt 
need to be checked. Mr A and Mrs M say they didnt see the incomes the broker put on their 
application and they in fact earned far less than the amount stated. They say Mr A was 
already retired and Mrs M was only a few years away from retirement, and they shouldnt 
have been sold this mortgage.
The completed application form said both Mr A and Mrs M were self-employed and intended 
to retire at 70. It included details of their accountant. Mr A was in his late sixties at the time 
and Mrs M in her fifties. They signed the application immediately below the details of their 
income to: confirm that my personal income is as stated above and is sufficient to meet the 
repayments on the amount of loan requested. They also signed to accept the mortgage 
offer, and to confirm that they had received a copy of their completed application. Against 
this background, I think it likely that they knew the basis on which the application was being 
made.
The broker says it discussed with Mr A and Mrs M whether they would still be able to afford 
the mortgage when Mr A retired in a few years time. The letter it sent them with the reasons 
for its recommendation said Mr A and Mrs M knew the mortgage would continue into Mr As 
retirement but that they had other assets they would use to repay the mortgage. 
I think that is supported by other evidence: Mr A and Mrs M have mentioned owning property 
abroad; Mrs M was also keeping another property in the UK on which she already had a 
mortgage when she and Mr A bought their new property with the mortgage in question here. 
Mr A and Mrs M havent mentioned any other debts and there are none on the application. I 
think the broker considered whether they could afford the mortgage and, in the 
circumstances, it wasnt unreasonable in concluding that they could.
The broker says it would have told Mr A and Mrs M that they should pay their mortgage on 
an interest-only basis for only a very short time, and then switch to capital and interest 
repayment or arrange some other way to repay the capital balance. Thats reflected in its 
recommendation letter, which also said: as I advised you the longer you leave it to change 
[to repayment] the more your payments will increase as you will be taking the same 
mortgage over a shorter term. It also set out the cost of taking the mortgage on a capital 
and interest repayment basis, compared to interest-only.The lenders records show a note of a phone call with Mrs M in December 2006, in which 
she asked about converting the mortgage to a capital and interest repayment basis in a 
years time. They also show discussions with Mrs M in 2007 about making a lump-sum 
payment to the mortgage following the sale of a property she owned abroad, and I note Mr A 
and Mrs M made some overpayments over the years to reduce the mortgage.
Mr A and Mrs M have said they always intended to sell the mortgaged property in order to 
repay the mortgage, and it was on the market for around nine years on and off  but property 
prices had fallen so it wouldnt sell for enough to repay the mortgage.  I think all of this 
supports the brokers records and recollections, and that Mr A and Mrs M understood the 
basis on which their mortgage was operating and that they would need to repay it at the end 
of the term  indeed, they have made efforts to do so.
The broker wrote to Mr A and Mrs M explaining why it was recommending the mortgage, and 
I dont find its recommendation was unsuitable in the circumstances. Its unfortunate that 
things didnt turn out as Mr A and Mrs M had hoped, but I cant fairly conclude that this is 
down to any failings on the brokers part.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman