DRN-3171153
The complaint
Mrs G is unhappy Starling Bank Limited wont refund money she was tricked into transferring 
to a fraudster. 
What happened
In late August 2020 Mrs G received a call on her mobile phone, the caller ID showed the call 
was coming from another bank, that Ill call F. The caller, Mrs G says, knew information 
about her  such as who she banked with and her name  possibly gleaned from a 
fraudulent TV licence email Mrs G had completed before the scam.
The caller asked whether shed completed a transaction at a retailer in a different city. When 
she said she hadnt, the caller went on to ask whether shed had any problems with her TV 
licence. Mrs G confirmed that she had and the caller offered this as an explanation as to how 
her account details might have been obtained.
 
The caller explained that Mrs Gs accounts were at risk and that shed need to move her 
money to protect it  first to another account she held at Starling and then, once her new 
accounts were set up, to a new safe account.
She made three payments that evening and three more just after midnight. The first and last 
payments went to someone Mrs G was told was the bank manager, the rest were sent in 
Mrs Gs name, but to several different accounts. In total Mrs G sent £47,990.
When no money had arrived back into her account the following morning, Mrs G reported the 
matter to F and subsequently to Starling.
Unfortunately for Mrs G, shed actually been communicating with a fraudster.
Starling declined to refund Mrs G. It said she should have taken more care before making 
the payments and ignored warnings it had provided  so it wasnt obligated to refund her 
under the provisions of the Contingent Reimbursement Model CRM Code.
Our investigator disagreed. They thought the way the fraudsters had impersonated or 
spoofed Fs real number would have been particularly persuasive and the warnings 
provided by Starling wouldnt have been impactful in the circumstances. They also found that 
the transactions were unusual and out of character for Mrs G and Starling ought to have 
intervened before letting them leave her account. Consequently, they recommended Mrs G 
be refunded in full  minus the money that had been recovered or refunded from other 
parties  a total of £16,295.
Starling continued to disagree, in summary it said:
- Mrs G ought to have called F to verify the call, given how unusual the request was
- She ignored the fact she was warned that the name on the payee accounts didnt 
match her own 
- Its unclear why the customer picked the wrong reason for her payment (friends and 
family, rather than own account). But the friends and family option still displayed a 
warning that was specific to her circumstances: ......Are they asking you to move 
money due to their accounts being compromised? This is likely to be a scam, get 
them to verify the instructions with their bank first."
- Contrary to the investigators view, the account was new, with relatively limited 
activity  so the transactions would not have stood out as being unusual. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Starling is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances.  In this case Starling argue that 
two such exceptions apply  that Mrs G made the payments without a reasonable basis for 
belief and that she ignored an Effective Warning.
I am also mindful that when Mrs G made these payments, Starling should fairly and 
reasonably also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). And in 
some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional steps, 
or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined to make 
a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from 
fraud. 
Considering Starlings liability under the CRM Code
Ive first considered whether Mrs G held a reasonable basis for belief in making the 
payments, taking into account whether she actually did believe what she was told and 
whether that belief, taking into account her characteristics, was reasonable. 
Like the investigator, I find the element of number spoofing to be very persuasive  
particularly to someone unaware of the possibility of the trick. That isnt to say a customer 
would be reasonable to follow any subsequent instruction  but it provides a strong initial 
basis for belief. As does the information that the caller appeared to know about Mrs G  
including the supposed issues shed been having with her TV licence. While in retrospect it 
might be easy to say that Mrs G should have spotted that the earlier fraudulent email shed 
responded to and the subsequent call were both part of the same nefarious scheme  both 
the callers apparent knowledge of some information about her and the way they seemingly 
were able to explain how the alleged fraud had happened would, I think, have been 
persuasive. 
Starling argue that the nature of the requests was so unusual that Mrs G ought to have been 
on high alert and taken steps to verify the caller. While the request might have been unusual 
 in the sense that one presumes Mrs G hadnt received such a request in the past  the 
overall communication appears to have been interspersed with the kinds of requests most 
people would be familiar with  such as asking a customer to confirm transactions as 
genuine or otherwise. Though I accept that both the prolonged interaction with the bank and 
the involvement of more than one bank probably ought to have struck her as somewhat 
unusual, it doesnt necessarily follow that, to someone unaware that requests of this nature 
will always be scams, she was unreasonable to believe she was speaking to F.Ive thought about whether specific aspects of what transpired during the calls ought to have 
shaken Mrs Gs belief that the caller was from F and giving her legitimate instructions. 
Starling have provided evidence that Mrs G saw a message telling her that the account 
details shed entered didnt match the recipient for three of the four accounts she paid. Ive 
seen a demonstration provided by Starling showing what Mrs G would have seen. 
She would have seen a message highlighted in red which said:
The name you entered does not match the account details at the other bank
A further message, in lighter grey text says: 
Could this be a scam? If in doubt, stop. Learn more about avoiding fraud on our website.
The latter message appears throughout the payment journey. In order to continue with the 
payment despite having seen this message the user needs to tap skip in the top right hand 
corner of the screen and then re-enter their passcode  at this point the second paragraph 
quoted above remains visible on the screen and is displayed just above where the passcode 
needs to be entered.
Unfortunately, Mrs G does not recall seeing such messages, so I dont know why she moved 
past them. She does say that such was her belief that she was speaking to F that she didnt 
feel she needed to question things.  Ive thought about this carefully and it seems to be that 
the fraudsters were familiar with the way the Starling application worked, they were able, for 
example, to direct her to a specific alternative payment reason presumably in order for her 
not to see the most relevant warning. 
While wanting to avoid speculating about what might have happened, given the fraudsters 
apparent familiarity with the Starling application, Mrs Gs compliance and the relative ease at 
which the warning screen can be bypassed, its likely she was simply quickly directed past 
these screens by the fraudsters. This would explain why she cannot recall seeing them or 
questioning the fraudsters about their content. 
Similarly, Mrs G is unable to explain why she chose friends and family as the payment 
reason, other than she was told to do so. 
But I dont think these actions were as a result of carelessness or indifference to what was 
happening but rather deference to whom she believed to be the expert trying to assist her. In 
following their instructions (which in hindsight were clearly designed to divert her attention 
away from warnings and concerns) she appears to have believed she was simply carrying 
out instructions in the most expedient way possible. 
The warnings she did see  as Ill go on to discuss in more detail  werent particularly 
relevant to her circumstances, so I dont think these ought to have shaken her believe that 
the caller was legitimate either.  
Mrs G does appear to have questioned why one of the sort code she was paying wasnt that 
of her bank. She was told both banks used the same sort code. Its unclear whether the 
question was asked out of suspicion or inquisitiveness, but I dont think it was unreasonable 
for Mrs G to believe that some sort codes are shared by financial businesses, particularly as 
she was questioning one of the payments to a relatively new bank. Lastly, she seems to have rationalised why the bank manager would be receiving her 
money  that this person was taking responsibility for the investigation. Again, to the 
layperson and in the context of a call where their money appears to be at risk, I can 
understand why Mrs G didnt question this further. 
Ive concluded that Mrs Gs basis for believing that she was speaking to F was very strong 
and I dont think there was enough happening here that Mrs G, considering her knowledge 
and characteristics, ought to have realised that she was speaking to a fraudster or, at least, 
taken further steps to verify their identity. 
So, Im persuaded that she did have a reasonable basis for belief in making the payments.
Did Mrs G ignore an Effective Warning?
Its undisputed that Mrs G did not see the warning most relevant to her circumstances  as 
she was directed to choose a different payment reason by the fraudsters. This is unfortunate 
in the context of preventing the scam, but Im only able to assess the effectiveness of the 
warning Mrs G did see. 
Most of the warning she did see didnt apply to the particular scam she was falling victim to. 
The final part of the warning read:
Are they asking you to move money due to their accounts being compromised? This is likely 
to be a scam, get them to verify the instructions with their bank first."
This part of the warning was referring to scams of this nature  though, understandably, from 
a slightly different perspective which reduced the likelihood of a customer in Mrs Gs 
circumstances recognising that it somewhat related to their own position. 
 
Its notable that the warning above comes last in the list of other warnings. The previous 
warnings were also targeted at scams actually involving a payment to friends and family, so 
the reader in Mrs Gs position is likely to have found them completely irrelevant to their 
circumstances, making it less likely, I think, customers in Mrs Gs circumstances would keep 
reading the warnings. 
Im not convinced this warning goes far enough either  it doesnt explain that requests of 
this nature will almost certainly be a scam. Neither does the warning explain the 
consequences of proceeding with the payment.
Its also worth noting that in order to bypass the warning, the user only needs to tap yes to 
the question, are you sure you want to continue?  the warning does not ask the user 
whether theyve read and understood the previous statement, neither has it asked them any 
dynamic questions about what they are doing.
In Mrs Gs circumstances the warning was likely to be even less impactful given, as Ive set 
out, the way I think the fraudsters were managing her journey through the payment. 
So, Im not persuaded that Mrs G ignored an Effective Warning. 
Should Starling have intervened to stop the payments?
Though I can see that Mrs G didnt use her Starling account like a current account, Im still of 
the view that there was enough activity on the account in the six months prior to the scam for 
Starling to recognise that the disputed payments were sufficiently unusual and out of character that it ought to have intervened and questioned them in order to try and protect her 
from financial harm from fraud. 
Had it asked Mrs G about the activity, Ive seen nothing to suggest she would not have told 
Starling what was happening, that it would have quickly recognised that she was falling 
victim to a scam and that the loss would have been prevented. 
The effect of this finding is limited, given Im upholding the complaint, but it does mean that 
Starling should pay interest from the date of loss, rather than the date it declined the claim 
under the CRM Code. In relation to the interest, I understand the money that Mrs G 
transferred came from her savings held at F and, but for the scam, its likely to have 
remained there. So, I think interest should be paid at the rate Mrs G would have achieved 
had the funds remained at F.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and instruct Starling Bank Limited to:
- Refund the amount lost - £47,990, less the money that has been already recovered 
or refunded - £16,295.
- Pay simple interest per annum on that amount at the rate Mrs G would have 
achieved had the money remained at F, from the date of the payments to the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman