DRN-2686727
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy, when it was trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester Building Society.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2001. The policy was taken out to cover 
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage and was in Mr Bs name only. It provided him with cover for 
accident, sickness and unemployment.
The policy was sold by Cheltenham & Gloucester Building Society which has since been 
taken over by Lloyds Bank plc. To keep things simple, Ill refer to Lloyds as the seller in the 
rest of my decision.
Our adjudicator didn't recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs B didnt 
agree. They replied to say, in summary, that:
The policy exclusions werent explained to them.
They werent told there was a cooling off period.
They were told they had to sign the PPI application, or their mortgage application 
couldnt continue. They were told mortgage rates elsewhere would be significantly more 
expensive.
The sales process was forceful, and they were young, nave and apprehensive; they 
were pressured into taking the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
The PPI policy was sold around 20 years ago so, unsurprisingly, some of the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory. So I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs B say they were pressured to take the PPI because the sales process was 
forceful and they were young. I accept they may have been strongly encouraged to buy the 
PPI. But I cant fairly uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint solely based on Mr and Mrs Bs 
recollections of what happened 20 years ago, particularly as Ive not been told about 
anything specific the business said or did which amounted to unreasonable pressure.
I cant be sure exactly what was discussed, so Ive looked at the paperwork that was 
completed at the time. The mortgage application included a separate section about payment 
protection insurance. There were equally clear boxes to accept or decline the PPI. The No 
box has been ticked but then crossed out and the Yes box has been ticked. And Mr and 
Mrs B wrote that they needed to discuss this. They said something similar for home 
insurance. This suggests to me that, rather than just being asked to sign, PPI was discussed 
during the meeting. And that, as a result of that discussion, Mr and Mrs B decided that they 
did want to protect their mortgage payments. Overall, I think the paperwork presented the 
PPI as optional and it would have been reasonably clear to Mr and Mrs B that they didnt 
have to have a policy for their mortgage application to be successful. I say this because they 
were given the opportunity to accept or decline the PPI and they completed a separate 
application form and direct debit form for the PPI.
Lloyds recommended the policy, so it had to make sure it was suitable for Mr and Mrs B. 
I dont know what, if any, steps Lloyds took to do that. But it doesnt look like the PPI was 
unsuitable for Mr and Mrs B based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I say 
this because:
The mortgage was taken out in joint names, but only Mr Bs income was taken into 
account. This was because Mr B was the main earner and because Mr and Mrs B 
indicated that they wanted to start a family. For this reason, the PPI was taken out in 
Mr Bs name only, which seems appropriate. Mr B was eligible for the policy given his 
circumstances and the policy terms and conditions.
Mr B cant remember what pay he would have received from his employer if he couldnt 
work due to sickness or an accident. The mortgage was a significant long-term financial 
commitment and Mr and Mrs Bs home was at risk if they didnt keep up with the 
repayments. Mrs Bs income wasnt enough to meet the mortgage payments if Mr B 
found himself unable to work. And they told us that they didnt have any savings to rely 
on. The PPI would have paid out for up to 12 months in the event of a successful claim 
for accident or sickness. So I think the PPI could have been a useful benefit. It also 
covered Mr B if hed become unemployed - in addition to any redundancy payment he 
might have received.
Mr and Mrs B say the policy exclusions werent explained to them. But Mr B wasnt 
affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits such as those 
affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As he 
could have benefitted from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely better advice or 
information about the policys exclusions and limitations would have changed Mr and 
Mrs Bs decision to take the PPI.
Its not clear whether the cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Mr and Mrs B 
before they agreed to purchase it. For this reason, I have considered whether clearer 
information about the cost would have affected Mr and Mrs Bs decision to purchase the 
policy. They had chosen to take out the policy, knowing they would have to pay 
something for it. The policy was competitively priced. And, whilst Mr and Mrs B say the 
policy had a long-lasting financial effect on them, it looks to me that the policy was 
affordable. So I think it unlikely they would have made a different decision if better 
information about the cost had been provided.Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Mr and Mrs B would have 
made a different decision about taking out the policy if better information had been provided 
to them  overall, I think they would still have taken out the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 April 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman