DRN-3199094
The complaint
Mr K complains that a new car he got with a hire agreement (HA) from Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited (trading as Audi Financial Services) (AFS) is taking too long to repair 
and AFS havent done enough to put things right.  
What happened
Mr K acquired this car in June 2021. He had an accident in July the same year and a new 
steering rack was required. The repair centre is unable to obtain the relevant part. And, 
whilst Mr K has a courtesy car, this has branding on the sides and isnt the of the same 
quality, make or model as the hire car. Mr K thinks it is unfair that hes paying about £500 a 
month for a more expensive car and he wants AFS to expedite repairs or provide an 
appropriate replacement vehicle - or reduce his monthly payments. 
AFS says its not responsible in this situation and Mr K needs to take the matter up with the 
manufacturer or his insurers or the business repairing the car. Unhappy with that response 
Mr K referred the matter to our service. 
Our investigator was satisfied that the cars off the road as the result of an accident and Mr K 
hasnt complained about the quality of the vehicle. The investigator acknowledged AFS is 
part of the same group of companies as the vehicle manufacturer. But, he doesnt think AFS 
is responsible for the repairs - or supplying parts required. He wasnt persuaded it would be 
reasonable to require AFS to reduce Mr Ks monthly payments or do anything else in the 
circumstances. And he didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld.  
Mr K didnt agree and he asked for an ombudsman to review the matter. He feels its unfair 
that hes paying for a car he cant drive because of the missing part. He acknowledged the 
problem lies with the manufacturer - because the part required isnt available  but he cant 
make a complaint about the manufacturer as its not regulated. And he thinks AFS should 
sort things out, given it is part of the same corporate group. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K brings this complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service because the car was 
supplied by AFS under a finance agreement. And Im looking at AFSs obligations arising out 
of that agreement in this decision. Im satisfied that AFS was required to ensure that this car 
was of satisfactory quality when Mr K got it. But, Im unable to hold AFS responsible for 
things done (or not done) by third parties  such as the repairer or insurers or the cars 
manufacturer. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that the car is off the road due to a fault or some quality issue. 
Im satisfied that the repairs required are the result of an accident. I have sympathy for the 
situation Mr K finds himself in. I have no doubt its extremely frustrating that these repairs are 
taking so long - because a part is not available. But, Im afraid I cant fairly hold AFS 
responsible for that. 
I realise Mr K feels AFS should be able to do something to expedite the repairs  because 
its part of the same group of companies as the manufacturer. But Im satisfied AFS is a 
separate legal entity and I cant reasonably hold AFS liable for supply chain issues. 
I understand Mr K would like AFS to supply a suitable replacement vehicle - or reduce his 
monthly payments because hes paying for a car he cant drive. But, for the reasons Ive 
explained above, Im satisfied AFS isnt responsible for his car being off the road. And I am 
not persuaded that AFS is required to provide a replacement vehicle, in these particular 
circumstances. 
It looks as if Mr K had the opportunity to arrange for AFS to provide a replacement vehicle - 
in the event his car was involved in an accident - when he first took out the HA. I can see two 
boxes on the front of the agreement that refer to the supply of a replacement car due to 
either mechanical defect or accident damage. Neither box is ticked however in Mr Ks HA. 
So, it looks as if he decided not to take this particular option (which would, I suspect, have 
incurred an additional cost). 
Im not persuaded that I can fairly find AFS should be required to supply a replacement car - 
or do anything else - in this situation. I was mindful however that Id considered a few things 
that the investigator didnt mention in his view. So, I wrote to Mr K on 25 February 2022, 
along the lines set out above, to give him the chance to comment and/or provide further 
evidence (if he wanted to) before I made my final decision. 
The time I set for Mr K to provide a response has now passed and he hasnt made any 
further submissions (or told us that he needs more time to do so). Having considered all the 
evidence available, Im not persuaded that there are sufficient fair and reasonable grounds 
to uphold this complaint. And Im unable to require AFS to provide a refund or a replacement 
car or do anything else in relation to Mr Ks complaint for the reasons Ive set out above. 
I realise this decision is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr K but hes not obliged to 
accept what Ive said. In which case, its open to him to pursue the matter by any other 
means available. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, my decision is I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before  11 April 2022.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman