DRN-4268607
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limiteds (RSA) poor 
communication and its decision to decline their claim for storm damage under their home
buildings insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2022 Mr and Mrs Ps garden wall was blown over during a storm. This caused
damage to plants in a flower bed as well as other garden contents. Mr and Mrs P also
reported damage to their chimney. They contacted RSA to make a claim. It arranged for a
surveyor to inspect the damage. Following this, their claim was declined.
Mr and Mrs P say they had to do a lot of chasing and were unable to get a response from
the surveying company RSA appointed. They felt they had to renew their insurance with
RSA in August 2022 because of the ongoing claim. In addition, they say claim numbers kept
changing as did email addresses they were given to make contact during their claim. Mr and
Mrs P say they were made to feel they were lying about the damaged wall and found it very
difficult to communicate with RSAs agents.
In its complaint response RSA says storm conditions were experienced in Mr and Mrs Ps
locality at the time of their loss. But its surveyor thought the underlying cause of the wall
collapse was the deteriorated mortar joints, in addition to general wear and tear of the wall.
RSA says it declined the claim based on its experts opinion. However, it offered Mr and Mrs
P £100 compensation for the delayed response from its surveyor, which meant they had to
chase a number of times for information.
Mr and Mrs P didnt think this was fair and asked our service to consider the matter. Our
investigator didnt uphold their complaint. He says RSA had reasonably relied on its experts
opinion that the storm wasnt the underlying cause of the damage. He says there is evidence
of poor communication and delays that occurred during the claim. But he thought RSAs
offer of compensation was reasonable.
Mr and Mrs P disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider their complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in June 2023 explaining that I was intending to partially 
uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are three questions we take into consideration when determining whether a claim for
damage relates to a storm. These are:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage?
If any of the answers to the above questions are no then an insurer can generally,
reasonably decline a claim.
RSA doesnt dispute that storm conditions were experienced at the time of Mr and Mrs Ps
loss. Ive looked at a report from a weather station close to their home from around this time.
It shows wind gusts up to 71mph were experienced. I think its reasonable to accept that
there were storm conditions. This isnt disputed by RSA. So, I can move on to the second
question.
The damage Mr and Mrs P reported was to their garden wall. This collapsed during the
storm. The wind speeds reported were very strong and its possible for such winds to cause
structural damage. So, Im satisfied the answer to question two is also yes. This also isnt
disputed by RSA.
The final point I must be satisfied with is that the storm conditions were the main cause of
the damage. To understand whether this was the case Ive read the report provided by
RSAs surveyor. This says:
On inspection of the garden/boundary wall, to the rear is a brick boundary wall which
separates the vegetable garden at the end with single skimmed common bricks and this has
collapsed as a result of deteriorated mortar joints as a result of storm wind. Due to the fragile
condition of the mortar joints, the wall has now collapsed. The proximate cause is natural
breakdown of materials, the mortar joints are extremely weak and brittle and the wall has
collapsed into the garden as a result and this has fallen into mature shrubs in the garden.
Part of the wall has been cleared and some remains. The wall would still be standing if the
wall was in an OK condition. There is therefore no policy cover. Due to the coverage of the
flat roof, the claim is to be referred.
And:
We recommend however that there should be no policy cover on this claim as the proximate
cause is deteriorated mortar works between the bricks and the wall, which is extremely
brittle. The collapse would have been inevitable.
Having considered the surveyors report and the photos provided, Im more persuaded that
the underlying cause of the damage is due to deteriorated state of the mortar. From the
claim records I can see RSA also comments in its decline decision that the photos show the
mortar has fallen away from the bricks cleanly. It says this shows the lack of adhesion
between the bricks and the mortar. RSA says this meant there was no bond keeping the
materials together.
Ive carefully considered the photos provided along with the surveyors comments. I dont
think RSAs decision to decline the claim was unreasonable based on this evidence.
I dont dispute that the strong winds resulted in the collapse of the wall. But a well-
constructed and well-maintained wall, in good condition, should be able to withstand storm
force winds. I think RSAs view that the deteriorated state of the mortar allowed the storm
force winds to cause the damage, is fair in describing what happened here.
Ive read the exclusions section set out in Mr and Mrs Ps policy terms. This says:Wear and tear
Any loss, damage, liability, cost or expense of any kind directly or indirectly caused by, or
resulting from wear and tear, depreciation, corrosion, rusting, damp, insects, vermin (except
for cover 6 under Home Emergency cover), fungus, condensation, fading, frost or anything
that happens gradually, the process of cleaning, dyeing, repair, alteration, renovation or
restoration.
I think the policy terms are clear that gradual causes are excluded from cover. Based on this
evidence, although Im sorry Mr and Mrs Ps wall collapsed, Im satisfied RSA fairly declined
their claim for the reasons it gave.
Ive thought about Mr and Mrs Ps comments that they found it difficult to get through to
RSA, and its agents, when trying to progress their claim. I can see from the records provided
that they were in regular contact. RSA doesnt dispute that there were delays and some
ineffective communication throughout the handling of this claim. It offered Mr and Mrs P
£100 compensation to acknowledge the distress and inconvenience this caused.
The claim records show Mr and Mrs P were also given £50 compensation, in March 2022, as
a payment for the poor communication provided by RSAs surveyor.
In the circumstances described I think its reasonable that RSA should compensate Mr and
Mrs P. I think the amount offered was fair for the communication issues and initial delays.
However, Mr and Mrs P communicated other losses they incurred during the first notification
of loss call. This included contents in their garden, as well as damage to their chimney and
internal damage due to water ingress. I can see from RSAs records that its agent noted
these elements of the claim needed addressing. This wasnt done.
In its final complaint response RSA says Mr and Mrs P can confirm it they want the
outstanding part of their claim considered. Its appropriate that this option is available to
them. But this shouldve been dealt with during the initial claim. This has caused further
delays.
Having thought about all of this, I dont think it was unfair for RSA to rely on its surveyors
expert opinion and to decline the claim for the collapsed wall. But it didnt handle Mr and Mrs
Ps claim well. Aspects of their claim have yet to be considered and based on the claim
notes these losses are covered under their policy. I think it was fair to offer compensation for
the communication issues and delays. But I dont think this adequately acknowledges the
impact on Mr and Mrs P.
In these circumstances I think an additional compensation payment is fair. RSA should
provide an additional £100 to acknowledge the distress and inconvenience it caused.
I said I was intending to uphold this complaint in part and RSA should pay Mr and Mrs P a 
further £100 compensation. 
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
RSA didnt respond with any further comments or information for me to consider. 
Mr and Mrs P responded in detail. In summary they say they felt they were being accused of 
damaging the wall themselves and that the storm was stronger than identified in my 
provisional decision. Also, that the wall hadnt collapsed it had been blown down. In their response Mr and Mrs P describe how the named storm caused a great deal of 
damage throughout the UK. They say the strength of the wind is the reason their wall blew 
down.   
Mr and Mrs P say theyre worried they may be refused insurance in future because of the 
accusation they made a false declaration. They say they gave an accurate estimate of the 
percentage of flat roof at their property when the policy was taken out. 
Mr and Mrs P says the wall took the full brunt of the storm and refer to a large tree that was 
blown down close to their home. They also highlight the stress caused by the letter they 
received threatening to cancel their cover. Mr and Mrs P have sent press articles relating to 
the storm. As well as an internet search that refers to wind speeds up to 78mph having been 
recorded during the storm. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not persuaded that a change to my provisional decision is warranted. 
Ive thought carefully about Mr and Mrs Ps further comments. I dont dispute that very strong 
winds were experienced in their locality during the storm. However, as I explained, a well-
constructed wall in good condition, should withstand the effects of storm force winds. 
In my provisional decision I referred to the expert opinion provided by RSAs surveyor. Im 
not an expert in this field so where possible I will refer to those who are. Its clear from the 
surveyors findings that the underlying cause of the damage was the deteriorated state of the 
mortar joints in the wall. The storm force winds made the wall fall down  but this wouldnt 
have happened if the wall had been in a good condition. 
I note Mr and Mrs Ps comments that the wall was blown down, as opposed to it collapsing. I 
used this wording in my provisional decision. I acknowledge their point. But this doesnt 
impact on my findings. RSA declined the claim fairly based on the deteriorated condition of 
the wall.
Im sorry Mr and Mrs P were caused upset and felt they were being accused of causing or 
allowing damage to happen to their wall. But based on the information Ive seen RSA didnt 
make this accusation - it found the damage resulted from the deteriorated state of the 
mortar.
I acknowledge Mr and Mrs Ps concern that they think they could be penalised when 
obtaining insurance in future for having made a false declaration. I can see RSAs surveyor 
did highlight a discrepancy in his report about the percentage of flat roof area that had been 
declared when the policy incepted. But I cant see that any action was taken as a result of 
this. The claim was declined because of deteriorated mortar in the wall not because of a 
misrepresentation about the flat roof. RSA doesnt mention this in its response to Mr and Mrs 
Ps claim or in its response to their complaint. 
Im sorry Mr and Mrs P are disappointed with my findings. I can understand why they 
expected their policy to cover the cost of repairing the damage caused by the storm. But Im 
satisfied RSA acted fairly when relying on its policy terms to decline their claim. I think 
communication couldve been better, and RSA failed to deal with the remaining losses Mr 
and Mrs P claimed for, relating to a chimney and damp. Because of this I think its fair that 
RSA pays them a further £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this caused. But Im not persuaded that a change to my provisional findings is warranted. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited should:
pay Mr and Mrs P an additional £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman