DRN-3403064
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Capital One (Europe) plc permanently suspended his credit account. 
What happened
Mr Ms Capital One credit account fell into arrears in June 2020 as Mr M was unable to meet 
the minimum monthly payments required on the account. The account remained in arrears, 
and in December 2020, Mr M contacted Capital One and explained that he was experiencing 
financial difficulty because of the Covid-19 pandemic.
Capital One assessed Mr Ms income and expenditure at that time and offered a breathing 
space arrangement to Mr M. However, In January 2021, Capital One wrote to Mr M and 
explained his account had been suspended for non-payment. Capital One later defaulted Mr 
Ms account for the same reason. Mr M wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Capital One looked at Mr Ms complaint. But they felt that they had administered Mr Ms 
account fairly and reasonably, and so they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with Capital Ones response, so he referred his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also didnt feel that 
Capital One had acted unfairly towards Mr M in how theyd managed the ongoing situation, 
and so they also didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Mr M is upset that, having been granted the breathing space agreement by 
Capital One, that when he went to make payments to his account online there was a 
message that advised him to only make payments that he could afford to make, but didnt 
include any information or warnings about the potential consequences of not making a 
payment towards his account at that time.
However, Ive listened to a recording of the telephone call between Mr M and Capital One 
that took place in December 2020, where Mr M first made Capital One aware that he was 
experiencing financial difficulty because of the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Having done so, its notable that on that call, Capital One explained to Mr M that during the 
breathing space arrangement no interest or charges would be incurred on the account, but 
that if Mr M wasnt able to make the scheduled payments towards his account during that 
period, that these payments would be considered as being missed and as constituting 
arrears, and that his account may be defaulted for non-payment as a result.
Additionally, as well as being given the relevant information about the potential 
consequences of non-payment on his account verbally, Capital One also followed that 
conversation with a letter to Mr Ms address which confirmed that information. And, while Mr 
M has stated that he didnt receive that letter, I still feel that the verbal provision of the 
information given to Mr M during the telephone call in December 2020 provided sufficient 
notice to Mr M of the possible consequences that may arise if he wasnt able to make 
payments towards his account during the breathing space period.
It also must be noted that at the time that Mr M contacted Capital One in December 2020, 
his account was already in a position of arrears and had been so for some time. As such, at 
the time that Mr M contacted Capital One in December 2020 to advise of his financial 
difficulties his account was already in a position where the defaulting of that account for non-
payment was a possibility.
If course, having been advised by Mr M that he was experiencing financial difficulty in 
December 2020, it was incumbent on Capital One at that time to have assessed Mr Ms 
position sympathetically and to have provided reasonable forbearance to him.
By offering Mr M the breathing space agreement, which meant that interest and charges 
wouldnt be incurred on his account during that period, so that the overall outstanding 
balance wouldnt increase, I think that Capital One did that here. But importantly, I dont feel 
that there was an obligation on Capital One to have not followed their usual default 
proceedings during that time.
One reason I say this is because credit providers have certain obligations regarding 
accounts in arrears, and one of these obligations is not to allow an account to remain in a 
position of continuing arrears indefinitely. This is because an account in arrears is reported 
as being such by the credit provider to the credit reference agencies, and also because an 
account in arrears generally incurs interest and charges that mean that the account can fall 
further and further into debt with each passing month  to the account holders detriment.
As such, where an account has fallen into a position of multiple arrears, such as Mr Ms 
account had, and where a credit provider ascertains that the account holder has little 
reasonable chance of clearing those arrears in the near future, then that credit provider has 
an obligation to consider defaulting the account  which has the effect of halting the accrual 
of further interest and charges, effectively freezing the account balance and allowing both 
the credit provider and the account holder greater flexibility in the repayment arrangements 
that can be agreed.
For these reasons, I dont feel that Capital One acted unreasonably or unfairly towards Mr M 
by defaulting his account when Mr M fell into further arrears on his account, and I say this 
because Capital One had been informed by Mr M of his financial difficulty which meant that 
Capital One did have reasonable cause to consider that Mr M might not be able to reduce or 
clear the outstanding arrears on his account in the foreseeable future.
And while it may have been the case that Capital One began default proceedings at a time 
when Mr M was in a breathing space agreement, its important to recognise that Capital One 
were under no obligation to extend that agreement when it came to an end, especially as the 
arrears on Mr Ms account had grown during the breathing space period.
Ultimately, I think the assumption made by Capital One that Mr M wouldnt be able to reduce 
or clear the arrears in the foreseeable future was a fair one, and on that basis it wouldnt be 
expected that Capital One would have delayed default proceedings unnecessarily, but rather 
that they would have proceeded with them at the earliest reasonable time  which Im 
satisfied that they did  so that the default is reported to Mr Ms credit file, and will therefore 
be removed from Mr Ms credit file following the default reporting period, at the earliest possible juncture.
I realise that these were difficult times financially for Mr M, and I can sympathise with the 
position that he found himself in, and I understand that Mr Ms financial position may have 
recovered since that time. But as explained, given the arrears that had already accrued on 
Mr Ms account at the time he contacted Capital One in December 2020, and that Mr M 
didnt appear to be a position to resolve those arrears in the near future, I dont feel that 
Capital Ones actions in subsequently managing the situation as they did were unfair or 
unreasonable. 
Indeed, had Capital One allowed Mr Ms account to remain in an ongoing state of deepening 
arrears after having been made aware by Mr M that he was struggling financially at that time, 
then I would likely have considered Capital One to have acted irresponsibly towards Mr M by 
doing so.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr M was wanting, but it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing Capital One to take any further action at this time. I 
hope that Mr M will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision 
that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman