DRN-2979271
The complaint
Mr H has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly turned down a loss of rent 
claim on his commercial landlords policy after his business was impacted by the Covid-19 
pandemic. 
What happened
Mr H held a commercial landlords policy with UKI. He claimed on the policy after his 
business was impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr Hs broker told him his claim wouldnt 
covered by his policy. Unhappy with this response, Mr H complained to our service. 
UKI, Mr Hs insurer, said the claim had initially been recorded incorrectly which meant that 
they hadnt looked into things properly. They apologised for the delay in reviewing the claim 
and offered Mr H £200 compensation. However, they said Mr Hs policy didnt provide cover 
for his loss of rent claim as Covid-19 hadnt caused damage to property. 
Mr H thought the policy provided cover for abnormal trading conditions so remained 
unhappy that his claim had been turned down.
Our investigator looked into Mr Hs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He didnt 
think the policy provided cover as Covid-19 hadnt damaged property. He said the wording 
about abnormal trading conditions that Mr H had referred to related to cover for book debts 
and wasnt a standalone term. 
Mr H didnt agree as he still felt this part of the policy provided cover for his loss of rent 
claim. As Mr H didnt agree, his complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact 
on Mr Hs business. However, Im not going to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.   
  
Commercial landlords insurance offers protection from risks common to a landlord, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to 
see if UKI has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
when declining Mr Hs claim.
I will deal in turn with why sections that look like they might be relevant unfortunately dont 
provide cover. 
Loss of rent
The terms and conditions of this section of the policy say:
If any property owned by you or for which you are responsible sustains 
damage, for which liability has been admitted under Sections 1 or 2, causing an 
interruption of the business which results in loss of rent receivable we will 
indemnify you for
The policy defines damage as Loss, destruction or damage. 
For this to provide cover, any interruption to Mr Hs business would need to have been 
caused by damage to property he owns. I havent seen anything to indicate that Covid-19 
caused loss, destruction or damage to Mr Hs property, so I dont think this part of the policy 
provides cover for the circumstances of his claim. 
Prevention of Access
The cover provided by the policy is extended by various extensions. The relevant part of this 
extension says:
Any loss in respect of rent receivable as insured by this Section is extended to 
include interruption of the business as a result of
 
Damage to property
a In the vicinity of the premises caused by any of the Contingencies insured 
under Section 1 which prevents or hinders use of or access to the premises
 
For this extension to provide cover, Mr Hs business would need to be interrupted as a result 
of damage to property in its vicinity which prevented or hindered use of or access to the 
premises. As, I havent seen anything to indicate this has happened, I dont think this 
extension provides cover for his claim either. 
Abnormal trading conditions
Mr H has referred to the following wording to explain why he thinks his claim should be paid:
Outstanding Debit Balances
The money owed to you by your customers at the date of the damage taking 
into account
a Bad debts
b Debit and credit amounts owed and not passed through the books during the 
period between the last record and the date of the damage
c Abnormal trading conditions affecting the business
d Your last record of amounts owed by customers
This wording is under the heading of definitions within the loss of rent section of the policy. 
Point c sets out that abnormal trading conditions will be taken into account when considering 
how much money is owed by customers in the event of a claim under the extension for loss 
of book debts. Im afraid, this doesnt provide general cover for a claim for any abnormal 
trading conditions, so doesnt provide cover for Mr Hs claim.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr H was hoping for, but having considered the matter 
very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require UKI to pay Mr Hs claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman