DRN-2699351
The complaint
Mr P complains that Liverpool Victoria Life Company Limited (LV=) increased his quoted life 
assurance premiums after receiving information from his GP.
What happened
In December 2019 Mr P applied for a level term life assurance policy with LV= using a price 
comparison website. He applied for £500,000 worth of cover over a 16-year term. 
As part of his application, Mr P disclosed a number of medical conditions and the price 
comparison website quoted him a monthly premium cost of around £65. On the basis of this 
quote, Mr P decided to proceed with the application and his information was sent to LV=.
Shortly after receiving Mr Ps application, LV= asked Mr Ps permission to approach his GP 
for a medical report. Mr P emailed back asking the reason for this request, but he didnt get a 
response. 
It then took months for all of the requested medical information to be provided, with LV= 
having to go back and request additional details. After receiving and reviewing this evidence, 
in July 2020, LV= advised Mr P he would have to pay premiums of around £285 a month if 
he wished to take out the policy. It also added exclusions.
Mr P didnt think this was fair and so he complained but his complaint wasnt upheld by LV=. 
LV= said that the price comparison website made clear the quote was an estimated price 
and additional underwriting would be required before they could tell him the actual price. 
LV= also said the application summary and illustration documents it sent made clear LV= 
might need additional information to support the application and that the quote was an 
indication of the total cost.
Mr P disagreed with LV=s assessment, so he brought his complaint to our service. 
Mr P noted LV= had increased the premiums on the basis of medical conditions it was told 
about at the application. Mr P believed it was unfair of LV= to then raise the premium and felt 
it should honour the quote previously given. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint as he felt it was clear the quote was subject 
to underwriting. Mr P didnt agree and stressed that he didnt think it was reasonable to 
increase the quote when the basis for doing so wasnt new information. So, the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by saying that because this complaint is about LV=, I can only comment on its 
actions and decisions. I cant comment on those of the price comparison website Mr P used. 
So whilst I appreciate part of Mr Ps complaint is based around the information given to him 
on the price comparison website, I can only consider the actions and decisions of LV= and 
the documentation it was responsible for providing. If Mr P remains unhappy with the price 
comparison website, he can raise a complaint with it directly.
Having reviewed the relevant guidance and the medical evidence relied on, Im satisfied that 
the revised premium LV= told Mr P he would now need to pay is in line with its own 
underwriting criteria. But the crux of Mr Ps complaint is that he had disclosed his medical 
conditions when he first applied for the policy, so he doesnt see why he should then be 
asked to pay more than the original quoted price.
In this particular circumstance, the original quotation came from a price comparison website. 
Ive seen the generated quotation document Mr P was provided with. But LV= wasnt 
responsible for issuing this document. And whilst LV= is responsible for providing quotes for 
its own policies, it appears the medical disclosures Mr P gave to the price comparison 
website werent used to change the price he was quoted. How the price comparison website 
used the information Mr P and LV= provided and what warning it gave Mr P about changing 
quotations is something I cannot fairly hold LV= responsible for. So, I dont intend to 
comment on this further.
LV= did send Mr P documentation directly, detailing his application questions and answers 
alongside the price comparison website quote reference. This paperwork included the 
following wording:
This is the information that has been provided to us about you and upon which we have 
relied on to process your cover. This information forms the basis of a contract between the 
plan owner and LV=.
But the same document also warned:
whilst LV= often accept applications based on the information you provide, sometimes LV= 
may need additional information to support your application. We will contact you if this 
happens to let you know what we need.
I appreciate Mr P felt hed given enough information such that no changes should have been 
needed. However, when assessing the risk certain medical conditions can pose, insurers 
can require specific details about the condition from medical records. I cannot share the 
details of underwriting criteria LV= used as its commercially sensitive information. But having 
reviewed the guidance, Im satisfied LV= acted reasonably when it determined it needed 
more information about Mr Ps health for it to assess the terms on which it wanted to offer 
him life assurance.
From the application form, I do think LV= had enough information to indicate Mr P would 
have to pay higher premiums than the quotation hed been given, even though it wasnt clear 
what this increase would be. With the benefit of hindsight, knowing how long it took for the 
records to arrive, speaking with Mr P at this stage might have better managed his 
expectations. But I dont think it was unreasonable for LV= to have sought to clarify the 
revised premium cost before contacting Mr P about the increase.
LV= didnt respond to Mr P when he emailed asking why it had requested his GP records. 
Again, this couldve been an opportunity to explain to Mr P his premiums were likely to 
increase, so its unfortunate this didnt happen. But LV= couldnt have predicted the delay 
that then occurred. The lack of response wasnt good customer service but ultimately, I dont 
think this made any difference to the quote LV= offered. I can also see Mr P spoke with LV= 
shortly after providing the medical consent form, so Im satisfied he had the opportunity to 
query this further.There were then several months of delay whilst LV= awaited information from Mr Ps GP. 
Its request for information unfortunately coincided with the start of the covid-19 outbreak. 
And Im satisfied the delays in obtaining this were not due to any error on its part. That being 
said, LV=s own records indicate that in light of the difficulties obtaining medical information 
and the ongoing pandemic, it could have made an earlier decision based on the information 
it did have. So it would seem Mr P could have been offered a revised quotation in February 
or March 2020. But I can see from its notes that LV= took this into account when Mr Ps 
application expired in June 2020 and it didnt require him to formally reapply for his policy. 
Given this, I dont think Mr P lost out as a result of this delay.
Overall, whilst I appreciate it must have been incredibly frustrating for Mr P that the original 
quotation changed and the premiums increased by such a large amount, I dont think LV= 
acted unfairly. Insurers are entitled to amend the quoted premium after underwriting. I do 
think LV=s communication could have been better and by its own admission, it could have 
reached this decision sooner. But, for the reasons outlined above, I dont think it needs to do 
anything further to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2021.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman