DRN-2650479
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy for their mortgage.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1994. It was paid for with a 
regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered Mr L in case he was off 
work sick or lost his job.
I sent Nationwide and Mr and Mrs L a provisional decision on 3 February 2021, to explain 
why I thought the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I think Mr and Mrs Ls PPI policy was mis-sold here, and Ill 
explain why.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs L, so it didnt have to check whether it 
was right for them. But it did have to give them information about the policy that was clear, 
fair, and not misleading, so they could decide for themselves whether it was right for them.
I cant see that Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs L clear enough information about the policys 
terms at the point of sale. And I think this wouldve mattered to them, since Mr L would need 
to have been off sick or unemployed for at least 90 days before he could make a claim on 
the policy. This was a significantly longer waiting period than other PPI policies.
Mr L had only very limited cover in case he was off sick, and had no significant protection in 
place in case he lost his job. And he was the main earner. So Mr and Mrs L wouldve found it 
difficult to keep up with the mortgage payments during the lengthy waiting period. And this 
may have meant that Mr and Mrs L ended up in trouble with their mortgage, despite paying 
for a policy that was supposed to protect them from that very thing.
Nationwide says it had a leaflet that Mr and Mrs L couldve read that couldve told them 
about the waiting period. But I dont have any evidence to show that Mr and Mrs L were 
actually given this leaflet as part of this sales process, or that it was given to them early on 
enough in the process, or that they were told it contained important information and that they 
needed to read it. So based on what Ive seen of the sale, I cant be reasonably satisfied that 
Mr and Mrs L were made sufficiently aware of the waiting period.
Nationwide also says it wouldve treated Mr and Mrs L sympathetically if theyd fallen behind 
on their mortgage while waiting for the PPI to kick in. It says it wouldve made informal 
arrangements to deal with any arrears. But Im afraid thats not relevant here. Even if 
I accept that Nationwide definitely would have made such arrangements  and theres no 
guarantee of that  the fact remains that Mr and Mrs L were paying for a policy to stop them 
from going into arrears in the first place. So if the policy wasnt reliably able to do that, then it 
most likely wasnt right for them.
I cant see that Nationwide made the waiting period sufficiently clear at the point of sale. If it 
had done, then I think its most likely that Mr and Mrs L would not have bought the policy. So 
I think its most likely that Mr and Mrs L have lost out because of the flaws in this sale.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
3 March 2021. Mr and Mrs L didnt add anything further. Nationwide responded with some 
points, which Ill talk through below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide reiterated that there was a leaflet in existence at the time which Mr and Mrs L 
could have read, which couldve told them about the waiting period. But as I explained 
before, I dont have any evidence to show that they were actually given this leaflet here, or 
that it was given to them early on enough in the sales process, or that they were told it 
contained important information and that they needed to read it.
Nationwide also said it would have given the full policy terms to Mr and Mrs L after the sale, 
and if theyd objected to the waiting period at that point then they couldve cancelled it. But 
the onus was on Nationwide to provide clear, fair information at the point of sale. The onus 
was not on Mr and Mrs L to spot any flaws in the sale and cancel the policy after the fact.
Nationwide pointed out that Mr L did have some means of making his repayments for a time, 
and I do understand its argument here. But those means were limited in nature  not least if 
Mr L lost his job. It looks like Mr and Mrs L wouldve found it difficult to keep up with their 
mortgage payments during the lengthy waiting period, and Im not satisfied that they had 
enough existing cover to make sure they wouldnt fall behind before the PPI kicked in.
Nationwide said it wouldve made informal arrangements to help Mr and Mrs L deal with any 
arrears. But as I explained before, thats not relevant. The fact remains that Mr and Mrs L 
were paying for a policy specifically to stop them from falling behind on their mortgage in the 
first place. So if the policy wasnt reliably able to do that for them, then it most likely was not 
right for them.
Nationwide felt it was unfair to assume that it could not possibly have told Mr and Mrs L 
about the waiting period, else they wouldnt have bought the PPI. But Im afraid it has 
misunderstood the provisional decision. I did not say that Nationwide could not possibly have 
told Mr and Mrs L about the waiting period. I said I cannot be reasonably satisfied that they 
were made sufficiently aware of it. And I said that since it was most likely that the policy was 
not right for them, then if they had been made sufficiently aware of its terms then it follows 
its most likely they would not have bought it.Nationwide argued we shouldnt assume that Mr and Mrs L would not have bought the 
policy. I would point Nationwide to DISP App 3.6  that if a sale was substantially flawed (as 
I think this one most likely was), then one normally presumes the complainant would not 
have bought the policy. This is our well-established approach.
Lastly, Nationwide argued that it didnt have to tell Mr and Mrs L about its competitors. But 
I never said it did, so Im afraid I dont think this argument is relevant either.
So having carefully reconsidered the case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  
that I think its most likely this policy was mis-sold.
Putting things right
I direct Nationwide Building Society to put Mr and Mrs L in the position theyd be in now if 
they hadnt taken out this PPI policy. The policy must be cancelled, if it hasnt been 
cancelled already, and Nationwide needs to:
Pay Mr and Mrs L back the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% simple a year.
If Mr and Mrs L made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide must give 
Mr and Mrs L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one. Mr and Mrs L can 
claim back the tax if they dont pay tax.
My final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint, and direct Nationwide Building Society to put things right 
in the way I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman