DRN-3880345
The complaint
Miss G complains that Ikano Bank AB (publ), has rejected the claim she made under section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel system she says 
was misrepresented to her by the supplier.
Miss G is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In April 2018, Miss G purchased a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her 
home. Miss G financed the purchase through fixed sum loan agreement with Ikano that was 
repayable over ten years.
In July 2021, the CMC made a claim on Miss Gs behalf under section 75 of the Act to Ikano. 
The CMC said that the supplier had made representations about the system that had turned 
out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced Miss G to enter into 
the contract.
The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
The financial benefits from the system would make it a self-funding system which 
would pay for itself through the Feed-In Tariff (FIT) income and savings it would 
generate. 
Ikano said that it didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Miss G or that there 
were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
The CMC then referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our 
adjudicators looked into what had happened but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
The CMC didnt agree with this. Amongst other things, it said that:
Miss G was told by the sales representative that the system would be self-funding 
and would pay for itself within the term of the loan through the income she would 
receive from the feed in tariff and the savings she would make on her electricity bills.
The sales presentation, a copy of which the CMC sent us, showed savings of 
£719.10 in the first year, which combined with the FIT payments shown on the 
contract would exceed the annual loan repayments. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit.
As Miss G paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Ikano agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Miss G could claim against Ikano, the 
creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way she 
could have claimed against S. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Miss G 
and the supplier are deemed to have been conducted by the supplier as an agent of Ikano. 
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or their agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Ikano. These 
include the credit agreement, sales presentation, and contract.
The sales presentation showed a system that would generate 3,179 kWh in the first year and 
would cost £7,595.00. It included a voltage optimiser and LED lighting. This appears to be 
an initial quotation document. It said the total annual savings from the system would be 
£719.10, made up of £449.85 from the solar panels, £168.00 from the voltage optimiser and 
£101.24 from LED lighting. 
The contract shows what Miss G agreed to purchase. It shows a system that would generate 
3,776 kWh in the first year and would cost £6,600.00. It included a voltage optimiser but 
does not mention LED lighting. The contract estimated the first year returns from the system 
to be between £378.64 and £516.93, made up of £145.38 from the generation tariff, £94.97 
from the export tariff and between £378.64 and £516.93 from electricity savings (depending 
on how much of the generated electricity Miss G used herself).
The credit agreement set out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, the 
total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Sales presentation
I dont think this document formed part of the contract. It is likely to have been used during 
initial discussions with Miss G to give her an idea of the costs and benefits of the system. I 
dont agree with the CMC that the savings quoted excluded FIT payments (the sales 
presentation does not indicate this, although it refers to the benefits as savings). 
The system was shown to generate less electricity than the one Miss G purchased, so the 
likelihood of the supplier saying it would lead to higher savings on her electricity bills seems 
very small. Looking at the savings total shown on the sales presentation and comparing 
this to the estimates on the contract, I think the savings shown on the sales presentation 
most likely included the FIT income. So, I dont think the sales presentation provides compelling evidence that Miss G was told 
the system would be self-funding during the term of the loan. 
In any case, the contract had clear information about the system that Miss G actually 
purchased, and I think this wouldve been discussed with her before she signed the contract. 
Contract
The contract set out the cost of the system on the same page as the estimated first-year 
returns of the system, which were as follows:
I think the contract is clear that the system had a basic price of £6,600.00. I think Miss G 
wouldve understood the system would cost more than this, given she also signed the credit 
agreement and validation sheet which showed the total amount payable was £8,364.92 with 
120 monthly repayments of £69.71. 
I think it is also clear that the first-year benefit of the system was expected to total between 
£378.64 and £516.93 based on self-consumption rates of 25% and 50% respectively. This 
figure includes FIT payments and the value of electricity savings. Self-consumption rate is 
the proportion of the electricity generated by the system that Miss G would use herself.
The cost of the system and its first-year benefits are shown on the contract on the same 
page, just above where Miss G signed. I think it is clear from this that the system would not 
be self-funding. 
The annual loan repayments were £836.32. This is significantly more than the highest 
potential benefit shown on the contract of £516.93. I think the contract was an integral part of 
the sale and these figures would most likely have been discussed with Miss G.
So, I think it is unlikely that the salesperson wouldve misrepresented the solar panel system 
in the way Miss G has alleged.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im 
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by the supplier that induced 
Miss G to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold 
this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman