DRN-4178888
The complaint
Mr M complains HSBC Bank UK Plc trading as First Direct should be responsible for what 
happened to a payment made, which he intended to go to his partner who lives abroad. He 
wants the payment returned and compensation for the service he received. He wants losses 
refunded his partner experienced by using their credit card to pay for medical treatment. He 
also wants HSBC to issue a new public facing policy on international payments and to be 
fined.
What happened
Our investigator detailed the relevant background to Mr Ms complaint. In summary:
Mr M instructed HSBC to make a payment to his partner. The country his partner 
lives in went on to have UK and international sanctions applied in relation to certain 
persons, banks, organisations, and activities.
HSBC sent the payment, but the payment failed to credit his partners bank account. 
Instead, it was held by an intermediary bank in the United Kingdom. That bank 
asked HSBC for more information via the Swift payment system about Mr M and the 
payment. HSBC passed on Mr Ms responses, but the intermediary bank didnt send 
the payment on to Mr Ms partners bank.
Mr M asked for the payment to be returned. HSBC requested the funds to be 
returned, which they did on multiple occasions. They say (referring to the change to 
the swift code that identifies each bank), that Mr Ms payment is now held by the 
United States arm of the intermediary bank. To date, neither the UK nor United 
States intermediary banks have returned the payment.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ms complaint in part. They said:
HSBC did not assign the intermediary bank. This was determined by the Swift 
payment system. HSBC are not responsible for the decisions or actions of that bank, 
and they are not responsible for the payment not crediting Mr Ms partners bank 
account.
HSBC tried to recall the payment multiple times, but the bank holding the funds had 
not returned them and was no longer responding to HSBCs chasers. HSBC has no 
authority over the intermediary bank, and it wasnt fair to require them to pay Mr M a 
sum equivalent to the payment he made.
HSBC agreed as a gesture of goodwill to refund the transaction fee Mr M incurred 
making the payment.
HSBC communicated with the intermediary bank as they should have, but they ought 
to have kept Mr M better informed. They didnt update him because they didnt have 
a substantive update to give, but they still should have told Mr M about what they had 
done. £50 was a reasonable sum to make up for their failure.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with HSBCs published policies on potential risks when making 
an international payment. But fining a bank is a matter for the regulator and not our 
service.
HSBC agreed with our investigators recommendation, but Mr M did not. He asked 
for a final decision from an ombudsman, so his complaint is with me to decide. He 
emphasised the following, which I have summarised:
HSBC failed to mention the risks of making international payments in their online 
information
HSBC should be responsible as custodian for the failure of funds to arrive in his 
partners account. He used the comparator of a courier being liable as principal for 
the failures of its sub-contractors to deliver goods. 
He disagreed with our investigators analysis of the account terms. He says HSBC 
had no reason to believe any law would be breached or they could receive criticism.
Mr M and his partner have not broken any law and they are not subject to sanctions. 
His partners bank was not subject to sanctions when the payment instruction was 
given.
HSBC charged a fee for the payment, which shows they agreed to carry out a service 
they didnt provide. Its unfair that through no fault of Mr M the payment wasnt 
received or returned to him
Mr M asked our service to obtain information for him in the event I dont decide in his 
favour.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint in part, but Im not requiring HSBC to pay more 
compensation than our investigator recommended. Ill explain why.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in less detail than Mr M 
and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking this 
approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. This simply reflects 
the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Mr M feels HSBC should be responsible for the payment either not being paid to his partner 
or for the failure of other banks to return it. Ive no doubt this has been a very frustrating and 
concerning time for him. But I dont find HSBC are liable in the same way as a courier who 
contracts with other parties to ensure delivery of goods. As HSBC has explained, they did 
not assign the intermediary bank and at the time of the payment instruction the intermediary 
bank acted for his partners bank with regard to payments made GBP from the UK.The acts or omissions of the intermediary bank (whether right or wrong) and the 
consequences which resulted do not lie at HSBCs door. I dont find that by charging a fee 
when acting on Mr Ms payment instruction HSBC were agreeing to take responsibility to 
ensure the payment reached its intended destination. 
HSBC didnt decline Mr Ms payment. Instead, they followed his mandate by acting on his 
payment instruction and sending the payment. I have seen no evidence to show they made 
an error when doing this. I dont find HSBCs terms and conditions obligate them to ensure 
the payment was received by his partners bank or that they mean HSBC needed to make 
up for the potential failures of the intermediary bank.
International payments often involve other banks than the sending and beneficiary bank, as 
many banks dont have direct relationships with one another. Here, its the intermediary bank 
and not HSBC that holds the payment, and Im satisfied HSBC are not responsible for that 
banks decisions. I understand Mr M doesnt have a direct customer relationship with the 
intermediary bank, and its put him in a difficult position as he says the intermediary bank 
isnt helping, but that doesnt pass on responsibility to HSBC.
The online information published by HSBC which Mr M highlighted doesnt mention the risks 
of international payments. But even if there was such a reference, Im not persuaded this 
would have stopped Mr M instructing HSBC. At the time of giving the payment instruction 
and HSBC sending the payment, neither party would have known the payment wouldnt 
credit his partners account. Neither am I directing HSBC to change what it publishes on 
international payments. What they do and dont publish is really a matter of their broader 
commercial decision making and policy, and I dont find a direction to this end would be a 
proportionate outcome to Mr Ms individual complaint and the loss he experienced. 
HSBC didnt make an error acting on Mr Ms payment instruction, but I would expect them to 
have made reasonable efforts to try and recall the payment.  I find they contacted the 
intermediary bank on multiple occasions asking for the funds to be returned, but that bank 
failed to return the funds. Im satisfied HSBC did what I would expect in these 
circumstances.
Although HSBC were making reasonable efforts to recall the funds, they ought to have kept 
Mr M updated even though the update would have been that the intermediary bank wasnt 
responding or acting on their requests. This would have at least provided some consolation 
that HSBC werent ignoring Mr M. I find £50 is appropriate for the frustration not hearing from 
HSBC no doubt caused him, as well as the potentially inaccurate information he might have 
received at times when communicating with HSBC.
HSBC correctly followed their process when sending the payment, but as a gesture of 
goodwill they agreed to refund the fee, which I think is reasonable. I dont find their gesture 
means they are accepting liability for the payment not crediting Mr Ms partners account or 
not being returned to him.
Mr M asked for legislation I am relying on in making this decision. But I havent found there is 
a basis in law or regulations which would obligate HSBC to be responsible for the 
independent decisions/acts of the intermediary bank, who arent acting on HSBCs behalf. 
Mr M has requested evidence that the payment breached a sanction, regulation or would 
have received criticism from any government. I dont have evidence to show this. HSBC 
didnt have a sanction concern which is why they sent his payment. The intermediary bank it 
appears formed their own concerns, but Im not deciding a complaint about that bank and 
whether they acted fairly. I can only consider the acts/omissions of HSBC in relation to Mr 
Ms complaint.Mr M asked our service to force HSBC to provide him with certain information. Ive asked our 
investigator who gave their view on his complaint to see what can be shared in terms of the 
messages HSBC had over the Swift system with the intermediary bank. Sometimes 
information cannot be shared due to commercial sensitivity or where it is otherwise 
confidential. However, our investigator will revert back to Mr M on this matter, but it does not 
form part of my final decision. 
Our services role is to give an answer to the complaint Mr M made to HSBC and which he 
then brought to our service, and this final decision marks the end of the consideration of that 
complaint by our service. Our role is not to otherwise act for Mr M in order to obtain 
information he wants from HSBC.
Putting things right
If HSBC UK Bank Plc havent done so already I require them to pay Mr M £50 for not 
keeping him informed as they should have, and to refund the £5 fee for the payment he 
made.
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint in part. Subject to Mr M accepting this decision 
HSBC UK Bank Plc need to pay him redress in accordance with my instruction above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman