DRN-2855246
The complaint
Mrs A complains Unum Ltd has not properly assessed her income protection claim, and has 
unfairly declined it. 
What happened
Mrs A is a beneficiary of her employers group income protection scheme, provided by 
Unum. The policy is designed to pay a benefit after a deferred period of 26 weeks, in the 
event an insured member is unable to work in their insured occupation due to illness or 
injury. 
The policy defines incapacity as follows. 
A member is incapacitated if we are satisfied that they are:
Unable by reason of their illness or injury, to perform the material and substantial 
duties of the insured occupation, and are 
Not performing any other occupation.
Mrs A works in an office doing a desk-based role. And she made a claim against the income 
protection policy when she was unable to work, due to ongoing symptoms of Multiple 
Sclerosis (MS) and Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS), as well as anxiety and depression.  
In June 2019, Unum declined Mrs As claim. It said her medical records showed her MS and 
IBS conditions and symptoms had been ongoing for some time, and that there wasnt any 
indication of a recent flare up. It said her last reviews for MS and IBS had shown no 
escalation in the conditions. 
Unum noted Mrs A had been referred by her GP in relation to stress, but this had been 
deemed non urgent. It said there wasnt an indication of a significantly functionally impairing 
mental health condition. 
Unum said although Mrs A had been continually signed off work by her GP, these 
certificates alone were not sufficient evidence. And overall it thought the evidence didnt 
demonstrate the policy definition of incapacity had been met. 
Mrs A complained to Unum. There was a lengthy delay in Unum providing its response to 
Mrs As complaint. It acknowledged this and paid Mrs A £250 in compensation. 
In response to the complaint, Unum said it had reviewed the claim decision and Mrs As 
updated medical records, but still didnt think the policy definition of incapacity had been met. 
In summary it said: 
its Medical Officer had reviewed the claim and noted there was no evidence of active 
input from medical professionals or involvement of the MS multidisciplinary team as 
advised by NICE (The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence); 
GP certificates had been issued without details to reflect the clinical and functional 
situations;
there were no documented mental state examinations to suggest presence of a 
mental illness or condition; and
Mrs A has had MS for a significant amount of time and has said she rarely consults 
her GP when suffering sensory symptoms or a relapse. Unum said as Mrs A didnt 
consult a clinician, there is no evidence of the sensory symptoms or relapse she 
described experiencing. 
Mrs A brought her complaint to this service and an investigator here looked into what had 
happened. She said based on the medical evidence available, she thought Unum hadnt 
acted unfairly in declining the claim. However she thought it had taken too long to deal with 
the complaint, and thought the £250 compensation itd offered was fair. 
Unum made no comments on the investigators view. However, Mrs A disagreed and asked 
for a decision from an ombudsman. In summary she said: 
her claim hadnt been properly assessed as medical professionals such as a 
neurologist and psychologist had not been asked to review the medical evidence;
evidence from her GP alone was insufficient; 
Unum should have conducted further research into her conditions and could have 
visited her at home to assess her physical condition; 
NICE guidelines Unum has relied on do not apply in the same way where Mrs A 
lives; and
she would be willing for Unum to review the claim again, using appropriate 
specialists. 
And so the case has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say Unum has a 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Im very sorry to hear of the conditions and symptoms Mrs A has been suffering with. My 
assessment here is not based on whether Mrs A has been unwell, but rather Ive looked at 
whether I think the medical evidence supports that she met the definition of incapacity set 
out in the policy. Having done so, I dont think Unum has acted unfairly in declining Mrs As 
claim. And Ill explain why. 
Medical evidence 
Mrs A was continually signed off work by her GP. However, Im not persuaded that this 
sufficiently demonstrates Mrs As incapacity. And I say that because its evident the GP was 
issuing sick notes at Mrs As request, often over email. So the symptoms documented were 
self-reported. 
 Mrs A has said she didnt consult further with medical professionals as she has been living 
with her conditions for a long time, and is able to recognise and deal with her symptoms. 
However, unfortunately this means there is a lack of medical evidence about her conditions 
during the deferred period. And I think Unum has acted fairly in assessing the medical 
evidence which was available. Also, Mrs A was previously able to work whilst she had MS 
and IBS. So I dont think its unreasonable for Unum to have expected to see evidence that 
there had been a change in the conditions, which caused Mrs A to be unable to work as she 
had done in the past.
In relation to Mrs As anxiety and depression, Unum said it hadnt seen evidence of a 
significantly functionally impairing mental health condition. Based on the evidence Ive seen, 
I dont think this was unreasonable. Although Mrs A had been referred in relation to stress, 
the doctor had deemed this to be non-urgent. So I dont think this supports that Mrs A was 
suffering with mental health symptoms so severe, that she was unable to work.
NICE guidelines 
Unum has said the medical evidence it reviewed didnt show that Mrs A had active input 
from medical professionals on her condition, or the involvement of the MS multidisciplinary 
team, as outlined in the NICE guidelines. And Mrs A has said that she doesnt think these 
guidelines are applied in the same way where she lives. Although different parts of the UK 
will manage their own budgets and priorities in regard to healthcare, the NICE guidelines are 
applicable nationally. So I dont think it was unfair for Unum to expect to see that the medical 
evidence showed Mrs A had been treated in line with those guidelines. 
Assessment by specialists 
Ive considered Mrs As points around the way she has said Unum should have assessed 
her claim, and the further research and investigation she has said could have been 
undertaken. Whilst I understand and appreciate all Mrs A has said, Ive also considered what 
I think is reasonable to require an insurer to do when assessing a claim. 
In making a claim against her employers income protection policy, Mrs A is required to 
evidence to the insurer that she has a valid claim. This can include providing reports from 
medical professionals, such as the type of specialists Mrs A has said she thinks are best 
placed to comment on her health. Unum is expected to assess the medical evidence 
presented to it when assessing a claim, and I can see that it has done this, including 
referring the evidence to its Medical Officer. There is no requirement for Unum to 
commission reviews from the specialists Mrs A has suggested. And I think for me to ask it to 
do so in the circumstances of this case, would be unreasonable. 
Mrs A has said Unums procedures for assessing her conditions (without the involvement of 
relevant medical professionals) meant that the claim she made under the policy couldnt be 
properly and fairly evaluated.  And she thinks this is indirectly discriminatory, as she has a 
disability as defined by the Equality Act 2010 (the EqA). Mrs A has also said that the way in 
which Unum has dealt with her claim has violated her dignity. She feels she has had to 
reveal her most intimate experiences in order to justify her medical conditions.
 Its not within my power to make a finding about whether the actions of a business amount to 
discrimination  or whether Unum has breached the EqA - thats an issue for the Courts. 
However, as its a relevant consideration here, Ive taken the EqA into account when 
deciding whether Unum fairly and reasonably handled Mrs As claim. As Ive explained 
above, I dont think Unum was required to appoint medical specialists to assess Mrs As 
condition in this case. Unum has reviewed and assessed the medical evidence presented to 
it by Mrs A in support of her claim. And this is what I would expect it to do. Nothing Ive seen 
leads me to think that Mrs A has been put to a disadvantage by the way in which Unum went 
about assessing her claim, compared with those who dont live with the same medical 
conditions as Mrs A, or that she was treated unfairly. Nor am I persuaded that it unfairly 
asked Mrs A for information about the nature of her conditions and the impact they had on 
her. When making a claim under the policy, its for Mrs A to establish that she met the policy 
definition of being incapacitated throughout the deferred period.
Delays 
Unum apologised to Mrs A for the delay in issuing its final response letter on her complaint. 
And it paid her £250 in compensation. I think this is fair in the circumstances, so I wont be 
asking Unum to pay anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against Unum Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman