DRN-4286011
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy that a car supplied to her under a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn No.1 Limited was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
On 22 December 2023, Mrs C was supplied with a used car through a conditional sale 
agreement with Moneybarn. She paid an advance payment of £6,000 and the agreement 
was for £10,169 over 60 months; with monthly payments of £309.68. At the time of supply, 
the car was just over four years old, and had done 30,118 miles (according to the MOT 
record for 25 November 2022).
Mrs C contacted the supplying dealership on 11 January 2023 as she was experiencing 
problems with the car. She said the drivers door wasnt opening or closing properly during 
the cold winter months; the clutch was making a whistling noise; the Diesel Particulate Filter 
(DPF) warning light was lit; and she was concerned the engine had been replaced. The 
dealership regenerated the DPF but said they couldnt find an issue with the door.
Mrs C wasnt happy with this, and she complained to Moneybarn. They arranged for an 
independent engineer to inspect the car. The engineer concluded the car was faulty when it 
was supplied to Mrs C, and that the dealerships attempt to repair the car had failed. The car 
went back to the dealership on 19 April 2023, and the issues with the car were fixed. 
In June 2023, Mrs C took the car back to the dealership, reporting problems with the 
Electronic Stability Control warning light having come on, and an issue with the auto 
handbrake. But the dealership couldnt replicate these faults.
Mrs C wasnt happy with whatd happened, and she brought her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation.
As the engineer has said the car wasnt of a satisfactory quality when supplied, our 
investigator said Moneybarn should do something about this. However, as Mrs C had agreed 
to a second repair in April 2023, and this repair was successful, he didnt think she should be 
allowed to reject the car.
Instead, the investigator recommended that, as Mrs C had trouble with the car until April 
2023, then Moneybarn should refund her 10% of the payments shed made to that point, 
plus statutory interest, as well as paying her £150 for the trouble and inconvenience shed 
been caused.
Moneybarn agreed with the investigator, but Mrs C didnt. She wasnt happy that Moneybarn 
hadnt responded to her complaint within the timescale they were supposed to, and she 
wasnt happy that she wasnt told that accepting the second repair meant she couldnt reject 
the car unless the car couldnt be fixed. Mrs C still wanted to reject the car and she asked for 
an ombudsman to make a final decision.
Mrs C has also raised the issue of further faults with the car, and shes said that warning 
lights came on and then went off. And the dealership hasnt been able to identify any 
problems. The investigator explained that she would need to get some evidence of a fault 
with the car i.e., a report from a suitably qualified expert, and then raise these issues with 
Moneybarn. And we wouldnt be able to consider these faults until Moneybarn have had the 
opportunity to deal with them. Given this, I wont be considering these new faults as part of 
my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mrs C was supplied with a car under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to investigate complaints about it.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, 
Moneybarn are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Moneybarn can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified 
after the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Mrs C to show it was present when the 
car was supplied.
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mrs C took possession of it, or that the car wasnt 
sufficiently durable, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and 
reasonable to ask Moneybarn to put this right.
Ive seen a copy of the independent engineers report, dated 14 March 2023. In this report, 
the engineer said there was no evidence the engine had been replaced and they were 
unable to replicate the clutch noise Mrs C had complained about. However, the engineer 
said the DPF warning light was on, and Mrs C had shown him video evidence of the 
problems she was having with the door. 
The engineer concluded that the DPF regeneration carried out by the dealership has been a 
failed repair or misdiagnosed, the vehicle should be returned and fully investigated. The 
engineer also said the door issues and Mrs Cs concerns about the engine would require 
further investigation, and that the problems with the car would have been developing at the 
point of supply.
The engineer also confirmed their duty is to the courts, not to the person who instructed or 
paid for the report. As such, Im satisfied this report is reasonable to rely upon.Based on this report, Im satisfied there was a fault with the car when it was supplied to Mrs 
C, and this made it not of a satisfactory quality.
Section 24(5) of the CRA says a consumer who has  the right to reject may only exercise 
[this] and may only do so in one of these situations  (a) after one repair or replacement, the 
goods do not confirm to contract. This is known as the single chance of repair. As the 
engineer confirmed that the repair the dealership had done in January 2023 had either failed 
or was misdiagnosed, Im satisfied that Moneybarn / the dealership have had this single 
chance of repair.
The CRA is clear that, if the single chance at repair fails, as was the case here, then the 
customer has the right of rejection. However, this doesnt mean that the customer is required 
to reject the car, and they can agree an alternative remedy i.e., further repairs to the car.
Its not disputed that Mrs C agreed to have the car repaired after the independent engineer 
had inspected it. And, in an email dated 6 March 2023 (just before the inspection took place) 
Mrs C had told Moneybarn that she was happy for the car to be looked at, so long as she 
was provided with a courtesy car, as this was needed for work and family commitments. 
Given this, Im satisfied that she accepted an alternative remedy to rejection.
Mrs C has said that she wasnt advised of her right of rejection, otherwise she wouldve 
taken this. Theres nothing in the CRA that requires Moneybarn to have advised her of her 
right to reject. However, Ive seen that Mrs C asked to reject the car in early January 2023, 
and again after the post-inspection repairs were carried out. As such, Im satisfied that Mrs C 
was aware she had the right to reject the car when she was offered repair in March 2023, 
but she chose not to do so at this point, accepting repairs instead.
Given the above, I wont be asking Moneybarn to give Mrs C the opportunity to reject the 
car. But I do think they need to do something to put things right.
Putting things right
Mrs C has been able to use the car while it was in her possession. And, while it was being 
repaired, she was also provided with a courtesy car to keep her mobile. Because of this, I 
think its only fair that she pays for this usage.
However, given the issues with the car, especially the issues with opening and closing the 
drivers door, Im also satisfied that Mrs Cs usage and enjoyment of the car has been 
impaired. Because of this, I also think its fair that Moneybarn refund 10% of the payments 
Mrs C made until the DPF issues were fixed.
Its also clear that Mrs C has been inconvenienced by whats happened, and the fact that the 
car needed to go in for repair twice before the DPF issues were fixed. So, I think Moneybarn 
should compensate her for this. The investigator had recommended Moneybarn pay her 
£150, which is in line with what I wouldve directed had no recommendation been made. So, 
I see no compelling reason not to adopt this as part of my final decision.
Therefore, Moneybarn should:
refund 10% of the payments Mrs C made between December 2021 and April 2022 
inclusive, to reflect her impaired usage of the car during this period;
apply 8% simple yearly interest on the refunds, calculated from the date Mrs C made 
the payments to the date of the refund; and
pay Mrs C an additional £150 to compensate her for the trouble and inconvenience 
caused by being supplied with a car that wasnt of a satisfactory quality.HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneybarn to take off tax from this interest. Moneybarn 
must give Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mrs Cs complaint about Moneybarn No.1 Limited. And 
they are to follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman