DRN-3624108
The complaint
Mr S complains that Halifax Share Dealing Limited (HSDL) provided incorrect advice when 
he applied to transfer his individual savings account (ISA) to another provider. Mr S says 
HSDL told him to sell his existing funds on-line so they could be sent to the new provider. 
HSDL then transferred the cash into Mr S current account, resulting in a potential 
opportunity to invest being missed and the loss of ISA wrapper tax benefits.
What happened
HSDL received a request from Mr S new ISA provider to transfer the funds in cash on 14 
October 2020. When Mr S contacted HSDL on 20 October to check on the progress, HSDL 
told him he should go on-line and manually sell the funds in his account so the proceeds 
could be transferred to the new provider. Mr S did this, but the funds were instead credited to 
his current account on 28 October.
Mr S spoke with HSDL on 9 November and explained hed been told to sell the funds
himself and that the funds had been credited to his current account. HSDL asked Mr S to
transfer the cash funds back to them so they could re-instate the ISA wrapper, and then 
send the cash to the new provider. Mr S indicated he would transfer £31,600 back, but this
transfer didnt happen as HSDL didnt provide Mr S with the account details for the return of
the funds.
Mr S complained to HSDL on 19 November and he was provided with the correct bank
details to return the £31,600. The funds havent been returned to HSDL.
HSDL provided a final response in April 2021. They accept theyd incorrectly told him to 
manually sell the funds in his ISA wrapper. And that they paid the funds into his
current account. HSDL said that if Mr S returned the funds, they would be willing to restore
them into the ISA wrapper and send the proceeds to the new provider. HSDL offered Mr S
£400 for the inconvenience caused. Mr S said hed invested some of the funds and hasnt 
returned any funds to HSDL.
Mr S brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and one of our
Investigators looked into things for him. Our Investigator thought HSDLs offer to re-instate
the ISA wrapper and send the funds to the new provider if Mr S returned the cash funds was
a reasonable one. And that the offer of £400 for the inconvenience their errors caused Mr S
was reasonable too. Mr S didnt agree with the Investigator as he felt the transfer shouldve
completed in October and he had missed out on potential investment growth. 
The Investigator re-considered this and thought HSDL should also calculate and pay any
difference between the unit price in the funds Mr S said he wouldve bought from 20 October
to 19 November 2020.
As both Mr S and HSDL didnt accept the conclusions of the Investigator, the complaint was 
been passed to me to decide. I reached a significantly different conclusion to that of the 
Investigator and I issued a provisional decision asking for any further comments from Mr S 
and HSDL. 
HSDL didnt provide a response to my provisional decision. Mr S did provide additional 
comments, but the comments havent changed my conclusion and Ive decided to adopt my 
provisional decision as my final decision. I will address the comments Mr S made and 
explain why they havent changed my conclusion.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSDL received a request to transfer the cash to the new provider on 14 October 2020. Mr S 
sold the funds manually on 20 October, as instructed to by HSDL and the cash funds were 
incorrectly transferred by HSDL to a current account held by Mr S on 28 October. Its fair and 
reasonable for me to conclude this is the date any transfer to the new provider would have 
completed as it was essentially the settlement date for the funds Mr S sold in his HSDL ISA.
HSDL accept they got things wrong here, but it seems from the timelines both parties 
provided, HSDL first gave Mr S the option to return the cash to them on 9 November.
They said if they received the funds back, they could re-instate the ISA wrapper and send
the funds to the new provider. The notes HSDL provided of this call record Mr S indicated he
wanted to return £31,600, which was slightly less than actual cash transfer. So, I consider it 
likely there was some discussion about the intention of Mr S to return a significant proportion 
of the cash at that time.
Unfortunately, Mr S was unable to return the funds to HSDL as they didnt provide him with
the necessary account details. However, from the timeline provided by HSDL, I consider its
more likely than not Mr S was provided with the correct account details on 19 November.
This was the day Mr S contacted HSDL to make a complaint about their service.
I understand Mr S says he waited for a final response to his complaint, but Im satisfied that
by 19 November 2020 HSDL had provided him with the details required to complete the
transfer and retain the ISA status. Ive noted Mr S says he lost the ISA status, and this is
the fault of HSDL. I note Mr S says he was frustrated that HSDL had taken some time to get 
to this point, but the crux of this is that if had Mr S transferred the funds to HSDL, its likely 
his ISA status would have been preserved. And, as I consider it likely the ISA status could 
have been re-instated, even after the further delay between 9 and 19 November, I consider it 
unfair to say HSDL were ultimately responsible for the loss of the ISA status.
Mr S says its likely he missed out on investment performance as his funds were switched to
cash. In this case the transfer form submitted by the new ISA provider made it clear the
funds were to be transferred as cash and not in-specie. So, in my opinion, it seems more 
likely than not Mr S intended to convert the funds to cash and transfer the cash to his new 
provider. As Ive explained earlier, the 28 October seems the likely date the transfer would 
have happened. So, using the price of the previous HSDL funds isnt a reasonable and fair 
option as these were to be disinvested. And in any case, it seems to me there is no 
requirement for me to consider any loss of investment performance prior to 28 October as 
the funds were invested until this date.
Mr S says that if the transfer had happened on 28 October, he would likely have
invested in funds with his new provider. He says he was denied this opportunity to do so as
HSDL didnt complete the transfer correctly. Mr S adds that he would have invested into 
three specific funds with his new provider. Mr S did later invest into these funds, but I cant 
be reasonably sure he wouldve chosen these three funds in October 2020. And, Ive not 
seen any evidence to persuade me was actively considering these specific funds at that time. Having said that, I do consider its likely Mr S would have invested in similar funds to 
the funds hes mentioned. I say this because he was invested in similar funds with HSDL. 
And I think its more likely than not he would have continued to invest in similar funds rather 
than hold his funds in cash with the new provider for any length of time.
So, Ive decided to ask HSDL to take action to reflect the potential loss of an investment 
opportunity for Mr S between 28 October and 19 November 2020, using the £31,600 Mr S 
intended to transfer back to his ISA wrapper. 
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider my aim should be to put Mr S as 
close to the position he wouldve been in on 28 October 2020 and to remedy the loss of
opportunity to invest in new funds, if any.
Im satisfied Mr S wouldnt have invested significantly differently. It isnt possible to say 
precisely what he wouldve done, but I am satisfied what Ive set out below is fair and
reasonable given Mr S' circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What should HSDL do?
To compensate Mr S fairly, HSDL must:
Pay Mr S the difference between the fair value and the £31,600 available value of the 
investment. If the available value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
HSDL should also pay interest as set out below.
*Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameBenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end date) Additional interest
£31,600FTSE UK
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index28 October
202019 November
20208% simple per year 
from final decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 28 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance) *
Available value
This means the actual cash amount Mr S agreed should have been transferred from HSDL 
to the new provider.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return
using the benchmark.Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr S wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr S' circumstances and risk attitude.
This is a fair redress that reflects Mr S missed the opportunity to invest in other funds 
between 28 October and 19 November 2020.
Tax considerations
Although HSDL should pay the above redress to Mr S, if any, I must also consider the loss of 
his ISA allowance and Ive thought carefully about this. Ive decided HSDL did provide Mr S 
with the opportunity to re-instate the ISA wrapper, but Mr S didnt send the funds back to 
HSDL, even after theyd provided the correct account details. This offer was made but Mr S 
didnt take it up and I dont think its fair and reasonable for me to consider any further 
remedy in this regard.
HSDL accept they made errors and caused Mr S some distress and inconvenience in
October and November 2020. Mr S made several calls to HSDL after theyd mistakenly told 
him to sell the funds himself. I appreciate Mr S would have been frustrated that ultimately the 
transfer didnt complete, albeit because in the end he didnt transfer the funds back to HSDL. 
Taking into account the circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied HSDLs offer made to 
reflect the impact their errors had on Mr S was a reasonable one.
Mr S says he feels a £400 fine isnt going to be enough to persuade HSDL to change their 
processes and prevent what happened to him happening to other consumers. I should 
explain here that any remedy directed by the Financial Ombudsman Service is not a fine - 
its a remedy to reflect the inconvenience the consumer who brought the complaint has 
experienced. I cant tell HSDL to change their processes, that is a matter for their regulator, 
the Financial Conduct Authority. So, taking the circumstances of this complaint into account, 
I consider the £400 offer HSDL made to reflect the impact their errors had on Mr S was a 
reasonable one.
My final decision
Ive decided Halifax Share Dealing Limited should pay Mr S the difference between the fair 
value and the £31,600 available value of the investment, if any, between 28 October and 19 
November 2020. If the available value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable. HSDL should also pay interest as set out in the table above and pay Mr S £400 for 
the distress and inconvenience their actions caused him.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman