DRN-3148583
Complaint
Mr S has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) unfairly continued applying charges 
to his overdraft when it ought to have realised that it was irresponsible to continue providing 
it.
  
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and HSBC shouldnt have continued 
providing an overdraft to Mr S from December 2016 and it needed to refund all the interest, 
fees and charges it added from this point as a result. HSBC disagreed so the complaint was 
passed to an ombudsman for review.   
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think HSBC acted unfairly when it 
increased Mr S limit and continued adding interest and associated fees to his overdraft in 
December 2016. By this point, it was evident Mr S was gambling significant sums of money. 
And his ability to repay what he was being lent was dependent on his success as a gambler. 
So at this point, I think that HSBC ought to have realised that Mr S was unlikely to be able to 
sustainably repay what he could owe on his overdraft and should have stopped providing it 
on the same terms, let alone increase the limit. And at this point HSBC should have instead 
mitigated the position, even if this meant taking corrective action in relation to the facility.
All of this means that HSBC should have realised that Mr S wasnt using his overdraft as 
intended and as the account conduct had suggested it had become unsustainable shouldnt 
have continued offering it on the same terms. As HSBC didnt react to Mr S account conduct 
and instead increased Mr S limit and continued charging in the same way, I think it failed to 
act fairly and reasonably. 
Mr S ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on his overdraft because HSBC 
failed to take action. So I think that Mr S lost out because of what HSBC did wrong and that 
it should put things right.
  
Fair compensation  what HSBC needs to do to put things right for Mr S
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr S complaint for HSBC to put things right by:
Reworking Mr S current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from December 2016 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made HSBC should contact Mr S to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If HSBC considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr S 
credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the 
process of taking corrective action on the account from December 2016.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr S along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then HSBC 
should remove any adverse information from Mr S credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr S complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman