DRN-2779782
The complaint
Mr I is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc added a default to his credit file.
What happened
Mr I had an overdraft facility with HSBC. Mr I fell into a period of difficulty in both his personal 
life and his financial position such that he became unable to meet the payments needed to 
keep his overdraft from exceeding the agreed limit, which was first exceeded in January 
2018.
Mr I contacted HSBC to discuss his ongoing difficulties, but because he didnt have any 
income HSBC werent able to agree an affordable repayment plan with him. Mr Is account 
continued to be in excess of the agreed overdraft amount and, following several 
conversations and formal letters, the account was defaulted by HSBC in February 2019. Mr I 
wasnt happy about this, and in late 2020 he made a complaint.
HSBC looked at Mr Is complaint, but they felt that they had handled Mr Is account 
appropriately and that the default had been applied correctly, so they didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mr I wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One 
of our investigators looked at this complaint. After a lengthy investigation, they also felt that 
HSBC hadnt acted unfairly or unreasonably in how theyd managed Mr Is account or in how 
the default had been applied. So, they also didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr I remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its only natural to sympathise with Mr Is position here, and I realise how impactful the 
changes to his personal and financial life must have been in the period that led to him 
experiencing the financial difficulties which ultimately resulted in HSBC defaulting his 
account and recording it as such on Mr Is credit file.
What I have to decide is whether I think HSBCs actions during this period, including the 
defaulting of Mr Is account, were fair and reasonable and in line with what this service would 
expect, given the circumstances here.
When a customer informs a business that they are experiencing financial difficulties it would 
be expected by this service that the business would respond to that customer with a degree 
of sympathy and positivity, so as to provide reasonable help to that customer to enable them 
to recover their financial position, if possible.
I think that HSBC did that here. They took details of Mr Is income and expenditure and, 
when this demonstrated that Mr I wasnt in the position to make any payment such that a 
formal payment plan could be agreed, they explained to Mr I that there was no requirement 
for him to make monthly payments at that time, but that he could make payments towards 
the account on an ad-hoc basis if he were able to do so.
Mr I has explained to this service that, contrary to what HSBC have stated, he was in receipt 
of some income at that time  specifically, he was receiving £120 per week from his sister to 
help him get by. Mr I has also stated that he tried to arrange a payment plan of £10 per 
month with HSBC on that basis, but that this was refused by HSBC.
I can understand Mr Is frustration that HSBC didnt feel that they were able to accept his 
offer of payment, but at the same time it must be recognised that the income that Mr I was 
receiving from his sister wasnt guaranteed - in the same way that a monthly salary, for 
instance, is guaranteed.
It must also be acknowledged that HSBC had no visibility of this income, in that it wasnt 
being paid into Mr Is HSBC account but was being received by him via some other channel. 
As such, I dont think that it was unreasonable for HSBC to not take this income into 
account. And indeed, given the non-guaranteed and non-visible nature of this income, it may 
well have been remiss of HSBC to have set up a formal payment plan on the basis of that 
income, had they done so.
HSBC have explained that there was a period of over a year between Mr I first exceeding his 
overdraft limit in January 2018 and the default being applied in February 2019, and that Mr I 
was free to make payments towards the account at any point during that time.
Mt I has stated that he did try to make payments to the account, but that his offers of 
payment were refused by HSBC. Its unusual that a business would refuse an ad-hoc offer of 
payment on an account, and when this service asked HSBC specifically about this they 
explained that Mr I had been able to make ad-hoc payments, if hed wanted to do so, either 
by contacting the collections department or by visiting a HSBC branch.
Mr I has suggested that this service review the telephone conversations that he had with 
HSBC about this matter, which he is confident will confirm his position. Unfortunately, HSBC 
havent being able to provide recordings of these telephone conversations. While this is 
unfortunate its not entirely unexpected, given the length of time that has elapsed since these 
conversations took place, and I cant reasonable censure HSBC for this.
It also must be pointed out that Mr I did successfully make one payment toward the account 
in July 2018, for £92. 
Even had it been the case that Mr I had made further payments toward the account, Im not 
convinced that Mr Is financial position was such at that time that he could have made the 
amount of payment necessary to bring the account back under the agreed overdraft limit so 
as to avoid the possibility of his account being defaulted. 
And, as HSBC have explained, there was a period of over a year between Mr I first 
exceeding the overdraft limit and the default being applied. And given that the necessary 
payments werent made by Mr I within this period, and also that HSBC were clear in their 
communication with Mr I about the continuing possibility that his account might be defaulted, 
its difficult for me to conclude that HSBC acted unfairly toward Mr I by defaulting the account 
when they did, in February 2019.Ultimately, Ive uncovered nothing in my review of this complaint that makes me feel that it 
was unreasonable for HSBC to apply this default. At the time that the default was applied Mr 
I was in considerable arrears on the account and had been for a considerable period of time. 
And while I can understand, given the difficulties that Mr I was facing, why Mr Is account 
was in arrears, it isnt the case that the difficulties he was experiencing mean that the default 
on his account shouldnt have been applied. 
Indeed, one purpose of a default is to notify potential new creditors that the individual in 
question is in a vulnerable financial position such that they might not be able to repay any 
new credit offered, and so to protect that individual from falling further into debt. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr I was wanting, but it follows from this that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or asking HSBC to take any further action at this time. I 
hope that Mr I can understand, given everything I have explained above, why I have made 
the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman