DRN-3932588
The complaint
Mr B complains about the way that U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill Home 
Insurance (UKI) dealt with his home insurance claim for accidental damage caused to his 
property by a neighbour building an extension. Though the claim was mostly run by loss 
adjusters, for convenience I shall refer to UKI throughout unless I say otherwise. Mr B is 
elderly and vulnerable, lives alone and has mobility problems.
What happened
In 2021 Mr Bs attached neighbours obtained planning permission to build an extension. 
Mr B was approached to sign some papers under the Party Wall Act concerning the 
extension. He sought legal advice under his policy and was told it was probably surveyors 
touting for business. He was advised to take photos of his house before building started. 
The work for the extension started in around August 2021. In fact the neighbour decided to 
completely demolish their property save for the front elevation and rebuild on a larger 
footprint. This left the party wall exposed. Mr B noticed that damp was affecting his property 
and cracks in the plaster were appearing. He made an initial claim to UKI in September 2021 
and decided he wanted to proceed with that claim in early December. UKI appointed loss 
adjusters who carried out a site visit on 20 December. The report was referred back to UKI. 
It was decided to appoint a surveyor who visited the property in mid-January 2022. This was 
reported back to Mr B in early February  there were no structural concerns and the cracks 
were said to be cosmetic. Mr B advised that he was due to go into hospital at the beginning 
of March for an operation and didnt want any work done until after that. 
Mr B called UKI back in mid-March 2022 as he wanted to go ahead. The driers were put in at 
the end of March. Strip out then took place, including removing laminate flooring. Mr B was 
concerned that there was asbestos present in the underlying floor tiles but was told this was 
safe. Drying was complete by 22 April, and the appointment of contractors was discussed 
with Mr B. The contractors costs were approved by UKI at the end of May 2022.  The claim 
was put on hold again as Mr B had to attend hospital again.
By early July Mr B was ready to proceed but because he was concerned about the floor tiles 
and believed his chest was affected, he removed them himself. UKI advised that an 
asbestos test needed to be done on any remaining elements of the tiles before it could 
proceed. Mr B was also concerned that the external cracks werent going to be repaired. 
This was because the loss adjusters/surveyor said the cracks werent a result of the 
neighbours works but were due to wear and tear. However UKI did say to Mr B that if he 
could produce the photos of the area hed taken before the neighbours works began, and 
these showed no cracks, it would cover their repair.
The works commenced in early August, but the contractors walked off the job because they 
said Mr B had sworn at them. The plasterer was removed from the job because it was felt 
that he wasnt safe.
Mr B made a complaint to UKI. He was now able to show it the pre-building works photos, 
and because of this, when UKI gave its final response at the end of August, the claim in 
respect of the external cracking was accepted.
UKI also noted that Mr B had been without flooring for several months. It said that the claim 
was held up as understandably Mr B didnt want contractors there while he was in hospital 
and then recuperating. But it said it should have explained the situation better to him, 
particularly surrounding the availability of contractors. It did say however that it had 
understood that Mr B was living a lot of time elsewhere staying with a friend.
UKI said that it was sorry that Mr B didnt like the attitude of the surveyor/loss adjuster who 
told him the external cracking wasnt covered. But it did say that the contractors had to be 
respected while they were on Mr Bs property. In light of that it said it would be settling the 
claim on a cash basis to enable Mr B to get his own contractors.
Mr B had also been upset to be asked for the £250 excess when the drying process had 
used more than that amount of electricity 
UKI said that due to the upset caused by its original decision over the external damage, the 
poor communication over the claim being put on hold, reimbursement of costs, the handlers 
changing and attitude Mr B felt from the original visit it was paying him £500.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service, our Investigator said that that more 
account should have been taken of Mr Bs vulnerabilities, particularly after the site visits and 
even when it received Mr Bs letter of complaint in June 2022 (when he enclosed a letter 
from his doctor). They further said that UKI could have explained properly regarding the 
electricity costs. And that Mr B should have been offered alternative contractors rather than 
being pushed into a cash settlement, though Mr B said he now preferred to use his own 
contractors. They said that UKI should pay a further £400 compensation.
UKI agreed to this. But Mr B felt that he should be paid more.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly as our Investigator has explained to Mr B, I can only look at his complaint up until the 
date of UKIs final response letter i.e. 31 August 2022. I understand that a separate 
complaint has been raised concerning matters after that date.
delays
Mr B was concerned about delays in dealing with his claim. I think here it was a matter of 
communication rather than any culpable delays on UKIs part. Mr B said he wanted to 
proceed with the drying after the surveyors visit but not the full repairs. But it appears that 
having discussed it with him, the drying would have been just as intrusive as the repairs. So 
the major delays in starting work were mostly because of Mr B having to go to hospital on 
two occasions. Taking these into account, stripping out and drying was able to take place 
during April 2022. 
Mr B then became concerned that the tiles left under the old laminate floor contained 
asbestos though hed been assured they were safe. But he decided to remove them after 
suffering chest problems. This then caused some delay because the area had to be checked 
for asbestos (which was negative). So although I think UKI should have had better communications about likely starting dates it wasnt responsible for the delays in getting the 
work under way.
vulnerability
I dont think that Mr Bs vulnerability was recognised early enough. At the site meeting in 
early December and at the surveyors meeting later that month, Mr Bs problems with 
mobility should have been recognised especially as the flooring was to be stripped out. But I 
dont believe his claim was marked in that way until August 2022, even though Mr B had 
sent in a letter from his doctor setting out his physical and mental health problems. 
In particular I note that it had been assumed that Mr B was living partly with a friend, though 
no conversation appears to have taken place with him about this. Whilst he did have 
washing and cooking facilities I do think more engagement should have been had with him 
about the possibility of alternative accommodation. This ties in with the lack of 
communication as if Mr B had realised that contractors wouldnt be able to start straight 
away after he returned from hospital and after the drying, he might have been in a better 
position to make a decision about it.
loss adjuster
I understand that Mr B was unhappy with the loss adjusters attitude and UKI have 
apologised and paid compensation for this. I do think it could have offered another adjuster  
that would have been a reasonable way of dealing with this here, rather than making Mr B 
uncomfortable having to deal with that loss adjuster.
excess
Normally any excess would be payable on starting the repairs. Here Mr B advised that the 
electricity costs for drying were more than the excess, so he couldnt understand why he was 
asked to pay the excess. UKI did later agree to offset the excess against the electricity costs 
and I note it agreed it should have done this in the first place.
external cracking
Mr B was insistent this cracking only appeared after the neighbours works had started. UKI 
said the cracking was to the external render and was likely to be due to thermal movement 
and general wear and tear. Mr B says he showed evidence of this to the loss adjuster who 
visited (although theres no note of this in their report). It appears that the first time UKI saw 
the evidence was when he sent the photos to it in August, and it agreed to cover the repairs 
for this. 
I think it was entirely plausible for the cracking to have been caused by the building work, 
especially as there was internal cracking. Ive only seen notes of conversations and havent 
seen a definitive surveyors view or any photos taken by UKI of the relevant area. My view is 
that the external cracking should have been included in the original scope of repairs.cash settlement
UKI offered a cash settlement after the contractors refused to return to the job. Its not within 
my power to make findings about Mr Bs conduct. But it is a serious matter if a contractor 
chooses to remove someone from a job. So I cant say UKI should have told the contractors 
to return. But normally if a consumer is unhappy with one contractor the business would offer 
an alternative contractor. I think in this instance Mr B was happier to appoint his own 
contractor where he would be able to know exactly what work was being done. 
compensation
Bearing in mind the period this decision covers, the compensation paid so far is £500. Our 
Investigator proposed that UKI increase this to £900, a payment of a further £400. Such an 
overall payment is appropriate where the impact of the businesss poor service has caused 
substantial distress, upset and worry. And where there has been serious disruption to daily 
life over a sustained period, with the impact felt over many months. I think that applies in 
Mr Bs case. So I think the overall award of compensation is fair.
Putting things right
UKI should pay a further £400 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill Home 
Insurance to provide the remedy set out under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman