DRN-2253418
The complaint
Ms T complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited has unfairly registered a default 
because she couldnt pay her loan after her current account had been closed.
What happened
Ms T has made a separate complaint about a fraud marker on her account registered by a 
different financial business. At that time her current account was also closed in December 
2018. She has since had that complaint upheld and the marker removed. But she says that 
when her bank account closed she couldnt make payments to Clydesdale and that it 
shouldnt have defaulted the borrowing. This is now affecting her ability to obtain a 
mortgage.
Clydesdale said it wouldnt be removing the default marker. It said that it had written to Ms T 
about the arrears and then its intention to mark a default on her loan. There would have 
been other ways to make payments. And the information it had reported to credit reference 
agencies about the default in June 2019 was correct. Ms T had started making repayments 
again through its collection agent in September 2019 and then repaid all the borrowing in 
May 2020. But she hadnt told it about her problems physically making payments until after 
that.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She noted that Ms T had 
been making payments from her account to Clydesdale by direct debit and the last was in 
December 2018. She had managed to arrange a faster payment in January 2019 but wasnt 
able to make payments after that. In March 2019 shed authorised her mother to speak to 
Clydesdale about the account and a payment plan had been reached. And it was noted she 
said she had some medical issues. But, no payments were received, and a default notice 
was issued on 6 May 2019 giving Ms T a month to address the position or to get in touch if 
she couldnt. She contacted it on 21 May 2019 explaining shed been in a car accident. An 
income and expenditure form was completed but this showed she couldnt afford a payment 
plan and she was encouraged to get financial advice. During that call she said she could pay 
the full amount in June 2019 from money she was expecting. But this didnt happen, and the 
default was registered. Clydesdale had no record of the practical difficulties Ms T says she 
was having making payments. 
Our investigator accepted that Ms T was distressed by the impact of the closure of her bank 
account and had shown she hadnt been able to open an account to make payments from a 
bank account successfully to Clydesdale for several months. She has also been involved in 
a car accident that had for a period affected her financial position too. She told us that she 
had mental health issues at the time compounded by what had happened.
But she said that Ms T hadnt shown that she was unable to find an alternative way of 
making payments. And while Ms T has said she had told Clydesdale about this problem 
there was no record of this. Through no fault of her own Ms T could no longer access her 
own call logs from this time to show what she said were her calls about this.
Ms T didnt agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont doubt the difficulties for Ms T of not having a current account and that this was a 
distressing time and one shed rather not relive. And her frustration at being later told that 
her other bank had changed its decision about the fraud marker. Ms T has shown she tried 
to open an account at other high street banks but was turned down. And that from February 
2019 she received her pay into her mothers account. I am unclear when and if she received 
her pay for January 2019 and that would be a matter between her and her employer. But I 
fully appreciate her financial position was also affected by her inability to work for a period 
after an accident adding to her distress.
Ms T was clearly able to arrange for a payment to be made to Clydesdale in January 2019. 
And she tried with an online account to make a payment in April 2019 which was declined. 
She didnt as she says have an account she could make payments herself from until June 
2019  just at around the time Clydesdale applied the default. So, I can see why she thinks 
this was a knock-on effect from an initial error and which is an unfair result for her.
But all the evidence Ive seen from Clydesdale is that Ms T was having financial problems 
making the payments due to medical and employment issues. There isnt a record of it being 
a practical problem with payments. And Clydesdale said that there would have been other 
ways of making payments. While I understand why Ms T sees a connection between 
everything that happened I need to look here specifically at Clydesdales actions. And I am 
afraid that I dont think its made a mistake or acted unreasonably when it registered the 
default after a number of months of missed payments by Ms T.
I know Ms T will be very disappointed when I say I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman