DRN-4034637
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the decision made by QIC Europe Ltd following claims for escape of 
water under his home insurance policy. 
QIC are the underwriters of this policy. Part of this complaint concerns the actions of the 
agent, company T. As QIC have accepted they are accountable for the actions of company 
T, in my decision, any reference to QIC includes the actions of company T. 
What happened
Mr M took out home insurance with QIC. Mr Ms policy covered him for escape of water. 
Each escape of water claim was subject to a £750 excess.
Mr M contacted QIC to register a claim following an escape of water in his en suite 
bathroom. Mr M was put through to company T to deal with his claim. On the same day Mr M 
also advised of an escape of water in his main bathroom.
On 30 May 2022 company T arranged for a surveyor to inspect the damage for both claims. 
The surveyor recorded that the damage to the en suite is less than policy excess of £750 
and so a claim would not be made. He completed a scope of repairs for the main bathroom 
at £982.85. This was incorrect as it was the en suite that needed repairing. 
Company T paid Mr M £982.85 on 10 June saying this was for the main bathroom. Mr M 
used this money to complete repairs to the en suite. 
During repair of the en suite, Mr Ms plumber found further issues that needed repairing that 
hadnt previously been authorised. There were also issues found with the main bathroom. Mr 
M made company T aware of this and asked for both claims to be considered. 
Mr M chased company T several times asking for an update on his claims. Mr M has 
explained how he was continually misadvised about the claims that QIC would be covering, 
and what action was required for the claims to be settled. 
Mr M found a plumber to complete the outstanding work required to both the en suite and 
the main bathroom. He sent these quotes to company T for consideration. 
On 10 July Mr M took out a loan for £5,515.20. Mr M has explained this loan was to cover 
the outstanding repairs, and he did want to lose the plumber found to complete the work. Mr 
M also raised a complaint with QIC about the amount of time taken to deal with his claims.  
On 18 July company T paid Mr M £2,787.88 in settlement of one of his claims. Company T 
said this was for the en suite. On the same date company T paid Mr M £1,943.65 and 
informed this service that this was an overpayment, and has not been requested back. 
On 25 July a further payment for a new shower tray was made for £354.07. On the same 
date QIC responded to Mr Ms complaint apologising for the delay in dealing with the claims, 
and confusion caused during the handling of both claims. QIC offered Mr M £100 in total 
(£50 for each claim) in recognition of their poor handling of the claims. Mr M rejected this. 
Mr M was unhappy with this response, and brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
During our investigation it was confirmed that QIC have paid Mr M the correct amount for 
each claim, so there hasnt been an overpayment. It was found that the payment for 
£2,787.88 was in settlement of the main bathroom, and the payments for £982.85, 
£1,943.65, and £354.07 were all for the en suite claim. It was agreed that because of the 
confusion and miscommunication with Mr M about his claims, the service provided by QIC 
wasnt in line with what wed expect. We asked QIC to pay £350 in recognition of the impact 
on Mr M because of the delay in resolving his claims, and incorrect information given about 
clams that had been paid/ outstanding throughout the claims process. 
QIC disagreed with these findings saying there has clearly been some confusion with the 
two claims, [however] the confusion did not lead to large scale delays of weeks and months 
and the claims were resolved within reasonable timeframes that would be expected for this 
type of peril. I therefore do not feel that there was considerable distress and upset caused 
and as such, I feel an award of £200-£250 would better fit the guidance on your website. 
Mr M also disagreed with the recommended compensation amount of £350 saying that Im 
shocked that an insurance company would blatantly lie to a financial ombudsman on more 
than one occasion. I hope this matter can now finally be settled with a payment that reflects 
not only the stress and hardship we had to entail but also the length of time we have had to 
wait due to the lies and confusion from QIC.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it has been passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point its because I dont believe it has affected what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M feels strongly that QIC have not dealt with his claims properly. I thank Mr M for taking 
the time to explain his personal circumstances and everything thats happened since the 
escape of water incidents in his home in May 2022. 
Following referral of Mr Ms complaint to this service, QIC maintained their position that Mr M 
had received an overpayment of £1,943.65. QIC understood the initial payment of £982.85 
together with a later payment of £354.07 for a shower tray, was in conclusion of Mr Ms main 
bathroom claim. QIC said the payment for £2,787.88 was for the en-suite repair work. 
It has since been found that the surveyor that attended to Mr Ms house on 30 May 
incorrectly confused the two claims- saying that a claim would be made for the main 
bathroom, when in fact it was the en suite which a scope of repairs was agreed for. 
Mr M was paid £982.85 on 10 June. Company T told Mr M that this payment was to cover 
the main bathroom. But this money was used by Mr M to complete repairs to en suite, as 
that is what he had verbally agreed with the surveyor at the time of inspection. This 
confusion resulted in weeks of frustrated calls with company T, and confused conversations about the update on Mr Ms claims. Even after settling the claims in July 2022, QIC were 
unaware of the correct value for each claim- saying that an overpayment had been made. 
QIC dispute the recommended compensation of £350, saying that the confusion did not lead 
to large scale delays of weeks and months and the claims were resolved within reasonable 
timeframes. QIC dont consider that their error led to considerable distress and upset and 
say an amount up to £250 would more fairly reflect the trouble and upset caused to Mr M.
Mr M says that £400 fairly reflects the trouble and inconvenience experienced because of 
company Ts poor handling of his claims. Mr M has stressed how the impact on him has 
been particularly frustrating because of QICs failure to fully investigate the issues with his 
claim, and maintaining that hed received an overpayment when hed explained several 
times why this wasnt the case.
Ive considered these comments alongside what went wrong with Mr Ms claims, and the 
impact on him. I have also considered our general approach to compensation for complaints 
of this type. 
We determine each case on its own merits. There is no formulaic approach so we look at 
whats happened, and determine compensation to reflect the impact of what went wrong.
In this case although Mr M received the correct amount for his two claims in July 2022 Im 
persuaded that that impact of the confusion was more far reaching that the period in which 
QIC paid the claims by. Up until Mr M brought his complaint to this service, including the 
early stages of our investigation process, QIC maintained their position about Mr M receiving 
an overpayment. I think it wouldve caused Mr M frustration for a prolonged period of time 
being told that his claims had been properly understood and considered by QIC. 
Given the length of time that the issues have gone on for, and the continued 
miscommunication with Mr M about his claims, Im satisfied £350 is fair compensation in 
recognition of the upset and stress caused to Mr M throughout his dealings with company T. 
QIC may not agree that the level of compensation is proportionate to what went wrong, and 
the impact on Mr M, but Im satisfied £350 is a fair and reasonable amount which reflects the 
inconvenience caused during Mr Ms interactions with company T about his claims, and the 
time taken to fully understand Mr Ms claims.  
Because the claims had been incorrectly recorded in the surveyors report, company T 
continually asked Mr M for wrong information, and provided incorrect claim updates when he 
called to discuss his claims. When Mr M asked for the scope of repairs to be sent to him for 
each claim, it took several phone calls and repeated explanations before he was sent the 
correct information. Im persuaded this wouldve caused Mr M inconvenience and stress. 
Thinking about our approach to compensation, and the impact on Mr M, Im persuaded £350 
takes into consideration the prolonged period of inconvenience and stress caused by QICs 
failure to fully understand Mr Ms claims, and the frustrating dealings with company T while 
Mr M was waiting for his claims to be reviewed. But it also recognises that Mr M was paid 
the correct amount for his claims (despite QIC saying part of this money was an 
overpayment) in July 2022. 
Ive also considered what Mr M has explained about the loan he had to take out, and interest 
he paid on this. I agree that there was a delay between Mr M sending company T the 
evidence they needed to correctly assess his claims in June 2022, and Mr M receiving the 
correct payments in July. And I appreciate what Mr M has said about the risk of losing his 
plumber because of the delay caused by company T.
  But I think compensation of £350 fairly reflects the impact on Mr M- taking into consideration 
what Mr M has explained about his losses. This recognises the impact on Mr M because of 
company T confusing the two claims, and the miscommunication with Mr M as a result of 
this. But it also recognises that Mr M was not left out of pocket for his claims, as the two 
claims were correctly paid in July 2022. 
Putting things right
QIC Europe Ltd should pay £350 to Mr M in recognition of the inconvenience and upset 
caused to him by their poor handling of his claims. 
My final decision
For the reasons provided I uphold this complaint. 
QIC Europe Ltd must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman