DRN-3516604
The complaint
The estate of Ms C makes a number of complaints about Lloyds Bank PLC. The estate is 
represented by Mr B.
What happened
Mr B makes a number of complaints about Lloyds and its handling of the estate of Ms C. In 
summary Mr B says Lloyds stopped two cheques due to a mistake, made mistakes in 
recording Ms Cs name, took too long to respond to his complaint and incorrectly addressed 
a letter to him breaching confidentiality. He says the mistakes caused personal 
embarrassment and would like compensation in line with his professional hourly charging 
rate of £265 which he says amounts to about £967.
Lloyds accepts it made a mistake by blocking the account which resulted in two cheques 
being returned. It has apologised and has paid £50 compensation. It also accepts it made a 
mistake in its letter to Mr B about the compensation amount.
Mr B brought the complaint to us and our investigator explained that we couldnt look into the 
complaint about complaint handling as that is not a regulated activity. The investigator also 
explained that we can only consider the impact here on the estate. The investigator thought 
the block was removed within a reasonable time period and thought the compensation for 
the inconvenience appropriate.
Mr B doesnt accept that view and says the response time by Lloyds was excessive and 
maintains that he would like at least half of the compensation he has calculated. Mr B says 
there is no incentive for Lloyds to improve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr B will be disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly he feels 
about what has taken place.
It would be helpful if I set out what our role is in these sorts of complaints and what we can 
and cant consider. We are not Lloyds regulator and so its not our role to punish it for any 
mistakes made. I make that clear as I can see that Mr B says the investigators view does 
not encourage Lloyds to improve. We also cant consider complaint handling complaints 
such as the time Lloyds took to respond to Mr B, as its not a regulated activity.
The complainant here is Ms Cs estate and so we can only consider the impact of the 
mistake on it and not Mr B. I say that as Mr B has said Lloyds actions caused personal 
embarrassment and that it breached confidentiality rules in writing to him and Mrs B. I 
appreciate Mr B says his complaint was made to ensure the estate didnt suffer any cost, 
and we could consider any cost incurred by the estate. But I have not seen any evidence of 
such a cost, such as the cost of a returned cheque. And I can see that Lloyds says there 
was no charge for that issue.
I appreciate Mr B says he should be compensated in line with his professional hourly rate. I 
have made clear that we can only consider any cost to the estate and I have not seen 
evidence of such a cost. In any event Im satisfied that Mr B wasnt acting in his professional 
capacity here and we wouldnt look to order compensation in those circumstances at such 
rates.
Overall, I accept that Lloyds made a number of mistakes on what ought to have been fairly 
straightforward matters and manged to include two compensation amounts in its letter. But 
Im satisfied that it put matters right within a fairly short time period and fairly apologised for 
its mistakes. I hope Mr B appreciates that I cant order further compensation for the reasons 
I have explained and can only consider the impact on the estate not him. I am satisfied that 
the compensation awarded fair and reasonable for the inconvenience caused to the estate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms C 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman