DRN-3917919
The complaint
Miss W complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk 
(MoneyBoat) didnt carry out proper checks before advancing her a loan, had it done so, 
Miss W says it wouldnt have lent to her. 
What happened
Miss W was advanced one loan of £200 on 30 December 2021. Miss W was due to make 
two monthly repayments, the first one on 28 January 2022 for £132.08 and the second on 
28 February 2022 for £132.06. MoneyBoat says an outstanding balance remains due. 
Following Miss Ws complaint, MoneyBoat wrote to her to explain it had carried out 
affordability checks which showed she could afford the repayments she was committed to 
making. Unhappy, with this outcome, Miss W then referred the complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman. 
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint and he thought MoneyBoat had carried out a 
proportionate check before granting the loan and these checks showed Miss W could afford 
the payments. He also didnt think it had yet reached the point where MoneyBoat needed to 
verify the information Miss W had provided or it had yet reached the point where the loan 
was unsustainable for her. He didnt uphold the complaint.   
MoneyBoat didnt acknowledge or provide any further comments about the proposed 
outcome. 
Miss W didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. Miss W said at the time the 
MoneyBoat loan was provided she had several other outstanding loans, her credit score was 
low due to previous repayment difficulties and she was being supported by a well-known 
debt advice service. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat had to assess the lending to check if Miss W could afford to pay back the 
amount shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. MoneyBoats checks couldve taken into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Miss Ws income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MoneyBoat should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss W. These factors include:
Miss W having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss W having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss W coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss W. Miss W had one loan so the 
adjudicator didnt think this applied to her complaint. 
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Miss W could sustainably repay the loan  not 
just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss W was able to 
repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Ws complaint.
For the loan, MoneyBoat asked Miss W to declare her monthly income and expenditure. 
Miss W declared her income was £1,094 and she declared expenditure of £350. MoneyBoat 
says it asked for a copy payslip which confirmed the accuracy of the income Miss W 
declared  although this payslip hasnt been provided to the Financial Ombudsman. 
In addition, based on a credit search (which I go into more detail below) MoneyBoat thought 
it was reasonable to increase Miss Ws monthly expenditure by a further £500. Overall, 
MoneyBoat calculated a monthly disposable income of £244. 
Based solely on the information Miss W declared to MoneyBoat, it was reasonable for 
MoneyBoat to have concluded Miss W would be able to afford her monthly repayment of 
around £132.
MoneyBoat has also said for this loan, it carried out a credit search and it has provided the 
Financial Ombudsman Service with the results it received. It is worth saying here that 
although MoneyBoat carried out a credit search there isnt a regulatory requirement to do 
one, let alone one to a specific standard. 
Therefore, its entirely possible that the information MoneyBoat received may not entirely 
reflected the information Miss W may be able to see in her own credit report. There could be 
for several reasons for this, such as MoneyBoat only asking for certain pieces of information. But what MoneyBoat cant do is carry out a credit search and then not react to the to the 
information it received  if necessary.  
The credit check results showed MoneyBoat Miss W had nearly £12,000 of outstanding debt 
spread across 11 active credit accounts. The number of active accounts could in some 
situations be seen to be quite high and may suggest that Miss W had problems managing 
her finances. However, MoneyBoat knew that only three new accounts had been opened 
within the last six months. So, this made it less likely that Miss W was reliant on or a regular 
user of high-cost loans. 
In addition, MoneyBoat was aware historically, Miss W had defaulted on four accounts. 
However, these defaults had been applied more than 12 months before the loan but less 
than three years before. Although, this again, isnt an insignificant number, I do think, given 
the historic nature of these defaults that MoneyBoat wouldnt have been concerned about 
Miss Ws ability to repay this loan. 
Overall, while there are some negative indicators in Miss Ws credit check such as the 
defaults there doesnt seem to me, enough to indicate that Miss W was reliant on other 
forms of credit and / or payday loans. Of course, the number of active accounts MoneyBoat 
was told about may not be correct, but it was entitled to rely on the information it was given. 
Given it was still early on in the lending relationship and there was nothing else in the 
information that Ive seen that wouldve led MoneyBoat to believe that it needed to go further 
with its checks  such as verifying the information Miss W had provided. In addition, there 
wasnt anything, as far as I can see which wouldve suggested the loan was unsustainable 
for her.
For this loan, I consider MoneyBoat carried out a proportionate check which showed it that 
Miss W would be able to afford the repayments she was committed to making. I therefore do 
not uphold Miss Ws complaint. 
Miss W has suggested she has been taken to Court by MoneyBoat and was fined £50. We 
asked both Miss W and MoneyBoat to establish what this related to  the adjudicator 
suggested it was a County Court Judgement  which may have been the case. However, I 
can say no more about it as no information has been provided from either party. 
But an outstanding balance remains due I remind MoneyBoat of its regulatory obligation to 
treat Miss W fairly and with forbearance. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Miss Ws complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman