DRN-3753383
The complaint
Mr H has complained that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) unfairly declined a claim for storm damage 
under a home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H found a range of damage to his home following a storm. So, he contacted QIC to make 
a claim. QIC sent a surveyor who assessed the damage and told Mr H the claim had been 
accepted. 
QIC then assessed the claim and declined it all. It said the ridge tile had clearly de-bonded 
from the mortar bedding. As there was no damage covered for the main property, this meant 
there was no cover for the gate and fence. When Mr H complained, QIC maintained its 
decision to decline the claim. However, it offered £150 compensation because of the delays 
in assessing the claim.
Mr H complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said there wasnt 
sufficient evidence to show the ridge tile had de-bonded prior to the storm and that it was 
unfair to apply the wear and tear exclusion. He said QIC should reconsider this part of the 
claim. If this meant there was storm damage to the main property, based on the policy 
wording, the damage to the fence and gate should also be reconsidered. He said QIC should 
also pay an additional £150 compensation.
As QIC didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
QIC doesnt dispute there were storm conditions around the date of the damage. Ive also 
checked the windspeeds and these were as high as 70mph around the time of the damage, 
which would be considered storm conditions. I also think a storm could dislodge ridge tiles 
and damage items such as fence panels and gates. 
So, Ive thought about the third question. The surveyors report said there was cover under 
the policy and:
i inspected the roof and noted a decorative clay ridge tile had been removed which broke a 
lower roof ridge tile, one can be refitted but one is required to be replaced with the aid of a 
scaffold tower. the rear block wall render has unbonded and fallen, the debris shows moss 
growing on the edges showing it was cracked prior to the wind. the front timber fencing has 
fallen to a length of 40m and requires replacing, due to some panels being salvageable i 
have scoped for half. metal framed drive way gates require new hardwood boards and two 
coats of varnish. The gates are electric and are not working and arent fully open, a qualified 
engineer is required to inspect and report the expected costs., no costs added to scope.
QIC then reviewed the claim and declined it. When it responded to the complaint it quoted 
the surveyors wording about the wall render and said due to the gradual deterioration and 
cracking, this element of the claim was declined. It then explained that an in-house review 
had taken place and Our in-house Surveyor has agreed with the comments from the Field 
Surveyor and additionally advised that the ridge tile had clearly de-bonded from the mortar 
bedding and the wind had highlighted this which has led to the tile being knocked off the 
roof.
When our investigator asked QIC to explain which photos it had relied on to assess the ridge 
tiles, it sent two photos. I asked QIC to highlight where the mortar had de-bonded. It then 
sent a different photo, which it had annotated with the words Missing mortar to ridge joints. 
Evident by vegetative growth where mortar would have been and added two arrows pointing 
to either end of the ridge tile. 
Ive thought about this. QIC declined the claim because of missing mortar bedding. QIC has 
provided a photo highlighting the ridge joints. The ridge tile that came off the roof was the 
end tile, so while one end would have been next to another ridge tile, the other end wouldnt 
have been. So, it isnt clear to me why QIC would have expected there to be mortar present 
at that end or why any vegetative growth wasnt just evidence of exposure to the elements 
for an end ridge tile. QIC hasnt provided any evidence showing the underside of the ridge 
tile or highlighted issues with how the underside adhered to the roof.
Looking at the evidence provided, Im not satisfied this is sufficient to show evidence of 
significant mortar deterioration to the ridge tiles or that wear and tear was the cause of the 
damage. So, I think QIC should reassess the claim without relying on that exclusion. 
Ive also thought about the other elements of the claim. Some render came off a garden wall. 
Looking at the surveyors report and the photos, I think it was reasonable that this part of the 
claim was declined. So, I dont think QIC needs to do anything further in relation to the wall.
There was also damage to fences and an electric gate. QIC didnt consider this because of 
the policy wording. This said that storm damage to gates and fences would only be covered 
where the policyholders home had been damaged at the same time and by the same cause. 
So, when QIC re-assesses the claim for the ridge tiles, if that part of the claim now proceeds, 
QIC needs to consider the claim for the fences and electric gate. Im aware the surveyor said 
a specialist engineer would need to assess the gate, which I think was fair in the 
circumstances.
Ive also thought about compensation. QIC offered £150 compensation for the delays in 
considering the claim and that Mr H was initially told the claim would be covered. I think a 
total of £300 compensation would more fairly reflect the distress and inconvenience caused 
to Mr H by the overall handling of this claim, including the delays, the loss of expectation that 
his claim would be covered and that it QIC hasnt shown that it fairly declined the claim. Putting things right
QIC should reconsider the claim for the ridge tiles without applying the exclusion for wear 
and tear. If it accepts that part of the claim, QIC should then consider the claim for the fence 
and electric gate. It should also pay a total of £300 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld. I require 
QIC Europe Ltd to:
Reconsider the claim for the ridge tiles without applying the exclusion for wear and tear.
If the ridge tiles are covered, consider the claim for the fence and electric gate, including 
Mr Hs repair costs.
Pay Mr H a total of £300 compensation, which includes the £150 previously offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman