DRN-4260777
The complaint
Mrs P complains that TSB Bank plc wont refund money she didnt withdraw from her 
account.
What happened
Mrs P disputes two cash withdrawals each for £500 in October 2021. She says she didnt 
make them and had her card with her at the time. She was unhappy with the aggressive way 
that TSB dealt with her when she raised this.
TSB said it wouldnt be refunding the money. The card withdrawal limit for all accounts had 
been raised as a result of the pandemic. It had referred Mrs P to its fraud department and 
told her the way forward was to contact police about CCTV. When she said this wasnt 
available it offered to raise a complaint. It didnt think that the withdrawals were those of a 
fraudster.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that Mrs P had the 
card in her possession and was using it during October 2021. Mrs P stated that she hadnt 
written her PIN down or given it to anyone. The withdrawals were on 12 October and 15 
October 2021 in the early hours. A fraudster would typically take as much money out as 
quickly as possible as they risked detection. Our investigator said that the call recordings 
provided didnt show that TSB had dealt with Mrs P inappropriately.
Mrs P wanted her complaint to be reviewed. The amount of the withdrawals was over the 
limit shed agreed, and she didnt know how that happened at a third-party cash machine. 
These withdrawals were made in the early hours, and she didnt go out at night to that area, 
and she had mobility issues. She insisted she didnt give the card or PIN to anyone and 
didnt think wed considered the possibility of it being cloned or some other fraud. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Ill be thinking about what is most likely. I 
need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if they werent authorised 
Mrs P wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the card and PIN used for these 
payments?
- Did Mrs P authorise the payments on the account?
Im satisfied that the withdrawals were authenticated with Mrs Ps details. A cash withdrawal 
requires the chip on a card to be read and the correct PIN entered. Weve not seen evidence 
of the chip on a card being cloned for everyday use.
I take into account the time of the payments. And that this might suggest someone had been 
able to take Mrs Ps card. And that the maximum amount was taken from the cashpoints and 
Mrs P says she didnt know that had been raised by TSB to £500. But I also note that there 
was a substantial amount available in her account. She said she didnt notice the payments 
until after a statement dated as issued on 19 October 2021. And she first reported the loss 
on 1 November 2021. There was a gap between the withdrawal dates, and I think that its 
most likely an unknown third party in possession of a card and PIN allowing payments would 
have attempted to take more. I also wouldnt expect an unknown third party to have gone to 
the trouble of replacing the card. I note that a genuine payment using the card and PIN was 
made on the afternoon of 15 October 2021.
Mrs P hasnt identified anyone who could have had access to her card and used it in this 
way. And she insists that she didnt write her PIN down or tell it to anyone. So, I dont have a 
basis to find say that someone known to her with access to her property could have done 
this having perhaps seen her entering her PIN without her realising.
I appreciate that Mrs P reported this to police and was told that there was no CCTV. No 
further police action was taken. Ive also listened to the call recordings from TSB that it has 
provided. I dont consider from what Ive heard it dealt with her aggressively or 
inappropriately, but I can understand why shed be unhappy with its approach to her claim.
Im afraid having considered all the evidence I dont find it most likely that these withdrawals 
were made without Mrs Ps consent. And so, I dont have a reasonable basis to require TSB 
to refund them. I know she will be very disappointed with my assessment.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman