DRN-1521447
Complaint
Miss B complains that Provident Personal Credit Limited trading at the time as Satsuma 
irresponsibly lent to her. 
Background
Miss B borrowed £500 from Satsuma in March 2015.The loan was set to run for 39 weeks 
and Miss Bs weekly contractual repayment was £23.08. Her highest monthly repayment 
was £115.40. From the information provided, I can see that theres still an outstanding 
balance on the loan. 
In her complaint to this service, Miss B said she was given the loan despite being vulnerable 
with a poor credit rating.
Our adjudicator didn't think this complaint should be upheld. He said hed reviewed the 
information Satsuma obtained when Miss B applied for her loan, including the credit 
reference information. He explained there wasn't anything in that information which meant it 
would have been proportionate to ask Miss B to verify what she was saying or showed that 
Miss B had underlying financial difficulties. Given the amount of the loan, her history with this 
lender and what was apparent about her circumstances, he didn't think it would have been 
proportionate to ask for more information which showed the lending was unsustainable. 
Miss B didn't agree with our adjudicators view. She said that she had several defaults on 
her credit file which Satsuma should have considered before it gave her the loan. As Miss B 
didn't accept what our adjudicator said, the matter has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss B 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Miss B could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Bs complaint. Having done this, Im sorry to 
disappoint Miss B but Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. I will explain why below.
As I said above, early in the lending relationship, I wouldn't necessarily expect Satsuma to 
undertake a full review of Miss Bs financial circumstances. In this case, when thinking about 
what it knew about Miss B at the time as well as the monthly commitments she had, I think 
the checks it did were proportionate. 
When Miss B applied for her loan, she declared her monthly income to be £1,500 and her 
monthly outgoings to be £1,000. Satsuma increased Miss Bs outgoings, probably after 
carrying out the credit checks to ensure the figures Miss B provided at the time better 
reflected Miss Bs circumstances. After doing this, Satsuma believed Miss B would be left 
with around £189 per month after her contractual loan repayments were taken into account. 
Satsuma also carried out some credit checks. I can see that these checks didn't reveal any 
recent bankruptcy, or other debt management plan or any other judgments. In addition, 
based on the checks, Satsuma was aware that Miss B hadn't taken any other payday loans 
in the last three months. However, Satsuma was aware of one missed payment within the 
six months prior to taking out the loan. Ive thought about this missed payment, but given 
everything else that Satsuma was aware of, I dont think this missed payment alone wouldve 
been enough to have alerted Satsuma to the fact that Miss B might have been having 
problems managing her money.
I appreciate what Miss B has said about other debts and defaults on her record. While, this 
information may appear on her credit report, the credit check results Satsuma obtained 
didn't show this, so it couldn't take this into account because it wasn't aware of it. And as Ive said above, there wasn't anything else to have alerted Satsuma to any other financial 
problems Miss B may have been having. 
Overall in these circumstances, I think Satsuma s assessment for this loan was 
proportionate and the checks it carried out showed it that Miss B should be able to afford the 
repayments she had committed to. It follows that I think when Miss B applied for her loan, 
Satsumas decision to lend was reasonable.
As I said, Im sorry to disappoint Miss B, but for the reasons Ive explained I havent upheld 
this complaint. I dont need to tell Satsuma to take any further action in respect of it.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Provident Personal Credit Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 July 2020.
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman