DRN-2500308
The complaint
Mr C complains that he asked Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) to send 
payments in GBP.
What happened
Between April 2016 and October 2019, Mr C visited a branch of Halifax and asked them to 
send 15 payments to his account in Czech. He later realised that the payments were made 
in local currency.
Mr C complained. He said that he clearly instructed Halifax to send GBP as he had a GBP 
account in Czech. As a result, he said hed lost £1507. He hadnt checked his account earlier 
as he didnt have online banking. Hed suffered stress and felt let down by Halifax. 
In December 2019, Halifax replied and said that they had done what they were asked to do. 
He had been given receipts showing the payments. They said that Mr C was known to the 
branch and they always asked him how the money was to be sent. 
Mr C wasnt happy and brought his complaint to the service in February 2020. Our 
investigator looked at what had happened. In January 2021 he said that Mr C was well 
known to the branch and they asked him each time how the money was to be sent. 
Halifaxs operating instructions said that each time, they had to advise to Mr C the amount of 
the transfer in the currency of the payment and the exchange rate used. He would then have 
been asked to confirm this. The transfer would then have been made. The instructions were 
dated after the transfers were made. But he was sure that they would have been the same 
for Mr Cs transfers. The payments had been made 15 times and so it was unlikely that the 
error couldve been made every time. Mr C had received receipts for the payments, and 
these showed the exchange rate used.
Mr C asked that his complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr C feels strongly about his complaint and he insists that he told the Halifax 
to send the money in GBP. This was because his account in Czech was also in GBP. If he 
then wanted to covert the money to local currency, that was a cheaper way to do it. 
These transfers took place over three and a half years and there were 15 payments. Mr C 
says all of them were carried out wrongly. He says he didnt notice because he didnt have 
access to online banking. 
I have seen his Halifax bank statements. They show the GBP amount and exchange rate 
each time. Also, I have seen several confirmation letters that Halifax sent Mr C  these show 
the same information. Halifaxs operating procedures were that Mr C would have been asked 
each time to confirm the currency of payment and exchange rate to be used.
Halifax have asked the staff at the branch what happened. They knew Mr C well and 
remembered how things were done. They said he confirmed the payments each time to be 
in GBP. 
I appreciate Mr C will feel aggrieved  he is sure his side of the story is correct. Maybe he 
made a genuine mistake, but I cannot say that Halifax has done anything wrong here, and I 
wont be asking them to do anymore.
 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman