DRN-3797527
The complaint
The estate of Ms S complains about Great Lakes Insurance SEs handling of a claim under 
Ms Ss travel insurance policy when Ms S fell ill abroad. 
The estate of Ms S is represented by Mr S and, so, Ive referred to Mr S instead of the estate 
throughout this decision. 
All references to Great Lakes Insurance SE include the agents it appointed to handle the 
claim on its behalf. 
What happened
Ms S was insured under an annual travel insurance policy, provided by Great Lakes. Ms S 
declared a number of medical conditions to Great Lakes when the policy was purchased. 
Unfortunately, Ms S fell ill while travelling alone abroad and she was treated at a hospital on 
several occasions in March 2020. Mr S, who wasnt insured under the policy and was in the 
UK, first notified Great Lakes that Ms S had been unwell on 15 April 2020  after her original 
planned return date. Mr S told Great Lakes that Ms Ss treating doctor said shed need more 
treatment before she could return to the UK. Great Lakes asked Mr S for medical reports 
relating to Ms Ss hospital treatment in March 2020. 
On 22 April 2020, Mr S sent various test results to Great Lakes. On 23 April 2020, Great 
Lakes said there was no indication from the information provided that Ms S wasnt fit to fly 
and asked for a detailed medical report from the hospital whod treated Ms S in March 2020, 
confirming the reason why she wasnt fit to fly. On the same day, 23 April 2020, Mr S told 
Great Lakes that Ms S had been diagnosed with tuberculosis and had been verbally advised 
by her treating doctor that she shouldnt travel back to the UK for a minimum of 6 weeks to 3 
months. 
On 24 April 2020, it seems Great Lakes spoke to the hospital whod treated Ms S the 
previous month. Great Lakes records state The patient presented with a fever, cough with 
expectoration over 3 weeks agoShe has been advised not to travel for 3 months as she is 
infectious. 
Great Lakes said it need Ms Ss medical records from her UK GP before it could confirm 
cover. It received Ms Ss consent form on 29 April 2020 and told Mr S that his request to see 
the medical records before they were released to Great Lakes may delay coverage being 
confirmed. Mr S forwarded Great Lakes the medical records on 11 May 2020. 
On the same day, 11 May 2020, Ms Ss condition deteriorated, and Great Lakes arranged 
for an ambulance to be called to the hotel she was staying at. Mr S asked for Ms S to be 
taken to a hospital where she could be accommodated with her own room to avoid any 
potential Covid-19 risk. Mr S later asked for Ms S to be taken to either of two hospitals, one 
of which Ill call N.
Ms S subsequently had a scan, the results of which showed a condition unrelated to 
tuberculosis and it was recommended that she be admitted to hospital for urgent treatment 
for suspected Covid-19. Ms S was refused admission at one hospital before being taken to 
and admitted to N. Great Lakes told Mr S that N was a very good multispeciality hospital.
On 12 May 2020, Mr S asked Great Lakes to arrange air ambulance repatriation for Ms S. 
Great Lakes requested a medical report from N and, upon reviewing this, told Mr S that there 
was no indication of a medical emergency which would require Ms Ss immediate 
repatriation. 
On 15 May 2020, Great Lakes made enquiries with Ms Ss travel agent about the availability 
of commercial flights back to the UK. Great Lakes noted that the next available direct flight 
would be in early June 2020. On 16 May 2020, Ms S was moved to the Covid-19 critical care 
unit at N. Ms S was put on mechanical ventilation the following day. On 20 May 2020, Mr S 
asked Great Lakes to arrange for the High Commission to grant him special permission to 
visit Ms S abroad. Great Lakes said it had no influence to ask for such privileges. 
Very sadly, on 25 May 2020, Ms S passed away in N. 
Mr S told Great Lakes he wanted Ms Ss body repatriated the following day, without a post-
mortem unless absolutely necessary. Great Lakes said this wouldnt be possible, due to the 
restrictions surrounding Covid-19. Instead, Great Lakes said a local cremation would need to 
be arranged and Ms Ss ashes would be repatriated to the UK in an urn at a later date. Great 
Lakes subsequently told Mr S that it needed his decision about repatriation urgently, as 
otherwise the police would take Ms Ss body from N for cremation. Mr S then appointed his 
own representative (who Ill call Mr I), to arrange for Ms Ss cremation and funeral. 
Unfortunately, Mr S says he was left in the lurch by Mr I and was unable to view Ms Ss 
funeral ceremony by live recording as hed been promised. Great Lakes repatriated the late 
Ms Ss ashes in early July 2022. 
N had also handed over Ms Ss belongings to Mr I, which Mr S says went against his specific 
instructions. Significant confusion then ensued about the whereabouts of these belongings. 
Mr S asked Great Lakes to arrange for these belongings and for Ms Ss hotel luggage to be 
returned to the UK. Great Lakes said this wasnt covered under the terms and conditions of 
Ms Ss policy but offered to pay 50% of the costs as a gesture of goodwill. Ms Ss belongings 
arrived back in the UK, separately to her ashes, in July 2020. However, Mr S didnt receive 
Ms Ss death certificate until October 2020, and the late Ms Ss passport was never returned 
to him.
Unhappy, Mr S complained to Great Lakes before bringing the matter to the attention of our 
service. Ive summarised what I consider to be Mr Ss key complaint points about Great 
Lakes:
it delayed in confirming cover under Ms Ss policy;
it refused to arrange an air ambulance to repatriate Ms S;
it shouldve transferred Ms S out of N to a different medical facility;
it shouldve arranged a post-mortem for Ms S to confirm her cause of death;
it prevented Ms S from having a dignified funeral;
it made errors and delayed in repatriating Ms Ss ashes and belongings.Our investigator looked into what had happened. Overall, she said she thought Great Lakes 
couldve handled the claim better. She also said there were clear communication issues. 
However, our investigator explained the limitations in our powers to award compensation in 
this case and she didnt recommend that Great Lakes should do anything further. 
Mr S didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so the complaint has been referred to me to 
make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear about Ms Ss sad passing, and I dont doubt that this must have been 
a very distressing time for Mr S. Id like to offer him and his wider family my sincere 
condolences for their loss. I understand Mr S feels very strongly that Great Lakes failed Ms 
S, and that he wants answers about what happened. 
However, I cant give Mr S all the answers hes seeking. And, I have no power to punish or 
fine a business, or to force a business to change its internal processes and procedures. 
When making my final decision, I can only consider whether I think Great Lakes dealt with 
this claim in a fair and reasonable way, and in line with its obligations under Ms Ss policy. 
But the standard of available healthcare abroad is something which is outside of Great 
Lakes control. And Great Lakes isnt responsible for Ns actions or decisions in treating Ms 
S, or in dealing with her body or her belongings (including the medical file which Mr S says is 
missing). Great Lakes also had no control or influence over the, often very strict, restrictions 
imposed by governments surrounding issues such as travel, hospital admissions, funeral 
services, and repatriation because of the Covid-19 pandemic. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service is an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free 
alternative to the civil courts for consumers. When considering Great Lakes actions in this 
case, I dont have the power to directly compel Great Lakes to produce any particular 
evidence or to cross-examine any of Great Lakes staff who were involved in dealing with Ms 
Ss claim.
Ive read and considered all the detailed evidence provided by Mr S (including the 
screenshots of phone messages), and Ive also taken into account all the information which 
Great Lakes has provided. But, reflecting the informal nature of our service, I wont be 
referencing and/or addressing each and every complaint point raised  nor am I obliged to. 
Instead, I intend to only address what I think are the key complaint issues, which Ive already 
outlined above. 
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers should 
handle claims promptly and fairly. Ive taken these rules into account when reaching my 
findings about this complaint. 
The time taken for Great Lakes to confirm cover
An insurer is entitled to make reasonable enquiries to satisfy itself that a claim is covered. In 
cases like Ms Ss, involving medical emergencies abroad, this would generally include 
asking for details of a policyholders pre-existing medical conditions from their GP, 
regardless of whether any medical conditions were declared when the policy was purchased. 
In this situation, where Ms S had already received medical treatment abroad in March 2020 
which Great Lakes wasnt made aware of at the time, I also think it was reasonable for Great Lakes to make enquires about the previous treatment Ms S received. 
Great Lakes was first notified about this claim on 15 April 2020, and, on the same day, it 
asked Mr S for details of Ms Ss previous treatment abroad. Great Lakes chased Mr S for 
this information on 17 April 2020 and sent a consent form to access Ms Ss previous medical 
records on 27 April 2020. At this stage, Ms S wasnt in hospital and, based on the 
information Ive seen, there was no indication that Ms Ss condition was likely to deteriorate. 
Communications between Mr S and Great Lakes at this time were centred around whether 
Ms S was fit to fly home. In these circumstances, I dont think Great Lakes unreasonably 
delayed in asking for the necessary information it needed to confirm cover. 
When Great Lakes received Ms Ss GP records from Mr S on 11 May 2020, I think it 
assessed these and confirmed cover promptly. 
Great Lakes refusal to arrange air ambulance repatriation for Ms S
I understand Mr S wished for Ms S to be brought back to the UK for treatment and feels this 
should have been arranged at his request. But this isnt how travel insurance policies work.
The terms and conditions of Ms Ss policy say that Great Lakes will arrange repatriation 
when recommended by its medical officer. Id expect Great Lakes decisions in arranging  
or in refusing to arrange  air ambulance repatriation to be based on an assessment of the 
available medical evidence including the advice of Ms Ss treating doctors, with Ms Ss best 
interests in mind. 
Based on the medical evidence Ive seen, I dont think Great Lakes decision to refuse to 
arrange air ambulance repatriation for Ms S on the basis that it wasnt medically necessary 
was unfair or unreasonable in the circumstances. 
On 23 April 2020, Great Lakes told Mr S that there was no indication from the March 2020 
test results that had been provided that Ms S wasnt fit to fly. This doesnt mean that Ms S 
was fit to fly  it means that Great Lakes didnt have the information it needed to determine 
this. Mr S informed Great Lakes that Ms S had been verbally told she wasnt fit to fly, and 
wouldnt be for a minimum of 6 weeks. So, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for 
Great Lakes to request more evidence to determine exactly what Ms S had been advised 
about her fitness to fly. 
I note that Great Lakes did make enquiries on 15 April 2020 about rearranging Ms Ss return 
flight with a commercial airline. But the information Ive seen suggests its likely that Ms S 
wasnt fit to fly at that point, and it seems likely that the lack of availability of flights during the 
Covid-19 pandemic meant that the earliest Ms Ss return to the UK could be accommodated 
would have been in early June 2020. After Ms Ss admission to N, Great Lakes notes state 
that she wasnt fit to fly on various dates including 11 May 2020, 18 May 2020. 21 May 2020 
and 22 May 2020. So, overall, I dont think theres anything more Great Lakes could 
reasonably have done to arrange for Ms S to return to the UK. 
Ms Ss admission to and hospital stay in N
The information Ive seen suggests that the availability of hospitals for Ms S to be admitted 
to was severely limited due to the circumstances surrounding the pandemic. I understand Mr 
S wanted Ms S to be sent to a hospital where she had the least risk of contracting Covid-19, 
but this was something which was simply outside of Great Lakes control and I note that Mr 
S, at one point, specifically requested that Ms S go to N. 
If particular concerns are raised about the standard of care a policyholder is receiving in a hospital abroad, then I think it would be reasonable for an insurer to look into these issues 
and consider whether any alternative is available. However, Ive seen no indication that any 
concerns were raised with Great Lakes by Ms Ss family about N while she was there and 
the information available to Great Lakes from its agent abroad at the time was that N was a 
very good multispeciality hospital. If Mr S has concerns about the medical treatment which 
Ms S received in N, then hed need to raise this with the hospital directly. 
Mr S has referred to phone messages he received from Great Lakes about Ms Ss hospital 
admission. A message sent on 16 May 2020 says that Ms S should never have gone to the 
hospital she visited in March 2020  but Great Lakes wasnt involved in this decision, as it 
hadnt been made aware of the claim at the time. Another message sent on the same day 
says that Great Lakes could have admitted Ms S to different hospitals in February or March, 
but Great Lakes wasnt notified about the claim until April 2020. The message goes on to 
say that Ms S possibly got the Covid infection during or after discharge from hospital and  
she was immunosuppressed with TB. Even if I thought the evidence suggested it was likely 
that Ms S had contracted Covid at a hospital which Great Lakes had arranged to send her 
to, I couldnt fairly hold Great Lakes responsible for this. And, I also havent seen any 
evidence to suggest that it would have been reasonable for Great Lakes to arrange any 
medical assistance (including monitoring of her condition) for Ms S before 11 May 2020. 
Any decisions about the administration of oxygen or an energy drip to Ms S in the 
ambulance on 11 May 2020 was the responsibility of the medical professionals whose care 
she was under  not Great Lakes. 
Mr S has requested sight of the source of the information in Great Lakes notes which say 
that Ms S presented at hospital in March 2020 with fever. Im not aware where this 
information came from. Based on the evidence Ive seen, I think its likely this came from a 
conversation between Great Lakes and the hospital who treated Ms S in March 2020, but I 
cant provide any further explanation than this. 
Great Lakes failure to arrange a post-mortem for Ms S
The medical certification of cause of death issued for Ms S on 25 May 2020 records her 
cause of death as Suspected Covid-19.
I understand Mr S disputes this, and that Ms S tested negative to several Covid-19 tests. 
However, Great Lakes isnt responsible for  nor would I expect it to comment on - the 
medical conclusion reached by Ms Ss treating doctors about the cause of death, and both 
Great Lakes and Ms Ss treating doctors were bound by the rules set out by the government 
in Ms Ss destination about the information recorded about and the procedures following 
suspected deaths from Covid-19. 
Great Lakes actions prevented Ms S from having a dignified funeral
While Great Lakes had no control over police procedures or the rules which N was required 
to follow after Ms Ss untimely death, Id expect Great Lakes to have provided Mr S with 
reasonable assistance in arranging for Ms Ss cremation abroad. 
Im not satisfied that Great Lakes did provide such reasonable assistance, based on a phone 
message Ive seen from Great Lakes to Mr S stating that it could not arrange the ceremony 
which Mr S wanted and that Mr I should handle the arrangements with N. 
Overall, I think Great Lakes couldve done more to assist Mr S in making the funeral 
arrangements in the circumstances and I accept its likely that Mr S wouldnt have needed to 
appoint Mr I if Great Lakes had acted as it should. But, for the reasons Ive explained below, I have no power to award Mr S (or Ms Ss estate) compensation for any distress and 
inconvenience caused by this. 
Any failings on the part of Mr I in relation to the funeral, Ms Ss belongings or Ms Ss death 
certificate are for Mr S to raise with him directly. Mr S holds Great Lakes responsible for the 
breakdown of his relationship with Mr I. But Great Lakes had no contractual relationship with 
Mr I and, based on the information Ive seen, I think Great Lakes did its best to facilitate 
communications between itself, Mr I and Mr S. 
The repatriation of Ms Ss ashes and belongings
The cost of returning a policyholders ashes to the UK is covered under the terms and 
condition of Ms Ss policy, but the cost of returning their belongings is not. 
Ive seen lengthy correspondence between Great Lakes and its appointed undertaker 
relating to the repatriation of Ms Ss ashes. Much of this correspondence related to Covid-19 
restrictions, the requirement for various forms and who was the appropriate person to obtain 
these forms given that Ms S had been travelling alone and Mr S was in the UK. 
I understand that Mr S wished for the ashes to be returned sooner than they were, for 
religious reasons and I have no doubt that the time taken for Ms Ss ashes to be returned will 
have been very distressing for Mr S. But, based on the information Ive seen, I cant fairly 
conclude that Great Lakes was inactive or caused excessive delays in making arrangements 
for the repatriation of Ms Ss ashes. 
In relation to Ms Ss belongings, I dont think Great Lakes was responsible for N passing the 
items at the hospital to Mr I. And Im satisfied that the issues surrounding the delay in 
obtaining a death certificate were caused by Mr I obtaining the original and then failing to 
respond further to either Great Lakes or to Mr S. 
Great Lakes arranged for and agreed to cover 50% of the cost of returning Ms Ss 
belongings to the UK, as a gesture of goodwill. Although these arrangements were made 
outside of its obligations under the terms and conditions of Ms Ss policy, Id still expect 
Great Lakes to have acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances and without any 
excessive or undue delay. 
I understand Mr S was unhappy with the amount of the quote for the repatriation of the 
belongings which was originally provided. I cant offer any breakdown of how this quote was 
calculated or otherwise comment on whether I think the quote was fair, other than to say Im 
satisfied that Great Lakes accurately passed on to Mr S the amount they were quoted by 
their third-party provider. 
Communications between Great Lakes and Mr S about the whereabouts of and an inventory 
for Ms Ss belongings were, I think, unnecessarily protracted and confusing. I think it would 
have been helpful if Great Lakes had clearly outlined the limits of what it was agreeing to do 
for Mr S at the outset. But, overall, given the number of parties involved and the various 
restrictions surrounding transportation because of Covid-19, I dont think I can fairly conclude 
that Great Lakes could have done anything more to arrange for the return of Ms Ss 
belongings sooner.   
I understand Ms Ss passport remains unaccounted for. Unfortunately, I cant provide any 
further clarity to Mr S about this other than to say that, as far as Great Lakes was aware, the 
passport was repatriated with Ms Ss ashes. 
ConclusionIn summary, I think Great Lakes couldve done more in relation to arranging for Ms Ss 
cremation and could have been clearer in its communications with Mr S about the 
repatriation of Ms Ss belongings. I also dont think Great Lakes explanations in response to 
Mr Ss complaint were particularly appropriate or helpful. 
I hope my findings have been useful to Mr S in gaining a broader understanding of what 
happened, and why. I understand Mr S wants an apology from Great Lakes, but this isnt 
something which Id generally direct a business to do in a case like this. This is because the 
wording and tone of what constitutes an acceptable or reasonable apology is very 
subjective.  
I have no power to direct Great Lakes to pay compensation for any personal distress Mr S 
experienced, because he isnt an eligible complainant in his own right in relation to this 
claim, as he wasnt a beneficiary under Ms Ss travel insurance policy. I also have no power 
to direct Great Lakes to pay any compensation to Ms S (or to her estate) for the events 
which took place after shed sadly passed away.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, but this means I wont be directing Great Lakes to do anything 
further. 
After our investigator sent her opinion about this complaint, Mr S raised a number of 
additional queries including about a shortfall in the amount Great Lakes had reimbursed him 
and the payment of crematorium bills. These queries would need to be addressed directly by 
Great Lakes in the first instance before our service would have the power to consider them.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the estate of Ms Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms S 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman