DRN-4427707
The complaint
Mr W complains that he was given unsuitable advice by Hugh James Solicitors to transfer 
the benefits from his defined benefit (DB) scheme with British Steel (BSPS) to a personal 
pension.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ws employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from 
the company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF), or a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). The PPF acts as a lifeboat for 
insolvent DB pension schemes, paying compensation to members of eligible schemes for 
their lifetime. The compensation levels are, generally, around 90% of the level of the original 
schemes benefits for deferred pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ from 
the original scheme. Alternatively, members of the BSPS were informed they could transfer 
their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement included that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Ws employer would be set up  the BSPS2. The RAA was signed and 
confirmed in August 2017 and the agreed steps were carried out shortly after.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a time to choose letter which gave them 
the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere.
Around the same time, Mr W sought advice from Hugh James Solicitors to discuss the 
options for his pension.
Hugh James Solicitors recorded some information about Mr Ws circumstances. It noted that 
he was 43, engaged to marry with one child. Mr W was employed earning approximately 
£38,000. He owned his own home, which was unencumbered. He had cash assets of 
around £27,000 and he had no other liabilities. Mr Ws attitude to risk was assessed by 
Hugh James Solicitors as being balanced.
Hugh James Solicitors issued its recommendation on 19 October 2017. 
In summary this said Mr Ws objectives were to retire early at 55 (if possible); to save for a 
retirement fund that could provide a realistic income of £1,500 a month in retirement; to 
provide lump sum death benefits; and to provide flexibility and control. Hugh James 
Solicitors recommended that Mr W transfer his pension to meet his stated objectives. And it 
recommended a pension provider and two investment funds that it said was in line with his 
attitude to risk.
Mr W complained to Hugh James Solicitors in 2022 about the suitability of the transfer 
advice. In essence he didnt think the advice to give up a guaranteed pension income was 
suitable for him. 
Hugh James Solicitors representative replied and said that, in the interests of trying to settle 
the matter, it had carried out a redress calculation in line with regulatory guidance and it was 
willing to make an offer of settlement.
Mr W declined the offer and in doing so he raised some concerns about how the calculation 
had been made.
One of Investigators looked into the complaint. They thought the advice was unsuitable as 
Mr W wasnt likely to improve on the benefits he was already guaranteed by transferring. 
And they didnt think there were other compelling reasons to justify the transfer as being 
suitable  for example, Mr W didnt have firm early retirement plans, so it was too soon to 
give up his guaranteed benefits; Mr W already had flexibility to retire early, if thats what he 
ultimately decided; death benefits shouldnt have been considered an overriding concern; 
and his desire for control over his pension was overstated. They said if suitable advice had 
been given Mr W wouldve remained in the DB scheme and chosen to move to the BSPS2. 
They said Hugh James Solicitors should carry out a loss calculation in line with the 
regulators updated guidance (PS22/13)
Hugh James Solicitors agreed to carry out the loss calculation. And this showed there was 
no loss.
The complaint was subsequently referred for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Hugh James Solicitors 
actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Hugh James 
Solicitors should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the 
transfer was in Mr Ws best interests.
Firstly - I can see that Hugh James Solicitors representative has said it doesnt consider it is 
necessary for this complaint to be considered by an Ombudsman. It says it carried out a loss 
assessment proactively at the outset of Mr Ws complaint and again as it was asked to do by 
the Investigator, which showed no loss. It believes the complaint should be dismissed 
because it has already been dealt with. But ultimately the complaint remains unresolved, so 
it requires me to provide a final decision. Mr W has raised concerns about the overall 
redress method, so it is necessary for me to consider that, and if I uphold the complaint, 
award redress based on the situation now.
And having considered the evidence in this case, I have decided to uphold the complaint for 
largely the same reasons given by the investigator. Because Im mindful that Hugh James 
Solicitors has ultimately carried out a loss calculation, in the circumstances I dont see the 
need to address the suitability of the advice it gave to Mr W in detail. So, in summary I think 
the advice to transfer was unsuitable for the following reasons.
Given the critical yields produced by Hugh James Solicitors in the TVAS report of 
15 October 2017, Mr Ws recorded balanced attitude to risk, the discount rate of 
4.3% for 16 years to retirement (60) and the regulators middle projection rate, I think 
Mr W was always likely to receive pension benefits, from age 60, of a lower value 
that those hed have been entitled to under the BSPS2 or the PPF by transferring 
and investing in line with that attitude to risk. And had Hugh James Solicitors 
produced analysis based on Mr Ws actual target retirement age of 55, given the 
shorter term to retirement and the likelihood that the critical yields were significantly 
higher, I think he was even more likely to receive lower benefits than either the 
BSPS2 or the PPF offered, if he retired earlier as he desired. For this reason alone, a 
transfer wasnt in Mr Ws best interests.
At 43, Im not persuaded Mr W had likely given any serious thought to his retirement 
or reasonably understood what his needs would be some 12 years or more in the 
future. The evidence doesnt support that he had any kind of firm retirement plan  
hence why I think the advice paperwork referred to a retirement age of: 55 (if 
possible.)
Im certain Mr W liked the idea of retiring early. But he already had this option 
available to him  he didnt have to transfer to achieve things. And no doubt he was 
attracted to the flexibility a personal pension provided. But I think this was simply a 
feature or a consequence of transferring to a personal pension rather than a genuine 
objective of Mr Ws. 
Nothing suggests Mr W needed to vary his income throughout retirement and he had 
no large, planned capital expenditure, which warranted a larger cash lump sum 
greater than his DB scheme would provide. Indeed Mr W had no recorded cash lump 
sum need.
 In any event Mr W already had flexibility. Given the recorded 20% salary contribution 
being made to his DC workplace pension, I think this had the potential to create a 
pension fund that couldve given him the flexibility to retire early - if thats what he 
ultimately decided. So I dont think transferring to obtain flexibility was in his best 
interests.
Mr Ws income need was recorded as being £1,500 a month. But again, I dont think 
he could reasonably know at this time what hed need when he retired. And Hugh 
James Solicitors didnt carry out a detailed income and expenditure in retirement 
assessment to arrive at this figure or interrogate it  it appears to have simply 
accepted what Mr W said without challenge.
Without a realistic understanding of Mr Ws true needs in retirement, I dont think it 
was in his best interests to transfer at this time. Mr Ws DB pension was estimated to 
be around £20,600 a year at 65  a guaranteed and escalating income for life, which 
wasnt likely to be bettered by transferring. I think it wouldve likely satisfied most, if 
not all of Mr Ws income need, which his DC scheme pension and savings could 
supplement. Or he could use these to help him retire early, if thats what he decided 
at the time. I think this was a more appropriate way for Mr W to meet his future 
retirement needs rather than risking his guaranteed benefits in an attempt to do so.
I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the likely 
decrease of retirement benefits for Mr W. I dont think that insurance was properly 
explored as an alternative  assuming Mr W genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for 
his family. And ultimately Hugh James Solicitors should not have encouraged Mr W 
to prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through a personal pension 
over his security in retirement.
I think Mr Ws desire for control over how his pension was invested was overstated. 
I cant see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage his 
pension funds on his own.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Ws best interest to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension. And I also havent seen anything to 
persuade me that Mr W wouldve insisted on transferring, against advice to remain in the DB 
scheme. Mr W was an inexperienced investor who neither possessed the requisite 
knowledge nor skill to act against the advice he was given. So, Im upholding the complaint 
as I think the advice Mr W received from Hugh James Solicitors was unsuitable for him.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr W, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr W would 
most likely have remained in the occupational pension scheme and opted to join the BSPS2 
if suitable advice had been given. 
Hugh James Solicitors must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules 
for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy 
statement PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. Hugh James Solicitors should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate 
the redress. 
For the benefit of Mr W - the calculator uses economic and demographic assumptions to 
calculate how much a consumer needs in their pension arrangement to secure equivalent 
BSPS retirement benefits that they would have been entitled to under either BSPS2 or the 
PPF (as uplifted to reflect the subsequent buy-out), had they not transferred out. 
If the calculation shows there is not enough money in the consumers pension arrangement 
to match the BSPS benefits they would have received, the shortfall is the amount owed to 
the consumer. If the calculation shows there is enough money in the consumers pension 
arrangement, then no redress is due.
The BSPS calculator has been developed by actuaries and is programmed by the FCA with 
benefit structures of the BSPS, BSPS2 and PPF (including the impact of the subsequent 
buy-out) and relevant economic and demographic assumptions which are updated regularly. 
This information cant be changed by firms.
The calculator also makes automatic allowances for ongoing advice fees of 0.5% per year 
and product charges of 0.75% per year which are set percentages by the FCA.
A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr W and the Financial Ombudsman 
Service upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what Hugh 
James Solicitors based the inputs into the calculator on.
For clarity, Mr W has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age (65), as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ws 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Hugh James Solicitors should:
calculate and offer Mr W redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr W before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr W receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr W accepts Hugh James Solicitors offer to calculate how much of their redress 
could be augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr W for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ws end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr W as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Hugh James 
Solicitors may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax 
that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Ws likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Hugh James Solicitors 
to pay Mr W the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Hugh James Solicitors pays Mr W the balance.
If Mr W accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Hugh James Solicitors.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr W can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr W may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman