DRN-3716080
The complaint
Mrs P and Mr P complain about the way Metro Bank PLC handled their application to port 
their mortgage and the early repayment charge they paid when they redeemed the 
mortgage.
What happened
In 2018 Mrs P and Mr P took out a five-year interest only mortgage with Metro Bank PLC of 
around £155,000 which was secured over their residential property. They planned to repay 
the mortgage by selling the property. They had a fixed interest rate product for the five-year 
term. And they had to pay an early repayment charge (ERC) if they paid the mortgage back 
within that period.
In 2020 Mrs P and Mr P decided to move house. They applied, through a broker, to port their 
mortgage. Due to the time things took, they were worried theyd lose their sale and 
purchase. So, they decided to redeem the mortgage and use their own funds to buy their 
new house instead. 
Mrs P and Mr P felt theyd had no option but to go ahead due to delays Metro had caused. 
They were unhappy Metro hadnt communicated effectively with their broker. And they felt 
Metro had required too much financial information before coming to a decision about porting. 
To put things right they thought Metro should reimburse the ERC of around £2,480 they 
became liable to pay and pay them compensation.
Metro disagreed. They acknowledged there had been some difficulties for brokers in 
accessing their portal at one point. And even though they didnt think that had impacted    
Mrs P and Mr Ps broker, they offered them £100 as a gesture of goodwill. But they didnt 
accept their requests for information had been unreasonable or that theyd caused delay. 
Since Mrs P and Mr P were unhappy with Metros response, they brought their complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman.
Our investigator didnt think Metro had treated Mrs P and Mr P unfairly. He thought the time 
Metro took was reasonable, particularly given the impact of the coronavirus pandemic on 
their business. He didnt think the information Metro had asked for was unreasonable. And 
he didnt think Mrs P and Mr P had lost out financially - by paying their mortgage off early, 
theyd saved around £3,000 in interest. Since Mrs P and Mr P didnt agree, their complaints 
been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs P and Mr Ps disappointment that they werent able to port their mortgage 
and incurred an ERC. I acknowledge their strength of feeling about their complaint. And I 
appreciate they werent able to use their own funds to adapt their new property to 
accommodate a family member as theyd hoped. But, having considered everything 
carefully, I dont think Metro treated them unfairly or unreasonably. Ill explain why. I may not 
mention in my decision everything the parties have told us. No discourtesy is intended by 
that. It simply reflects the informal nature of the service we provide. 
The terms and conditions of the mortgage Mrs P and Mr P took out in 2018 said that if they 
moved house they may be able to transfer the amount outstanding on their mortgage to 
another property, provided they still met Metros lending criteria at the time of the application 
for the new mortgage. They explained porting would require an application for a new 
mortgage. And the mortgage offer made clear theyd be liable to pay an ERC if they 
redeemed the mortgage early. 
Metro said in December 2020 they hadnt approved the porting application because, broadly, 
Mrs P and Mr P didnt meet Metros minimum income requirement  which Metro told us was 
put in place in July 2019 - and their strategy for repaying the mortgage fell outside Metros 
lending criteria. They asked Mrs P and Mr P to provide additional information to consider 
their application further.
Metro were entitled to ask Mrs P and Mr P for information to assess whether their application 
met their lending criteria. Theyve questioned the level of information Metro asked for. 
I can understand Metro were concerned to look closely at affordability given the impact the 
pandemic had had on some peoples incomes. The Mortgage and Home Finance: Conduct 
of Business sourcebook sets out rules for lenders about assessing whether a mortgage is 
affordable for a borrower. Put simply, they dont apply where a borrower is not taking on any 
additional borrowing and theres no change to the terms of the mortgage thats likely to be 
material to affordability, as I understand the position was here. So, I think it could have been 
unfair for Metro to have declined their application solely on grounds of affordability had 
matters got that far. But Metro could still look into affordability. It wasnt unreasonable for 
them to ask for information about it. And I dont think requiring the information delayed things 
since the repayment strategy information was still outstanding when Metro gave their 
decision in late December 2020.
I think it was reasonable for Metro to consider Mrs P and Mr Ps application against their 
repayment strategy criteria. They had originally planned to sell their existing property at the 
end of the five-year term and redeem the mortgage with the proceeds of sale. The value of 
their existing property met Metros lending requirements, but the new property did not. In 
addition, their repayment strategy had changed. 
Mrs P and Mr P feel Metro could have satisfied themselves, by checking their Metro 
accounts, that they had enough savings to pay off the mortgage. But Metro understood from 
the broker that they also planned to use savings held with another bank. And part of the 
strategy was to take out a retirement interest only mortgage, which fell outside Metros 
lending criteria. So, I think it was fair and reasonable for Metro to satisfy themselves Mrs P 
and Mr P had a suitable repayment strategy to repay the money they owed at the end of the 
term. 
Metro let the broker know the additional information they required to consider the application 
further when they told him their decision in late December 2020. By then, Mrs P and Mr P 
were concerned about their sale and purchase falling through. They felt it was clear Metro 
would not accept their porting application. And they asked for a redemption figure with a 
view to paying the mortgage back in mid-January 2021 before the decision came through.
Ive looked at the events leading up to Metros decision. Ive listened to the phone calls that 
are available. And Ive considered the evidence Mrs P and Mr Ps broker has helpfully provided. The evidence is in part contradictory. For example, Metro have no record of the 
many attempts the broker says he made to contact them before he submitted an application 
in late October 2020. And the broker disputes Metros claim they spoke to him twice in late 
December 2020, after theyd issued their decision, to discuss the additional information they 
needed to assess things further. 
I understand Mrs P and Mr Ps concerns Metro have been untruthful about that. Given later 
correspondence from the broker confirms he got an email from Metro on 31 December, I 
think its possible Metro made a mistake about how they made contact. I cant determine that 
conclusively. But, Mrs P and Mr P had already requested a redemption figure by the time 
Metro had issued their decision. So, what happened afterwards is less important. I think the 
key issue here is whether Metro caused any unreasonable delays beforehand. 
The broker encountered difficulties in accessing the portal to make the porting application, 
initially because his registration had expired. He submitted the application by email at the 
end of October. Metro provided support with his re-registration, which took a few days. It 
seems the broker also had problems later in gaining access to the portal. But its not clear 
access problems were due to mistakes by Metro. They acknowledged thered been a 
problem with their portal but said the timing of that didnt coincide with when the broker was 
trying to gain access. Even so they offered Mrs P and Mr P £100 as a gesture of goodwill, 
which was fair. 
The broker found the application process difficult to follow. Metro provided guidance about 
that and the supporting documents he needed to upload. A mistake in the initial application 
led to it being cancelled. A further application began in mid-November. Metro let the broker 
know the additional information he needed to provide. The latest piece of information was 
provided on around 17 December. Metro issued a decision on 22 December based on what 
they had, after the broker pressed for a decision. But they made it clear they needed more to 
consider the application further. 
Both the broker and Metro seem to have had difficulty in getting in touch with each other by 
phone on occasion. And Metro mentioned in one of their conversations that they were busy 
when the broker said hed been expecting a return call.
I think its fair to consider Mrs P and Mr Ps complaint bearing in mind the impact the 
pandemic had on mortgage applications. For example, changes to the way businesses 
operated, including home working, had an impact on the speed of service they could 
provide; lenders reasonably wanted to check any impact the pandemic had on their 
customers ability to pay their mortgages when considering applications; and the stamp duty 
holiday introduced in July 2020 led to increased mortgage activity making lenders busier. 
Bearing all the above in mind, I dont think Metros actions in requesting information were 
unreasonable, and Im not persuaded they caused any unnecessary delay. Overall, I dont 
think the timescales were unreasonable.
It was Mrs P and Mr Ps decision to commit to the sale and purchase taking place in January 
2021. Metro didnt say theyd approved their porting application when they decided to 
complete. Whilst I acknowledge they felt under pressure to do so, they still had a choice. 
And they redeemed the Metro mortgage knowing the ERC was payable. In the 
circumstances, and since I dont think Metro made any mistakes that led to the ERC being 
incurred, I wont require Metro to reimburse it. 
I note the terms and conditions of the mortgage allowed porting applications to be carried out 
within 90 days of redeeming the mortgage. Mrs P and Mr P still had the option to proceed with their application. Whilst I cant say for certain it would have succeeded, they may have 
avoided paying the ERC if they had.
Finally, Mrs P and Mr P made a saving on the interest they would have paid on the mortgage 
for the remainder of the term if they hadnt paid it back. I understand theyd budgeted to pay 
that interest, and their financial plans were upset through having to pay the ERC. But we can 
only put a customer back into the position they would have been in but for any mistake a 
business makes. So, working out any financial loss they incurred would have needed to take 
into account their overall financial situation. And even if Id thought Metro had been at fault, I 
dont think Mrs P and Mr P would have been out of pocket based on the figures.
Considering everything, whilst I understand Mrs P and Mr P will be disappointed with my 
decision, I dont uphold their complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs P and Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman