DRN-3370006
The complaint
Mr K complains about Covea Insurance Plcs handling of his claim, following damage that
was caused to his van during a theft, under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
In November 2019 Mr K says his van was broken into. He says the alarm system was cut.
Damage was caused to the bonnet trim in doing so. He says this resulted in water to the
fuse box and electrical system. The lock to the side door was also damaged and some work
tools were taken.
Mr K claimed to Covea. He says its handling was poor with many delays. He says he paid
for the repair to the side door lock and for the repairs to the fuse box and electrical problems.
But has yet to receive any money from Covea. Mr K says he cant afford to replace the alarm
system but has received a quote for what this will cost. He says his business has been
affected by Coveas delays in settling his claim, and this has been distressing.
Covea says due to delays caused by the pandemic its approved repairer couldnt
immediately arrange for Mr Ks van to be booked in. Because of this he arranged for repairs
to be carried out himself. It says Mr K sent an invoice in June 2020 describing repairs for
non-start + various electrical faults. Covea arranged for an inspection to be carried out in
July 2020.
Its engineer reported repairs were carried out to the fuse box but no further information was
available to explain how damage had occurred. He also confirmed the left hand side door
handle and lock had been repaired. The engineer contacted Mr Ks garage to query the work
it undertook. The engineer says the garage confirmed water ingress had occurred into the
engine bay. The garage says it replaced the fuse box but was not aware of any issues with
the alarm.
Coveas engineer couldnt conclude if the alarm was damaged because of the break-in. He
suggested further checks to the electrical system, including the alarm, be carried out to see if
there are faults that are attributable to the original claim.
In its final response to Mr Ks complaint Covea asked that he provide evidence of the work
carried out for the door lock and handle, which it would then review. It acknowledges its
responsibility to handle the claim effectively and keep Mr K updated, which it didnt do well in
this case. It offered its apologies for these failings and a compensation payment for £175.
Mr K wasnt satisfied with this outcome and referred his complaint to our service. Our
investigator upheld his complaint. He thought damage to the alarm and damage caused by
water ingress may have been caused by the break-in. Because Covea didnt follow up on its
engineers recommendation for further investigation, it had unfairly denied Mr K the
opportunity to have his claim considered correctly.
Our investigator says Covea should pay Mr K for the cost of the electrical repairs he
arranged, plus interest. Pay for the alarm repairs or for a replacement and pay for the work
to the lock/handle on receipt of proof of payment.
Mr K agreed to this. Covea disagreed. It says there is no evidence that the electrical damage
was caused by the break-in. It says the garage wasnt aware that the van had been broken
into when its engineer made contact and wasnt aware the alarm had been damaged. Covea
says it hasnt received evidence to show the damage was caused by an insured loss so it
cant pay for the costs Mr K has requested.
Covea asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. It has been passed to me to
decide.
I issued a provisional decision in February 2022 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr 
Ks complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has raised concerns regarding the theft of tools and personal belongings from his van.
In addition to a complaint about a mis-sale. These issues do not relate to his policy with
Covea and are being dealt with separately. I wont be considering these points in my
decision here.
Its the responsibility of the customer to show an insured loss has occurred. If they can do
this then generally the insurer should accept the claim, unless it can show that a valid
exclusion applies.
I have thought about the damage Mr K says was caused by the break-in and the evidence
provided to confirm his losses.
Coveas inspection report says Mr K told its engineer that the left-hand side door handle and
lock had been repaired. But the business says it hasnt received confirmation of the costs
paid.
Mr K has supplied an estimate for repairs to the van door lock and handle. This shows the
damaged area needs drilling out, removing and the fitting of replacement parts. The cost is
estimated at £288. Covea says it has already agreed to pay for this repair and has asked Mr
K several times for proof of payment. It says it hasnt yet received this information.
Its clear the damage caused to the door handle and locking mechanism by the break-in,
isnt in dispute. All that is required is for Mr K to provide proof of the work being completed
so Covea can provide payment. Based on the information provided he hasnt done this yet. I
think its reasonable that Mr K provides this information to Covea so it can make payment.
The invoice Mr K provided from the repairs he arranged in February 2020 says:
Investigate vehicle non-start + various electrical faults, c/o standard workshop
operations/diagnostics as required, c/o guided control unit test plan procedure., including
manual metered tests. (found engine bay fuse box output voltages incorrect)  s/f new fuse
box assembly including new external relay, power down all modules, c/o programming and
set up as required.
Covea says it spoke to the garage and was told there was water ingress into the engine bay,
and it had replaced the fuse box. It says its not satisfied by the evidence provided that theserepairs were needed because of damage caused by the break-in.
Coveas inspection report says:
we suggest that the alarm may have been damaged as a result of the break in but we are
unable to confirm this. We suggest that the vehicle is taken to a recommended repairer to
have further checks on the electrical system including the alarm to establish if there are any
faults to the alarm system that could be attributed to the original claim.
I have read the policy terms to understand what is expected when a claim is made. The
terms say:
At your option, you can arrange for a repairer of your choice to carry out the repairs. You
must send the Insurer at least two detailed repair estimates and full details of the incident as
soon as reasonably possible. The Insurer will only be liable for the repair costs at a non-
approved repairer if the Insurer has agreed that the costs are reasonable and the Insurer
has issued an authorisation to the repairer. The Insurer may need to inspect the vehicle.
And:
We will not pay for any losses that are not directly associated with the incident that caused
you to claim, unless expressly stated in this policy.
Mr K arranged for repairs himself because of delays Covea advised in arranging repairs
itself, due to the pandemic. I understand why he did this. But the terms are clear that any
losses must be demonstrated, approved, and relate to the insured event.
In an email to Covea Mr K says his van wouldnt start, which is why he arranged for the
electrical repairs to be completed. This work was completed in February 2020, which was
around three months after the break-in. I dont dispute Mr Ks account of events. But I dont
think hes clearly shown that the repairs directly resulted from damage caused by the breakin
in November 2019.
Coveas engineer suggested a further inspection in July 2020. This was to look at the
electrics and determine if an issue was apparent with the alarm linked to Mr Ks claim. As I
understand it this wasnt done. In the circumstances I think an inspection was appropriate to
determine whether the damage claimed could be linked to the break-in. Based on the
records provided, Covea told Mr K it would arrange for this.
Having considered all of this, I dont think Covea treated Mr K fairly in not arranging a further
inspection. This would determine whether the electrical system and alarm were damaged by
the break-in. I think its reasonable that this is arranged to determine if the damage is
covered by Mr Ks insurance.
I think its fair that Covea offered £175 compensation. There were delays in the claim being
handled. I acknowledge the pandemic impacted on the availability of Coveas approved
repairers. But the business concedes its standard of communication was at times lacking. I
think this view is supported by the available records and from Mr Ks account of events. But,
having considered all of the circumstances I think the compensation provided is fair. So, I 
wont be asking Covea to pay more.
I said I was intending to uphold Mr Ks complaint and Covea Insurance Plc should:
arrange an inspection of the electrical system to identify:whether the fuse box repairs resulted from the loss claimed; and whether the alarm 
system was damaged in the break-in  based on the outcome of the inspection it 
should arrange for repairs to be carried out in line with the policy terms and 
conditions.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Covea didnt respond to my provisional decision. 
Mr K responded to say Coveas engineer wouldnt be able to determine if his alarm was 
damaged as he didnt have the keys to the van. He says he would have needed to look 
under the bonnet. 
Mr K says he provided the paperwork from the door repair to Covea and presumed this was 
sufficient. He says he can try to arrange an invoice but can only remember being asked to 
supply an estimate. He doesnt think Covea offered to pay for this previously. 
Mr K says after a few weeks of not being able to work he found an auto electrician who 
made a makeshift repair to get him back on the road. This is in response to comments in 
my provisional decision that repairs took place around three months after the break-in.   
Mr K says the garage wasnt aware of the break-in or that the alarm had been damaged 
because he didnt tell it. He says they dont fix alarms so there was no reason to provide the 
full story. He says he feels that hes conducted himself correctly despite being ignored by 
Covea and it failing to abide by the contract in place.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mr Ks comments about his alarm. In my provisional decision I identified that 
Coveas engineer recommended an inspection should take place to identify if the damage 
could be linked to the break-in. It didnt arrange for this to happen. I thought it reasonable for 
this inspection to be carried out in order to resolve this issue. I think this is still the most 
appropriate action for Covea to take in these circumstances. 
Based on the information I have seen, Covea hasnt received proof of the work to the van 
door being completed. I note Mr Ks comments that he supplied an estimate. But I think its 
reasonable for Covea to pay for this work, on receipt of proof the work was completed. 
I note Mr Ks comments about the makeshift repairs he arranged for his van. This took place 
prior to the repairs carried out in February 2020. But I dont think this impacts on my 
provisional decision or my findings here.
I agree that the standard of service Mr K received couldve been better, particularly around 
delays in handling his claim. I have considered his further comments around this point, but I 
dont think hes shown that the £175 compensation payment Covea provided was 
unreasonable in acknowledging this. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Ks 
complaint. Covea Insurance Plc should:arrange an inspection of the electrical system to identify:
whether the fuse box repairs resulted from the loss claimed; and whether the alarm
system was damaged in the break-in  based on the outcome of the inspection it
should arrange for repairs to be carried out in line with the policy terms and
conditions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman