DRN-4122041
The complaint
Mr W complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) have only offered to refund 50% of the 
funds he lost to an investment scam in January 2021.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont consider everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it for the following reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr W authorised the disputed payments he made to his crypto 
wallets from his Santander account (where his funds were subsequently transferred on 
to the scammer). The payments were requested using his legitimate security credentials 
provided by Santander, and the starting position is that banks ought to follow the 
instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as 
instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Santander should have done more to prevent Mr W 
from falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. 
For example, if it was particularly out of character. 
It isnt in dispute that some of the payments Mr W made were unusual given that they did 
trigger the banks fraud prevention systems and were automatically blocked pending 
further enquiry  such as those made on 20 January 2021 and 18 February 2021. 
Accordingly, its just a question of whether the bank went far enough in all the 
circumstances with its interventions.
I can see that Santander spoke to Mr W on several occasions about the payments he 
was making. Santander explained to Mr W that it believed he was being scammed and 
warned him on 20 January 2021 that it would not be liable for any loss if he continues 
with the payment. Mr W was warned again in further calls on 18 and 19 February 2021, 
but he said he was convinced he wasnt being scammed. He told Santander that it was 
his money and that he was happy to take the risk, and I note he also raised a complaint 
about not being able to make the payments.  
So, despite being warned several times that he was likely falling victim to a scam and 
that he wouldnt get his money back, its clear that Mr W was adamant about making the 
payments regardless of the risk. As a result, Im not persuaded there was anything more 
Santander could have reasonably done in these circumstances to prevent his loss, so I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to expect it to pay anything over and above 
the 50% it has already offered to reimburse. 
Its also worth noting that, even if I thought Santander could have done more to prevent 
the scam, I still would not award anything higher than 50% of Mr Ws loss in these 
circumstances, in recognition of his own contributory negligence due to him ignoring and 
failing to act on the warnings he was given by the bank. 
Im also not persuaded there was anything more Santander could have done to recover 
the money Mr W lost either, given we know it was paid to his crypto wallets before being 
transferred on to the scammer. So, there would have been no reasonable prospect of 
recovering the money from the beneficiary accounts in these circumstances. 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr W, and Im sorry to hear he has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, I wont be asking Santander to take any further 
action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman