DRN-2986009
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice given by Financial Solutions Wales Ltd (FSW) to transfer 
the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal 
pension (PP). He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a 
financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ms employer announced that it would be examining options to
restructure its business, including decoupling the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) from 
the company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF), or a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed 
they could transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
Mr M was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security
of his DB scheme. So, Mr M approached FSW in 2017 to discuss his pension and retirement 
needs. FSW recorded that Mr M no longer had confidence in his employer and he was 
concerned about what would happen with his pension. So he wanted to transfer his pension 
to a scheme which was under his control. 
FSW completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ms circumstances and objectives. 
FSW also carried out an assessment of Mr Ms attitude to risk, which it deemed to be low 
medium or 4 out of 10. 
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
On 24 October 2017, FSW advised Mr M to transfer his pension benefits into a personal 
pension and invest the proceeds in a mixture of managed funds. The suitability report said 
the reasons for this recommendation were, in summary:
Mr M was concerned about potential changes to benefits in the BSPS2;
Mr M was concerned about his employers financial security;
Mr M wished to sever all ties with his employer;
Mr M wished to take some tax-free cash (TFC) at age 55 but defer taking an income 
until age 60; and
Mr M would be able to leave a legacy for his daughter.
Mr M complained in 2020 to FSW about the suitability of the transfer advice. FSW didnt 
uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said its advice meant that Mr M was able to achieve his 
objectives in retirement, and that these objectives could only be met by transferring his 
pension and would leave a legacy for his family. 
Mr M referred his complaint to our Service. An Investigator upheld the complaint and 
required FSW to pay compensation. He said it was likely, based on the critical yields, that 
Mr M would be worse off in retirement. And that there seemed to be no need for Mr M to 
take TFC at aged 55 so he didnt think this was a reason to give up a guaranteed income 
and transfer Mr Ms pension. He thought FSW shouldve advised Mr M to opt into the 
BSPS2.
FSW disagreed. It responded in detail, but, in summary, it said it accepted that the critical 
yields were less likely to be achieved if Mr M retired at age 55, but it noted it was still 
possible. It said the critical yields were much more achievable if Mr M retired at age 65. FSW 
pointed to its cashflow modelling which it said showed this would unlikely have been an 
issue for Mr M in retirement. It explained that Mr M couldnt achieve the flexibility he wanted 
within his existing scheme. FSW asked that we question Mr Ms future plans with his 
personal pension fund. 
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of FSW's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the Investigator. 
Id like to note that FSW has responded to our Investigator in great detail. Ive thought
about everything it has said. However, I wont respond to each and every point FSW has
made. Instead, Ill be focusing on the crux of this complaint  the advice to transfer the DBpension and the main objections FSW has made to the Investigators view. This doesnt
mean I havent considered all of the arguments; it simply reflects the informal nature of this
service.
Ive also noted that FSW said it reserved the right to request a formal hearing. Our 
Investigator set out the process which needed to be followed if FSW did wish to request a 
hearing. He also made FSW aware that it is rare that we consider a hearing necessary to 
decide a case. FSW didnt respond further to our Investigator on this point, so Im going to 
proceed with this decision. 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, FSW should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ms 
best interests. And, having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests. Ill address each point under separate headings below.
Financial viability 
FSW carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing how 
much Mr Ms pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same 
benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield).
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr M was 47 at the time of the advice and FSW noted that he said he wanted to partly retire 
at 55 and fully retire at age 60. The critical yield required to match Mr Ms benefits at age 55 
was 11.8% if he took a full pension and 8.29% if he took TFC and a reduced pension. The 
critical yield to match the benefits available through the PPF at age 55 was quoted as 7.65% 
per year if Mr M took a full pension and 6.95% per year if he took TFC and a reduced 
pension. 
Im mindful that the TVAS compared the benefits available to Mr M under the BSPS. But he 
didnt have the option to remain in this scheme, and by the time the advice was delivered by 
FSW, details of the BSPS2 were known and Mr M had received his time to choose pack. 
So, I think FSWs analysis ought to have taken into account the BSPS2 benefits available to 
Mr M so that he was in a fully informed position. Although the TVAS didnt calculate the 
critical yields applicable to the BSPS2, I think they wouldve been somewhere between the 
BSPS and PPF figures as the trustees confirmed the BSPS2 would likely provide better 
benefits for the majority of members.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 3.4% per year for 7 years to retirement. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection 
rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the 
time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ms 
low medium attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in 
Mr M giving up the guarantees available to them through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, the lowest critical yield was 
6.95%, based on him moving to the PPF, was substantially higher than the discount rate and 
the regulators middle projection rate. So, I think Mr M was likely to receive benefits of a 
substantially lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in 
line with that attitude to risk. This would be the case even if the scheme moved to the PPF.
FSW also says that it provided Mr M with a cash flow analysis which showed his fund would
not run out even if he lived to 100. FSW says it showed the level of income Mr M required 
was sustainable and would potentially leave a substantial lump sum for his wife and children 
on his death. It also said the critical yield wasnt necessarily a helpful measure as Mr M 
didnt want to take an annuity. 
However, Mr M was still some seven or eight years away from him being able to access his 
pension and over ten years away from when he thought he would fully retire. So, I dont think 
at this point FSW could discount with any certainty that Mr M didnt want the guaranteed 
income the DB scheme / an annuity could provide him with.
Furthermore, the analysis in the cashflow document assumed 4% returns after charges 
which means Mr R needed to achieve higher returns than this to make up for ongoing 
adviser and pension plan charges and the initial adviser charge. And, as FSW will know, 
past performance is no guarantee of future performance. So, I consider the discount rates 
and the regulators standard projections to be more realistic in this regard in the long term 
rather than projecting historic returns forward, particularly over such a long period of time. As 
explained above, it was unlikely these levels of return could be achieved given Mr Ms 
attitude to risk, so I think his funds were at risk of running out a lot sooner.
Furthermore, the cash flow analysis was based on Mr M drawing less income
than he would have been entitled to receive from the DB scheme. And the TVAS report 
shows that the fund would be exhausted at the middle rate of growth before age 100 if 
equivalent drawdowns were made. So, demonstrating Mr Ms potential position throughout 
the later years of his retirement, based on assumed growth rates, was not a fair comparison.
In addition to this, I find the cash flow modelling hard to decipher for a number of reasons. 
Firstly, its set out in a confusing manner which I dont think Mr M wouldve readily 
understood. And the charts were set out in an overly simplistic manner without explaining in 
detail what they meant.  I also dont think it reflects what Mr M was going to do given that 
advice was based on him supplementing his income with TFC rather than drawing an 
income at age 55. And they dont seem to have taken into account any TFC withdrawal, 
which was what the advice was based on Mr M doing. Im therefore not persuaded that the 
modelling was based on the reality of Mr Ms circumstances.
Whilst the cashflow modelling showed the potential for a large lump sum being left upon 
death, the TVAS shows that the fund may run out between age 97 and 99 depending on 
what age Mr M chose to retire at. This means that if Mr M lived a long life, there may be little 
to nothing left for his daughter. And I dont think this was a sufficient reason to give up the 
guaranteed benefits of the DB scheme.
For this reason alone a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Ms best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as FSW has 
argued in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, 
despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
FlexibilityFSW recorded that Mr M would like to partly retire at age 55 and use the TFC available from 
the personal pension to supplement his income before he fully retired. However, I cant see 
that FSW explored this in any detail. Its not recorded how much Mr M wished to use to 
supplement his income for a five year period, nor are there any details of how much Mr M 
would continue to receive as an income when he semi-retired and how his expenditure 
compared with this. 
The fact find recorded that Mr M and his wife had over £40,000 in savings and, based on 
their current income, around £1,000 per month disposable income which wouldve built up 
their savings further. Furthermore, it was noted that their mortgage would end when Mr M 
reached age 55, freeing up a further £700 per month. There was also no indication whether 
Mr Ms wife was planning to stop work, so it wasnt known whether her income may have 
continued and couldve been sufficient to cover their essential expenditure.
Taking all of this into account, I think that even if Mr M was certain that he wanted to partly 
retire at age 55, he could likely have achieved this until his desired age of age 60 without 
accessing TFC from the personal pension. Mr M would be building up his savings in the 
interim as well as him and his employer paying over £5,000 per year into his new employee 
pension scheme. So, I think Mr M wouldve had ample funds to draw on if he decided to 
partly retire at 55. That means that I dont think he needed the flexibility that transferring his 
pension would provide. Instead I think he couldve likely met his income needs between age 
55 and 60 by accessing his savings and new employee pension until he thought he would 
retire at age 60. At this point Mr M wouldve required a regular income, and I think opting into 
the BSPS2 met that need. Mr Ms time to choose pack showed he would be entitled to 
almost £22,000 per year from age 60  and I think that wouldve met his income 
requirements. 
That said, Mr M was only 47 at the time of the advice. And Im not persuaded that his 
retirement plans were set in stone at this time. He had other options including his new 
employee pension which he was still contributing to. And he had around eight years until he 
reached the age of 55 when FSW said he wished to draw TFC. Based on this, I think Mr M 
couldve delayed the transfer and reviewed this again nearer to the time once he had firmer 
plans in place. And joining the BSPS2 wouldve allowed him to consider transferring out of 
the scheme at a later date if his needs dictated this was necessary.  
So, I dont think Mr M shouldve been advised to transfer out of the BSPS for flexibility and to 
take TFC that he didnt actually need.
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr M. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr M might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr M about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think FSW explored to what extent 
Mr M was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr M 
was married so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful to 
his spouse if Mr M predeceased her. I dont think FSW made the value of this benefit clear 
enough to Mr M. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment 
performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. Ive noted FSWs argument that Mr M wanted to leave a legacy for his daughter. But, FSW 
should not have encouraged Mr M to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through 
a personal pension over his own security in retirement.
In any event, it seems to me that Mr M had other ways of leaving a legacy to his daughter. 
Mr M had savings and would also be building up another pension until he retired, which he 
couldve nominated his daughter to be a beneficiary of. Also, it seems likely that Mr M would 
have significant disposable income once his state pension became payable if he took a 
regular income from his DB scheme at age 60. Any excess income couldve been saved or 
reinvested for the benefit of his daughter, for example, within a trust. This would ensure that 
part of his pension wouldnt die with him.
Furthermore, if Mr M genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his children, which didnt 
depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I 
think FSW shouldve instead explored life insurance. I appreciate that the suitability report 
mentioned a whole of life policy or a life assurance policy to age 75, both with a sum assured 
of £457,371 at a cost of £403.60 and £67.70 respectively. These were both discounted by 
Mr M because of the cost. But I dont think that this was a balanced way of presenting this 
option to Mr M.
Basing the quote on the transfer value of Mr Ms pension benefits essentially assumed that 
he would pass away on day one following the transfer, and that isnt realistic. Ultimately, 
Mr M wanted to leave whatever remained of his pension to his daughter, which would be a 
lot less than this if he lived a long life and/or if investment returns were poor. So, the starting 
point ought to have been to ask Mr M how much he would ideally like to leave to his 
daughter, and this couldve been explored on a whole of life or term assurance basis, which 
was likely to be a lot cheaper to provide. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr M. And I dont think that 
insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
I think Mr Ms desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr M was not an 
experienced investor and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able 
to manage his pension funds on his own. So, I dont think that this was a genuine objective 
for Mr M  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
Its clear that Mr M, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and he 
was worried his pension would end up in the PPF. Hed heard negative things about the PPF 
and he said he wasnt interested in the BSPS2.
So its quite possible that Mr M was already leaning towards the decision to transfer because 
of the concerns he had about his employer and his negative perception of the PPF. 
However, it was FSWs obligation to give Mr M an objective picture and recommend what 
was in his best interests.
Mr M had recently been sent the time to choose leaflet setting out what his options were. 
So it was clear at this stage that BSPS2 was very likely to go ahead. However, even if the 
scheme did end up moving to the PPF, I think FSW should have explained that this was not 
as concerning as Mr M thought. As Ive explained above, Mr M was still unlikely to match, let alone exceed the benefits available to him through the PPF if he transferred out to a 
personal pension.
Its clear Mr M was motivated to sever ties from his employer as much as possible. And for 
that reason he wasnt interested in joining the BSPS2. But its evident that he still worked 
for the same employer. And he hadnt suggested he intended to find alternative 
employment. He was also a member of the new defined contribution pension scheme via 
his employer. So, he wasnt going to be able to sever ties with it by transferring his DB 
pension, as he would remain tied to the employer in other respects. And I think it shouldve 
been mentioned that his employer and the BSPS2 trustees were not entirely one and the 
same. Had Mr Ms concerns about the influence his employer had over the BSPS2 had 
been allayed, I think he wouldve understood that joining the BSPS2 was in his best 
interests and he wouldve been able to meet his retirement goals by doing so.
I think had FSW clearly explained this and exactly what Mr M was giving up and why it 
wasnt in his best interests, I think he would have followed the advice.
Suitability of investments
As Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt 
suitable for Mr M, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because Mr M should have been advised to remain in the DB 
scheme and so the investments wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr M. But FSW 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr M might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr M needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr M was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr M was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this.  
Mr M had around eight years before he expected to retire, and he didnt know what his 
needs in retirement would likely be. So, I don't think that it would've been in his interest to 
accept the reduction in benefits he would've faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it 
wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. He had 
received his time to choose document setting out details of the BSPS2 scheme. And by 
opting into the BSPS2, Mr M wouldve retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme 
nearer to his retirement age, should his circumstances dictate this was in his best interests  
this was explained in the time to choose booklet. 
Also, Mr M was married, and his wifes pension would be set at 50% of his pension at the 
date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement (if 
Mr M chose to do so). The annual indexation of his pension when in payment was also more 
advantageous under the BSPS2. So, I think FSW shouldve advised Mr M to opt into the 
BSPS2.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr M would've gone ahead anyway, against FSW's 
advice. Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr M wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against FSWs advice. I say this because Mr M was an 
inexperienced investor with a low medium attitude to risk and this pension accounted for 
the majority of his retirement provision. So, if FSW had provided him with clear advice 
against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I 
think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Ms concerns about his pension were so great that he wouldve 
insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought 
out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If FSW had 
explained that Mr M could meet all of his objectives without risking his guaranteed pension, 
I think that wouldve carried significant weight. And I think if balanced information had been 
provided to Mr M about the PPF and the role of the BSPS2 trustees, I dont think Mr M would 
have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think FSW should compensate Mr M for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Our Investigator thought FSW should pay Mr M £250 for the distress and inconvenience this 
matter had caused. Mr M sought professional advice and was provided with advice that 
wasnt suitable for him, and hes now in a position where he cant transfer back into the 
guaranteed pension he did have. Whilst the redress recommended below does try to put him 
back in the position he shouldve been in, I think this matter has caused distress and 
inconvenience to Mr M which is why I think this is a fair amount in the circumstances.
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr M whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line
with current guidance or wait for the any new guidance / rules to come into effect. He has 
chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint.
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr M.A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr M, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for FSWs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr M would 
have most likely have opted to join the BSPS2 if suitable advice had been given.
FSW must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr M has not yet retired, and, from what Im aware, he has no plans to do so any 
earlier than age 65. So, I think its fair that compensation should be based on his normal 
retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ms acceptance of the decision.
FSW may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ms 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ms SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ms pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr M within 90 days of the date FSW receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes FSW to pay Mr M.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect FSW to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
FSW should also pay Mr M £250 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensationrequires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Financial Solutions 
Wales Ltd to pay Mr M the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Financial Solutions Wales Ltd to pay Mr M any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Financial 
Solutions Wales Ltd to pay Mr M any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Financial Solutions Wales Ltd pays Mr M the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr M.
If Mr M accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Financial Solutions 
Wales Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr M can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman