DRN-3054594
The complaint
Mrs J complains Amtrust Europe Limited acted unfairly when declining to cover her out of 
pocket expenses following a claim against her residential property owner policy. 
Mrs J wants the claim for her out of pocket expenses to be met. 
What happened
The background to the complaint is well-known to all parties. So, rather than repeat in detail 
what happened, instead Ill summarise my understanding and focus on what I consider to be 
materially relevant to the complaint. 
In 2019, Mrs J reported an escape of water at a property she owned which was rented out to 
a tenant. Amtrust accepted the claim and covered the resultant damage. 
Mrs J said her tenant had to move out of the property as a result of the claim. She raised a 
claim for the loss of rent, alternative accommodation costs for the tenant and cleaning the 
property. 
Amtrust declined to cover this and referred to the policy terms. Though they offered Mrs J 
£75 towards the cleaning costs and said this was for the effected rooms only. Mrs J 
remained unhappy and approach our service. 
An investigator here considered the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He 
thought Amtrust settled the claim fairly and applied the policy terms reasonably when 
declining to cover Mrs Js claim for loss of rent and alternative accommodation costs. He 
thought their offer of £75 towards the cleaning costs was fair. 
Mrs J didnt agree so the case was passed to me to decide. 
I issued my provisional decision on 9 September 2021 and set out that I intended to uphold 
the complaint and direct Amtrust Europe Limited to do the following: 
Cover Mrs Js loss of rent under the policy and include 8% simple interest from the 
date of loss to the date of settlement; 
Reimburse the alternative accommodation costs she paid for the tenant to move out 
of the property, and include 8% simple interest from the date of loss to the date of 
settlement; 
Reimburse the cleaning costs Mrs J incurred and include 8% simple interest from the 
date of loss to the date of settlement (deducting any amount already paid); and 
Pay her £100 compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused. 
Responses to my provisional decision 
Mrs J accepted my provisional decision, but Amtrust didnt. They said the policy covers loss 
of rent or alternative accommodation under the endorsements section of the policy schedule. 
So, they didnt agree to covering both Mrs Js loss of rent and alternative accommodation 
costs. They also felt the £75 contribution towards the cleaning costs was reasonable. 
Amtrust therefore agreed to cover the loss of rent plus 8% simple interest and pay Mrs J 
£100 compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Following the responses to my provisional decision, I contacted all parties by phone to set 
out my intended direction. Following the further comments from all parties, Ill now go onto 
set out my final decision on the matter and have used sub-headings for ease of reading. 
 Loss of rent and alternative accommodation costs 
Amtrust said the policy doesnt cover loss of rent and alternative accommodation costs and 
referred to the policy schedule. For clarity, this says: 
Endorsements 
013. Loss of Rent and Alternative Residential Accommodation 
In addition to the cover provided for Section 2 Loss of Rent it is hereby noted that We 
may, at Your choice, pay reasonable additional expenses of comparable alternative 
residential accommodation as an alternative to the Loss of Rent. This will be subject 
to the terms and conditions of the Policy and will be subject to the exclusions as 
detailed under Section 2  Loss of Rent. 
I discussed this with Mrs J and Amtrust. And its clear to me the policy only intends to 
provide cover for loss of rent or alternative accommodation  not both. But this also says Mrs 
J has the choice to decide whether she wants the loss of rent covered or alternative 
accommodation costs. 
Amtrust agreed the wording is clear that Mrs J has the choice to decide. And Mrs J has said 
she will accept payment as part of the claim for the greater amount of the two. I think this is 
fair as the policy wording doesnt stipulate Amtrust will only pay the lesser amount of the two. 
Therefore, Amtrust will need to pay Mrs J the greater amount of the two and include 8% 
simple interest from the date of loss to the date of settlement. 
Cleaning costs
Amtrust maintained theyd acted fairly by paying Mrs J a contribution towards the cleaning 
costs she incurred following the claim. I dont agree. I maintain that the cleaning costs shown 
within the invoice Mrs J provided are reasonable and were incurred as a result of the claim. 
So, I remain that Amtrust should also reimburse the costs Mrs J incurred for cleaning 
following the claim and include 8% simple interest from the date of loss to the date of 
settlement. 
Compensation 
All parties agreed my intended compensation award of £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mrs J is fair and reasonable. Therefore, I have nothing further to 
add in this respect.   Putting things right
The policy entitles Mrs J to choose whether she wants the loss of rent or alternative 
accommodation costs covered. Shes chosen to accept the greater amount of the two as 
part of the claim which is fair. So, Amtrust will need to pay the greater amount of the two and 
include 8% simple interest from the date of loss to the date of settlement. 
Amtrust will also need to reimburse Mrs Js cleaning costs she incurred (less any amount 
already paid in this respect), include 8% simple interest from the date of loss to the date of 
settlement and pay her £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold the complaint and now require Amtrust Europe Limited to do the 
following: 
Pay Mrs J either the loss of rent or alternative accommodation costs (whichever is 
greater) and include 8% simple interest from the date of loss to the date of 
settlement*; 
Reimburse the cleaning costs she incurred and include 8% simple interest from the 
date of loss to the date of settlement* (deducting any amount already paid); and 
Pay her £100 for any distress and inconvenience caused.   
*If Amtrust Europe Limited considers that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Mrs J how much theyve taken off. It 
should also give Mrs J a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman