DRN-3082719
The complaint
Mr R complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt carry out several international payments he 
wanted to make from his account. 
What happened
Between July and August 2020, Mr R contacted HSBC to make four international payments 
from his account to his brother. Each time HSBC stopped the payment and asked Mr R for 
more information.
Mr R says he explained to HSBC that the payments were being made to his brother, who he 
was helping out financially. And he gave the bank all the information it requested, each he 
was asked. But the bank asked him to provide the same information each time he wanted to 
make a payment, provided the information to HSBC about the payments, which he found 
repetitive. And meant his brother had to wait longer to get the money Mr R was trying to 
send to him. Mr R says HSBCs actions made him feel that they suspected him of doing 
something wrong. 
HSBC accepts that Mr Rs payments were stopped. It says that additional checks were 
carried out in order to meet its legal and regulatory requirements each time Mr R tried to 
make a payment. Mr R wasnt happy with this outcome. So, he brought his complaint to us. 
An investigator looked at Mr Rs complaint. He said HSBC had acted in line with its 
processes when asking Mr R for more information about the payments. Mr R disagreed. So, 
the complaint has come to me decide
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator has already pointed out, HSBC has a wide range of legal and regulatory 
obligations it must meet when providing account services to its customers. In order to meet 
these obligations, HSBC is required to have measures in place to review payments. As part 
of its review process HSBC is entitled to ask a customer for more information. 
Having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied that HSBC was within its rights to review the 
payments Mr R wanted to make and ask him for information in relation to them. It did so in 
line with its legal and regulatory obligations. And having reviewed the terms and conditions 
of the account, it did so in line with these too. HSBC also wasnt obliged to tell Mr R the 
reason for its review. And what triggered it to ask Mr R for more information. But I can see 
that HSBC wrote to Mr R and spoke to him each time it stopped a payment and explained 
that it was conducting extra checks around the payments to comply with its obligations. So, I 
think the bank let Mr R know what it was doing and tried to find a way forward for Mr R to be 
able to process his payments. 
I know Mr Rs frustrated that he had to provide the same information each time he wanted to 
make a payment. And I can understand why he feels he cant use a service he should be 
entitled to use as a customer of the bank. But having looked at the evidence, Im satisfied 
that HSBC were acting in line with its legal and regulatory obligations when reviewing Mr Rs 
account and asking him questions. So, I cant say HSBC did anything wrong or treated Mr R 
unfairly when it stopped each of Mr Rs payments. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman