DRN-3455754
The complaint
Mr B complains that Ikano Bank AB (publ) didnt respond to a claim he made under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel system he 
says was misrepresented to him by the supplier (which Ill call S).
Mr B is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In September 2018, Mr B purchased a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at 
his home. Mr B financed the purchase through an interest-free fixed sum loan agreement 
with Ikano that was repayable over five years.
In May 2020, the CMC made a claim on Mr Bs behalf under section 75 of the Act to Ikano. 
The CMC said that the supplier had made a number of representations about the system 
that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced Mr 
B to enter into the contract.
The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
The financial benefits from the system would make it a self-funding system which 
would pay for itself through the income and savings it would generate. 
Because the system would pay for itself Mr B wouldnt be out of pocket.
Ikano told us that it didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr B or that there 
were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
The CMC then referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our 
adjudicators looked into what had happened and didnt think the complaint should be upheld 
The CMC didnt agree with this. Amongst other things, it said that:
Mr B relied on the verbal representations made by the sales representative and 
placed little reliance on the sales documents.
Mr B was led to believe that a number of people in his street had already agreed to 
purchase the solar panels from Solar Style and it later turned out that Mr B was the 
only one who had agreed. 
Mr B does not recall the first-year benefit being discussed or the shortfall. 
Mr B was told that the system would cost £5,700 but that the money he received from 
the feed-in tariff every month would come off the cost and would cover the cost of the 
system. 
Mr B was told that he would be profiting from the system, but this has not been the 
case. Mr B has explained that he was not told he would be out of pocket at all.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit.
As Mr B paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Ikano agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mr B could claim against Ikano, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way he could have 
claimed against S. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is fair in the 
circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr B and 
the supplier are deemed to have been conducted by S as an agent of Ikano. 
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or their agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both The CMC and Ikano. These 
include the credit agreement and order form/sales contract.
The order form is a one-page document which sets out key information about the system, 
the expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process (as it appears to have been completed and signed 
during the sales meeting) and is therefore relevant, alongside Mr Bs recollection of the sale, 
when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged (none 
in this case), the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly 
repayments.
Order form/sales contract
The order form set out the cost of the system alongside the expected first-year benefits of 
the system as follows:I think this is clear that the system would cost £6,195.00, of which £5,695.00 was to be 
funded by a five-year (or 60-month) interest-free loan. It refers to this as IKANO 60. I think 
Mr B wouldve understood this given he agreed at the same meeting to part-fund the 
purchase using the interest-free loan over five years from Ikano.
I think it is also clear that the first-year benefit of the system was expected to total between 
£253.22 and £342.67 based on self-consumption rates of 25% and 50% respectively. This 
figure includes FIT payments and the value of electricity savings.
Self-consumption rate is the proportion of the electricity generated by the system that Mr B 
would use himself. The cost of the system and its first-year benefits are shown close to each 
other on the order form, just above where Mr B signed, so these figures couldve been 
compared easily.
I think it is clear from this that the system would not be self-funding. For a five-year interest-
free loan of £5,695.00, the repayments would be over £1,000 per year. This is significantly 
more than the highest potential benefit quoted of £342.67. I think this one-page document 
was an integral part of the sale and these figures would most likely have been discussed 
with Mr B.
So, I think it is unlikely that the salesperson wouldve misrepresented the solar panel system 
in the way Mr B has alleged.
Self-funding
Mr B may have been told the system would be self-funding over some period of time  such 
as its expected 25-year expected lifespan. A simple calculation would suggest that the 
system may be self-funding over between 18 and 24 years if the benefit was in line with the 
estimate and remained about the same each year.
However, the FIT payments are linked to inflation, and electricity costs could reasonably be 
assumed to increase over time. So, Mr B couldve been told that the system was self-funding 
over its lifetime (or over a shorter time depending what assumptions were made) without it 
being a misrepresentation. But I think it is unlikely that he was told the system would be 
immediately self-funding or that he would at no stage be out of pocket.
Performance
Ive considered whether the performance of the system is in line with the estimate in the 
order form. The order form sets out that the system is expected to produce 2,503 kWh per 
year. 
I have looked at Mr Bs meter reading dated 19 May 2021 and can see that his system is 
generating significantly more than estimated. So, it is performing better than expected. 
The CMC has told us that Mr B did not register for the FIT scheme, since it was not 
explained to him that he needed to do so. As such Mr B has not been receiving FIT  
payments. That is likely why he has not achieved the income estimated at the time of sale. 
But Ive seen nothing to suggest there was a misrepresentation or breach of contract that 
caused this to happen. It would be Mr Bs responsibility to register for the scheme in order to 
receive FIT payments. 
Summary
The CMC has suggested that Mr B wouldnt have agreed to buy the system if he was told it 
was not immediately self-funding. But, it appears he agreed to pay over £1,000 per year in 
loan repayments when he was told the financial benefit of the system in the first year would 
be between £237.90 and £323.60. In doing so, he wouldve been expecting to make a 
significant contribution from his own pocket in the first year at least. So, I think Mr B ought to 
have been aware that the system would not be immediately self-funding.
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im 
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by the supplier that induced Mr B 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman