DRN-4251652
The complaint
This complaints about a re-mortgage application that Miss H and Mr M made through 
Mortgage Advice Bureau Limited trading as the Mortgage Centre (MAB). They say that due 
to delays and errors on MABs part, they lost out on a low interest rate and will pay a lot 
more over the next five years.
What happened
By way of a provisional decision dated 3 July 2023, I set out my provisional conclusions on 
this complaint. The following is an extract from the provisional decision.
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Miss H, Mr M and MAB. Im 
also aware that the investigator issued a comprehensive response to the complaint, 
which has been shared with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information 
that might result in Miss H and Mr M being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary 
of the key events, and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont 
mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Miss H and Mr M approached MAB in the autumn of 2021. Mr M had a mortgage with 
a lender Ill call L, on a shared-ownership property, which was coming towards the 
end of its fixed interest rate deal of 4.84%. Their objective was to get a new 
mortgage, in joint names, with a new fixed rate. MAB arranged a mortgage offer with 
a lender Ill call B, and in November 2021, B issued an offer, valid until May 2022, 
with a fixed rate of 1.74% running to February 2027. 
In February 2022, with the end of the fixed rate with L now imminent, Miss H and 
Mr M chased up MAB, only to discover that the broker theyd been dealing had left, 
and MAB had failed to tell B about the property being shared ownership when it first 
submitted the application. In March 2022, B re-issued the offer on the same terms 
and with the same expiry date in May 2022. 
But then a problem arose on the conveyancing side, to do with the housing 
association that owns the other share in the mortgage property. The offer from B 
expired before this could be resolved. In desperation, and having been paying 
interest on Ls standard variable rate (SVR) since March 2022, Mr M secured a new 
fixed rate of 4.14% on his existing mortgage, which runs until August 2027. They 
have postponed adding Miss H to the mortgage with L for the time being, due to the 
extra cost involved. Theyve agreed with L to do this once they can cover the fees.
When Miss H and Mr M complained, MAB agreed that its broker had caused the 
problems, and offer a refund of the £295 broker fee plus £100 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience. Miss H and Mr M referred the complaint to us; our 
investigator recommended that in addition to refunding the broker fee and paying 
compensation, MAB should also reimburse the difference in interest between the 
4.14% being charged by L and the 1.74% that B had proposed to charge.
Miss B and Mr M accepted the investigators findings. MAB disagreed, but didnt say 
why. The case come to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, Ive reached a similar conclusion to the investigator; MAB, by its 
errors and omissions, has caused significant financial detriment to Miss H and Mr M. 
But more detail is required about the parameters for the settlement I will be requiring 
MAB to provide. By issuing this provisional decision, Im giving both parties the 
opportunity to comment before I finalise my decision.
First of all, a clarification. The financial loss arising from the difference in interest 
between the mortgage that B offered and the new deal taken with L is, for the time 
being at least, being incurred just by Mr M, as he is the sole borrower on the 
mortgage as it stands. However, that loss arises from shortcomings in a financial 
service provided to both him and Miss H, and the impact of it falls on both of them. 
Its reasonable to conclude that but for MABs failings, even allowing for the query 
with the housing association, the re-mortgage to B in joint names would have been 
ready to complete once the existing fixed rate with L ended on 28 February 2022. If 
that had happened as it should, Miss H and Mr M would have been paying interest at 
1.74% from 1 March 2022; so thats the start date for calculating redress. 
Miss H and Mr M began paying interest at Ls SVR of 5.29%, instead of 1.74% and 
continued to do until 2 July 2022, when the new fixed rate of 4.14% took effect. 
Thereafter, theyve been paying, and will continue to pay, interest at 4.14%, instead 
of 1.74%. The 4.14% fixed rate with L runs until August 2027, but if the mortgage 
with B had gone through as intended, the fixed rate of 1.74% would have run until 
28 February 2027. As I cant know what will happen to rates after that date, 27 
February 2027 (and not August 2027) is the end date for calculating redress.
So the relevant rates and dates that need to be used to calculate redress are as 
follows. 
From 1 March 2022 to 1 July 2022, the difference in interest charged each month 
between 5.29% and 1.74%;
From 2 July 2022 to 28 February 2027, the difference in interest charged each 
month between 4.14% and 1.74%.
Ive then thought about the balance(s) to be used to calculate the differential interest. 
The offer for the new rate from L specified an opening balance of £71,583. Its a 
repayment mortgage with a seventeen-year term from 2 July 2022, so the balance 
will have been slightly higher between 1 March 2022 and 2 July 2022, and will fall 
gradually over the period from 2 July 2022 to 28 February 2027. 
It is incumbent on MAB to estimate the balance on which interest is calculated each 
month, by working backwards from 2 July 2022 to 1 March 2022, and working forwards from 2 July 2022 to 28 February 2027. On the assumption that all payments 
to L are made in full and on time, it will then have to calculate each months 
differential interest, and show its workings. MAB doesnt need to calculate and 
present the redress figure in response to this provisional decision; at this stage, MAB 
(and Miss H and Mr M) are being asked to agree to the principal of the settlement. If 
the parties do agree, then MAB will be required to present the calculation when 
carrying out the settlement.
Ive then considered the question of interest on the interest reimbursements. Each 
time Miss H and Mr M have paid more each month than they needed to due to MABs 
shortcomings, theyve been unfairly deprived of the extra amount. That would, 
ordinarily, entitle them to interest on each overpayment, from the time it was paid, up 
to the time it is reimbursed. The relevant rate is 8% simple per annum. 
However, thats not the case for the extra interest payments they havent yet made, 
but will make between the date the complaint is settled and February 2027. For 
those, Miss H and Mr M are going to receive redress before the loss has been 
incurred, so no interest is due. In fact, not only is no interest due, but theres also a 
theoretical financial benefit to them receiving the redress before the loss has 
occurred. In the interest of fairness and simplicity, Im minded to conclude that the 
two should cancel each other out, and that I should not include an award of interest.  
MAB has offered to refund the broker fee; Id expect that as a matter of course. 
Lastly, for the impact this situation has had on Miss H and Mr M, Im not persuaded 
£100 is adequate compensation. The whole experience of making these 
unnecessarily high monthly payments, and fighting for a fair outcome, will have 
caused Miss H and Mr M lot of worry and stress that could have been avoided if MAB 
hadnt got thing wrong in the first place, and then secondly, had responded to the 
complaint fairly and reasonably. As things stand, I have detected a complete lack of 
understanding on MABs part, and an absence of any empathy towards Miss H and 
Mr M for what it has put them through.
Both parties were given a two-week time frame in which to make their further comments; 
Miss H and Mr M have confirmed that they accept the provisional decision. Despite a 
reminder, weve not heard from MAB.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered afresh everything that both parties have said and provided. Having done so, 
and with no further substantive arguments or evidence to consider, I wont be changing my 
decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, by ordering Mortgage Advice Bureau Limited 
trading as the Mortgage Centre to do the following:
reimburse Miss H and Mr M the differential interest theyve incurred since 1 March 2022 
and will continue to incur up to 28 February 2027, by reference to the dates, interest 
rates and balances specified above;refund the broker fee of £295; and
pay Mrs and Mr P £300 compensation for their time, trouble and upset.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 August 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman