DRN-4079479
The complaint
Ms M complains that JaJa Finance Ltd (JFL) has treated her unfairly in relation to a 
purchase she made using finance it provided.
What happened
Ms M used her JFL credit card to purchase several items from a supplier Ill call B. Included 
in that order was a bathroom unit. Ms Ms position is that B sent the wrong bathroom unit. 
Ms M considers this to be a breach of contract on the part of B. 
B agreed to replace the bathroom unit with the bathroom unit Ms M says she originally 
ordered. However, when B came to collect the item it appears that it had been installed (in 
the sense that it had been set against a wall and a sink had been placed on top of it) and 
was not in its original packaging. As a result, B would not collect the bathroom unit nor 
handover the replacement. 
In response, Ms M bought a replacement bathroom unit from another separate third party 
supplier. This item cost £190 plus there was a delivery charge of £20.99 making a total of 
£210.99. Ms M considers she is entitled to be refunded the £210.99 she paid for the 
replacement item. Ms M had found B rude to deal with, once things had gone wrong, 
therefore she decided to deal with it no further.  Instead Ms M turned to JFL for help.
Ms M claimed the £210.99 from JFL. In making this claim Ms M was relying on rights she 
believed she had against it because of the type of credit she used to purchase the goods 
from B. Specifically, Ms M relied on Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 
75), which she believes entitles her, to ask JFL to put things right. 
JFL rejected Ms Ms claim and her subsequent complaint about this rejection. Ms M 
complains that JFL did not deal with her claim and her complaint correctly.
In summary, JFLs position is that Ms M has not demonstrated there has been a breach of 
contract on the part of B. It said this because Ms M had not shown, in its opinion, that B sent 
the wrong item. Further, it also pointed out there is nothing to show that B accepted that it 
had sent the wrong bathroom unit in any event. Rather it appeared to have agreed to replace 
the original unit as a goodwill gesture only. 
In addition, JFL relied on the fact that by the time Ms M contacted B she was outside of the 
deadline in JFLs returns policy. In any event, Ms M also did not comply with Bs 
requirements for how the goods had to be packaged for B to accept the return. 
For all of these reasons JFL declined to uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Dissatisfied, Ms M complained to our service.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. Our investigator did not recommend 
that Ms Ms complaint should be upheld.
JFL accepted our investigators recommendation, Ms M did not. In brief, in rejecting our 
investigators recommendation Ms M repeated her earlier stance.  Ms M also mentioned 
shed never seen a copy of Bs terms and conditions (in response we sent these to her). 
Moreover, she told us these terms and conditions had never been incorporated into her 
contract with B and she gave us her reasons for saying this. She also told us therefore she 
was not bound by the terms and conditions.
Also, Ms M asked us to send her the information that B had sent to JFL to support its stance 
that there had been no breach of contract. We told her we did not have this information, so 
we could not send it. But we did have what JFL told us B had said. Miss M indicated that we 
ought to have insisted on seeing this information first-hand. Ms M also indicated she is 
entitled to see this information.
Ms M asked that an ombudsman review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. Rather, Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Before I look at the merits of this complaint I need to clear up a few preliminary points.
I recognise, that amongst other things, Ms M has suggested this service ought to have 
asked JFL for the information that B sent it. However, this service is independent of both 
consumers and the businesses they are complaining about. This means that we dont act for 
consumers, nor do we take instructions either from consumers or businesses or allow either 
party to direct the course of our investigations; were we to do so, it would compromise our 
impartiality. Its up to us to determine what evidence we need in order to investigate a 
complaint. This service did not think it needed to see the information Ms M wanted to see 
therefore we did not ask for it. It follows too that when Ms M asked us for this information, we 
could not provide it as we did not have it. Neither were we obliged to tell JFL to provide this 
information to Ms M just because she wanted to see it.
Some of Ms Ms complaint relates to her dissatisfaction about the way JFL has dealt with her 
complaint, for example, how long it took to tell her what its final response was. However, I 
must explain that this isnt something Im able to consider. Our rules only allow us to 
consider complaints about regulated activities. Complaint-handling isnt a regulated activity 
in its own right, nor is it one of the specified non-regulated activities that Im able to deal with 
under our compulsory jurisdiction. Its also not an activity thats ancillary to a regulated 
activity, such as account administration or advice. Therefore, a complaint about the way JFL 
dealt with a complaint doesnt fall within the scope of our rules, and so I dont have any legal 
power to consider Ms Ms dissatisfaction about this aspect of her complaint.
Ms M and JFL disagree about several of the points that are fundamental to this complaint. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Amongst other things, Ms M is relying on the rights she believes she has under Section 75. 
Im required to decide what, if anything, JFL should do to resolve this complaint. In doing 
that, I must decide what I think is fair and reasonable, having regard to (amongst other 
things) any relevant law. Relevant law includes Section 75 and also the Consumer Rights 
Act 2015 (the CRA).The general effect of Section 75 is that if Ms M has a claim for misrepresentation or breach 
of contract against the supplier she can also bring a like claim against JFL provided certain 
conditions are met. 
Further the CRA covers contracts between businesses and consumers as here. That Act 
implies a term into these contracts that goods must be of satisfactory quality. Where goods 
are supplied by description, the goods must meet that description. If goods do not comply 
with the description given by the supplier theyll not be of satisfactory quality. And this in turn 
gives the consumer the right to reject the goods, which involves returning them. A breach of 
contract of this nature also gives a consumer the right to seek a remedy for the breach. The 
remedy must be one of the remedies set out in the CRA.
 
It follows from what Ive said above provided the conditions of Section 75 are met, and if I 
find that there has been a breach of contract and Ms M attempted to return the goods then I 
will find that it is fair and reasonable that JFL has to take responsibility to put things right. 
Therefore I will look at each of these points in turn.
Why I dont find that Ms Ms claim met one of the relevant conditions
One of the conditions for a successful claim under Section 75 is that there must be a very 
particular type of agreement in place known as a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement. 
Specifically, what is required is that Ms M is the debtor, JFL is the creditor and B is the 
supplier. Debtor in this context means a party who receives credit and would be liable to 
repay the debt if the credit had not been contractually extended to her. Im not satisfied that 
this debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is in place here. I say this because Ive seen the 
sales order acknowledgement document provided by B, which I consider to be a contractual 
document. There is a box in that document that says, deliver to. In that box is the name of 
Ms Ms father. When trying to work out who is a contracting party, I think it is appropriate to 
see what the contractual documents indicate. On the face of it, the sales order 
acknowledgement, suggests to me Ms Ms father not Ms M was the contracting party with B. 
Ms M says she lives with her parents. Therefore there would be no need to put her fathers 
name of the invoice if he was not a party to the contract with B rather than Ms M. In other 
words, if Ms M contracted with B why did the sales order acknowledgement not say deliver 
to Ms M? 
JFL has not raised this point but thats not relevant here. Because I think it is appropriate 
that I establish whether the conditions for Section 75 have been met before I go on to look at 
the rest of the merits.
Why I am not satisfied there has been a breach of contract
That said, even if I was satisfied, which I am not, that there was a debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement in place that would allow Ms M to make a claim under Section 75, Id still need to 
be satisfied that there had been a breach of contract on the part of B. 
Ms M tells us that all we have to do is use the product reference for the bathroom unit she 
ordered, and this will show that what she ordered and what she got were not the same.  But 
Ive not been able to verify that, and Id need to here because JFLs stance is that there has 
been no breach of contract. In other words, the question is not what product an internet 
search shows when I type in the product code, rather it is what product, JFL offered to sell, 
and Ms M agreed to buy.Moreover, even if I was satisfied that there was a breach of contract, which Im not, there is a 
further hurdle for Ms M. In order for Ms M to exercise her right to a remedy shed need to 
reject the bathroom furniture and return it to B in the same condition it was sent to her. 
I realise that Ms M indicates she did reject and return the bathroom furniture by arranging for 
B to come and pick up the bathroom furniture and replace it. But I disagree, I say this 
because she also indicates that when B turned up the bathroom furniture was seemingly in 
situ in the bathroom, with a sink of top of it.  I dont find it fair or reasonable that a consumer 
can be apparently using an item, and/or have it installed which I find this was, and at the 
same time say they are seeking to reject the goods, returning them and claiming a remedy.  
Therefore I think it is fair and reasonable to find that JFL did not act unreasonably in failing to 
offer Ms M a remedy for breach of contract given the goods were neither rejected nor 
returned.
Why I find the question of whether Ms M was bound to follow Bs returns policy is irrelevant
I think the whole incorporation of the terms and conditions point is a red herring. I say this 
because, JFL says that the terms and conditions set out the returns policy. Ms M was bound 
by that policy as those terms and conditions form part of the contract of sale. She did not 
follow that policy, so she was not entitled to return the item. Ms M counters that shes not 
bound by the returns policy as she never contracted on the basis of Bs terms and 
conditions.
But Ms M is not relying on the returns policy. Rather she is relying on the rights she has 
under relevant law to reject an item that is not of satisfactory quality. In other words, the 
returns policy and the exercise of Ms Ms contractual rights to reject goods that are not of 
satisfactory quality are two separate issues. Therefore, I dont need to look any further at this 
point and I make no findings about it either as I dont have to.
The remedy Ms M wants is not the remedy she would be entitled to if I upheld her complaint, 
(which I dont) 
For completeness Ill add, even if I found Ms M was entitled to make a claim under Section 
75 and the contract of sale was breached and Ms M did reject and return the goods, the 
remedy shed be entitled to would be the cost of the original item. But she is not claiming for 
that, instead she is asking for the cost of the replacement item plus delivery fee. And as that 
is not the remedy she is entitled to Id have no proper basis to say JFL had to give her that in 
this decision, in any event.
chargeback
As Ms M paid for the goods and services using her credit card and wanted a refund, 
Ive thought about whether JFL dealt with her request fairly. The chargeback process is 
relevant in this case. This is a way in which payment settlement disputes are resolved 
between card issuers and merchants. They are dealt with under the relevant card 
scheme rules.
In certain circumstances the process provides a way for JFL to ask for a payment Ms M 
made to be refunded. Those circumstances include where goods arent as described by 
the company Ms M paid. A chargeback doesnt guarantee a refund. Bs bank could have 
put forward a defence to any chargeback claim. 
The chargeback system does not give consumers legal rights. But we consider it good 
practice for a financial business to raise a chargeback where there is a reasonable 
prospect of it succeedingIncidentally, I need to point out that when I take account of the chargeback rules, all I could 
order JFL to do here is to refund all of part of the cost of the original bathroom unit. I could 
not ask it to refund Ms M for the £210.99. 
If I am to order JFL to refund all or part of the cost of the bathroom unit, I must be satisfied 
that it acted incorrectly in relation to how it applied the chargeback rules to Ms Ms 
complaint. As far as I can see JFL did not consider chargeback. That said a chargeback 
attempt will not always be an appropriate option, as is the case here. I say this because in 
the circumstances, where the supplier denied supplying the wrong item and it offered to 
replace the item nonetheless, there was no realistic prospect of any chargeback attempt 
being successful.
Therefore based on what Ive said above JFL did not act incorrectly in relation to any 
potential chargeback it could have raised.
For all of these reasons, it follows I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman