DRN-3261670
The complaint
Mr G complains about the advice given by Niche Independent Financial Advisers Limited 
(Niche) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme 
to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for him and 
believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Gs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure
its business, including decoupling the employers DB scheme (the BSPS) from the 
company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF), or a new defined benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed 
they could transfer their benefits to a personal pension arrangement.
Mr G was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He wasnt sure what to do and so, based on what 
hed heard from colleagues, he got in touch with Niche. Mr G met with Niche in August 2017 
and it gathered information about his circumstances and objectives. It noted Mr G was aged 
45 and married with children. That Mr G and his wife lived in rented housing and had a loan 
of £4,000 due to be repaid in two years. And that Mr G had no savings and no disposable 
income. It was recorded that Mr G had a balanced attitude to risk; that he wanted to retire 
early and have an income of £17,000 per year. It was further noted he and his employer 
were contributing 16% of his salary per month to his employers new defined-contribution 
(DC) pension scheme, equivalent to around £5,000 per year.
In September 2017 Niche advised Mr G to transfer his BSPS benefits to a SIPP. It said this 
would allow Mr G to achieve his objectives of control and flexibility of income, having the 
option to retire and drawdown income at age 55, and better death benefits for his wife and 
children. Mr G accepted this advice and £176,175.90 was transferred from the BSPS to his 
new personal pension.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). However, Mr G 
continued with the recommendation to transfer out of the BSPS.
In 2021 Mr G complained to Niche about the advice. He thought Niches recommendation 
that he transfer out of the BSPS was unsuitable and had caused him a financial loss. In its 
response to Mr Gs complaint, Niche said it had acknowledged Mr G was unlikely to match 
the pension available to him under the BSPS. But as he had other objectives, such as 
accessing the pension flexibly from age 55 and being able to pass on the full pension to his 
wife and children in the event of his death, the transfer was suitable.
Unhappy with Niches response, Mr G referred his complaint to our Service to investigate. 
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint and said it should be upheld. He thought 
the advice was unsuitable and recommended Mr G should be compensated based on him 
having opted to move with the scheme to the PPF because he wanted to retire early.
Niche didnt agree  it maintained the advice was suitable as the transfer met Mr Gs 
objectives. Specifically, it didnt think Mr G couldve met his needs if he retired early under 
the PPF as the income hed receive wasnt sufficient, whereas it had demonstrated through 
cash flow planning that Mr G could meet his needs by accessing the funds through a SIPP 
until his state pension became payable.
Mr G didnt agree with the Investigators proposed redress  he said retiring early was 
something he wanted to consider but it wasnt a concrete plan. Mr G said he wouldve opted 
to join the BSPS2 instead.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to me for a final decision. After 
reviewing the case, I got in touch with both parties to explain that I was intending to uphold 
the complaint but I was minded to direct Niche to pay compensation based on the benefits 
available to Mr G through the BSPS2 rather than the PPF. I didnt receive a response from 
either party within the deadline I gave, so Im now providing my final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Niches actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Niche should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Gs 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.
Financial viability
Niche carried out a transfer value analysis report (TVAS), as required by the regulator, 
showing how much Mr Gs pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide 
the same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). However, this was based on his 
existing scheme benefits and Mr G didnt have the option to remain in the BSPS  he either 
needed to opt into the BSPS2 or move with the scheme to the PPF.
Whilst the full details of what the BSPS2 would entail werent known when the advice was 
given in September 2017, the restructuring of the BSPS had been ongoing for a significant 
amount of time by the time Mr G took advice. And the details of the scheme were likely to be 
announced imminently. But I cant see that Niche cautioned Mr G about transferring ahead 
of knowing what hed be entitled to under the BSPS2. The suitability report said that for the 
vast majority of members it would be more beneficial for them to join the BSPS2. However, 
Niche noted that because of the lower increases to the accrued pension in deferment and in 
payment under the BSPS2, Mr G saw the new scheme as far less appealing. But I dont 
think it was reasonable for Niche to simply accept Mr Gs view on this; its role wasnt to just 
transact what Mr G thought he wanted  it needed to challenge Mr Gs assumptions and 
analyse all of his options before offering its advice. As a consequence, I dont think Mr G 
could make a fully informed choice about what was in his best interests when the advice was 
delivered.
I appreciate that Mr Gs cash equivalent transfer value expired (CETV) on 19 October 2017. 
So Niche may argue that it had to provide its advice to Mr G before this and he may not have 
received his time to choose pack with the details of the BSPS2 benefits by then. But I dont 
think the expiry of the CETV shouldve been a barrier to Niche providing Mr G with suitable 
advice, which would involve it fully considering all of his options before advising him to make 
an irreversible decision to transfer out of the scheme. And in any event, the suitability report 
refers to the trustees providing new CETVs to members following the improved funding 
position of the scheme. So I think its likely Mr G wouldve received a new CETV, valid for 
another three months, which wouldve given Niche ample time to provide Mr G with analysis 
of his BSPS2 benefits and provide advice taking all of his options into account.
Nevertheless, Ive considered the TVAS produced by Niche. According to the fact-find, Mr G 
said he wanted to retire as early as possible, although he said he would work longer if he 
needed to. The TVAS dated 11 September 2017 set out the relevant critical yields; at age 65 
it was 7.04% if Mr G took a full pension. The critical yield required to match the benefits 
provided through the PPF at age 65 was 4.94% if Mr G took a full pension and 4.54% if he 
took tax-free cash (TFC) and a reduced pension.
Despite Mr G saying that he wanted to retire early, and Niche saying in the suitability report 
that it had based its advice on Mr G accessing his pension at age 55, it didnt provide the 
critical yield figures for retiring any earlier than age 65. I cant be certain what the critical 
yields wouldve been at age 55 or age 60. But given that the funds would be invested for less 
time before being accessed and would be required to pay income for longer, I think the 
relevant critical yields required to match the BSPS and the PPF benefits at ages 55 and 60 
were likely to be significantly higher than the figures Ive quoted above.
Furthermore, as Ive said above, Mr G remaining in his existing DB scheme wasnt an option. 
And had Niche waited to give its advice until the details of the BSPS2 had been announced 
it couldve provided Mr G with the critical yields applicable to the BSPS2 benefits. The lower annual increases under the BSPS2 wouldve likely decreased the critical yields somewhat. 
But I still think they wouldve likely been higher than those reflecting the PPF benefits, 
particularly at age 65.
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case.
The relevant discount rate at the time the advice was given was 4.4% a year for 19 years to 
retirement and 3.7% a year for 9 years to retirement. For further comparison, the regulator's 
upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower 
projection rate 2% a year.
I've taken this into account, along with Mr Gs balanced attitude to risk and also
the term to retirement. Given the discount rate and the middle projection rate, if Mr G 
transferred out of the scheme its possible he couldve matched the benefits available to him 
under the PPF if he retired at age 65. But there would be little point in Mr G giving up the 
guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level 
of benefits outside the scheme. And in light of Mr Gs wish to retire early, its likely that the 
applicable critical yields would be higher than both the discount rate and the regulators 
middle projection rate. So, overall, I think Mr G was likely to receive benefits of a lower 
overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with that 
attitude to risk, particularly if he retired earlier than age 65, as per his wishes at the time. 
It appears Niche accepted this. The suitability report said, Taking [the critical yield] into 
account, I would recommend that you do not to transfer this pension, as you are likely to be 
financially worse off in retirement. But it went on to say, However, as you have advised me 
that you wish to use your pension in an entirely different manner, to that set out by the rules 
of the [BSPS], I would be happy to give you a positive recommendation to transfer this 
pension for the following reasons These reasons were related to Mr Gs other objectives 
as recorded in the suitability report, which Ill return to later. But overall, I think this further 
demonstrates that Niche was simply facilitating what Mr G thought he wanted to achieve 
rather than advising him on what was in his best interest, given it knew Mr G was likely to be 
worse off if he transferred out of the DB scheme.
Ive also considered the cash flow forecasts produced by Niche, which it says shows that 
Mr G could meet his income needs until his state pension became payable. While I note the 
cash flow demonstrating the transfer of the pension shows Mr G would have funds worth 
over £150,000 remaining at age 100, this is based on yearly net growth that fluctuates wildly 
 with some years growth as high as 36%. And it is also based on Mr G greatly reducing the 
income he takes from his SIPP once his state pension becomes payable. In comparison, the 
TVAS shows that if Mr Gs funds grew in line with the regulators middle projection rate, and 
he withdrew the same income he was entitled to through the DB scheme, his fund would be 
depleted at age 83. Furthermore, a cash flow analysis showing the impact of no real growth 
(taking account of charges) showed the funds would be depleted by age 80. So, if Mr Gs 
funds performed poorly, he was at a real risk of depleting his pension before he died.
In summary, if Mr G had transferred to a SIPP he may have been able to match the benefits 
provided by the PPF if he retired at age 65. But given Mr G told Niche he wished to retire 
early, he was likely to be worse off by transferring to a SIPP. Furthermore, this was Mr Gs 
only pension, so I dont think he really had the capacity to take much risk with these funds  he wouldve been heavily dependent on this fund until his state pension became payable. So 
based on the above alone, the transfer wasnt in Mr Gs best interest.
However, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. Other 
objectives might mean a transfer is suitable despite providing overall lower benefits, as 
Niche has argued here. So, Ive thought about whether Mr Gs other objectives meant a 
transfer was still suitable for him.
Flexibility and income needs
In the suitability report, Niche said that Mr G wanted to be able to retire at 55 and draw more 
of an income from his pension in early retirement, before reducing the amount he took as 
income once his state pension became payable. Niche said this wasnt possible if Mr G 
opted into the BSPS2 or moved to the PPF, so he needed the flexibility that transferring to a 
SIPP would provide.
I should first say that I think Mr Gs desire to retire at age 55 was purely aspirational. Mr G 
was only 45 at the time of the advice, and he clearly expressed to Niche that he was 
prepared to work for longer if he needed to and would only retire early if it was financially 
viable. The analysis carried out by Niche demonstrates that retiring that early wasnt 
financially viable for Mr G, as Ive explained above. But even if I were to consider that Mr Gs 
retirement plans were more advanced than the mere aspirations set out by Niche  and he 
really did want to retire early  I think Niche should have assessed the possibility of 
achieving this goal whilst being a member of BSPS2 or the PPF. Its clear that in these 
circumstances there would have been an actuarial reduction caused by early retirement 
from the scheme. This would have meant Mr Gs pension benefits would have been 
somewhat reduced due to him accessing the pension earlier and for longer. But Ive seen no 
evidence this was discussed with a view to assessing whether it was more in Mr Gs best 
interest, rather than him being advised to transfer away completely.
While I dont think Mr G genuinely expected to retire at age 55, Ive still considered whether it 
wouldve been possible for him to do so without transferring his benefits to a SIPP, given that 
Niches advice was based on him taking benefits at age 55. And having considered the 
evidence, I dont think Mr G needed to transfer his DB scheme to a SIPP in order to have the 
flexibility to retire early and to meet his income needs.
I dont know what level of income Mr G was entitled to at age 55 through the BSPS2 or the 
PPF because Niche failed to do that analysis. I think thats a significant failing because it 
meant Mr G wasnt able to make an informed choice here. But under the BSPS at age 65, 
Mr G wouldve been entitled to around £12,200, so under the BSPS2 his starting pension 
couldve been reduced by up to 50% if he retired at age 55. Ive therefore assumed hed be 
entitled to somewhere in the region of £6,000 per year if he didnt take any TFC (£500 per 
month net). Niches fact-find says Mr and Mrs G required around £1,300 per month (net) in 
retirement, so clearly the pension he could take from the DB scheme wouldnt meet that 
need. However, Mrs G was six years younger than Mr G and she told Niche she wasnt 
expecting to retire early. So, Mrs Gs income of £600 per month (net) ought to have been 
taken into account. This wouldve put Mr and Mrs Gs income at £1,100 per month (net) if 
Mr G retired at 55.
While this wouldnt have been enough to meet their full income need before Mr G reached 
state retirement age, Mr G would be building up extra retirement funds over the next ten 
years through his employers DC scheme. The cash flow analysis shows Mr G and his 
employer were contributing around £5,300 per year to this pension. And even without taking 
investment growth or salary increases into account, it would be worth in the region of £52,000 at age 55. And if I assume modest net growth of 2% over ten years, the funds could 
be worth in the region of £58,000 at age 55.
So, I think Mr G couldve met his income needs by either opting into the BSPS2 or moving to 
the PPF as he couldve simply drawn down whatever extra funds he required on top of the 
approximate £1,100 per month he and his wife wouldve already been receiving. And Im 
satisfied that withdrawing an additional income of up to £400 per month (depending on 
Mr Gs needs) wouldve been sustainable until Mr Gs state pension became payable. So, it's 
evident that Mr G already had flexibility in his pension planning by virtue of his employers 
DC scheme.
Overall, I dont think Mr G shouldve been advised to transfer out of the DB scheme just to 
gain additional flexibility that he didnt yet need. Mr G was around ten years away from his 
retirement and I dont think his plans to retire early were concrete  it was entirely possible 
that Mr G couldve continued working closer to age 65. Nevertheless, even if I could accept 
that Mr G did want to retire as early as age 55, I think he couldve done so by either opting 
into the BSPS2 or moving to the PPF. This was because he couldve met his income 
requirements through his guaranteed pension, Mrs Gs income and by taking extra income 
from his DC scheme.
Death benefits
Niche recorded another of Mr Gs objectives as having better death benefits. Death benefits 
are an emotive subject and of course most people would like their loved ones to be taken 
care of when they die. And Im sure that the idea of leaving a large sum to his family in the 
event of his death sounded attractive to Mr G, as it would to most people. But whilst 
I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr G might have thought it was 
a good idea to transfer his BSPS benefits because of this, the priority here was to advise 
Mr G about what was best for his retirement provisions. And a pension is primarily designed 
to provide income in retirement rather than as a means of providing a legacy.
The suitability report said that transferring would likely lead to increased death benefits for 
his wife and children. But I think that was misleading because the sum left on Mr Gs death 
was dependent on investment returns. And if Mr G lived a long life or investment returns 
were poor, there may not have been a large sum to pass on, as the cash flow analysis 
shows. I also dont think Niche gave enough importance to the death benefits Mr G already 
had with his existing pension  his younger wife would have received a guaranteed,
escalating spouses pension for life, which would have been very valuable if Mr G 
predeceased her. And while Mr Gs children were unlikely to be eligible for a pension on his 
death, Im mindful that he couldve nominated any beneficiaries of his choosing for his DC 
pension. So, overall, I think Mr G already had sufficient death benefits through his existing 
arrangements.
And if Mr G had genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his children or more to his wife, 
which didnt depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his 
death, then I think Niche should have instead explored life insurance more fully. It appears 
that Niche did look at whole of life assurance; but as there is no mention of it in the suitability 
report, it appears it was discounted. That may have been due to the cost  the quotes Ive 
seen show policies with guaranteed premiums being upwards of £47 per month before 
underwriting. But Niche based the quote on the transfer value of Mr Gs pension benefits, so 
it essentially assumed that he would pass away on day one following the transfer and that 
isnt realistic. Ultimately, Mr G wanted to leave whatever remained of his pension to his 
spouse or children, which would be a lot less than this if he lived a long life. So, Niche should 
have asked Mr G how much he would ideally like to leave to his children and/or wife, and 
how much he could afford to contribute. Insurance on this basis was likely to be a lot cheaper to provide and would have enabled him to leave a legacy without risking his 
retirement income.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a SIPP justified 
the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr G. And I dont think Niche did enough to 
highlight the value of Mr Gs existing death benefits or to explore the alternatives available to 
Mr G to meet this objective.
Concerns about financial stability of BSPS
It doesnt appear from the documents Ive seen that Mr G was particularly motivated to 
transfer out of the BSPS because of any concerns he had about his employer or the 
possibility of the scheme entering the PPF. Nevertheless, Ive considered the possibility that 
Mr G had those concerns and that he was also inclined to transfer out for that reason. 
In those circumstances it was Niches obligation to give Mr G an objective picture and 
recommend what was in his best interest. If Mr G was concerned about the BSPS moving to 
the PPF, Niche shouldve reassured him that he wasnt likely to be able to match or improve 
on the benefits hed be entitled to if the scheme entered the PPF, particularly if he retired 
early.
Furthermore, the scheme moving to the PPF was only one of the outcomes; if Niche had 
delayed giving the advice it couldve provided him with the details of the BSPS2. While Mr R 
may have been reluctant to join this scheme, I think Niche couldve reassured Mr G that the 
BSPS2 wouldve provided him with a secure, guaranteed income that wouldve most likely 
met his needs whenever he decided to retire and an income that he wouldnt be able to 
improve on if he transferred out.
Summary
I accept that Mr G may have been motivated to transfer out of the BSPS when he met with 
Niche. And I appreciate that having control and flexibility of income, the option to retire and 
drawdown income at age 55, and the potential for higher death benefits on offer through a 
SIPP would have sounded attractive to Mr G. But Niche wasnt there simply to just arrange 
what Mr G might have thought he wanted. It was obliged to really understand what Mr G 
needed, to give him an objective picture and to recommend what was in his best interest.
And ultimately, I dont think the advice Niche gave to Mr G was suitable. He was giving up a
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income under the BSPS2. By transferring, he was very 
likely to obtain lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no compelling reasons 
which would justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mr G shouldnt have been advised to 
transfer out of the scheme based on an insubstantial wish to retire at 55 and have control 
and flexibility of income. And in my view, the potential for higher death benefits wasnt worth 
giving up the guarantees associated with Mr Gs DB scheme. So, I think Niche shouldve 
advised Mr G not to transfer to a personal pension.
I appreciate that the BSPS2 hadnt been confirmed when the advice was given, but I think it 
was clear to all parties that it was likely to be going ahead. Mr G had at least nine years 
before he expected to retire, and he was prepared to work for longer if he needed to. So, 
I dont think he was committed to retiring at 55 come what may. As a result, I don't think that 
it would've been in his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would've faced by the 
scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very 
early retirement. And by opting into the BSPS2, Mr G wouldve retained the ability to transfer 
out of the scheme nearer to his retirement age if he needed to  this was explained in the 
time to choose booklet. Also, Mr G was married, and his wifes pension would be set at 50% of his pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was 
taken at retirement (if Mr G chose to do so). The annual indexation of his pension when in 
payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. So, I think Niche shouldve 
advised Mr G to opt into the BSPS2.
Niche may argue Mr G would have transferred even if Niche advised against it, either by 
insisting with Niche or by using another independent financial adviser. So Ive considered 
whether Mr G would have gone ahead anyway, had Niche advised him not to transfer out of 
his DB scheme. But Ive seen nothing to make me think Mr G was an insistent client or that 
he would have approached another independent financial adviser. He was an inexperienced 
investor, with a balanced attitude to risk. And his BSPS pension accounted for the majority of 
his and his wifes retirement provision. So if Niche had provided Mr G with clear advice 
against transferring out of the BSPS that explained why it wasnt in his best interest, I think 
Mr G would have accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Gs concerns about the BSPS2 were so great that he wouldve 
insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought 
out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. And if 
Niche had explained Mr G was unlikely to exceed the benefits available to him through the 
BSPS2 if he transferred out, and that he could meet his income needs in retirement without 
risking his guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight.
So, overall, I think Mr G wouldve opted into the BSPS2 if hed been advised to do so. And 
so Niche should compensate Mr G for the unsuitable advice, using the regulator's defined 
benefits pension transfer redress methodology. And it is the benefits available to him through 
the BSPS2 at age 65 that should be used for comparison purposes.
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr G whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the any new guidance/rules to be published. He didnt make 
a choice, so as set out previously Ive assumed in this case he doesnt want to wait for any 
new guidance. I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr G. 
Niche must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
And it is the benefits available to him through the BSPS2 that should be used for comparison 
purposes.
For clarity, Mr G has no plans at present to retire any earlier than age 65. So, compensation 
should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the 
FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly
following receipt of notification of Mr Gs acceptance of my final decision.
Niche may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Gs
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Gs SERPS/S2P
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid
into Mr Gs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mr G as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount
must where possible be paid to Mr G within 90 days of the date Niche receives notification of
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Niche to pay Mr G.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Niche deducts income tax from the
interest, it should tell Mr G how much has been taken off. Niche should give Mr G a tax
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr G asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Niche to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Niche Independent 
Financial Advisers Limited to pay Mr G the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I additionally require Niche 
Independent Financial Advisers Limited to pay Mr G any interest on that amount in full,
as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Niche
Independent Financial Advisers Limited to pay Mr G any interest as set out above on the
sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Niche Independent Financial Advisers Limited pays Mr G the balance. I additionally 
recommend that any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr G.
If Mr G accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Niche Independent
Financial Advisers Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr G can accept my
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr G may want to consider getting
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Niche Independent Financial Advisers Limited should provide details of its calculations to 
Mr G in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman