DRN-2728203
The complaint
Mr B complains that J D Williams & Company Limited trading as Jacamo (JDW) 
irresponsibly increased the credit limit on a catalogue shopping account, and continued to 
allow him to borrow when it should have been clear he was facing financial difficulties. 
What happened
Mr B opened a catalogue shopping account with JDW in June 2016. At that time his credit 
limit was initially set at £100. The credit limit was increased a number of times, reaching 
£1,300 in January 2017 before being increased for a final time in January 2018 when the 
credit limit was set at £2,000.
When Mr B first complained to JDW it didnt think it had been wrong to open the account, or 
increase his credit limit. So Mr B brought his complaint to this Service. His complaint has 
been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think that JDW had done anything 
wrong initially. But he thought that by the time the credit limit was increased to £2,000 in 
January 2018 JDW should have seen that Mr B might be facing problems repaying what he 
owed. So he didnt think that credit limit increase should have been agreed. And he thought 
that by the following year, JDW should have taken steps to freeze Mr Bs account as it 
should have realised the credit was no longer suitable for him. So our adjudicator asked 
JDW to put things right for Mr B.
JDW accepted our adjudicators assessment and agreed to revise Mr Bs account. But Mr B 
didnt accept the assessment. He thought the point at which JDW should have noticed that 
he was facing difficulties managing his finances was much earlier. So, as the complaint 
hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is 
the last stage of our process. If Mr B accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mr Bs complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time required JDW to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of whether Mr B could afford to repay what he owed in a 
sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check. The check needed to be completed at the outset of the 
relationship and each time there was a significant increase in the credit limit. JDW also 
needed to monitor the account for any signs that Mr B was struggling to manage the credit 
hed been given.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so JDW had to think about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr B. In practice this 
meant that JDW had to ensure that making the required repayments wouldnt cause Mr B 
undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for JDW to 
simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of 
any repayments on Mr B. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances at that time. In general, 
what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a number of 
factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the consumer (e.g. 
their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or 
financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be, or has been, indebted for 
(reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the 
customer is required to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether JDW did what it needed to before agreeing to open 
an account for Mr B, and to agree the subsequent increases to his credit limit.
JDW has told us that it set, and managed, Mr Bs credit limit by reference to information it 
received from a credit reference agency, and by looking at how Mr B was managing his 
credit account. But JDW hasnt given us much detail about the results it received each 
month from the credit reference agency checks.
At this stage I think I should note that, generally, the information a consumer might see, 
when they request a copy of their credit file, might be very different to that seen by a lender. 
A lender might only see a small portion of the credit file, or some data might be missing or 
anonymised, or the data might not be up to date. So, this may explain any differences 
between the information provided by JDWs credit check and the information that Mr B says 
it should have seen from his credit report.
The credit limit JDW agreed when the account was first opened was relatively small - I dont 
think it wouldve been proportionate for JDW to ask Mr B for the amount of information that 
would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before opening the account. So 
I dont think the original lending decision should cause me any great concerns.
And I think the same applies to the increases to the credit limit that took place over the 
following six months. During that time Mr B appears to have operated his account relatively 
well, maintaining its balance within the agreed credit limit, and making the required 
repayments on time.Mr B has shown us that he had two other credit accounts enter default in the latter stages of 
2016. He says that should have put JDW on notice that he was finding it difficult to manage 
his finances. I dont know if, or when, those defaults would have been seen by JDW. As 
I explained earlier, its entirely possible that its reporting might have not shown that 
information in detail. But even if those defaults were shown, it would have been entirely 
reasonable for JDW to give greater weight in its considerations to how Mr B was managing 
his shopping account.
During that time the credit increases that JDW applied remained relatively modest. And 
given the smooth operation of the account to that time I dont think that it would be 
reasonable to expect JDW to have gathered the additional it might have needed to identify 
any problems that Mr B was facing. I think that its checks remained proportionate and that 
overall they showed there was no reason for it to not increase Mr Bs credit limit.
During 2018 Mr Bs outstanding balance continued to grow steadily. By then hed held the 
account for nearly 18 months and at no time had he been successful if repaying all that he 
owed. I think that should have been of increasing concern to JDW.  So, although he was 
operating his account relatively well, and making all his contractual repayments, I dont think 
that JDW had any reasonable grounds to conclude that a further increase in Mr Bs credit 
limit would be appropriate. So I dont think that it was reasonable for JDW to increase Mr Bs 
credit limit to £2,000 in January 2018.
JDW needed to do more than just check whether Mr B could afford to repay what he owed 
when it increased his credit limit. It also needed to monitor his use of the credit facility over 
its lifetime. As I said earlier, by January 2018 I think Mr Bs failure to make any great 
headway in repaying what he owed should have been of concern. And that pattern continued 
throughout the following year.
Mr Bs outstanding balance continued to grow throughout 2018 before increasing markedly 
in December of that year. I accept that some of that later spending might have been seen as 
natural given the time of the year, but I think that when considered alongside the previous 
twelve months it should have put JDW on notice that Mr B had reached the point where he 
was no longer able to effectively manage his account. Allied to his new spending, the 
repayments he had been able to make for the past year had little effect in reducing his 
outstanding balance. So I think by January 2019 JDW should have reached the point where 
it accepted Mr B was facing serious problems managing his money. It should have treated 
him at that point with forbearance and with due consideration. I think an appropriate 
response would have been to prevent Mr B from making any further purchases using the 
account and to stop the addition of any new interest.
So in summary, I dont think JDW should have increased Mr Bs credit limit in January 2018. 
And I think that by January 2019 it should have stopped him taking any further credit and 
suspended the addition of interest to the account. So JDW needs to put things right for Mr B. 
Putting things right
To put things right, JDW should reconstruct Mr Bs account by making the following 
adjustments;
I dont think JDW should have agreed to increase Mr Bs credit limit in January 2018. 
So JDW should remove any interest incurred on amounts above the previous credit 
limit of £1,300 from the date of increase in January 2018.I dont think JDW should have agreed to allow any further purchases to be made 
using the account from January 2019. So JDW should remove any interest and 
charges (including delivery fees, Buy Now Pay Later interest, and PPP insurance 
premiums) added to the account after 1 January 2019.
JDW should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file that 
wouldnt have been added if the above adjustments had been applied at the time. 
If, after making these adjustments, Mr Bs account was in credit at any time, JDW should pay 
Mr B interest at a rate of 8% simple* on the credit balance for the period it is in credit. 
If a credit balance remains at the end of the calculations JDW should refund that amount to 
Mr B, adding interest at a rate of 8% simple* on the credit balance to the date of settlement.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires JDW to take off tax from this interest. JDW must give 
Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Mr Bs complaint and direct J D Williams & Company 
Limited to put things right as detailed above.  
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman