DRN-3828709
The complaint
Mr M says NewDay Ltd irresponsibly lent to him. He has requested that the interest and 
late payment charges he paid be refunded. 
What happened
This complaint is about credit provided by NewDay Ltd across four credit card accounts. 
The first credit card (Marbles) was taken out in November 2018 with a credit limit of £600. 
This account had four credit limit increases as below:
April 2019 - Credit limit increased to £1,500
September 2019 - Credit limit increased to £2,250
June 2021 - Credit limit increased to £3,000
October 2021 - Credit limit increased to £4,000.
The second credit card (Argos) opened in June 2020 with a credit limit of £500 and had 
three credit limit increases to £2,950 in July 2021. The third credit card (Aqua) opened in 
August 2020 with a credit limit of £900 and had two credit limit increases to £2,900 in 
September 2021. The fourth credit card (Amazon) opened in June 2021 with a credit limit 
of £500 and had one credit limit increase to £600 in November 2021. 
Mr M says hes unhappy that NewDay Ltd provided credit on the account which he couldnt 
afford. 
Our adjudicator thought that Mr Ms complaint should be partially upheld. She thought that 
the initial credit, the first and second credit limit increase given to Mr M on the first credit 
card were acceptable. She felt that by the time the lending was given on the second credit 
card, proportionate checks should have alerted NewDay Ltd to financial difficulties for Mr M 
and so, NewDay Ltd didnt act fairly or reasonably in providing credit at that time or 
subsequently. The adjudicator thought that NewDay ltd shouldnt have provided that 
second credit card or any further credit on the four credit cards. So, our adjudicator said 
that NewDay Ltd should pay back interest and charges it made as a result of the credit that 
was unfairly extended to Mr M.
Both NewDay Ltd and Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so, the complaint 
was passed to me to decide. 
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 11 November 2022, a section 
of which is included below, and forms part of, this decision. In my provisional decision I set 
out the reasons why I didnt agree with the adjudicators view and that it was my intention not 
to uphold Mr Ms complaint. I set out an extract below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending - including the key relevant rules, 
guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round.
NewDay Ltd needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that NewDay Ltd should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that prolonged 
indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Our adjudicator thought that point was reached in June 2020, when the second credit card 
was agreed by NewDay Ltd. Our adjudicator thought that the credit increase was 
irresponsible lending and therefore thought the later credit cards and the credit card 
increases should not have been given as they post-dated the provision of the second credit 
card in June 2020. I think the point came earlier, in September 2019, when the credit limit 
on the first credit card was increased to £2,250. Ill explain why I say that.
Its not easy trying to decide complaints about unaffordability lending, but its particularly 
hard in this case as Mr M has not been able to provide copies of his bank statements from 
the times in question. And, whilst I consider that NewDay Ltd could have performed more 
proportionate checks on Mr Ms financial position throughout the period it lent to him, Im 
not convinced that better checks would have always shown the lending to be 
unreasonable. 
When the fist credit card account was opened for Mr M in November 2018, NewDay Ltds 
checks showed that Mr M had some previous defaults on other credit and a public record 
which were all more than a year ago. Mr Ms existing other unsecured borrowings were 
modest (£800). But NewDay Ltd also noted that Mr M was using short term lending and 
owed £488 in payday loans. The initial credit limit on this first credit card was reasonably 
modest, considering the income Mr M had declared, and the monthly repayments for that income would also have been relatively modest. So, considering all of this, and in the light 
of the income that Mr M declared to NewDay Ltd, and in the absence of any further 
evidence from Mr M, our adjudicator thought that it seemed unlikely that better checks 
would have put NewDay Ltd off providing the credit to Mr M, most likely. In effect, our 
adjudicator did not think the initial credit seemed unreasonable. And I agree. 
The next credit limit increase was in April 2019, five months later, when the credit limit 
increased to £1,500. NewDay Ltd could see that Mr M had spent up to his existing credit 
limit. NewDay Ltds checks also showed that Mr Ms other unsecure borrowings had risen 
to over £1,000 and so had the amount owed on short term lending. So, considering all of 
this, and in the light of the income that Mr M declared to NewDay Ltd, and in the absence 
of any further evidence from Mr M, our adjudicator thought that it seemed unlikely that 
better checks would have put NewDay Ltd off providing the credit to Mr M, most likely. In 
effect, our adjudicator did not think the initial credit seemed unreasonable. And I agree. 
But the next credit limit increase was in September 2019, just ten months after the initial 
credit was given, when the credit limit was increased to £2,250. At that time, NewDay Ltd 
could see that Mr M had again spent up to his existing credit limit. NewDay Ltds checks 
also showed that Mr Ms other unsecure borrowings had risen to over £23,000. 
And as well as the above, NewDay Ltd should have had some thought about what Mr Ms 
own management of his credit with them was telling them about Mr Ms financial situation. 
In the ten months Mr M had the first credit card, his pattern of lending showed that Mr M 
spent up to his credit limits and seemed to have no ability to pay down his balance, once 
the new credit limit was reached. So, NewDay Ltd should have had some thought for how 
Mr M was likely to be able to repay the increasing credit it was providing
NewDay Ltd was making a large credit limit available to Mr M. And it knew that Mr M 
already had a significant amount of unsecured borrowing at the time. It also knew that this 
borrowing had been taken out largely in the few months before the credit increase. All of 
that suggested that Mr M might have been reliant on recently acquired unsecured credit 
which, allied to his existing credit with NewDay, should have suggested he might be 
struggling.
 
So, I think that a proportionate check should have seen NewDay Ltd confirm that Mr M had 
the income sufficient to afford the new credit, whilst he maintained his actual existing 
expenditure. 
But NewDay Ltd had information from the checks it performed that should, in itself, have 
been sufficient to suggest that Mr Ms financial situation was in some difficulty already. So, 
had it conducted proportionate checks, and paid proper attention to the information it 
acquired and already had on Mr M, I think that NewDay Ltd would have thought that it was 
likely that Mr M would have been unable to make payments on the increased borrowing, if 
used, whilst at the same time having to meet his daily living expenses and other credit 
commitments, most likely. 
So, I think that proportionate checks would likely have shown NewDay Ltd that Mr M was 
in financial difficulty already in his management of his other debts and day-to-day living 
expenses. I also think there was a significant risk that further increases to his credit could 
have led to his indebtedness increasing unsustainably, such that he had no funds 
available to meet his debts and regular outgoings. 
It follows that I think that Mr M lost out because NewDay Ltd provided him with further 
credit. In my view, NewDay Ltds actions unfairly prolonged Mr Ms indebtedness by allowing him to use credit he couldnt afford over an extended period of time and the 
interest being added would only have the effect of putting him into further debt. 
It follows that NewDay Ltd should put things right.
Putting things right  what NewDay Ltd needs to do
As I dont think NewDay Ltd ought to have provided Mr M with the credit card increase in 
September 2019, or to have provided any of the credit in the three other credit cards. So, 
I dont think its fair for NewDay Ltd to be able to charge any interest or charges under the 
credit agreements for the last three credit cards, or for the first credit card after 26 
September 2019. But I think Mr M should pay back the amounts he has borrowed. 
Therefore, NewDay Ltd should:
Rework the credit removing all interest and charges that have been applied on 
balances over £1,500 for the first credit card, and all interest and charges on the 
second, third and fourth credit cards , so that Mr M only needs to pay back the 
capital he borrowed on the last three cards and on borrowings above £1,500 on 
the first credit card. 
If Mr M has paid back more than the capital he borrowed, any overpayments  
should be refunded to him along with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from 
the date of each overpayment to the date of settlement. NewDay Ltd should also 
remove all adverse information regarding this credit from Mr Ms credit file from 26 
September 2019. 
Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, NewDay Ltd should 
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mr M for the remaining amount. Once 
Mr M has cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to the credit 
should be removed from his credit file from 26 September 2019. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay Ltd to deduct tax from any award of interest. 
It must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for 
one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after 
deducting the tax.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out, Im currently minded to fully uphold Mr Ms complaint, such that 
NewDay Ltd, should put things right in the way set out above.
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 25 November 2022. Neither NewDay Ltd nor Mr M has 
acknowledged receipt of the provisional decision, made any further submissions or made a 
request for an extension to do so. I think that both parties have had sufficient time to make 
substantive further submissions if they had wished to. So, I am proceeding to my final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that theres no new information for me to consider following my provisional decision, I 
have no reason to depart from those findings. And as Ive already set out my full reasons for 
not upholding Mr Ms complaint, I have nothing further to add. Putting things right
NewDay Ltd should put things right as detailed in the section of the provisional decision 
called Putting things right  what NewDay Ltd needs to do (copy above).
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im partially upholding Mr Ms complaint. NewDay Ltd should put 
things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman