DRN-4307934
The complaint
S, a company, complains about a claim made on its Aviva Insurance Limited commercial 
insurance policy.
S says that Aviva failed to deal with its claim within a reasonable period of time.
What happened
S made claim on its commercial insurance policy to Aviva for a damaged shop window. 
Aviva appointed agents to deal with the claim, but it wasnt progressed, despite S and its 
broker chasing B for this.
S says that because of the nature of the damage, it had to keep the electric shutter on its 
premises down, which meant that its premises appeared to be permanently closed. As such 
S says it lost passing trade and eventually had to close down as a consequence.
Aviva considered Ss complaint and upheld it. They said their although their agents 
considered Ss claim and determined it wasnt covered (because the claim fell into a policy 
exclusion for wear and tear), they failed to communicate this to S. As a result Aviva has 
offered to pay S £150 in compensation for this and consider a monetary claim for how the 
damage affected S's business as if it were a claim for business interruption.
Our investigator considered Ss complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. She said 
Aviva had done enough to put things right and that their offer to do so was fair. S doesnt 
agree so the matter has been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I wont be upholding Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
When S complaint was brought to this Service, Aviva had yet to provide a considered 
response to its complaint. Upon investigating things further, Aviva agreed its agents hadnt 
done what they should have and made the outcome of S claim known to it in good time. So, 
they agreed that they, on behalf of their agents, had done something wrong. Because Aviva 
have accepted they did something wrong, I dont need to determine this issue save to say 
that I agree with the stance theyve taken.
S has said it doesnt agree with the investigators findings- but they havent said what they 
dont agree with. Given that Aviva have accepted they did something wrong, I can only 
conclude that S doesnt agree with Avivas offer to put things right.
The offer to put things right includes £150 in compensation and for Aviva to consider a claim 
for business interruption as a result of their agents failure to communicate the outcome of 
the claim to S in good time.
At present I dont know what Aviva are prepared to offer S in respect of the claim theyve 
offered to consider. I cant determine the outcome of any complaint in relation to that claim 
here because that wasnt the complaint S brought to this Service and I dont think the 
outcome of the claim is yet known. I can only comment on whether I think the solution S has 
offered is fair here.
It's clear that Aviva didnt act within a reasonable period of time. The damage occurred in 
October 2021. S say they stopped trading in February 2022. So if the claim was made 
around the time the damage occurred, the impact of Avivas delays on S spans over a period 
of at least four months. On its own I dont think £150 is enough to compensate S for the 
impact of this delay but taken together with Aviva considering a claim for business 
interruption from November 2021 to June 2022, Im satisfied this is a reasonable solution. I 
say so because the £150 offered adequately compensates S for the inconvenience of having 
to chase Aviva and complain to complain to them, whilst the offer of considering the claim 
takes into account the effect on S as a business of Aviva not communicating the outcome of 
its claim sooner. 
I cant say what the outcome of Avivas consideration of a claim for business interruption will 
be. And I dont know whether S has supplied Aviva with all of the items Aviva needs to do 
this. S should note that if it wants this claim considered it should provide Aviva with all of the 
evidence requested to enable them to do this. And if S wants to accept Avivas offer of £150 
in addition to this, it should contact them directly to let them know, if it hasnt already done 
so.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold S complaint against Aviva Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman