DRN-3609245
The complaint
Mr W feels that Barclays Bank UK Plc has treated him unfairly about a direct debit.
What happened
In 2021 Mr W had a direct debit set up to make monthly contribution to a charity. Mr W told 
the charity he didnt want to contribute anymore. In July 2021 the charity wrote to Barclays 
cancelling the direct debit. So he complained to Barclays.
Barclays looked into the matter and tried to work out why Mr W was unhappy. But couldnt 
establish this other than understanding from Mr W that he wanted his payments back. It 
looked over what it knew and noted the direct debit had been correctly set up, paid each 
month (apart one month when it was returned) and that it got the cancellation from the 
charity and then cancelled the direct debit. So it told him it didnt think it had done anything 
wrong. So Mr W brought his complaint here.
Our Investigator thought Barclayss position was fair. Mr W remains unhappy, so this 
complaint came to me to decide.
In July 2022 I issued a provisional decision in order to set out my reasoning for not upholding 
the complaint so that both parties had fair opportunity to see my thoughts on the matter and 
to respond to them. Both parties have provided their comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ws direct debits began in February 2021 and were paid monthly with the exception of 
April when the direct debit was returned unpaid. Mr W says his issues began on 03 May 
2021. So it seems likely that Mr W was either informed of this direct debit not being paid or 
noticed this happened on his account with Barclays. It is not clear what happened on the 03 
May but with Mr W likely being on notice that his direct debit had been returned unpaid I 
think it likely he tried to address the matter.
Ive considered Barclays records and I cant see that Mr W contacted Barclays that day. I 
suspect Mr W may have contacted the charity. But as I cannot see any contact between Mr 
W and Barclays at that time Im not persuaded it has done anything wrong.
I can see that the charity wrote to Barclays on 01 July 2021 to cancel the direct debit and 
Barclays did this. And I can see that Mr W paid no direct debits to the charity after this date. 
So I dont think Barclays did anything wrong here.
Mr W has asked for his payments back. It is not clear whether he wants all payments back or 
just some, possibly those made after any instruction to the charity. If the charity didnt inform 
Barclays quickly enough then Mr Ws complaint should be directed to the charity. Barclays 
can only act on the instructions it receives and having considered the evidence here Im 
satisfied it has done this correctly. It is important to note that the money in Mr Ws account 
belongs to him and it is for him to instruct his bank to make payments or to stop payments. 
And that Barclays can only be held accountable for what it does wrong. If Mr W has 
regretted making donations to this charity then Barclays does not have a responsibility to 
refund them.
In response to my provisional decision Barclays has said it has nothing further to add. Mr W 
has provided extensive comments and evidence he says makes a difference.
The last payment Mr W made by automated transaction was 24 June. On the 25 June Mr W 
writes to the charity to cancel payments. Mr W says he wrote to Barclays on the same day. 
Hes provided an email he says he sent on that day to Barclays. On 1 July the charity wrote 
to the bank to cancel the transactions. This was actioned. It is important to note that no 
further payments were made after 24 June.
So whether or not Mr W did send the email he says he did (evidence Im not wholly 
persuaded by) doesnt make a difference to the amount paid to the charity. Or to my mind in 
the round as even if he did send the email he didnt pay anymore. And having considered 
everything Mr W has said including his extensive comments responding to my provisional 
decision it is my decision that his complaint is unsuccessful.
Mr W has made comments about the cost of living. If Mr W is in financial difficulty he should 
inform his bank and they will liaise with him accordingly.
Mr W has made a number of other comments about how this complaint has been handled. 
Mr W isnt obliged to accept my decision if he doesnt wish to. And then he continue his 
dispute through other avenues as he sees fit. However this final decision does bring to an 
end this dispute at this service.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Barclays Bank UK Plc. 
It has nothing further to do in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman