DRN-4466555
The complaint
Mr S complains about the service he received when TSB Bank plc rejected his application 
for a bank account.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on 4 November 2023, and this is what I said:
Ive considered the relevant information about this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, there will be a different outcome to what our investigator 
proposed. Before I issue my final decision, I wanted to give everyone a chance to reply.
Ill look at any more comments and evidence that I get by 20 November 2023. But unless the 
information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be along the following lines.
The complaint
Mr S complains about the service he received when TSB Bank plc rejected his application 
for a bank account.
What happened
On 8 February 2023, Mr S used TSB on-line services to apply for a bank account.
The following day Mr S received an account welcome message and text alerts, so he 
thought that his application was successful. However, he was subsequently informed that his 
account was closed. Mr S then applied a second time as he thought this would enable him to 
provide identity information, but this was also denied.
Mr S explains that he is disabled / autistic and following a TSB message which said, "If you
would still like to apply for one of our current accounts, you can reapply in branch after 2
working days, he describes making a difficult 24 mile round trip to his nearest branch only to
find the staff at the branch were incredibly rude and told me I was banned for life without
reason.
As Mr S made two applications both were recorded as rejects with Credit Reference 
Agencies (CRA).
Mr S complained to TSB. TSB explained that after initial checks to open an account they
occasionally carry out further compliance checks and they may decline an application
altogether or request a customer visit a branch with identification and proof of address to
complete their application. In their complaint response TSB said there are some areas
where we have made mistakes but they didnt expand on this.
Mr S complained to our service. Our investigator upheld his complaint and recommended 
TSB pay Mr S £100 compensation. This is because she thought the automated texts were 
confusing and that the TSB branch representative provided incorrect information that 
wouldve been worrying for Mr S. She also said TSB should remove the CRA marker for the 
second rejected application.
TSB agreed to this outcome. However, Mr S is deeply concerned about the events. He is
upset by TSBs behaviour and feels that an underlying bigger issue has not been disclosed
and he is being discriminated against. He also feels the amount of compensation is
insufficient and is concerned by negative CRA markers.
When gathering evidence, TSB informed our investigator that they made an error rejecting
his first application. Also, Mr S supplied a recording, which he made without consent, of a
conversation he had at the TSB branch he visited. The TSB representative was a manager.
She recognised the conversation and said she wasnt aware that she was being recorded.
As Mr S remains dissatisfied this case has been referred to me to look at.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im also upholding this complaint but increasing the amount of 
compensation. I will explain how I have come to my decision.
Regarding Mr Ss concern that information hasnt been disclosed to him, our investigator has 
explained her reasoning and it is Mr Ss prerogative to make subject access requests. Also, 
our service doesnt have powers to interrogate business systems or records for additional 
information.
We do though have a mandate to resolve complaints in an informal way, asking both parties 
to submit their evidence and arguments to enable a decision based on the submissions 
presented.
Also, I cant tell a business to make alterations to their systems, services, procedures or 
processes. I also cant instruct them to give Mr S a bank account. I say this because we
arent the regulator of the financial services industry. Furthermore, its not for this service to
judge whether TSB have breached the Equality Act here, as thats an issue for the courts.
But I can take into account any relevant law and wider industry practice when deciding
whether TSB treated Mr S fairly and reasonably in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB said they feel there are some areas where we have made mistakes and apologised
for inconvenience. However, they didnt offer any compensation and there is a lack of clarity
about what mistakes they are referring to.
From reviewing the file, although it wasnt mentioned in their final response letter to Mr S, 
TSB do not dispute that they made a mistake rejecting Mr Ss application.
Before considering a fair and reasonable amount of compensation for this mistake, in order
to understand the full impact on Mr S, who explained he is disabled / autistic, I looked at
TSBs messaging (described by Mr S), whether Mr S had another bank account, Mr Ss
branch visit and information that wouldve been sent to CRAs.
Although TSB have the right to decline an account without explanation, I could understand
Mr Ss confusion when, after being told his account failed, he subsequently received
automatic messages saying his account was set up. I could also understand why Mr S re-
applied and, despite the physical difficulties he describes, why he felt it was necessary to
visit a branch. This is because the system messages indicated there was an identity issue
and the following message indicated a branch visit was necessary for him to get the account 
he was seeking:
"If you would still like to apply for one of our current accounts, you can reapply in branch 
after 2 working days."
So, even if TSB had correctly rejected Mr Ss application, I found that the automated
messages wouldve caused confusion. The fact that TSB shouldnt have rejected his
application led to Mr S, who describes characteristics that the Financial Conduct Authorityconsiderers to be indicators of vulnerability, making an unnecessary journey.
There is a lack of information about Mr Ss visit to the branch and the only evidence is a 
short recording which Mr S took without consent. Although its not possible to know whether 
there were longer or additional conversations, I took this recording into consideration as the 
TSB representative recognised the conversation and has provided comments.
I didnt find the representative to be rude and I didnt interpret her comments as saying Mr S
was banned for life. However, whilst I appreciate this may not have been the full
conversation, I could understand why Mr S questions the representatives behaviour and left
the branch feeling worried and concerned. This is because the representatives responses to
re-application questions indicated he couldnt apply to the TSB again. For example, in
response to Mr Ss question when can I apply again? she says, not here at TSB, you can
try another bank, you wont be able to apply. Also, when Mr S tried to summarise his
position and confirm what he was hearing and said, so Im definitely not going to be able to
bank with TSB for rest of life the manager responded by saying yes.
I recognise that this may have only been part of a conversation and acknowledge that Mr S 
was pressing for answers and the representative quantified her comments were based on 
her experience saying, this may happen again. But I could understand Mr Ss interpretation 
here.
Also, the representative didnt appear to have any direct information and said, we dont get 
told anything here. So, although the evidence here is limited and the representative offered 
a telephone number, I can also understand why Mr S felt he received poor service, 
questions the behaviour of the representative and believes TSB dont want him as a 
customer.
Furthermore, as stated above, Mr S felt compelled to visit the branch and having taken the 
time and trouble to make a journey, that Im persuaded was difficult for him due to his 
vulnerability, his experience was only necessary due to TSBs mistake.
So, having considered all the information on file, I think TSB have made mistakes here.
Although I cant see that theyve discriminated against Mr S, they incorrectly rejected Mr Ss 
application and provided communications (including to CRAs) and service which caused Mr 
S inconvenience, distress and a loss of confidence.
Also, Mr Ss distress has continued here as he is still concerned about CRAs having 
received information from TSB that he has had two bank account applications rejected.
So, my provisional decision is that TSB should pay Mr S £300 in compensation. Also, they 
should reverse the information that Mr S had two bank account applications rejected.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above, its my provisional decision to uphold this complaint.
I require TSB Bank plc, to pay Mr S £300 compensation. Also, they should reverse the 
information that Mr S has had two bank account applications rejected.
Ill look at anything else anyone wants to give me  so long as I get it before 20 November 
2023.
Unless that information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be as Ive set out 
above.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I gave both parties the opportunity to provide any comments or 
new information they might wish me to consider before I moved to a final decision.
Mr S stated that a greater amount of compensation would more accurately reflect the 
distress and inconvenience he experienced however he accepted the decision.
TSB also accepted the decision. They said they didnt agree with some of my thoughts but 
acknowledged there are areas where we have let the customer down, when we have 
provided him with conflicting/confusing information, and I am very sorry for the upset and 
inconvenience caused to Mr S. 
I went back to TSB so I could understand and then consider any points they disagreed with. 
Also, to check they understood I was requiring them to remove both markers.
TSB questioned the evidential weighting I had applied to a conversation recorded without 
consent. So, I again listened to the recording and read the file note detailing the managers 
reaction.
I did bear in mind that it was an unauthorised recording and I therefore exercised caution. I 
thought it was likely to have only been a selected part of the conversation and that Mr S was 
probing and repeating the same questions, but I think that was because he was shocked, 
wanted answers and was looking to take matters further. However, although I think Mr S 
shouldve said he was recording the conversation, I remain satisfied that the managers file 
note corroborated Mr S attending the branch to speak to TSB, the finality of their refusal 
decision and his interpretation. 
I then reconsidered everything again including the compensation amount. However, as there 
isnt any more information about the impact or any other questions, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional decision, which I adopt in full as part of this final decision. 
So, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and TSB should pay Mr S £300 in 
compensation. Also, they should reverse the information provided to CRAs that Mr S had 
two bank account applications rejected.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require TSB Bank plc to:
Pay Mr S £300 in compensation
Reverse the information provided to CRAs that Mr S had two bank account 
applications rejected.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman