DRN-2272353
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Lloyds Banks General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) declined his claim 
under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M contacted Lloyds to make a claim for accidental damage. Mr M said a toy was thrown 
at his TV screen, which made the picture disappear. When the picture came back, it was 
distorted. Lloyds assessed the claim and turned it down. It said that the TV the damage was 
due to wear and tear.
Mr M complained to Lloyds. When Lloyds replied, it maintained its decision to decline the 
claim on the basis of the age of the TV. However, it gave Mr M £50 compensation for the 
delays in handling his claim.
Mr M complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that 
he thought it was reasonable for Lloyds to turn down the claim because the inspection report 
found that the damage was most likely caused by a parts failure, which was an uninsurable 
risk under the terms of the policy.
As Mr M did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M said that the damage to his TV happened when a toy was thrown at the TV screen, 
which resulted in the TV picture distorting. Mr M said this should be covered under the 
accidental damage section of his policy.
Lloyds assessed the TV to be about nine years old. Lloyds arranged for an engineer to 
inspect the TV. The engineers report said:
Upon inspection this unit had no visible damage to the cosmetics, but the unit had a 
distorted picture. The ph (policyholder) claims the kid has threw toy egg at the screen this 
damage is a wear and tear issue due to the old age of this unit.
On the basis of this report, Lloyds turned down the claim as wear and tear wasnt covered by 
the policy. This was because the policy listed a number of uninsurable causes. This 
included wear and tear and mechanical or electrical faults or breakdowns.
Having considered the report and what it described, I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to 
rely on this report and turn down the claim. Im aware that Mr M said a toy hit the TV. 
However, there was no evidence of this causing damage to the TV. On the basis of the age 
of the TV and the distorted picture reported by the engineer, I think that it was reasonable for 
Lloyds to conclude that the most likely cause was wear and tear.
Im aware that Mr M has said that there are much older TVs that are still working well. He 
also said that the TV had a tough screen. However, I dont think that these show that the 
picture distortion was more likely caused by accidental damage as a result of a toy being 
thrown at the TV.
Im also aware that Mr M was unhappy about the way his claim was handled. Ive looked at 
what happened and the way that Lloyds responded to this. I think that Lloyds paying £50 
compensation to acknowledge the delays was reasonable in the circumstances.
So, on the basis of the above, I dont uphold this complaint or require Lloyds to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman