DRN-3951295
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that they were mis-sold a mortgage by Yorkshire Building Society
(trading as Norwich & Peterborough Building Society). Theyre also unhappy because they
feel theyve been charged an unfairly high rate of interest over the years and will have to pay
an Early Repayment Charge (ERC) to exit their current deal.
What happened
In 2007 Mr and Mrs H took out a mortgage with Norwich & Peterborough Building Society
(N&P). They borrowed £120,000 on a repayment basis over a term of 20 years. Their
interest rate was fixed at 5.68% for the duration of the mortgage term.
In 2011 Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) merged with N&P.
In September 2020 Mr and Mrs H complained to N&P about how their mortgage was sold.
They gave several reasons why they thought N&P had sold them an unsuitable mortgage 
and they consider themselves to be mortgage prisoners as a result of N&Ps actions.
N&P responded to say that Mr and Mrs Hs complaint about how the mortgage was sold had
been brought too late and outside the time limits set by the financial regulator. 
Unhappy with N&Ps response, Mr and Mrs H brought their complaint to our service. An
investigator looked into things. Mr and Mrs H were vague around the point of them being 
mortgage prisoners, so the investigator asked them to elaborate. Mr and Mrs H confirmed 
they felt this way because theyre unhappy with the fixed interest rate theyve been paying 
over the years, and they must pay ERC to switch rates or remortgage with a different lender. 
The investigator considered the relevant time limits for bringing a complaint and explained 
why we could only look into part of Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ultimately, she thought 
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint about how the mortgage was sold had been brought too late but 
that our service could consider part of the complaint about what Mr and Mrs H refer to as 
being mortgage prisoners.
Our investigator looked into that part of the complaint and didnt uphold it. In summary she 
said that under Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage terms, N&P could apply the ERC if they chose to 
exit their fixed rate deal early. Mr and Mrs H remained unhappy and asked for the case to be 
decided by an ombudsman.
It was unclear whether Mr and Mrs H had accepted the investigators opinion in relation to 
the part of their complaint that we can and cant consider. As such, before proceeding to 
consider the merits of this complaint, I issued a decision setting out which parts of 
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint our service has the power to consider.
In Summary I said that Mr and Mrs Hs complaint about how the mortgage had been sold, 
including the mortgage product they were advised to take in 2007, had been brought too 
late. Our service could consider Mr and Mrs Hs complaint about their inability to obtain a 
new product with N&P from September 2014 to September 2020 and the ERC applicable to 
exit their mortgage early. Ill now issue my decision on this part of the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, as some of it is here, I reach my decision
on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to have happened, in
light of the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ive considered the events that occurred during the six-year period leading up to 
Mr and Mrs H making their complaint. As Ive explained, our powers are limited as such.
During that time, Ive seen no evidence from the contact notes provided, that Mr and Mrs H 
sought a new interest rate that was subsequently refused by N&P. Mr and Mrs H also say 
that they didnt try re-mortgaging with a different lender because of the ERC applicable. 
These circumstances dont make them mortgage prisoners, Ill explain why.
The FCA defines mortgage prisoners as: 
borrowers who are up to date with their payments but cannot switch to a 
different lender or product when it might benefit them to do so. This is because 
they have loan and/or borrower characteristics that are outside current lender 
risk appetite.
The only thing that prevented Mr and Mrs H switching deals or moving their mortgage to a 
different lender during the period in question, is the ERC theyd need to pay to do so. Ive 
considered whether if its fair for N&P to apply an ERC in these circumstances
N&P says that from February 2019 customers seeking to make a variation to their mortgage 
were unable to proceed with this via the N&P brand. They were therefore given the option of 
re-mortgaging with YBS to achieve their needs. In circumstances relating to a simple product 
switch an ERC would still apply.
Due to the time thats passed since Mr and Mrs H took their mortgage with N&P in 2007, 
there is limited information available from the time of sale. I dont consider this to be unusual 
in the circumstances, given this mortgage was taken over 15 years ago. More specifically 
neither party has been able to provide me with a copy of the mortgage offer that would have 
been issued to Mr and Mrs H in 2007. In the absence of such information I must consider 
what I think most likely happened at the time of sale. 
N&P has been able to confirm the terms of Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage. It says that in 2007 
Mr and Mrs H borrowed £120,000 on a repayment basis over a term of 20 years. Their
interest rate was fixed at 5.68% for the duration of the mortgage term. If they are to redeem 
their mortgage before 31 July 2027 an ERC of 6% would be applicable on the amount 
repaid.  Mr and Mrs H dont dispute agreeing to those terms, so Im persuaded they were 
aware of the mortgage terms theyd signed up to. 
Whilst there is limited information available from the time of sale, I have seen copies of the 
annual mortgage statements sent to Mr and Mrs H over the years. Those statements say 
that an ERC may be applicable if Mr and Mrs H overpay more than their mortgage terms 
allow, or they switch mortgage product or lender during a special rate period (e.g. while 
theyre on a fixed or tracker interest rate). As such Ive seen nothing that persuades me Mr and Mrs H didnt agree their mortgage on 
those terms. So, I dont consider it unfair or unreasonable for N&P to apply and ERC if 
Mr and Mrs H were to redeem their mortgage early, Ill explain why.
Under the relevant rules set out in the Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business 
(MCOB) sourcebook, lenders are entitled to apply an ERC. I think its more likely that the 
ERC terms would have been set out clearly and prominently in the mortgage offer, which 
Mr and Mrs H accepted when they took out the mortgage.
When a lender offers a fixed rate mortgage product, both the lender and borrower are tied
into the fixed rate for the duration of the term. The ERC reflects the pre-estimated costs a
lender incurs across a range of mortgages where the borrower redeems the mortgage within
the benefit period. 
An ERC isnt (and isnt intended or expected by the regulator to be) reflective of the loss on 
redemption of the individual mortgage. As such, lenders arent expected to accept 
customers proposals to alter the mortgage contract terms due to change in circumstances.
The ERC forms part of the contract Mr and Mrs H have with N&P, so I dont find it unfair or 
unreasonable for N&P to apply an ERC and this does not make them mortgage prisoners as 
theyve described. 
Since raising their complaint with N&P and subsequently our service, Mr and Mrs H have 
raised new complaint points, that didnt form part of their initial complaint in 2020. They say 
that theyve been refused a new interest rate with N&P specifically because of their prior 
IVA. They also say theyre unhappy about their experiences during their recent attempt to 
port their mortgage.
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont find that N&P have treated Mr and Mrs H unfairly for 
the reasons theyve described when making their complaint in 2020. If Mr and Mrs are 
unhappy about recent events that have occurred since making this complaint, they will need 
to raise this first with N&P and give it an opportunity to respond to the complaint before our 
service can look into things. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman