DRN-3234577
The complaint
Miss M complains about the support she has received from Close Brothers Limited in 
relation to the conditional sale agreement she has with it.
What happened
In February 2020 Miss M entered into a conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers for a 
used car. The agreement was meant to last for 60 months and Miss M agreed to make 
repayments of £214.14 per month.
Miss M tells us that from April 2020 onwards she was experiencing financial difficulties due 
to the Covid-19 pandemic. She suggests she kept Close Brothers informed about her 
financial situation as matters developed. First she became unemployed, thereafter she found 
a new job but on different conditions. Specifically, her income was not guaranteed in her new 
job. As a result, she struggled with her monthly payments. Miss M suggests that Close 
Brothers did not offer her appropriate support during this time neither did it keep in contact 
with her as it should have done. 
Close Brothers suggests that it did offer appropriate support and kept Miss M up to date with 
what was happening with her account at every stage. It relies on its internal records which 
we have seen. Specifically, it tells us the first time it heard that Miss M might have imminent 
money troubles was when she called it March 2020 to ask it what would happen if she could 
not make her repayments in the near future. She told it she was currently still in work but that 
might change and if it did she might struggle to make some future repayments. Although she 
indicated she would be able to make her April repayment. At this point Close Brothers told 
her that it did not know yet what guidance was likely going to be in place in April but 
suggested she call it in April if she found her employment status was going to change due to 
the pandemic and as a result shed struggle to make her contractual repayments.
On 10 April 2020 Miss M contacted Close Brothers by email, in which she told it the 
following. Shed been laid-off and wanted a temporary repayment arrangement until further 
notice. She also asked it what was the lowest repayments you can offer? Miss M followed 
up her email by chasing Close Brothers by email and phone when she got no response at 
first. 
On 20 April, Miss M spoke to Close Brothers. She explained again that she had been laid-off 
and asked for a three months payment deferral. Instead, Close Brothers responded by 
offering Miss M 30 days breathing space. This meant shed not have to make her next 
repayment, that is the May repayment. Moreover, during this period, it appears it agreed not 
to chase for payment nor to mark her repayments as being late. But it did tell her system 
letters would be sent. Close Brothers also agreed that a member of its collections team 
would call her back before the next payment date which was in early June. However, 
subsequently, Close Brothers internal notes indicate that the payment deferral was 
extended to 1 July which it told Miss M about. 
On 17th June, Miss M called Close Brothers in response to a missed call. It seems she asked 
what her options were as she was due to come out of the payment deferral period in July. 
Miss M told Close Brothers that she was not sure about what was happening with her job. 
Close Brothers talked about offering a further payment deferral, but Miss M indicated that 
she was not minded to take this option as she did not want large arrears and interest 
building up. Miss M indicated shed have a better idea about what was happening with work 
by the end of the day. The parties agreed to speak again once Miss M knew what was likely 
going to happen with her job. The following day Miss M rang Close Brothers to update it. 
She told it that she wanted to clear her arrears as soon as she could, therefore she made a 
one-off payment to begin to clear the arrears.  She said she would be in touch to clear the 
rest.
On 5 August Miss M got in touch with Close Brothers. She let it know shed got a new job, 
but she wasnt guaranteed an income because it was a zero-hours contract. Nonetheless, 
she provided Close Brothers with income and expenditure info. As a result of this, they 
agreed shed make reduced payments for three months and then there would be a review. 
Miss M made the reduced payments for September, October, November.
In December 2020 Close Brothers made six separate attempts to speak to Miss M by phone 
before they got to talk. When they did talk Miss M indicated that she was unable to agree to 
make full repayments at this point due to her job situation which was still being impacted by 
the pandemic. But shed know more in January 2021. They agreed to catch up in January 
2021. Miss M made a reduced payment for January 2021.
Between early January 2021 and mid-February 2021 Close Brothers made 12 attempts by 
phone to contact Miss M. Then in mid-February they spoke. Miss M explained her situation 
had not changed. Her work and therefore her income was not guaranteed. She was not able 
to say if she would be able to make the reduced payment for March at this point, Instead she 
wanted to continue on the basis of making reduced payments, as and when she could, until 
such time as she could go back to making the full monthly payments and catch up on the 
arrears. She was unable to say when her financial situation would change. Close Brothers 
did not agree to Miss Ms proposal and told her it would be back in touch by the end of the 
week.
After the call in mid-February, Close Brothers made eight attempts to contact Miss M by 
phone, none were successful. Close Brothers reviewed Miss Ms account, it concluded it 
needed to talk to Miss M about termination of the agreement and the options for this. Close 
Brothers sent a pre-termination letter in April 2021.
Throughout the period when Miss M had been experiencing financial difficulties due to the 
pandemic Close Brothers had sent information to her about her arrears and the action it 
might take.
Miss M contacted Close Brothers by phone in April 2021. She had received the pre-
termination letter. Miss M suggested she had been under the impression someone from 
Close Brothers was going to contact her to set up a repayment plan. However, she also 
mentioned that she would not have been able to make the repayments anyway. Miss M 
made it clear that she wanted to retain the car. She suggested Close Brothers had not tried 
to contact her since January 2021. Close Brothers indicated that Miss M keeping the car was 
no longer an option and went through the termination options. Subsequently Close Brothers 
unliterally terminated the agreement and repossessed the car.
Dissatisfied Miss M came to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Miss Ms complaint. Our investigator did not recommend 
that Miss Ms complaint should be upheld.
Close Brothers appeared to accept this recommendation, Miss M did not. In brief, she 
suggested the only communications she had received from Close Brothers were letters 
about defaulting her account. She suggested that Close Brothers should have tried to 
contact her about repayment options via email or text if it couldnt reach her by phone. She 
suggested it was not appropriate to contact her by phone given she worked long shifts. In 
any event, she suggested Close Brothers had not tried to contact her by phone despite what 
it said. Miss M also thought it was significant that, according to her, the only written communication shed received was information about her agreement being in default. Later 
Miss M complained that Close Brothers is trying to charge her for further costs related to the 
termination of the agreement and it had not fully explained her termination options to her.
Miss M asked that an ombudsman take a fresh look at her complaint
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I would seem that Miss Ms money troubles all began when she was furloughed then lost her 
job and then got a new job on a zero-hours contract. This led to a very significant and long-
lasting change in her financial circumstances. All this came about through no fault of her 
own, rather it was as a result of the pandemic. 
Close Brothers is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA). Starting in April 
2020, in response the pandemic the FCA issued several sets of finalised guidance for 
regulated companies who provided motor finance. The guidance set out a range of 
measures to provide consumers in the motor finance sector with temporary support in the 
light of the exceptional circumstances arising out of pandemic. The guidance was intended 
to provide help to those who might be having temporary difficulty in making their finance 
repayments due to a loss of or reduction in their income due to the pandemic. The first set of 
guidance came into force in late April 2020. 
However even before the guidance came into force in late April 2020 the FCA had consulted 
widely with finance companies and had indicated what approach it was likely to expect 
finance companies to take. So, I have no doubt that when Miss M approached Close 
Brothers on 10 and 20 April 2020, it was or ought reasonably to have been aware of the 
provisions of the April 2020 guidance. In addition, I think it ought also have been reasonably 
aware that this was likely a very anxious time for Miss M and ought to have taken that on 
board too.
The April 2020 guidance provides that consumers in Miss Ms situation ought to have been 
offered a three month payment deferral provided it was in her best interest. I am not saying 
that Close Brothers had to offer the three month payment deferral before the guidance came 
into force. But given what it likely knew about the guidance, I think it would have been fair 
and reasonable to tell Miss M about the impending arrival of the guidance and tell her it 
would speak to her after this. Because a few days after speaking to Miss M it would have 
been obliged to consider offering her the 3 months payment deferral she asked for on 20 
April. I think that it is likely that would have given Miss M some much needed peace of mind 
at a challenging and unprecedented time.That said it appears that in the end Miss M did get a three month payment deferral. When 
that came to end it seems Miss M was not in a position to start making her full contractual 
repayments. In these circumstances, bearing in mind the relevant guidance, Close Brothers 
could have offered Miss M a further full payment deferral. It did not. However, given that 
Miss M wanted to start paying down the debt as quickly as she could I am not persuaded 
that she would have accepted this option, in any event. Instead the parties agreed to 
reduced payments and this arrangement was meant to continue for three months and then 
be reviewed.
The difficulty is that from early August 2020 Miss M had a zero-hours contract role. This 
meant that the amount of her income and indeed any income at all, was not guaranteed. 
This was a significant change from her situation when she entered into the contract when 
she had a guaranteed regular salary. Moreover, there seemed to be no prospect of Miss M 
changing role again, in the near future for a role with a guaranteed salary. So, this change in 
her circumstances was not, it seems, temporary.
The thrust of Miss Ms complaint seems to be that Close Brothers did not offer her 
appropriate support because it did not accept her proposal to keep on making reduced 
payments on an ad hoc basis.  I can well understand why she suggested to Close Brothers 
that the best she could do was make reduced payments as and when she could. However, 
essentially she was asking Close Brothers to enter into an open-ended repayment plan 
under which it had to accept that from month to month she might of might not be able to 
make repayments. This meant she would inevitably have continued to build up substantial 
arrears. That just was not in her best interest. 
Even if she kept to the plan given that her reduced repayments were about a third of her 
contractual payments it would have meant broadly speaking her 60 month agreement would 
have turned into a 180 month agreement (15 years) and thats even before she looked to 
clear the arrears. I am not persuaded that anything in the relevant guidance obliged Close 
Brothers to offer this. It follows I dont find that Close Brothers ought reasonably to have 
accepted this proposal. Moreover, Miss M was not able to stick to the repayment plan as 
demonstrated by her payment history after January 2021. 
For all of these reasons, it follows that I dont agree that Close Brothers failed to offer 
appropriate support to Miss M in this period of time when she was trying to keep the car.
Further, given that Miss M had no realistic prospect of returning to her full contractual 
payments and no realistic prospect of keeping to the reduced repayment plan, I am satisfied 
that Close Brothers acted fairly and reasonably in looking to terminate the agreement. 
However, Miss M also now complains that the termination options were not clearly explained 
to her and she therefore did not understand the implications of all the termination options. 
This is a new issue. It was not raised by Miss M in her original complaint. Neither did Close 
Brothers deal with this issue in its final response. Therefore, I have no power to deal with this 
issue in this decision. I am not saying though that Miss M cannot pursue this further if she 
wants to do that. Rather, I am just saying she must first raise a complaint about it directly 
with Close Brothers.
Miss M complains that Close Brothers did not keep her informed after January 2021, 
specifically about its response to her proposal that they continue with an open-ended 
reduced payment plan. But it seems she also accepts they did talk to each other in mid-
February. Moreover, Close Brothers records show the attempts it made to get in contact 
with her after the mid-February phone call. I have no reason to doubt these records. It 
follows that I dont accept that it failed to try to contact her. 
I note Miss Ms point that if it had not been able to get through to her by phone it could have 
tried other methods. That said, I think Close Brothers made it clear that the proposal was not 
accepted. Therefore, it would have been clear that it would be following this up and given its 
previous behaviour it was likely to call her. In the past Miss M had been able to take phone calls. I appreciate she was working long shifts so that may have meant she could not always 
answer the phone. But I have not seen anything that satisfies me she told Close Brothers 
this at the time.
For all of these reasons I am satisfied that Close Brothers did take reasonable steps to 
contact Miss M after January 2021.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman