DRN-3898775
The complaint
Mr H complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua (NewDay) was irresponsible when it
increased his credit limit and didnt treat him fairly when he complained about some of the
transactions on his account.
What happened
NewDay opened a credit card account for Mr H in December 2019 with a credit limit of £450.
This type of credit was an open-ended or running account facility. NewDay subsequently
increased Mr Hs credit limit to £650 in April 2020; £1,650 in August 2020; £2,650 in January
2021 and £3,650 in May 2021.
Mr H had reached his credit limit in August 2021 and in September the balance on the card
was over £6,000. I understand the account has now been closed and NewDay says Mr H is
liable to pay the outstanding balance.
Mr H said that NewDay shouldnt have increased his limit above £650 as hes on a low wage
and his hours arent guaranteed. He said that NewDay didnt treat him fairly when he
complained about transactions on his account. Mr H also said that NewDay should have had
regard to what hed told it about his mental health conditions and how these impact on his
ability to remember and his impulsiveness.
NewDay didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. It said that the credit limit increases were carried
out correctly and in line with its lending policy - adequate checks were completed to ensure
each increase was affordable, which included reviewing information provided by Mr H and
information from credit reference agencies. NewDay said that it sent Mr H a letter that
allowed him 40 days to opt out of each increase prior to it taking place and that he didnt
get in touch.
In its final response to his complaint in November 2021, NewDay said that if Mr H had
struggled to understand any of the information it sent that he could have reached out to its
customer service department who would have better explained it to him. NewDay didnt
comment on Mr Hs issue with some of the transactions on his account, but said that the
account was now closed as Mr H felt the credit was unaffordable.
Mr H brought his complaint to us. Our investigator assessed the complaint and found that
NewDay should have looked into Mr Hs circumstances in more depth before increasing his
credit limit twice in 2021, but wouldnt have found enough of concern regarding his finances
to decline to lend to him. However, our investigator also found that NewDay had become
aware in October 2020 of Mr Hs mental health conditions and the impact these had on his
ability to remember and his ability to manage his spending. They concluded that NewDay
should not have offered Mr Hs credit limit increases in 2021 because of this.
In order to put things right for Mr H our investigator recommended that NewDay refund any
charges applied to Mr Hs account since January 2021 and any interest applied to spending
above the existing credit limit. They also recommended that NewDay pay Mr H £300 in
recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused to him by its failure to engage with his
mental health conditions or make reasonable adjustments to support him in making
informed decisions.
NewDay agreed with our investigators conclusions and recommendations. It calculated a
refund of interest as £246. Mr H agreed with our investigators conclusions but not their
recommendation of how to put things right for him. Mr H doesnt feel its fair that he should
be held liable for the account balance, given his mental health conditions, and that he didnt
benefit from the money spent.
The complaint came to me, as an ombudsman, to review and resolve. I issued a provisional 
decision on the 15 December 2022 explaining why I thought Mr Hs complaint should be 
upheld in part and setting out my proposals for what needed to happen to put things right for 
him. I allowed time for both parties to comment on what Id said or provide any new 
information they wished me to consider. Mr H agreed with my provisional decision and 
redress proposals, and NewDay responded to say that it had no comment or further 
information to provide.
This is my final decision on the matter and will be legally binding should Mr H choose to 
accept it. I understand that Mr H is complaining about the increases to his credit limit from 
and including August 2020, so I havent looked into whether or not NewDay got anything 
wrong when it opened the account for Mr H or when increased his initial credit limit to £650 
in April 2020.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered everything, and having no new information or comment to consider, 
Ive found no reason to depart from my provisional conclusions. Ill set out my reasons again 
for upholding Mr Hs complaint in this final decision. I appreciate that this outcome will be 
very disappointing for NewDay and I hope the following clearly explains how Ive reached my 
conclusions.
As mentioned in my provisional decision, when deciding how this complaint should be 
resolved Ive had regard to the regulators rules and guidance on responsible lending (set 
out in its consumer credit handbook  CONC) which lenders, such as NewDay, need to
abide by. NewDay will be aware of these, and our approach to this type of lending is set
out on our website, so I wont refer to the regulations in detail here but will summarise
them and refer to them where appropriate.
The regulations state that before increasing the limit on Mr Hs credit card, NewDay needed
to check that he could afford to meet his repayments out of his usual means, within a
reasonable period of time, without having to borrow further and without experiencing
financial difficulty or other adverse consequences. The checks NewDay carried out needed
to be proportionate to the nature of the credit - for example, a higher amount of credit might
require a higher level of checking before agreeing to lend. The checks also needed to take
into account Mr Hs circumstances  for example, his income or the amount of debt he
already had, and any signs of financial difficulty.
The overarching requirement was that NewDay needed to pay due regard to Mr Hs interests
and treat him fairly. CONC 2.2.2G(1) gave an example of contravening this as targeting
customers with regulated credit agreements which are unsuitable for them by virtue of their
indebtedness, poor credit history, age, health, disability or any other reason. NewDay also
needed to provide Mr H with clear, fair and not misleading information in order to help himmake informed decisions about his account.
The regulations also state that if a business knows, or ought to reasonably suspect, that
someones ability to make financial decisions might be constrained then it needs to take
extra care in deciding whether or not to lend to them. A business shouldnt automatically
decline credit, but it does need to carefully weigh up a persons need for credit against the
potential harm it might cause them. A lender should take particular care that a person is not
provided with credit which it knows, or reasonably believes, to be unsuitable to their needs,
even where the credit would be affordable, given their individual circumstances and intended
use of the credit.
So the questions Ive considered include whether or not NewDay carried out a proportionate
affordability check each time it increased Mr Hs credit limit? If not, what would a
proportionate check have shown? Did NewDay treat Mr H fairly and with due regard to his
interests when it offered the increases? Did it provide him with clear, fair and not misleading
information about his account? Did it take into consideration Mr Hs mental health conditions
and how these might impact on his ability to manage his account?
The credit increase in August 2020
Ill begin with Mr Hs individual circumstances. Mr H shared with us and NewDay that he has
difficulty remembering and can be impulsive. He explained that this can cause him problems
with his finances. For example, Mr H didnt always recognise transactions on his account.
When he spoke to NewDay about transactions he didnt recognise, he explained that he
might have made them but he couldnt remember doing so. Mr H shared a letter with us from
his local adult learning disabilities team who support him. They told us that Mr H has a
diagnosis of two conditions and is in receipt of state benefits. They explained that Mr H
experiences difficulties with his impulsivity or compulsive behaviours and may have felt that
this credit would support him without considering the consequences of the debt accruing.
Mr H told NewDay about his particular circumstances in October 2020. So it knew about
these before increasing his credit limits in 2021 but not before the August 2020 increase.
Leaving aside for the moment the question of whether or not NewDay ought to have
suspected before being told that Mr Hs capacity for making financial decisions might be
constrained in some way, NewDay needed to carry out an appropriate check on his finances
to ensure that hed be able to repay the credit within a reasonable time without difficulty
when it increased Mr Hs credit limit in August 2020.
NewDay said that before offering this increase it asked Mr H about his income and estimated
his expenses. It checked his credit file to see what he owed elsewhere and how he was
managing that. It also considered how hed been using his account up to this point. NewDay
said that it didnt find anything in this information that concerned it and so it offered Mr H an
increase in his credit limit from £650 to £1,650.
Mr H told NewDay that his annual income was £20,000 when he opened the account in
December 2019. NewDay could see from credit file information that Mr H owed £1,000
elsewhere and had £2,700 of debt in default, which was over three years old. I dont know if
there had been any change to these circumstances by August 2020.
Mr H had been making more than the minimum payment on his card and hadnt missed any
payments. However, Ive noticed that although Mr H had been making more than the
minimum payment each month, he had been spending as much again, more than the credit
limit in several months. The account statements show that Mr H was increasingly spending
his credit on online game purchases. His June statement shows almost 30 transactions
amounting to over £600.The contact notes show that Mr H enquired about eligibility for a credit increase in early April
and NewDay explained how the automatic credit limit increases were decided and directed
him to the relevant feature in its app. Ive also noticed in the customer records that Mr H had
requested and been declined for a credit limit increase in April, May, June and July 2020,
sometimes several times in the month. He had been accepted for a credit limit increase to
£650 in late April, and yet continued to request increases.
I think NewDay ought to have looked into Mr Hs finances in more depth before increasing
his credit limit in August 2020, given the above context and that it was increasing his
available credit by a significant amount to £1,650 just four months after the previous
increase. I think it would have been appropriate for it to have verified what Mr H had said
about his income and understood his expenses. NewDay said that it used an online credit
reference agency tool to sense-check what Mr H had said about his income and estimate his
expenses. It hasnt provided me with this information, beyond affordability scores. 
Altogether, I dont think NewDay did enough in this instance.
Mr H provided us with his bank statements from the time. To be clear, Im not suggesting this
is the information NewDay ought to have relied on but I think its reasonable for me to use
this to get an idea of what NewDay might have learnt through further checks.
As Mr H and his support team told us, Mr H relies on state benefits. In August 2020, he was
in receipt of weekly support for his living costs and a monthly personal independence
payment. Mr H also had a weekly wage of less than £100. He explained that he was on a
zero hours contract and I can see that his wages varied. Altogether, Mr H received about
£1,800 a month. However, as £600 of this was to support him with the extra costs of having
long-term health conditions and wasnt means tested, I dont think it would be reasonable to
automatically assume that this money was available to him to repay this credit.
Mr H was spending about £400 on food in the months before this increase. His other costs
include about £100 on bills and less than £100 on payments for another credit card. I dont
have any information about Mr Hs rent or other housing costs, so I havent concluded that 
the credit would have been unaffordable for him.
Ive concluded that NewDay would still have offered Mr H a credit increase at this point, even 
if it had more information about his finances. It seems he would have enough left over after
meeting his existing commitments and living costs to be able to repay the credit without
difficulty, even considering the possibility that some of his income wasnt available for debt
repayment.
I have also considered whether the credit was obviously unsuitable for Mr H and whether
NewDay made a fair lending decision. I dont think there were enough indications at this
point that Mr Hs spending patterns were causing him harm, for example he didnt appear to
be overindebted or having difficulty managing his existing debt. NewDay didnt know about
Mr Hs health conditions at this point and I havent seen anything which makes me think they
ought reasonably to have known. Without this context, I dont think NewDay would have
declined to lend to Mr H on the basis that the credit would have been unsuitable. 
Altogether, Ive concluded that NewDay wasnt irresponsible when it increased Mr Hs credit 
limit on this occasion.
The credit limit increases in January and May 2021
Mr Hs August 2020 account statement showed £875 of new purchases, including food and
travel. His early September 2020 account statement showed £1,000 of new purchases,including food, travel, utility and credit card bills. 37 transactions relate to purchases made
via a social network application (in-app purchases) amounting to £800.
On 22 September Mr H called NewDay to query several transactions made on the
20 September relating to this app. There were at least 27 in-app transactions amounting to
£860 in September showing on Mr Hs statement. NewDay refunded the transactions made
on the 20 September only, £260 in total.
On 16 October Mr H called NewDay and said that he believed hed had fraudulent
transactions on his account. He told NewDay that he suffered from memory and mental
health problems, and that he could have made these transactions but he didnt remember.
From the information Ive seen, nothing further happened regarding these in-app purchases.
There is nothing showing on the contact notes about the credit limit on Mr Hs card in
January 2021 but the account history and statements show that NewDay increased his limit
by £1,000 to £2,650.
At this time, NewDay not only knew about Mr Hs health conditions but had experienced how
these might impact on his ability to make decisions about his finances. As mentioned, Mr H
had continued to apply for credit limit increases despite having had a conversation about
how eligibility for limit increases was decided; Mr H didnt know whether or not hed carried
out some of his account transactions; and NewDay could also see at this point that Mr H had
a pattern of spending which involved using credit for his living costs and increasingly
frequent purchases on social networking apps.
NewDay said in its final response to Mr H about his complaint that if he hadnt understood
information it had provided then he could have contacted its customer care team to help him.
However, this isnt the only way in which a persons ability to make informed financial
decisions might be constrained. The regulations state that whether or not a person has the
ability to understand, remember, and weigh up relevant information will determine whether
they are able to make a responsible borrowing decision based on that information.
I think NewDay should have reasonably known at that point that Mr H was not in a position
to be able to make a responsible borrowing decision about this credit limit increase because
it seems his ability to understand, remember and weigh up the information were impacted by
his mental health conditions. I think it ought to have seen that, irrespective of whether Mr H
could afford to repay further credit, it was unsuitable for him. 
Altogether, Ive concluded that NewDay didnt treat Mr H fairly and with due regard to his 
interests when it increased his limit from £1,650 to £2,650 in January 2021.
Mr H made no new purchases on his account from November 2020 until March 2021. Mr Hs
April statement shows 26 in-app transactions amounting to £2,430. These related to the
same social network application that Mr H had previously queried. Mr H called NewDay on
12 April 2021 to say that there were unrecognised transactions on his account. He asked to
be put through to a disabilities department and it seems was transferred to customer care
and then on to fraud as he was disputing transactions on his account. These transactions
were refunded.
Mr H was in touch with NewDay several times in April 2021  he didnt think all the disputed
transactions had been refunded and he wasnt initially happy to pay the minimum payment
shown on his statement as this had been calculated on the balance prior to the transactions
being refunded. On one occasion he wanted to discuss the (fraud) declaration form, on
another he asked for a second form to be sent to him because there was nowhere for him to
sign on the form hed been sent.In mid-May Mr H was offered another credit limit increase of £1,000 to £3,650. For the same
reasons as before, Ive concluded that NewDay didnt treat Mr H fairly or with due regard to 
his interests when it offered him this increase.
What happened after this
Mr H continued spending on his card in May 2021 with almost £1,800 new purchases,
including food, transport and bills, and the same in June. Mr H was charged an overlimit fee
that month. In July there were almost £200 of payments made to a social network streaming
application, including foreign exchange fees.
In August 2021 it seems the payments that had been refunded to Mr Hs account in April
were presented again on appeal from the merchant. NewDay reviewed these and found that
Mr H was liable for them, and recharged them to his account taking his balance up to
£6,058.
Mr H wasnt happy with this outcome and complained. NewDay reviewed the case and didnt
find in Mr Hs favour. In October 2021, Mr H explained that it had been dealt with as fraud by
mistake and he now remembers making these purchase. The issue was that he hadnt
received the goods hed paid for, for example access to exclusive events, merchandise and
in-app gifts. Mr H was told that it was too late to make this complaint as more than 120 days
had passed since the purchases were made in March.
Mr H then complained that the account was unaffordable and that he hadnt been treated
fairly.
Putting things right
Ive found that NewDay was irresponsible when it increased the credit limit on Mr Hs
account beyond £1,650 in January 2021. Our investigator concluded that in order to put
things right for Mr H NewDay should refund interest and charges on credit spent above the
existing credit limit. This is because our usual approach to putting things right is to try and
return a person to the position they were in had everything gone as it should have. When an
irresponsible lending decision has been made this usually involves refunding any money a
borrower has paid for the credit but leaving them to repay the money borrowed, as theyve
had the use of it.
In this case, however, I dont agree that this approach puts Mr H back into the position he
was in before this credit was granted. Before NewDay increased Mr Hs credit limit in
January 2021, his balance was just over £1,200 and hed stopped spending on the account.
Its not straightforward to come to a view as to what might have happened had NewDay left
the limit as it was. Mr H might have continued to clear down the balance and not made any
new purchases. He might have made new purchases up to this limit again, and continued to
use the card in this way. NewDay might have stepped in and taken action to limit the amount
or type of transactions Mr H was making, given its obligation to monitor his account and take
action where there are signs of actual or possible financial difficulties (CONC 6.7.3A-R). It
might have taken a different approach to investigating particular transactions in the light of
Mr Hs health conditions in order to assist him with making decisions about his account and
to mitigate any risks to him (CONC 2.10.12G).
What did happen is that Mr H spent almost £2,500 on in-app purchases in March 2021 and
when NewDay refunded these Mr H spent the money again, and then spent the additional
money he was offered through a second credit limit increase in July. The account reached a
balance of over £3,600 by August, and now stands at over £6,000 as the refunded 
transactions were re-presented. I understand that Mr H has repaid about £2,300 in total in2021.
In deciding on a fair and reasonable resolution, Ive had regard to CONC Chapter 7 which
sets out rules and guidance for businesses around debt recovery. These state that a
business must suspend the pursuit of recovery of a debt from someone when it has been
notified that the person might not have the mental capacity to make relevant decisions about
the management of their debt or engage in the debt recovery process. Furthermore,
creditors should consider writing off debts where a borrower lacked the mental capacity to
make the relevant financial decision at the time that he entered the credit agreement with the
creditor. The legal position in England and Wales is that a contract is voidable where the
creditor knew of the incapacity or must be taken to have known of it.1
In this case, where Ive found that Mr H didnt have the capacity to make informed decisions
about the credit increases in 2021, and the credit was likely to be unsuitable for him and
have harmful consequences, I think the fair and reasonable thing to do here is for NewDay
to write off this debt and report the account as settled on Mr Hs credit file.
Our investigator recommended that NewDay pay Mr H compensation in recognition of the
distress and inconvenience this matter caused him. I have considered this when making my 
decision. However, I have decided that it wouldnt be appropriate in this case to  direct 
NewDay to pay Mr H an additional award as I feel writing off the balance is a fair resolution.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, I am upholding Mr Hs complaint in part about NewDay Ltd
trading as Aqua and it now needs to put things right for him as Ive set out.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman
1 CONC 7.10.1R referencing Para 7.13 of the Irresponsible Lending Guidance produced by the
previous regulator, The Office of Fair Trading