DRN-1818825
 
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy with how Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited has offered 
to settle a claim made her pet insurance policy. She is also concerned that the policy was 
mis-sold to her.
What happened
In April 2019 Mrs H made a claim under her pet insurance policy, after her dog 
needed veterinary treatment. Mrs H asked Red Sands if there was a limit on the fees it 
would pay out for overnight hospital stays whilst her dog was poorly. Red Sands told her this 
was capped at £100 a night. Mrs H didnt feel this was fair. She said this limit wasnt made 
clear in her policy documents. And she said she thought the policy had been mis-sold to her.
Red Sands said the terms and conditions around cover for vet fees was made clear in Mrs 
Hs policy documents. It said it was entitled to provide settlement for reasonable vet costs 
only. And it said it based what was a reasonable cost on the national average for 
fees charged at the time of the claim.
But, Red Sands went on to say any issue with potentially excessive vet fees didnt have 
a factor in the way it accepted and settled Mrs Hs claim. Instead, it said there was a 
condition limit on the policy  which said that Mrs H was only able to claim a maximum of 
£2,000 per condition, per policy year, for vet fees. And, it said that an excess and co-
payment had to be deducted from this amount. It provided a breakdown of the claims 
settlement as follows;
Claim amount - £3,004.
Condition limit - £2,000
Less policy excess; £99
Less; 20% co-payment
Settlement to be paid; £1,520.
 
It said Mrs Hs policy documents made it clear this was the way the excess, and a co- 
payment would be applied to Mrs Hs claim. Mrs H remained in disagreement with Red 
Sands position. So, she referred her complaint to this service for an independent review.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and thought Red Sands had acted unfairly. She said 
she wouldnt have expected the excess payable, or the co-payment, to have been deducted 
from the condition limit. This was because Mrs H could then never claim for the £2,000 the 
policy said it offered.
Our investigator also said she didnt think the information on overnight hospital fees had 
been unclear or that the policy had been mis-sold in this respect.Red Sands didnt agree. It said the terms and conditions in respect of the excess and co-
payment were made clear in Mrs Hs policy documentation.
Given the above, Mrs Hs complaint has been referred to me to decide.
I sent my provisional decision on this complaint to both parties. In this I said;
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending on upholding this complaint in part. Ive explained my 
reasoning for this below.
Mrs H took out a prime time limit policy with Red Sands, to provide cover for her dog. 
The policy provided cover for vet fees  up to a condition limit of £2,000. This meant Mrs H 
could claim up to a maximum of £2,000 in vet fees for each condition she needed to claim 
for, during the relevant policy year.
The policy year also had an excess payment of £99. And because Mrs Hs dog was 
over eight years old a 20% co-payment was payable on every claim. Both parties accept 
these terms of the policy. So, I havent considered this any further.
But Mrs H feels the policy was mis-sold to her, because the limits of the policy werent 
made clear to her. So, Ive needed to think about whether the information Mrs H was 
provided with when taking out the policy was clear, fair and not misleading. And, therefore, 
whether the settlement of £1,520 Red Sands has offered is fair.
Ive listened to the call between Mrs H and Red Sands in April 2019. During this call, Mrs 
H asked about the limits on the policy, noting she wasnt entirely clear on this. Mrs H said 
she knew she had a condition limit of £2,000 on her policy. But when talking another 
advisor recently she has been told she would actually only be able to receive an amount 
of approximately £1,500 under the policy. And she highlighted she wasnt aware of that.
The adviser on the phone noted there was an excess and co-payment that would 
be deducted from the £2,000 condition limit. And that there was also a cap on overnight 
hospital stays.
And Mrs H raised her concerns about this she said she wasnt told that overnight 
stays would be capped at £100 per night. She was just made aware of the condition limit 
of £2,000.
Mrs Hs policy does explain reasonable costs will be paid for hospital stays. So, it 
doesnt detail a particular figure the policy would provide cover for in this respect. The 
adviser explained this was because what was reasonable could change. I do understand 
Mrs Hs concerns about this  but Im aware what might be reasonable is likely to differ over 
time and from case to case. So, I dont think Red Sands failed to provide key information to 
Mrs H here.
I also dont think this ultimately made a difference to Mrs H. Mrs H had the benefit of 
cover for her dog since she first took the policy out in 2013. And the policy does provide 
cover for a number of things, including vet fees. Mrs H has the benefit of the policy in respect 
of this claim too.But I do think she was provided with mis-leading information about the excess and co-
payment she would need to pay. And I think this means the settlement Red Sands 
has offered Mrs H needs to be increased.
Mrs Hs policy booklet does explain the excess and co-payment will be deducted from 
the £2,000 condition limit on the policy. Within the frequently asked questions part of the 
policy booklet there is also some working examples of how deducting these amounts 
impacted the amount the policyholder would actually be able to receive as a settlement.
But, whilst I accept Red Sands has settled the claim in line with this, and that the 
information in the policy booklet is clear, I dont think such significant information was 
sufficiently highlighted to Mrs H, in order to make sure she was aware how the deduction of 
the excess and co-payment would work.
Generally I would expect an insurer to highlight key terms of the policy to a policyholder in 
a prominent place. I consider it should be in a place which specifically draws the 
policyholders attention to these terms, for example in the policy schedule, which details the 
key elements of cover, and the limits to this.
Ive looked at Mrs Hs policy schedule for the year 2019, (the year the claim was made). 
It does explain there was a condition limit on the policy of £2,000, and that an excess and 
co-payment were payable. But, it didnt explain these would be deducted from the 
£2,000 detailed. So, I dont think when looking at this limit Mrs H would have known she 
would never actually be able to receive that amount under the policy  because of how the 
excess and co-payment would be deducted. I think on looking at this, Mrs H would 
reasonably have expected that she was paying a premium, in return for cover where she 
could receive a payout of £2,000 when this assistance was needed. And I wouldnt expect 
her to need to look through the policy booklet to confirm whether this was accurate or not.
As this wasnt explained to Mrs H, I think it would have been reasonable for Mrs H to 
think she could receive £2,000 as a maximum when she if she needed to claim.
Given the above, I dont think the settlement offer Red Sands has made is fair. Instead, 
I think it would be reasonable for Red Sands to provide settlement up to the £2,000 
condition limit it detailed could be claim. As Red Sands has already offered Mrs H an amount 
of £1,520, I intend on requiring it to pay another £480.
Because Mrs H has been without the £480 she should have reasonably received I 
also intend on requiring Red Sands to pay an amount of 8% interest, simple per annum on 
the £480, from the date of loss, to the date of settlement, less any tax properly deductible.
Mrs H confirmed she had received my provisional decision, and noted she didnt have any 
further comments or evidence to add. Red Sands didn't respond with any further evidence or 
comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done this, I still think this complaint should be upheld.
As above, neither party has provided me with any further information to alter the 
findings noted in my provisional decision. Or, to alter what I think is fair and reasonable in 
light of those findings. So, my decision remains the same.My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Red Sands 
Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to;
provide settlement up to the £2,000 condition limit it detailed could be claimed. As 
Red Sands has already offered Mrs H an amount of £1,520, it to pay another £480 to 
Mrs H.
Because Mrs H has been without the £480 she should have reasonably received I 
also intend on requiring Red Sands to pay an amount of 8% interest, simple per 
annum on the £480, from the date of loss, to the date of settlement, less any tax 
properly deductible.
If Red Sands (Europe) Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs H how much 
its taken off. It should also give Mrs H a certificate showing this if she asks for one, 
so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2020.
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman