DRN-3591452
The complaint
Company C complains that Starling Bank Limited (Starling) have unfairly refused to refund 
money its director lost to an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything in 
detail again here. In summary, Cs director (Miss G) held both a personal account for 
herself and a business account for the company with Starling Bank. She says she fell victim 
to an investment scam in April 2021 where she transferred money from Cs business 
account to the broker EverFX in relation to a personal investment she was making. 
Miss G later claimed she had been scammed when all her money was lost through EverFX 
and complained when Starling refused to provide C with a refund.
Our investigator didnt uphold Cs complaint. She said that Miss G had withdrawn money 
from its business account for her own personal use, such that it could be viewed as an 
arrangement she had made with her company for the money to be loaned to her, which she 
would then owe back to the company. As such, the investigator didnt consider that C had 
sustained any loss, given the money was still owed to it by Miss G. 
C disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, its important to note that this decision and complaint is not considering any transfers or 
payments that may have been made from Miss Gs personal bank account with Starling. The 
eligible complainant in this instance is Miss Gs company (C), as the payments were made to 
the merchant directly from Cs account. So, I will only be considering the disputed payments 
made to EverFX from Cs account as part of this complaint. 
It isnt in dispute that C authorised the disputed payments made from its account using its 
Starling debit card. The payments were requested by Cs director using the companys 
legitimate security credentials provided by Starling, and the starting position is that banks 
ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to 
be made as instructed.
In this instance, the money was paid from the limited companys account for a personal 
investment being made by Miss G. She has not provided any evidence to demonstrate that 
the investment was being made for business purposes, for example, and has said that she 
wanted to generate a passive income for herself. Im therefore satisfied the money was 
withdrawn for the purposes of Miss Gs own personal gain rather than for any business-
related purposes. 
Miss G initially told this service that the money spent from Cs account was borrowed and 
would have been returned as a directors loan. She later said that the money transferred was 
her own personal funds, and she has provided an email from her accountant which states 
that the money in Cs account had been taxed and would be treated as dividends for Miss G 
as the only shareholder. There is no other documentary evidence confirming this was the 
position. But I have nevertheless considered both scenarios. 
If it was the case that the money in Cs account was due to be paid to Miss G as dividends, 
then her withdrawal of the money from the company account would be treated as it having 
discharged this debt. As a result, C cant be said to have suffered a financial loss in this 
situation as it has effectively paid money that was owed to Miss G as the sole shareholder 
(which she has then gone on to dispose of in her own personal capacity by investing with 
EverFX). So, even if Starling ought to have intervened in any of the payments being made, it 
wouldnt be fair and reasonable for me to ask it to refund any of the payments to the 
company in these circumstances as C has not actually sustained any loss. 
I understand that this money has since been lost as a result of the investments Miss G 
made. But as Ive set out previously, this complaint is only concerned with any loss that C 
may have sustained as the company. C is the eligible complainant in this case, not Miss G. 
So, if she has lost money in her personal capacity, it isnt something that can fall to be 
considered under this complaint as she is not the eligible complainant.   
If, however, the money did in fact belong to C and was not owed to Miss G as dividends, I 
still dont consider it would be fair and reasonable for Starling to refund the payments. Ill 
explain why.
In terms of Starlings obligation to monitor its customers accounts for unusual activity in 
order to prevent fraud, I appreciate that some large payments were made from Cs account, 
such as two £10,000 transfers on 21 April 2021, which Miss G submits should have been 
stopped by the bank. 
But even if I were to agree that Starling failed to intervene when it should have, Im not 
persuaded that any such omission could reasonably be categorised as the proximate cause 
of the loss in this instance. First, at the time the payments were made in April 2021, EverFX 
were part of ICC Intercertus Capital Ltd, which was permitted to operate in the UK under the 
FCAs Temporary Permission Regime. I appreciate that those permissions have since been 
withdrawn by the FCA in its supervisory notice of 14 May 2021. But this was after the 
payments had been made from Cs account. 
So, even if Starling should have paused the payments pending further enquiry, Im not 
persuaded that any questioning or discussion about the purpose of the payments with 
Miss G would have likely resulted in her not making them from the company account. 
Starling has no obligation to protect its customers from bad bargains or provide investment 
advice. And there was nothing to suggest she was paying a scammer at the time, rather than 
making an investment with a legitimate offshore broker dealing in high risk trades, which had 
permission to operate in the UK, and was also regulated in other jurisdictions such as 
Cyprus. 
Second, I also do not consider it would have been reasonably foreseeable to Starling that 
Cs director would transfer money out of the company account for her own personal use 
(rather than using it for business-related purposes). The cause of any loss from Cs account 
was therefore Miss G using the money for non-business purposes, because if she hadnt 
done so, the money would still be in Cs account. Miss G originally told this service that the funds from Cs account was borrowed money or a 
directors loan that would have to be returned. So, if the money did belong to the company 
and was borrowed by Miss G for personal gain, she would be liable to repay that debt to the 
company and reinstate the asset she has borrowed (with it effectively being treated as a 
loan). Cs money therefore cannot be said to have been lost to a scam in this scenario 
either, as it would still be owed the money by Miss G as the debtor in these circumstances. 
So, even if Starling did fail to intervene in the payments being made from Cs account, I dont 
consider it would be fair and reasonable to ask it to reimburse the money because its failure 
to act did not cause any loss in this instance. This would be the case in either scenario of 
whether the money was owed to Miss G as dividends, or whether it belonged to the limited 
company. As a result, I will not be asking Starling to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman