DRN-4148898
The complaint
Mr E complains about the actions of New Wave Capital Limited (trading as Capital on Tap).
What happened
Mr E told us:
His limited company which Ill call M took out a loan with New Wave in December 
2021.
Due to unexpected circumstances with his health, he had to make a repayment 
arrangement with New Wave but then was a couple of days late making his first 
repayment.
New Wave immediately registered a default on his personal credit file which Mr E sad 
was unfair as the loan had been lent to M, not him personally. 
New Wave refused to remove the default as it said Mr E had been a guarantor for 
Ms loan, and therefore they could register the default against him personally.
Mr E said that he hadnt signed the personal guarantee, and that the loan and related 
documents had been electronically signed by one of Es employees who thought they 
were just accepting the loan. He asked New Wave for copies of this information, but 
it wouldnt provide this. 
New Wave told us:
M requested a revolving credit facility (the loan) in December 2021. M provided the 
relevant identification documents and once it had carried out its checks, it sent Mr E 
 as director of M  the details so he could log into the customer portal and review 
and accept the agreement.
Mr E had been given the loan agreement and a personal guarantee agreement which 
he ticked electronically to say he understood and accepted. As a lender, it asks that 
all borrowers are personally guaranteed by their directors.
Mr E had been given the opportunity to download a review all documents before 
agreeing to them, and the documents highlighted that it was recommended that 
borrowers seek legal advice before accepting the agreement. The agreement 
clauses made it clear that if M couldnt repay the loan, that New Wave would seek 
repayment from Mr E.
Ms account went into arrears in January 2022, and it had attempted to contact M 
and Mr E between January and early June without success. It then provided Mr E 
with information hed requested about the personal guarantee and in July, it 
explained to him that if M didnt meet its repayments and Mr E didnt pay them under 
the guarantee, that his personal credit file would be affected. 
A repayment plan was set up for Ms loan in early September, but Mr E cancelled the 
direct debit less than a month later. It had written to Mr E in the same month to 
confirm that if the required repayments werent made as agreed, it would report this 
on Mr Es credit file  as it was contractually obligated to report arrears of more than 
90 days.
It contacted Mr E about Ms debt in November and December and explained that if 
the repayments werent met, the agreement would be terminated. When the 
repayments werent met, it had terminated the agreement and sold the debt to a 
third-party, which was in line with the agreement terms and conditions.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He recognised that Mr E said he 
wasnt aware that he was giving a personal guarantee for Ms loan. However, he said that 
New Wave had sent Mr E the electronic application form and hed instructed an employee to 
complete this on Ms behalf, so the responsibility for how this was complete remained with 
Mr E. He also said that Ms repayment had been missed in January 2022, and it wasnt until 
June 2022 that M agreed to a new arrangement, which had subsequently been missed. So, 
Ms account had effectively been six months in arrears at the time the default was registered 
on Mr Es credit file. So it was reasonable for New Wave to take this action.
Mr E didnt agree. He said that he didnt give his permission for Ms employee to sign the 
personal guarantee. He also said that he thought the agreement was misleading, and that 
the personal guarantee couldnt be entered into on his behalf and that it needed his actual 
signature to be binding, not simply a tick box that had been hidden amongst the loan 
agreement. He also didnt think it was fair that New Wave had registered the default against 
him personally for the company debt. So he asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint and the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Mr E says that New Wave have treated him unfairly because it applied a default against his 
personal name for borrowing taken out by E. But Im not persuaded that New Wave treated 
him unfairly here. I agree that the loan was in Ms name, and it was therefore responsible for 
any debt, repayments, and the consequences of not meeting its contractual obligations. 
However, Ive also seen that New Wave had a personal guarantee from Mr E, and that when 
M didnt make their repayments, the lender told Mr E it would be seeking repayments from 
him under the personal guarantee. 
Ive also seen that it made Mr E aware that if the contractual repayments werent met that his 
personal credit file would be affected as a result of this personal guarantee. Both M, and 
then Mr E didnt meet the contractual repayments or the agreed repayment plan, so New 
Wave registered this against Mr Es personal credit file. I think this was reasonable.
I recognise that Mr E says that he didnt sign the personal guarantee and that the documents 
New Wave are relying on arent enforceable. Firstly, I need to make clear that I cant 
comment on whether an agreement is enforceable, only a court can do that. However, what I 
can consider is if New Wave acted fairly with regards to the personal guarantee. And based on what Ive seen I think it did. Ive seen evidence from New Wave which shows the 
agreement was sent electronically solely to Mr E with specific log on details for him to 
access and sign it. 
So, if Mr E didnt agree to the guarantee, this implies that it was agreed to fraudulently. 
However, Mr E says fraud wasnt committed here because he gave the access details to the 
employee to accept the agreement - they just didnt realise what they had accepted also 
included a personal guarantee. So, I think it was reasonable for New Wave to rely on the 
agreement it received electronically accepted by Mr E, as it wouldnt have been aware that 
he wasnt the person whod accessed the documents.  
Mr E says that the agreement was misleading because the personal guarantee was just a 
tick box within the loan documents and New Wave should have required confirmation of 
whod signed it. But I dont agree. I say this because before New Wave sent Mr E the 
documents to sign electronically, he had already provided identity documents to verify his 
identity  which it had needed to accept. And, as mentioned above, New Wave had only sent 
Mr E the documents which were password protected, so it had no reason to doubt that he 
hadnt accepted the documents. 
Ive also looked at the agreement documents, and I agree that there was a tick box to say 
that Mr E had accepted the terms of the personal guarantee. However, this was a separate 
personal guarantee document aside from the loan agreement, which gave a clear 
explanation of the obligations which the person agreeing to the document would be bound 
by and requested they seek legal advice if they were unsure of what this meant. 
Ive also seen the email from New Wave that said the agreement and personal guarantee 
document could be downloaded and reviewed before they were accepted. However, New 
Wave have provided us with a copy of the electronic audit that shows Mr Es employee didnt 
do this and simply accepted the agreement shortly after it was received. So based on what 
Ive seen, I dont think New Wave has treated Mr E unfairly here and I dont think its fair to 
hold the lender responsible because Mr E delegated the signing of the agreement and 
personal guarantee. 
However, I recognise that Mr E says because he didnt sign the guarantee, he cant be held 
responsible for any actions taken by New Wave against it. For the reasons Ive given above, 
Im satisfied that Mr E did give New Wave a personal guarantee for Ms borrowing. But if I 
am wrong about that and in fact Mr E did not give a personal guarantee, I would then have 
no power to consider his complaint at all.
The Financial Ombudsman Service isn't free to consider every complaint that's brought to 
us. We're governed by rules set by the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). They're called the DISP rules and can be found in the FCA's handbook. They set out 
the complaints that we can (and can't) investigate. I have to strictly apply the rules about 
what we can and cant consider - I dont have discretion when it comes to our jurisdiction.
The rules also set out who is eligible to refer complaints to our service. There are various 
categories which a complainant can fit into, but only the guarantor and consumer categories 
are potentially relevant here. Under the rules, a consumer is defined as "an individual acting 
for purposes wholly or mainly outside that individual's trade, business, craft or profession". 
While Mr E was acting in a personal capacity here - in that the guarantee was provided in his 
own name  this was done to obtain borrowing for M. 
Based on what Ive seen, I think the guarantee was given for a purpose connected with the 
business he was a director of at the time  which means that Mr E wouldnt meet the criteria 
for a consumer. Furthermore, based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that Mr E did give New Wave a personal guarantee for Ms borrowing, and Mr E is therefore a guarantor 
under our rules. However, if  as Mr E says  he did not in fact give a personal guarantee, 
that would mean he didnt meet the definition of an eligible complainant under the DISP 
rules, and as a result I wouldnt be able to consider his complaint. 
I recognise that Mr E will be unhappy about this, and that hell be disappointed with my 
decision. But based on everything Ive seen I dont think New Wave has treated Mr E unfairly 
in his capacity as a guarantor. And if Mr E was not a guarantor, I would then have no power 
to make an award to him because in that case he wouldnt meet the definition of an eligible 
complainant.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman