DRN-3689106
The complaint
Miss Es complaint about Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) relates to incorrect 
information given to her regarding a mortgage holiday, and the subsequent recording on her 
credit file of a missed mortgage payment. 
What happened
On 15 July 2021 Miss E rang Halifax to discuss her mortgage and personal circumstances. 
She explained that she had not received her salary for that month, due that day, and she 
was concerned about her mortgage payment due the following day. She was unsure about 
her employment status or whether in fact her employer had just made a mistake in not 
paying her, but either way she was worried. Miss E enquired about a payment holiday 
although she also explained that she had enough in savings to be able to manage for the 
next couple of months. 
Halifaxs advisor spoke at some length with Miss E. She was advised to stop her direct debit 
so that the payment would not be taken. There was a discussion regarding the payment 
holiday request and although the advisor did not say that one was granted, Miss E was left 
with the impression it would be. The advisor also offered to refer Miss E to the customer 
priority team and offered her the contact number. Miss E was told that an arrears letter 
would be sent to her and told about the impact on her credit file. 
Miss Es account was placed on hold until 19 July, and on 6 August Miss E contacted Halifax 
once more to discuss another payment holiday. It was then she learned that her account 
was actually in arrears by one month leading to her having to clear those arrears that day so 
that a payment holiday could be granted.
Initially Halifax didnt accept that it had done anything wrong but after our investigator issued 
his view Halifax agreed that it would pay £200 compensation and amend her credit file. 
Miss E however feels that because her credit file was adversely affected by the missed 
payment report, this prevented her from obtaining a better mortgage interest rate with 
another provider. But because our investigator hadnt seen any evidence that it was this that 
had prevented Miss E from securing a better rate he wasnt persuaded Halifax had caused 
Miss E any loss. 
Miss E didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My summary of what happened is brief and I know the parties went into a lot more detail. Im 
going to focus on what I think are the key issues. Our rules allow me to do this and it reflects 
the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. So, if theres something Ive 
not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because Im satisfied that I dont need to 
comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
As our investigator identified, one of the main issues to this complaint was the fact that Miss 
E had sufficient savings to pay her mortgage in July in the event her salary didnt come 
through. And she only cancelled her direct debit on the direct instruction of Halifax. From the 
general tenor of the conversation she had with the advisor, on 15 July, it is clear that she 
was seeking help and advice about what to do. It can be reasonably inferred from that 
conversation that she was not saying she was unable to pay her mortgage. Given she was 
not in arrears and her payment history, it is reasonable to assume that she would not want to 
allow her account to go into arrears. And I agree with our investigator that the advisor could 
have been clearer on the call. 
It is right therefore, that Halifax accept that if Miss E had been given clear advice she would 
have most likely made the July mortgage payment to avoid going into arrears. It follows from 
that acceptance that Halifax correctly amended her credit file. What remains in issue in this 
complaint is the appropriate level of compensation and the issue of Miss E getting a 
mortgage with a better rate. 
On that latter point, Miss E has provided details of the mortgage interest rates she was 
looking at with another provider, but this is only generic information as to what the rates were 
at a particular point in time. It does not address whether or not this provider declined any 
application because of the adverse entry to her credit file.
Halifax have pointed out that Miss Es mortgage was also subject to an early repayment 
charge (ERC) should she have redeemed her mortgage prior to the 31 July 2022. So, whilst 
Miss E could certainly have switched her mortgage in the second half of 2021 if she had 
wished, had she done so she would have incurred an ERC. That is something which I must 
also take into account, and although I have no information about the level of the ERC, 
experience tells me that it would most likely be more than a nominal sum. 
But, more importantly I cant be satisfied that the reason Miss E was unable to switch her 
mortgage on to a better interest rate was solely because of the adverse data recorded by 
Halifax. First, I have seen no evidence that Miss E made an application for a new mortgage 
and so without evidence that she did, and it was subsequently declined, there is no evidence 
to show she has lost out. Evidence from Miss Es mortgage advisor shows that an 
agreement in principle could not be provided, but that a full mortgage application was never 
made.
Secondly, there can be many reasons for a lender declining to lend beyond any adverse 
data on a credit file, and I would need to be satisfied that any application made was declined 
because of the missed July payment before I could consider whether Halifax ought to be 
responsible for any losses. So, whilst I can see that Miss E might consider that any 
application would be declined purely because of the missed July payment on her credit file, 
there can be many other reasons. This was acknowledged by her mortgage advisor who 
said that,
You mentioned that you had come to an agreement with the Halifax when you lost 
your job and that they had placed a default against your credit rating.
Although I cannot confirm that this is the only reason we were not able to proceed 
with the mortgage it would have had shown on the credit rating as a negative impact.Halifax has accepted that it didnt get things right and because of that it agreed to 
compensate Miss E with £200. As Miss E didnt think that was enough to put matters right, 
Ive given this some further thought to assess whether that offer was fair and reasonable. 
When this service considers what an appropriate level of compensation might be, we 
consider a variety of factors, including the trouble, upset, distress and inconvenience that 
may have been caused. We categorise awards and examples of these can be found on our 
website. 
What is important to remember is that there is no set figure, since the facts of each case are 
different, and ultimately it is an exercise of judgement, looking at all the circumstances of the 
case and coming to a figure which feels fair, when set against the effect upon the 
complainant of any particular service failures.
Putting things right
Ive taken account of the fact that Halifax have amended Miss Es credit file and so she is 
now back in the position she would have been, and Im not satisfied that Halifaxs error has 
led to Miss E being unable to get a better rate of interest on a new mortgage. So, having 
weighed up all the evidence, I think the offer made by Halifax of £200 is a fair and 
reasonable recompense for the effect of the service failures upon Miss E.
My final decision
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has already made an offer to pay Miss E £200 to 
settle this complaint, and I think that is fair and reasonable. So, my final decision is that it 
should pay Miss E £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman