DRN-2816054
The complaint
Mr M complains that British Gas Insurance Limited wont pay the full replacement cost of his 
cooker after long delays in obtaining replacement parts through his homecare policy. 
What happened
Mr M had a cooker in rented accommodation insured with British Gas through a homecare 
policy. It developed a fault and an engineer came to have a look. In line with safety 
regulations the gas supply to the cooker was turned off. And Mr M was told the replacement 
parts would have to be ordered and fitted by British Gas but they could take up to fourteen 
days to arrive. 
Mr M said he had to pay for his tenants meals while he waited for the repairs to take place. 
And when he called British Gas to see where the parts were he was given conflicting 
information. A new cooker might be needed instead. So another engineer was booked to 
provide a second opinion. 
A couple of days later Mr M called British Gas again to ask about the replacement parts. And 
he called back later that day to book a cooker installation. He told British Gas adviser that 
an agent had told him British Gas would cover the installation cost if he bought a new 
cooker. But the adviser couldnt find any notes to confirm that. 
When the adviser spoke to Mr M the following day he confirmed British Gas had no record of 
the offer of free installation. But Mr M had already purchased the new cooker and was 
waiting for its installation. 
Mr M said he spent nearly £200 providing food for his tenants. Although British Gas has 
refunded the cost and paid for the installation it wont pay the full purchase cost of the new 
cooker. Mr M said he only replaced it because it was taking British Gas so long to resolve 
the problem. And he wants British Gas to pay the full amount.
British Gas said the replacement parts were on special order. But it accepted thered been 
delays in sourcing the parts and it could see Mr M hadnt always received a high level of 
service. So itd agreed to pay Mr M for the food he had to provide his tenants. And British 
Gas agreed to pay for the installation cost of the new cooker even though that wasnt 
covered by his policy.
British Gas said Mr M had agreed to have the cooker written off. And the terms of the policy 
meant he was entitled to 30% of the replacement value. But thered been an error on the 
offer letter and British Gas had agreed to pay the amount of £174.72 stated in the letter even 
though 30% of the replacement cost was only £110.70. And it felt itd handled the complaint 
fairly. 
Mr M wasnt satisfied with British Gas response. So he contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She wasnt able to listen to the calls between Mr M and 
British Gas. So she looked at the call notes from British Gas records. 
Our investigator couldnt see any indication that reimbursing the full cooker costs had been 
discussed. Mr M had mainly talked about the cooker installation and the cost of doing so. So 
she didnt have sufficient evidence to suggest Mr M was told the entire cost would be 
reimbursed. And under the terms of the policy he was only entitled to a 30% contribution. 
Our investigator felt British Gas decision to cover the installation cost and food expenses 
was a reasonable compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr M had suffered. And 
she wouldnt be asking British Gas to do anything more. 
Mr M didnt agree. He was offered the cost of a new cooker equivalent to the one he had if 
he didnt want to wait for the parts. The whole matter had caused him a great deal of stress 
and wasted time. So hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly Im sorry to hear of the difficulties Mr M has experienced. I can appreciate it mustve 
been upsetting to learn British Gas wouldnt cover the full replacement cost of the new 
cooker. So Ive looked at everything Mr M and British Gas have said to see if British Gas has 
done anything wrong. 
My decision is based on the available evidence. Where the evidence is contradictory I have 
to reach a decision on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have to decide what I 
think is more likely to have happened in light of the evidence Ive seen and the wider 
circumstances. 
Unfortunately British Gas hasnt been able to provide copies of the calls with Mr M as theyre 
no longer available due to the passage of time. Instead its provided detailed call notes from 
its records. And Mr M has also provided his own recollection of what was said to him.
Mr M says he was given two choices  either wait until the part arrived (although there was 
no guarantee how long it might take) or purchase a new cooker and British Gas would pay 
for its cost as well as its installation. He says he was told to keep receipts so he could be 
reimbursed. Mr M says he was offered the full cost of a new cooker because his old cooker 
could still be repaired if he waited longer. Mr M says he wouldnt have bought a new one if 
British Gas was only going to pay 30% of the cost. 
British Gas says it has no record of any of its agents offering to pay the full cost of a new 
cooker. And it wouldnt normally cover the cost of installation under the terms of the policy. 
Because of the delays in obtaining the replacement parts it was agreed to write off the 
cooker. British Gas call notes say Mr M was told a 30% contribution would be made but Mr 
M says he was told he would get the full cost.
Ive looked at the notes and I can see the initial calls were about the delays in obtaining the 
parts and the ongoing impact on Mr Ms tenants. Although Mr M wanted the parts fitting 
British Gas was concerned about the cookers safety and advised its replacement. Later 
calls discussed whether or not Mr M has been told British Gas would cover the installation 
cost of the new cooker he was advised to buy. 
Mr M says when he called the cooker company himself he was told the parts were available. 
So if British Gas had done the same thing the cooker couldve been repaired within 4 or 5 
days and thered have been no need to purchase or install a new cooker.But from what Ive seen some of the parts were special order and it wouldnt have been safe 
to use the cooker until all of the parts had been fitted. Although British Gas ordered the parts 
they didnt come in stock for a few weeks. And thats not something I can hold it responsible 
for. The terms and conditions of the homecare policy say British Gas will carry out any 
repairs within a reasonable time, unless something beyond its control makes that impossible. 
And unfortunately there were delays of a few weeks before the parts arrived.
I appreciate Mr M says he wouldnt have bought a new cooker if he was only getting 30% of 
the cost when there was an option to wait for the parts. But theres nothing on British Gas 
records to show an offer was made to pay the full cost. That wouldve been outside of the 
normal terms and conditions of the policy. And Ive have expected the agent to have made a 
clear note on the file if such an offer had been made.
Mr Ms homecare policy says British Gas will repair the kitchen appliance included in the 
agreement. But if we cant repair an appliance that's less than three years old or it's not 
economic to do so, we'll contribute the full cost of replacing it with a similar model. If it's more 
than three years old we'll contribute 30% towards a similar model.
So I cant say British Gas has acted outside of the terms of the homecare policy when it 
offered only 30% of the replacement cost due to the age of the broken cooker. And Ive not 
seen anything in the call records to show that British Gas offered to cover the full cost of a 
new cooker.
British Gas did acknowledge some of its communication and service couldve been better. 
And to compensate Mr M for his trouble and upset it agreed to pay for the cost of the food he 
provided to his tenants. British Gas also agreed to pay the installation cost of the new cooker 
even though it wouldnt normally be covered under the homecare policy. And I think thats a 
fair and reasonable response in light of the distress Mr M has suffered and the time hes 
spent dealing with the matter.
I understand British Gas made a mistake when it offered Mr M £174.72 towards the £369 
cost of his new cooker rather than £110.70 or 30%. Although this is nearly half of the cost 
British Gas has agreed to honour the higher amount. And I think thats the right thing to do in 
the circumstances.
I know Mr M will be disappointed with this outcome. But Ive not seen anything to confirm 
that British Gas agreed to pay the full cost of the new cooker. I think British Gas offer to pay 
for the food and installation costs and to reimburse Mr M for nearly 50% of the replacement 
cost is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. And I wont be asking it to do anything 
more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman