DRN-2785185
Complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1996. Ms K and Mr K says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold them PPI.
Background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Ms K and 
Mr Ks circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations 
and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Ms K and Mr Ks representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Ms K and Mr Ks. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Ms K and 
Mr Ks complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
HSBC had to make it clear that Ms K and Mr K didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
had to agree to take it out. 
Because things happened so long ago, HSBC no longer has any of the paperwork from 
the time. And this isnt surprising  businesses dont have to keep records indefinitely.
Ms K and Mr K havent said much about what happened either  again unsurprising.
So taking everything into account, including the limited evidence about an event which 
happened over 20 years ago, I cant now reasonably say that HSBC likely acted unfairly 
and misrepresented the policy as being compulsory or that it didnt get Ms K and Mr Ks 
agreement to take it out.
HSBC says it recommended the PPI to Ms K and Mr K - so it had to check that the PPI 
was right for them. And the evidence about Ms K and Mr Ks circumstances at the time of 
the sale in 1996, shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for 
them. For example Ms K and Mr K were eligible for the cover and they had limited 
means to fall back on to make the repayments on their mortgage if they werent working. 
So I think the policy would have provided a useful benefit to them had the insured risks 
become a reality.
There was nothing about Ms K and Mr Ks employment or occupation in 1996, which 
would have made it difficult for them to claim. And although Ms K says she had a 
medical condition some time before the policy was taken out, I dont think it was wrong 
for HSBC to have recommended it. I say this because what Ms K has described is not in 
and of itself an existing condition  its an operation to cure a not uncommon condition 
typically occurring in young people. So given this and because it occurred at least 10 
years prior to the sale, I think Ms K was to all intents and purposes in good health at the 
time. I can see there were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental health or 
back problems.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Ms K and Mr K about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Ms K and Mr K as I 
concluded above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were buying 
from the information they were likely given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it 
seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I 
dont think Ms K and Mr K would have declined the cover had HSBC done anything 
more.
I can see that in 1999 Ms K and Mr K amended the PPI to increase the benefit when they 
borrowed more money. At this time Mr K indicated he wasnt working. But I dont think this 
affects the outcome of the complaint  the policy was already in place and the cost would 
have been the same whether it was covering one of them or split jointly. The benefit was 
split according to income levels and Mr K could have benefited from the cover again if he 
became employed in the future.
So overall, I consider that Ms K and Mr K would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy 
could provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also 
think the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting. And in 
those circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Ms K and Mr Ks representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant HSBC should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.But Ms K and Mr Ks representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Ms K and Mr Ks individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Ms K and Mr Ks particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint.
This means HSBC doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Ms K and Mr Ks complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Ms K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman