DRN-4394152
The complaint
Mrs G and Mr S complain that Scottish Equitable Plc trading as Aegon (Aegon) caused 
unreasonable delays when transferring their Aegon Group Personal Pension (GPP) to a 
Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with another provider. 
What happened
I understand that Mr S has had a Power of Attorney (POA) in place since 2007. And that Mrs 
G is his attorney. Mr S had a GPP with Aegon. 
On 6 February 2022, Mrs G wrote to Aegon with an original copy of passport and bank 
statements. And told it that Mr S had changed his address to hers. She asked it to give her 
access to Mr Ss online account, as Mr S didnt have such access as he lived overseas.
On 15 February 2022, Mrs G sent Aegon the POA by special delivery. 
Mrs G sent further documentation for Mr S to Aegon on 6 April 2022. She again confirmed 
that Mr S had changed his address to hers. She asked Aegon to let her know once itd given 
her access to Mr Ss online account.
Aegon issued its final response to the complaint about the POA taking so long to register on 
2 May 2022. It agreed it had caused a delay. It said it shouldve written back to Mrs G by 1 
March 2022 but that it hadnt responded until 11 March 2022. It said at this point, itd 
requested certified copies of Mr Ss passport and bank statement. But that it had received a 
certified copy of Mr Ss passport and an uncertified copy of his bank statement on 8 April 
2022. It said that having now spoken to Mrs G, it understood that the bank statement was an 
original document. It said that once itd confirmed this, it would add the POA to Mr Ss plan.
Aegon also said that Mr S could still access his pension online even though he was 
overseas. And confirmed that once the POA had been accepted, Mrs G would also be able 
to gain access to the plan.
Aegon sent Mr S £250 to apologise for the delay and the stress and inconvenience it had 
caused. 
On 16 May 2022, Aegon wrote to Mrs G again. It said that the information shed provided on 
16 May 2022 didnt meet its requirements because it needed confirmation and evidence of 
Mr Ss actual residential address before it could update the plan. It said this was a 
requirement under its Financial Crime Minimum Standards. 
On 12 July 2022, Mrs G sent Aegon the additional evidence it needed. And on 9 August 
2022, Aegon confirmed that it had now noted the POA, with Mrs G as the attorney.
Aegon issued a further final response letter covering the time itd taken to accept the POA on 
9 August 2022. It said that the delays were due to the identification being certified overseas. 
I understand that Mr S and Mrs G didnt pursue this complaint further.
In early 2023, Mr S wanted to transfer his GPP to a new SIPP provider. Mrs G said that the 
new SIPP provider sent an Origo request to Aegon in early February 2023. But that Aegon 
said it couldnt answer any of her questions, as Mr Ss attorney, until the POA had been 
registered. Mr Ss pension was valued at approximately £114,000 at this time.
On 8 February 2023, Aegons financial crime team said it should issue Mr S with a transfer 
out questionnaire and pension scam leaflet. It said that once the questionnaire had been 
returned, it should be sent on to it and that it would then advise on next steps. Aegon issued 
the questionnaire to Mr S the same date, explaining that it needed to complete safety checks 
to help protect Mr S from pension scams and to keep his savings safe. It also said that this 
could mean that the transfer took a little longer to complete. 
On 14 February 2023, Mr S completed a UK pension transfer questionnaire. He stated that 
he wanted to transfer his GPP to a SIPP with a new provider. 
On 16 February 2023, Mrs G returned the completed transfer questionnaire to Aegon by 
email and copied in Mr S. She signed the questionnaire in her position as Mr Ss attorney. 
On 20 February 2023, Aegons financial crime team told it that as Mr S still had mental 
capacity, and as his attorney had signed the transfer questionnaire, it didnt know whether 
this was in line with the POA and acceptable, or if it would need to get Mr S himself to sign it. 
It said the question should be referred onto the ops team. 
On 28 February 2023, Aegon wrote to Mrs G and Mr S to tell them it might need further 
information from them, and checks on the scheme theyd asked to transfer to. And that it 
would be in touch if it needed such information. Aegon also re-sent the questionnaire to Mr S 
by post to his attorneys address. But it didnt explain it had done so. 
Mrs G said that the new SIPP provider followed up with Aegon in late February 2023 about 
the transfer. She said it was told that the transfer was currently being processed. And that 
Aegon would be in contact with the attorney if required.
Mrs G said the new SIPP provider followed up with Aegon again on 7 March 2023. She said 
Aegon told it that the team dealing with the transfer had some queries about the POA which 
needed to be raised with another team. 
On 8 March 2023, Mrs G complained to Aegon about how long it was taking to register the 
POA. She said that currently no one was able to access Mr Ss policy. And on 9 March 2023, 
she called Aegon about her complaint. The call notes recorded that Mrs G was really 
annoyed about the length of time the transfer was taking. And that the POA shouldve 
already been applied to the pension. 
Mrs G spoke to Aegon again on 12 and 23 March 2023. She was very unhappy with the 
delays to the transfer and the lack of updates.
Mrs G said that after further follow up on 27 March 2023, Aegon said that the transfer was in 
the due-diligence stage, and had been since 9 March 2023. She said she asked for an 
urgent update on the transfer which detailed the delays and what Aegon still required if there 
was anything outstanding. She said she was told that there didnt seem to be anything 
outstanding, but that this could change once the team looking into the POA had responded. 
Mrs G said she still hadnt heard from Aegon about her POA complaint, which she said she 
raised on 9 March 2023.
Mrs G said that Aegon said on 4 April 2023 that there was no issue with the POA. She said 
she was told that the funds shouldve transferred on 6 February 2023. And that there would 
be no loss to them. And that she told Aegon that they needed to cash before 5 April 2023, due to tax considerations. 
Mrs G said that Aegon said on 17 April 2023 that the transfer was with the due-diligence 
team. And that it couldnt provide timescales. She also said that Aegon emailed her on 18 
April 2023 to tell her that it was still completing its due diligence checks. 
On 19 April 2023, Aegon sent Mr S an annual statement showing that his pension was worth 
£112,230.07 at 31 March 2023. 
Aegon told Mrs G and Mr S that it was still carrying out its due diligence. After Mrs G 
questioned this, it explained that this was carried out when a request was received and it 
suspected something suspicious on the request. And that it involved carrying out internal 
and external background checks and a requirement for further documents from the 
requester. It also explained that its due diligence would be complete once itd received the 
completed transfer indemnity form. 
Mrs G and Mr S were unhappy with the delays. So they raised a complaint with Aegon. It 
issued the eight-week holding email on 26 April 2023. And Mrs G and Mr S referred the 
complaint to this service on 28 April 2023. They said that no other financial business had 
had any problems with the POA. 
On 28 April 2023, Aegon said the due diligence checks were complete and that it was able 
to accept Mrs Gs signature on the transfer questionnaire form. This had been the reason for 
the delay. But it wanted a discharge and indemnity form to be completed for the transfer.
On 1 May 2023, Aegon sent Mrs G and Mr S a declaration discharge and indemnity form to 
complete. This included the following sentence:
I hold you harmless from and against all actions, claims, demands, liabilities, damages, 
costs, losses or expenses (including without limitation, consequential losses, loss of profit, 
loss of reputation and all interest, penalties, legal and other professional costs and 
expenses) from any source, resulting from my decision to proceed with my transfer request.
On 11 May 2023, Mrs G and Mr S told Aegon they couldnt agree to sign the form because 
of the sentence shown above. They felt the delay to the transfer had already caused them a 
loss. They said that if Aegon would agree to compensate them for the consequential losses 
from the date of the transfer request, they would complete the discharge and indemnity form. 
On 12 May 2023, Aegon replied to say that the transfer couldnt proceed without the signed 
form. And that any loss couldnt be calculated until a timeline of events was established. 
Mrs G and Mr S agreed to complete, sign and return the form 19 May 2023. Aegon said it 
received the completed form on 27 May 2023 and that it then allowed the transfer to 
proceed. 
Aegon issued its final response to the transfer delay complaint on 31 May 2023. It 
apologised for its lack of communication during the transfer process. And acknowledged that 
this had caused considerable distress and inconvenience. It offered Mr S £200 
compensation for this.
Aegon said the transfer was now proceeding. It said that it couldnt accept a transfer request 
without going through a due diligence process. And that as Mr S had wanted to act through 
his attorney, it had taken time to establish whether it could accept the attorneys signature on 
all of the forms. It didnt think its checks had delayed the transfer unnecessarily.  Mrs G said that the transfer finally completed on 9 June 2023. The total funds transferred 
were £115,149.49.
Our investigator issued her view on the complaint on 8 September 2023. She felt the 
complaint should be upheld. Although she acknowledged that due diligence checks were 
important, she felt that Aegon shouldnt have needed to take from 16 February 2023 to 28 
April 2023 to complete its due diligence checks. She felt that it was unreasonable for it to 
have taken ten weeks to decide to accept the attorneys signature. And that it had caused an 
avoidable delay. 
Our investigator felt that Aegon shouldve sent Mr S all of the necessary paperwork on 8 
February 2023. And that if itd then processed everything in normal timescales, the transfer 
shouldve been agreed and accepted on 23 February 2023. She felt that the £200 
compensation Aegon had offered for the distress and inconvenience caused was fair under 
the circumstances of the complaint. 
To put things right, our investigator felt that Aegon should put Mr S back into the position he 
would likely have been in, had it not been for Aegons delays. She felt this wouldve meant 
the transfer wouldve been accepted on 23 February 2023 rather than the 6 June 2023 (with 
the 30 May 2023 valuation date).
Mrs G and Mr S didnt agree with our investigator. They felt that £200 compensation for the 
poor service theyd received wasnt enough. And that it shouldve been at least £500 due to 
the length of time taken and the stress caused. They also said theyd provide their own loss 
calculation. 
Aegon didnt agree with our investigator. While in principle it agreed itd caused a delay, it 
felt that delay was from 23 February 2023 to 28 April 2023  44 working days. And that it 
stopped there. It said that after 28 April 2023 it had then needed to obtain the completed 
discharge and indemnity form. And that the period from 28 April 2023 to 6 June 2023 
shouldnt constitute any delay as this time was needed to complete the required paperwork. 
Aegon proposed that any financial loss be calculated 44 working days back from 6 June 
2023. 
Our investigator considered what Mrs G and Mr S and Aegon had said. She still felt that the 
£200 compensation Aegon had offered was reasonable, as it did provide some updates over 
the period of the delay. And that the loss calculation shed suggested was fair under the 
circumstances, as it put Mr S back into the position he shouldve been in but for the delays. 
Aegon still didnt agree with our investigator. It felt that the further delay after 28 April 2023 
was caused by Mrs G and Mr S questioning the wording of the indemnity. And that they 
wouldve always questioned the wording, regardless of any previous delays. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold it. I agree with our investigator that Aegons delays in 
accepting the POA continued to cause further delays after 28 April 2023. I also agree that 
the £200 compensation Aegon has already offered Mrs G and Mr S is reasonable under the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ill explain the reasons for my decision.Whats in dispute here is whether the delay for due diligence checks was fair and 
reasonable. Aegon also disputes that if its due diligence checks did cause unnecessary 
delays to the transfer, such delays ended on 28 April 2023. 
I first considered whether the due diligence checks carried out by Aegon were reasonable. 
Due diligence
Aegon told this service that when it receives a POA, it would normally request identification, 
but it wouldnt do anything more at that stage. It said it would only carry out any checks once 
itd received a request to use the POA. It said this was because the checks could be different 
depending on what was being requested. It felt this was standard practice for most financial 
institutions.
I agree with Aegon that this is a standard approach. 
I next considered what actually happened in this case.
Aegon said that it received a request to use the POA in February 2023. And that itd 
originally closed its work item in July 2022 for the POA request as it hadnt heard back 
following its requests for further identification on 16 May 2022. It said there was then a delay 
in verifying that Mr Ss identification met its requirements, given itd been certified abroad. It 
said it finally had everything it needed by 9 August 2022, when itd confirmed its acceptance 
of the POA to Mrs G and Mr S.
Aegon said that regarding the transfer request, it had completed initial regulatory checks and 
then emailed for further information. It said that Mrs G completed this, despite Mr S having 
full mental and physical capacity. And that as the POA was an Enduring POA, which had 
only been sent to it a few months earlier, it felt further checks were required before it could 
agree that the transfer could proceed. Aegon said these checks took longer than it wouldve 
expected to resolve. And that it had, during its investigation, discovered some points that 
werent relevant. But it felt that it had a duty of care to investigate further any concerns itd 
highlighted.
Aegon also said that it felt neither Mr S nor Mrs G had made any attempt to mitigate any 
financial loss. And that the time taken to complete the due diligence on the POA couldve 
been avoided if Mr S had signed the questionnaire forms himself. 
Our investigator asked Aegon to explain exactly why itd taken ten weeks  from 16 February 
to 28 April 2023 - to accept the attorneys signature. She noted that attorneys could legally 
sign on behalf of their donors. And also said that as Mr S had been copied into emails by 
Mrs G, there was no uncertainty about whether he was aware of this transfer. Our 
investigator also said that Aegons internal vetting team had confirmed that a POA did have 
financial powers on 29 March 2023. So she wanted to know why itd taken Aegon a further 
four weeks to agree the POA signature.
Aegon said that the case was going back and forth between different teams without the risks 
question being answered. And that it didnt think it could justify the delay. It also said it 
couldnt explain why itd taken a further four weeks to agree the POA signature after hearing 
from its internal vetting team.
Our investigator asked Aegon why it needed a customers signature when it had a POA. 
Aegon said that its case officer wasnt sure if the POA allowed the attorney to sign the 
request for additional information. It said this would mean that Mr S might not be aware of 
the risk issues it was raising. Our investigator also asked Aegon if itd emailed Mr S to explain what its exact concerns 
were about the transfer/signature. She felt shed only seen evidence that this was explained 
to Mrs G on 24 April 2023, nearly ten weeks into the delay. Aegon confirmed that it hadnt 
emailed Mr S to explain its concerns. 
Id first like to acknowledge that businesses are required to conduct due diligence checks if 
they feel a pension transfer might be suspicious. I consider they help to protect consumers. 
And therefore such checks are important.
But in this case, Im not satisfied that Aegon needed to do everything it did in order to 
confirm that the transfer was legitimate. I agree with our investigator that as Mr S was 
already over 55 years old, pension liberation didnt need to be considered. And as his new 
SIPP provider is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority, the transfer wasnt likely to be 
fraudulent. 
I agree with our investigator that Aegons only real concern was whether it could accept the 
attorneys signature. I can also see that Aegon has acknowledged that it shouldve taken 
less time to complete the required due diligence. So Im satisfied that it shouldnt have taken 
Aegon from 16 February 2023 to 28 April 2023 to accept Mrs Gs signature on the transfer 
out questionnaire. 
I next considered when the transfer shouldve been processed if thered been no avoidable 
delays. I consider that, having received the Origo request on 2 February 2023, Aegon 
shouldve sent out the questionnaire by email on 8 February 2023. I also think that Aegon 
couldve sent the indemnity form at the same time. I say this because, having received the 
Origo request to transfer, it was already clear what Mr Ss intentions were. 
If Mr S/Mrs G had received all required forms by email on 8 February 2023, I think they 
wouldve returned them by 16 February 2023  this is the date the questionnaire was 
returned. Once received, Aegon would still have needed to carry out relevant due diligence 
as Mrs G wouldve signed the forms. But I think it shouldve taken Aegon no longer than five 
working days to do so. Therefore the transfer shouldve been agreed and accepted on 23 
February 2023.
I acknowledge that Aegon considers its only responsible for a delay from 23 February 2023 
to 28 April 2023. But I dont agree.
I say this because, if Aegon hadnt caused any delay, I consider that Mrs G and Mr S 
wouldnt have been concerned about completing the indemnity. I appreciate that Aegon 
doesnt agree, but Im more persuaded that, if nothing had gone wrong, Mrs G and Mr S 
wouldve simply completed and returned the indemnity form as soon as they received it, as 
they did with the transfer questionnaire form. 
I finally considered whether Aegons offer of £200 for the distress and inconvenience itd 
caused Mrs G and Mr S was fair and reasonable under the circumstances.
Distress and Inconvenience
I understand that Aegon has paid Mr S £200 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience its lack of communication during the transfer process had caused him and 
Mrs G. They have both clearly been inconvenienced during the transfer process.
From what Ive seen, I consider this is a reasonable offer. I say this because Aegon did 
provide some updates over the period of the delay, although its responses werent always 
complete. I also consider that the £200 Aegon has paid is in line with what I wouldve otherwise recommended. So I cant reasonably ask it to increase its offer.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr S should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if the transfer had gone ahead without unnecessary delays.
To compensate Mr S fairly, Aegon must:
Compare the actual value of Mr Ss SIPP with his new provider at the date of my final 
decision with the notional value, as if the transfer had proceeded on 23 February 2023 
and had been invested within the SIPP on 27 February 2023. However, Aegon should 
confirm with Mr Ss new provider how long it took to receive the funds after the 6 June 
2023 and how long it took it to invest them once itd received them. This might affect the 
start of the calculation date.
If the calculation date is different to the 27 February 2023 (taking into account the above) 
then Aegon will need to explain why to Mr S. Also, the calculation should consider any 
contributions and withdrawals made into the SIPP after 6 June 2023.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Aegon should also add any interest to the compensation payable of 8% simple per year 
from the date of my final decision to settlement (if not settled within 28 days of the 
business receiving the complainant's acceptance).
Aegon should pay into Mr S's SIPP to increase its value by the total amount of the 
compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of charges 
and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Aegon is unable to pay the total amount into Mr S's SIPP, it should pay that amount 
direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it wouldve provided a taxable 
income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow for any income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the 
compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr S wont be able 
to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr S's actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
For example, if Mr S is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, 
the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr S wouldve been 
able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation.
As Mr S currently doesnt live in the UK he may not be a taxpayer. If so, hell need to 
evidence this to Aegon.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Aegon deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr S how much has been taken off. Aegon should give Mr S a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr S asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Scottish Equitable Plc trading as Aegon should 
pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Scottish Equitable Plc trading as Aegon should provide details of its calculation to Mrs G and 
Mr S in a clear, simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman