DRN-2692730
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy about the amount Aviva Insurance Limited paid for her car in settlement 
of her car insurance policy claim.
 
What happened
Miss H was involved in an accident and contacted Aviva to make a claim on her motor 
insurance policy. Aviva deemed the vehicle a total loss and said they would settle the claim 
by paying the cars market value, less the policy excess. Initially, Aviva valued the car at 
£11,800 but increased the valuation to £12,500 because Miss H didnt agree to it. Miss H 
and her mother (Ms H), who is representing her, also thought £12,500 was too low. As a 
result, Aviva increased the valuation further to £13,000. After deducting the excess, they 
paid a total of £12,700 for her car.
 
Ms H still feels the valuation is too low as she says they cant replace the car for £13,000 
and thinks its worth £13,500. Ms H would like Aviva to increase their valuation and pay 
Miss H an additional £500. And shed also like them to compensate Miss H for the 
inconvenience and stress the process has caused.
 
Our investigator carried out their own valuation searches and didnt uphold the complaint, 
because they thought Avivas valuation was fair. Ms H disagreed and feels our investigator 
hasnt taken her evidence into consideration. So, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our investigator reached.
Miss H is unhappy about the provision of a courtesy car during the claim, but as this issue 
wasnt raised with us initially, I wont consider it here. I note Aviva have now provided their 
final response on this aspect of Miss Hs complaint. So, if Miss H would still like our service 
to investigate this matter, she will need to raise it as a new complaint. 
   
This services role isnt to work out exactly what the value of an individual vehicle is. We look 
at whether the insurer has applied the terms of a policy correctly and valued the vehicle 
fairly. Under the terms of Miss Hs policy, Aviva must pay her the market value of the car at 
the time of the loss, less her excess.
The market value is defined in the policy as:
The cost of replacing your car with one of the same make, model, specification and 
condition.
Ms H said the cars market value is £13,500 and doesnt think its possible to replace the car 
for the amount Aviva paid Miss H. Ms H also said the terms didnt state that valuation guides 
would be used to determine the cars value, but I dont think they had to. The valuation of a 
used car isnt an exact science, and its standard practice for the industry to use valuation 
guides to work out the estimated market value of a car. And its not unreasonable that it does 
so, as the valuation the guides give are based on national research on likely selling prices of 
similar cars with similar age and mileage for sale at the time of loss.
 
We usually find the valuation guides are more reliable than individual adverts, which can 
vary significantly, and can be misleading as often vehicles arent sold at the advertised price. 
Once negotiations take place, vehicles will often sell for a lower price than advertised. We 
may rely on adverts if a vehicle is rare or limited edition and the guides arent able to provide 
a valuation, but thats not the case here. 
The guides provide figures to reflect what a vehicle might be sold for in different markets, 
and generally we would rely on figures for cars sold by car dealership companies in the retail 
market. Im satisfied Avivas valuation is based on the retail market values produced by the 
guides.
Valuation guides weve looked at gave values of £11,947, £11,580 and £12,470 for Miss Hs 
car. We usually find a fair valuation would fall somewhere between the range of figures 
suggested by the guides. Avivas valuation of £13,000 is higher than the range of figures Ive 
seen, so I think by offering more theyve acted fairly. I know this will be disappointing to Miss 
H and her mother, but Im satisfied Aviva carried out a fair valuation of her car.
Ms H says Aviva hasnt compensated Miss H for the stress and financial loss they caused 
her. So, Ive considered the impact of their actions on Miss H specifically. I think Aviva were 
entitled to take some time to review their offers when Miss H didnt accept them, and Im 
satisfied their actions didnt cause significant delays to the settlement of the claim. I think its 
helpful to note, their initial settlement of £11,800 fell within the range of values produced by 
the guides, and I dont find it was unreasonable. Largely, Miss H found the process stressful 
because she wasnt happy with the settlements they offered, but I think Aviva treated Miss H 
fairly by paying more than the guides suggested.
That said, I do think on occasions Aviva could have communicated better. Had they done, 
Ms H may not have had to phone as many times as she did on Miss Hs behalf. But making 
an insurance claim can often be a stressful experience. And, overall, I dont think Avivas 
actions mean compensation would be fair. 
I know this will be disappointing to Miss H and Ms H, but for the reasons Ive explained 
above Im satisfied Avivas valuation was reasonable. So, I wont be asking them to pay any 
more than they already have.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman