DRN-2831926
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Cofunds Limited caused delays to her Stocks and Shares ISA (ISA) 
withdrawal causing her financial loss and inconvenience.
What happened
On 2 December 2019, Mrs P spoke to Cofunds about withdrawing funds from her ISA. 
Cofunds told Mrs P shed need to complete a withdrawal request form (the form) before this 
could be completed and that the value of her ISA was £13,318. During the call, Cofunds 
advised Mrs P that it needed to verify her bank account details to ensure the money was 
paid to the right account  it was able to verify her bank details during the call. 
Mrs P completed and returned the form on 10 February 2020 and Cofunds received this on 
13 February. On 14 February Cofunds sent Mrs P a letter (the letter) to her registered home 
address asking her to provide one document from Section A  an identity verification 
document such as a passport  and one from Section B  an address verification document 
such as a utility bill.
Mrs P spoke to Cofunds on 2 March asking for an update and was told about the letter sent 
to her on 14 February. But Mrs P said she didn't receive it as she was working away from 
home. She also said her daughter, who was living at her address, would have noticed the 
letter if itd been sent. There followed a discussion about what documents Mrs P needed to 
provide in order to verify her identity. Mrs P explained that because she lived abroad many 
of her bills were sent to her either electronically, so werent originals, or were now in her 
daughters name.
Cofunds re-sent the letter to Mrs P by email. And on 4 April 2020 she returned the necessary 
documents which were received on 7 April. The withdrawal was actioned on the same day 
with Mrs P receiving £11,285 shortly after. Mrs P complained to Cofunds saying that the 
delays had meant the value of her investments were much less than the quote she received 
on 2 December.
Cofunds upheld Mrs P's complaint in part. It said Mrs P's identification documents were 
needed to satisfy its Anti-Money Laundering (AML) obligations. And that once it received her 
documents on 7 April, it actioned her request promptly. However, Cofunds said it did ask for 
Mrs P's bank details in the letter when it had already verified these details during the call in 
December 2019. But as it still needed her identity documents it didnt think this mistake 
caused any delays. Cofunds offered Mrs P a total of £350 for the overall inconvenience and 
also for delays in answering her complaint.
Our investigator thought Cofunds offer was fair. In brief, she considered Cofunds hadn't 
done anything wrong by asking for the identification it needed in line with its processes. And 
she didnt think its mistakes had caused financial loss to Mrs P.
 
Mrs P disagreed. She said she could have sent her identification documents on 2 March 
2020, which was the day her doctor certified her passport. But she said there was a delay 
because she had to obtain original bank statements which Cofunds had requested in its 
letter, which she says it had already verified. 
Mrs P asked for an ombudsmans decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs P wants Cofunds to honour the quote she received on 2 December of £13,318. But this 
was the value of her investments on that day only. I can see it was clearly explained to 
Mrs P in the terms and conditions of her account and in the withdrawal form, that the value 
shed receive would be based on the value of her investments at the time of sale. The date 
of the sale request was actioned was on 7 April. However, Mrs P says because of delays 
caused by Cofunds, she received less for her investments than otherwise would have been 
the case.
I can see that Mrs P was sent the withdrawal form during the call on 2 December. She 
completed and returned this form to Cofunds on 10 February  the form was received on 
13 February. So whilst I appreciate Mrs P says she was expecting the value as of 
2 December, the earliest day the withdrawal request could have been actioned was on or 
around 13 February.
However, after Cofunds received Mrs Ps withdrawal request it needed her to send some 
documents  one to verify her address and the other to verify her identification. This was to 
satisfy its AML requirements. This was separate from the bank verification that Cofunds had 
done over the phone with Mrs P on 2 December. This latter process was simply to make 
sure the funds were paid into the correct account. I know Mrs P thought shed completed the 
identification process during the call with Cofunds on 2 December. Ive listened to this call, 
and I think it was made reasonably clear to her that this was to verify her bank details to 
ensure the money was paid to the correct account.
Whilst I think letting Mrs P know about the two separate processes (bank verification and 
identity verification) would have been helpful, I dont think Cofunds acted unfairly in this 
regard. This is because Cofunds process is that it tries to do its AML checks through a 
process called Primary Source Verification, which is where it (or an agent) checks online 
resources to verify a customers identity. And its only when it wasnt possible to authenticate 
Mrs P using this method that Cofunds needed to seek other proofs of identity before 
progressing her application. So this isnt something Cofunds would have known it would be 
seeking from Mrs P at the time of the initial call.
I can see once the AML verification (electronic) checks were unsuccessful on 13 February, 
Cofunds requested other proofs of identity from Mrs P the next day by letter which was sent 
to her home address. Mrs P says she didnt receive the letter. On balance, Im satisfied as 
the letter was correctly addressed, its likely it was correctly delivered to Mrs Ps registered 
address. I understand the situation Mrs P was in  she wasnt living at the address and it 
would have been more convenient for Cofunds to send its request by email. But this was her 
registered home address and she hadnt informed Cofunds of any other address. Cofunds 
was asking for this information to meet its regulatory obligations and it was correctly 
following the process it had in place for this. I dont think this was unreasonable.
That said, Cofunds accept it did make a mistake when it asked Mrs P for her bank details in 
the letter of 14 February which was re-sent on 2 March. Mrs P says this caused delay to her 
sending the documents as she was finding it difficult to obtain original bank statements. However, I need to balance the error with what Mrs P was told by the Cofunds agent during 
the call on 2 March. She was clearly told at this point that her bank details had, in fact, been 
correctly verified. And that she didnt need to provide bank statements to complete the 
withdrawal process but could instead provide other forms of address verification such as a 
utility bill. So on balance, I dont think Cofunds error was responsible for delays to the 
withdrawal process.
Whilst Im satisfied Cofunds didnt cause Mrs P financial loss due to its error, I can see that it 
did offer her compensation for this and other customer service issues. This included causing 
a significant delay in answering her complaint. All in all, Im satisfied the £350 Cofunds has 
offered Mrs P for these mistakes, is fair.
For all these reasons, Im not asking Cofunds to do anything further.
 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and I order Cofunds Limited to pay Mrs P the £350 its already 
offered to her for its mistakes.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman