DRN-1621543
 
 
The complaint
This is a complaint that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) 
to Mrs H. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2000. Barclays sold Mrs H the 
policy at the same time that she applied for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mrs Hs representatives 
said Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. So the complaint has been passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Mrs H and her representatives have said, but Ive decided the policy 
wasnt mis-sold. I will explain why.
Mrs H has said the PPI must have been added without her knowledge. However it wouldnt 
be fair for me to conclude this happened unless there was reasonable supporting evidence 
of this. Where someone has said another person or organisation has done something wrong, 
fairness requires that the person making the allegation should present evidence that this 
probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to make someone prove they didnt do something 
wrong, especially when it was such a long time ago. 
And Ive seen a copy of Mrs Hs application form for the credit card, which she signed. On 
there is a section you tick if you want PPI  and this has been ticked. So the documents at 
least support that the PPI was offered as a choice and that Mrs H decided to take it, even if 
she doesnt now remember it. 
Overall, without stronger evidence I cant fairly say the PPI was added without Mrs Hs 
consent or knowledge. 
Barclays probably recommended the PPI to Mrs H, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. The PPI could have helped pay 
the credit card bill for a period longer than Mrs Hs employment sick pay and it seems she 
didnt have savings to fall back on. And it would have paid out at the same time as any sick 
pay or redundancy pay, so leaving Mrs H more financially secure for longer.  So, overall, the PPI was potentially useful. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  And I cant see any 
other reason why the recommendation was unsuitable.
Its difficult now to know how well Barclays explained the PPI. Its possible the information 
Barclays gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been. But I dont think 
full information about costs and benefits would have affected whether she took the PPI. I say 
this because, in her circumstances, its unlikely this would have made the PPI seem less 
useful. And it doesnt look like shed have been affected by any of the significant exclusions 
in the policy. 
This means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H. But 
Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs H about that. Because Barclays didnt tell 
Mrs H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mrs H any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, and so Im not awarding any further compensation.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 May 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman