DRN-3203106
The complaint
Mrs A has complained about credit granted to her by Black Horse Limited (BHL). She says 
the credit was unaffordable for her and BHL should have declined to lend to her. 
What happened
BHL agreed credit for Mrs A on 1 November 2017 via an intermediary in order for her 
to acquire a car. The cash price of the car, as per the agreement, was £14,915. The 
total amount owing under the agreement, including £4,320 interest and charges, 
came to £19,235. I understand that Mrs A paid a £2,230 deposit and the remainder 
was to be repaid by 60 instalments of £283 (all figures rounded).
The credit was granted under a hire purchase agreement meaning Mrs A would own the 
car when the credit had been repaid. BHL was the owner until that point and Mrs A was, 
in essence, paying for the use of it.
I can see from the account history that Mrs A made her payments for almost two years. 
In November 2019 she voluntarily terminated the agreement and BHL repossessed and 
sold the car. Mrs A remained liable for a balance of over £1,100 which BHL waived.
Mrs A says that BHL should not have agreed to lend to her because she couldnt afford to 
meet the repayments. She says BHL would have declined her application if it had carried 
out further checks, given her existing debt. Furthermore, Mrs A says that BHL didnt 
adhere to its own lending policy by taking certain benefits into account when considering 
her ability to meet her repayments. She says taking on this credit has made her financial 
situation worse as shes defaulted on existing debt and taken on more.
BHL says that it carried out the necessary checks before entering into the agreement with 
Mrs A and that it deemed that she had enough disposable income to meet her 
repayments., BHL says that it waived the balance on her account because it could now 
see from her bank statements prior to the agreement that her income was derived solely 
from benefits and there was no evidence of employment. It said this was done as a 
gesture of goodwill, not because it upheld Mrs As complaint.
Our investigator looked into what happened when Mrs As finance was agreed and found 
that BHL had been irresponsible to enter into an agreement with her. They recommended 
that Mrs As complaint be upheld and proposed that BHL refund Mrs As payments and 
retain a portion to cover her use of the car.
BHL didnt agree with this recommendation. It says its assessment of Mrs As ability to 
afford the loan was robust and it wasnt irresponsible in agreeing credit for her. BHL asked 
for the complaint to come to an ombudsman to review and resolve and so it has come to 
me.
I sent out a provisional decision on the 9 November explaining why I was minded to 
uphold Mrs As complaint. Neither Mrs A nor BHL have provided any further comment or 
information in response. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered this matter again, I see no reason to depart from my provisional 
conclusions and so I am upholding Mrs As complaint. For completeness, Ive set out 
my reasons for doing so again in this final decision.
BHL will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending. So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in detail.
In brief, BHL needed to check that Mrs A could afford to meet her repayments without 
difficulty before agreeing credit for her. In other words, it needed to check she could 
meet her repayments in a sustainable manner, without incurring financial difficulty or 
experiencing significant adverse consequences. This meant being able to meet her 
payments out of her usual means over the term of the agreement, without having to 
borrow further and while meeting her existing commitments. The checks needed to be 
proportionate to the nature of the credit and to Mrs As circumstances.
With this in mind, my main considerations are did BHL complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks when assessing Mrs As application to satisfy itself that she would 
be able to make her repayments without experiencing adverse consequences? If not, 
what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? Did BHL make a fair 
lending decision?
Before entering into the agreement, BHL asked Mrs A about her income which she 
gave as just under £24,000, and it estimated she had a net monthly income of £1,547. 
The lender says it used a credit reference agency report which cross-checked this 
income level against Mrs As bank account turnover and/or cross-checked against 
income averages for her area. BHL says it asked Mrs A about her rent, estimated her 
share of the monthly outgoings as £390 based on national statistical data and checked 
her credit file. It saw that she had an existing loan of £7,571 which she paid £320 a 
month towards. (Ill call this Loan X for reference). BHL estimated that Mrs A had a 
monthly disposable income of over £1,000.
BHL says Mrs A was self-employed as a carer on a full-time basis and she had three 
dependents. It noted she gave an address for her employer that was different to her 
home address. BHL also says that being in receipt of state benefits would not have 
disqualified Mrs A for credit but, had the source of income been declared as benefits at 
the point of application, it would have taken this into proper consideration in its lending 
decision.
Let me start by saying that in other circumstances these checks might be reasonable 
and proportionate. I appreciate that this will be disappointing for BHL, but Im afraid I 
cant consider that they were in the circumstances of this case.
From the information BHL had it would have understood that taking out this agreement 
would commit Mrs A to spending almost 40% of her (estimated) monthly income in 
repaying credit. Mrs A is described as self-employed. I dont know if Mrs A was asked to 
disclose the source of her income when she applied for credit, but I think it would have 
been proportionate given the commitment she was taking on and her employment status, 
to check that she had regular means before agreeing credit for her. I also think it would have been reasonable for BHL to have enquired further into Mrs As living costs instead 
of relying on statistical data. Mrs A hadnt declared any payments towards rent or any 
other material expenses, which doesnt seem consistent with having three dependents. I 
dont think relying on statistical datasets to estimate Mrs As living costs was reasonable 
here.
Mrs A has provided us with her bank statements and a copy of her credit file. To be clear, 
Im not saying that this is what BHL should have relied on but it is the information I have 
and I think its reasonable to use these to gain an understanding of Mrs As finances at 
the time. I can see from these that all of Mrs As income derived from state benefits. 
These included child tax credits, disability living allowance for one of her children, child 
benefit, carers allowance and income support  a total of just under £1,800 a month. This 
last benefit was means tested and I think BHL ought to have reasonably suspected that 
these benefits comprised the total household income.
BHL carried out an income and expenditure analysis in late 2019 when Mrs A told it she 
couldnt afford her repayments. It confirmed then that her income was £1,771 a month, 
derived solely from benefits, and Mrs A declared that she had expenses of £1,232. This 
included a lower payment for her loan (the aforementioned Loan X) which shed defaulted 
on in 2018. (BHLs customer contact notes say that Mrs A told it her other creditors had 
accepted reduced payments at that time so she was only paying £145 towards her loan 
down from £320 each month.) Otherwise, I cant see that Mrs As circumstances had 
changed.
As mentioned, when this agreement began Mrs A was paying £320 a month towards her 
existing loan. In addition, BHLs analysis in 2019 didnt include any car costs, as the 
vehicle was being repossessed but at the time of inception of the agreement Mrs A would 
have had insurance, tax, fuel and maintenance costs to meet. Furthermore, the bank 
statements Ive seen are from Mrs As joint account with her husband and while there are 
transfers to and from other bank accounts Ive seen no evidence of additional income. 
What I have seen is that the income Mrs As declared covers household expenditure, 
including her husbands debts and unplanned overdraft fees each month.
Its clear to me that the agreement wasnt likely to have been affordable for Mrs A from the 
outset. I think its likely that, had BHL carried out proportionate checks prior to entering 
into the agreement, it would have learnt then that Mrs A wouldnt be able to meet her 
repayments sustainably over the term of the agreement.
I appreciate Mrs A managed to make her repayments for almost two years, however I 
dont think its likely that she managed to do so without difficulty and ultimately she had to 
voluntarily terminate the agreement as it wasnt sustainable. Mrs A paid a deposit and 
interest, and her credit file is likely to have been adversely impacted. I think these 
consequences for Mrs A were foreseeable and that BHL needs to take steps to put things 
right for her.
  
Putting things right
As I dont think BHL ought to have approved the lending, it should therefore refund all the 
payments Mrs A has made, including her deposit. However, Mrs A did have use of the car 
for around 24 months, so I think its fair she pays for that use. But Im not persuaded that 
monthly repayments of £283 a month are a fair reflection of what fair usage would be. This 
is because a proportion of those repayments went towards repaying interest.
There isnt an exact formula for working out what a fair usage charge should be. In 
deciding whats fair and reasonable Ive thought about the amount of interest charged on the agreement, Mrs As likely overall usage of the car and what her costs to stay mobile 
would likely have been if she didnt have the car. Altogether, I think a fair amount Mrs A 
should pay in total is £200 for each month she had use of the car. This means BHL can 
only ask her to repay a total of £4,800. Anything Mrs A has paid in excess of this amount 
should be treated as an overpayment.
To settle Mrs As complaint BHL should:
Refund all the payments, including the deposit, Mrs A has made above the fair usage 
total; and
Add 8% simple interest per year* from the date of each overpayment to the date of 
settlement; and
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs As credit file regarding the 
agreement. I consider this includes showing the agreement as voluntarily terminated.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires BHL to take off tax from this interest. BHL must 
give Mrs A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mrs A asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I am upholding Mrs As complaint about Black Horse 
Limited and require that it put things right for her as Ive outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman