DRN-3306614
The complaint
Mr J, through a representative, says UK Credit Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr J took out a guarantor loan from UK Credit on 28 November 2017. It was for £6,000 over 
60 months. The monthly repayment was £209.31 and the total repayable was £12,558.60. It 
was given on the basis that Mr J had a guarantor who would be responsible for the 
repayments if Mr J failed to make them.
Mr J says the loan was unaffordable for him and effective checks would have shown this. 
The lender failed to advise Mr J of other ways of dealing with his circumstances and failed to 
send its final response letter within the time limits set by the regulator.
Our investigator initially recommended the complaint should be upheld. She said UK Credit 
did not make a fair lending decision given it could see from Mr Js recent bank statements 
that his outgoings exceeded the monthly income figure the lender had used in its affordability 
assessment. 
UK Credit disagreed saying it was unfair to take into account Mr Js discretionary spend and 
to only review one months transactions. In response the investigator reviewed bank 
statements for the prior month and changed her recommendation saying Mr Js complaint 
should not be upheld. She found his essential monthly living costs and average monthly 
income were such that he could afford this loan. And there were no signs that his finances 
were under pressure.
Mr J disagreed with this assessment  he didnt explain why - and asked for an ombudsman 
to review the complaint. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when UK Credit lent to Mr J. Its
rules and guidance, set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), obliged UK Credit
to lend responsibly. Amongst other things, UK Credit was required to carry out a reasonable
and proportionate assessment of whether Mr J could afford to repay what he owed in a
sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an
affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So UK Credit had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for
Mr J. In other words, it wasnt enough for UK Credit to simply think about the likelihood of it
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr J.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (eg. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for. In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that 
the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make 
repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether UK Credit did what it needed to before agreeing to
lend to Mr J, and have considered the following questions:
did UK Credit complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Js 
loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did UK Credit make a fair lending decision?
did UK Credit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
UK Credit asked for some information from Mr J before it approved the loan. It asked for
details of his income. It was unable to check this using a third-party income verification tool, 
so Mr J provided evidence of his salary for the prior 14 months from his bank. UK Credit 
used an average of the prior three months. It asked about his monthly living costs and used 
his most recent bank statement to verify this. It checked his credit file to understand his 
credit history and existing debts. It also asked about the purpose of the loan which was debt 
consolidation. From these checks combined UK Credit concluded Mr J would have monthly 
disposable income of £1,937.08 after making the repayment and so the loan was affordable.
Whilst the investigator looked at Mr Js bank statements for an additional month in response 
to the lenders comments on her initial assessment, l think the initial checks UK Credit 
carried out were proportionate. Given the results of the credit check and the level of 
disposable income the lender calculated I dont think further checks were needed. And I 
think UK Credit made a fair lending decision based on the checks it carried out. Ill explain 
why.
Mr J provided evidence that showed his average monthly income over the previous year was 
just over £5,000; UK Credit says it used a lower figure of £4,571 as it based its assessment 
on the last three months. It calculated his essential living costs to be £2107.01 based on the 
bank statement he provided. It noted he paid around £70 a month to a credit card; Mr J 
confirmed that was one of the debts he was going to settle in full, so the lender did not take it 
into account. It asked about the existing loan repayment of £197. Mr J said he was going to settle this loan in part, but UK Credit left the cost of the full repayment in its affordability 
calculation. 
It follows I agree the loan seemed affordable for Mr J on a pounds and pence basis. Mr Js 
discretionary spend was high but as he could control this I dont think this should have led 
UK Credit to decline his application. 
As UK Credit knows it also needed to consider whether the loan would cause any financial 
harm to Mr J. I think from its checks it was fair to conclude it most likely wouldnt. Mr Js 
credit check showed he had very little debt (£746) and no adverse data had been recorded 
since 2012 - and that debt was settled. The lender asked about two historic payday loans 
from 2015. These were one-offs and had been settled on time. 
Mr Js bank statement showed no evidence of financial difficulties - such as active payday 
loans, returned direct debits, or a persistent reliance on his overdraft facility. The repayments 
for this loan and his other existing loan (even if Mr J did not repay it in part) came to less 
than 10% of Mr Js income. So I dont think UK Credit ought to have thought there was a risk 
giving the loan would cause adverse financial consequences for Mr J. 
I understand his circumstances changed and he had no income for nearly 12 months. I am 
sorry to hear this, but I can only fairly expect UK Credit to have reached its lending decision 
based on Mr Js circumstances at the time he applied. If Mr J is having financial difficulties 
he may find it helpful to seek support from an organisation that helps with this type of 
situation such as StepChange (tel: 0330 055 2198) if he hasnt already done so. 
It follows I dont think UK Credit was wrong to lend to Mr J.
 
I havent seen any evidence that UK Credit acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other 
way. Mr J says it didnt direct him towards other money management options, but this is not 
something he complained to UK Credit about, so it asks that he first does so to allow it to 
investigate. This is reasonable and he can of course return to this service if he is unhappy 
with the lenders response. Mr J also said the lenders final response was late, but this is 
incorrect. UK Credit provided its response to his complaint of 31 March 2020 on 15 May 
2020  so within the time limit for a final response as set out by the regulator. The Financial 
Conduct Authoritys Dispute Resolution Rule DISP 1.6.2 stipulates that a final response to a 
complaint needs to be sent by the end of eight weeks after its receipt.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman