DRN-2271544
The complaint
Mr D complains that U K Insurance Limited mishandled his motor insurance claim.
 
What happened
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a consumer complaint against an insurance 
company or other regulated financial firm. In our final decision, we name that firm, but we 
dont name the consumer or any other firm or its products.
In 2005, a major European car maker made an executive saloon car. By 2019 it belonged to 
Mr D. He had it insured on a policy under which UKI was responsible for dealing with claims. 
Where I refer to UKI, I include claims-handlers, engineers and others insofar as I hold UKI 
responsible for their actions.
Mr D made a claim that - during an overnight storm  rainwater damaged the engine control 
unit (ECU), making the car undriveable. After an inspection of the car, UKI declined Mr Ds 
claim. Mr D got an estimate for around £1,500.00 to get his car fixed. 
He complained to UKI that it shouldve met his claim. UKI wrote a final response dated 5 
December 2019. It said the damage was caused by wear and tear and poor servicing. It also 
said there hadnt been a storm. Unhappy with that, Mr D brought his complaint to us in late 
April 2020.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think there 
was a storm on 1 November 2019. But he thought that it was unfair that UKI had declined Mr 
Ds claim. This had resulted in him paying for the costs of repair. At first the investigator 
recommended that UKI should:
1. refund Mr D the total cost of the repair to put things right; and 
2. pay eight percent interest from the date Mr D paid for the repair until UKI settles the 
amount.
Mr D agreed with the investigators opinion save that he says there was a storm overnight of 
Friday 1 to Saturday 2 November 2019.
In a second opinion, the investigator recommended that UKI should reconsider Mr D's claim 
and look to settle it.
UKI disagreed with the investigators opinion. It asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. It says, in summary, that:
There was no one-off event that caused the damage, other than heavy rain.
There wasn't a storm.
The rain cannot be classed as a storm and rain cannot be classed as an accident.
The garage has confirmed that this is a known fault from the European car maker. 
This is clearly a case of wear and tear. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covered damage to the vehicle. I havent seen any policy terms specifically about 
accident damager or about storm damage. But the policy excluded the following:
What is not covered
We will not cover:
 loss or damage caused by wear and tear or loss of value;

 any mechanical, electrical or computer failure, breakdown or breakage
There was also a policy term as follows:
6 Taking care of your car
You and any person who is covered by this policy must:
 make sure your car is roadworthy;
 take all reasonable steps to protect your car and its contents from loss or 
damage
From what Mr D has told us, he and his car were at home overnight on 1 and 2 November 
2019. The next day he couldnt start the car. As I havent seen any policy term about storm 
damage, I dont think it matters whether there had been a storm or just heavy rain.
From UKIs file, Ive noted differing opinions on Mr Ds claim. One opinion was that the claim 
was excluded because it was an electrical failure. UKIs final response was that the claim 
was excluded because it arose from wear and tear and lack of servicing. That was after one 
of its engineers said the following:
Images show leaves in the comers of the scuttle panel around the ECU, they would 
have affected the drainage from the scuttle panel area
Mr D instructed an independent garage specialising in cars made by the European car 
maker. The garage did a report that included the following:
Fault traced to substantial amount of rain water finding its way into the electrical box 
under the windscreen. Although the lid was fastened correctly rain water still found a 
way in. All drains are clear, but some leaves are present. This is a known fault to 
[European car maker].
From the report I find that  at the time the garage inspected the car  the drainage channels 
were clear but there were some leaves present. Its not clear whether the garage considered 
that there was a known fault with the lid of the ECU or with the drainage channels or with the 
ingress of leaves.
But I dont consider that the ECU had worn out. Rather it had been damaged by sudden and 
unexpected ingress of water. So I dont consider that the damage was wear and tear.As the ECU had been damaged by sudden and unexpected ingress of water, I wouldnt find 
it fair for UKI to apply the exclusion of electrical or computer failure, breakdown or breakage.
UKI also relied on lack of servicing. I consider that a lack of servicing might amount (over 
time) to a failure by Mr D to take reasonable steps to protect his car from damage.
However, I dont think theres enough evidence of how long the leaves had been in the 
scuttle panel. And I cant say that Mr D ought reasonably to have realised that they were 
there  or that he needed to remove them to optimise the drainage of rainwater. So I dont 
find it fair for UKI to turn down the claim on the grounds of lack of servicing or lack of 
reasonable steps to protect the car from damage.
  
Putting things right
From what hes told us, Mr D accepted the garage estimate ad paid to have his car repaired. 
So Ive thought about directing UKI to reimburse him less the relevant policy excess. But 
there may be other considerations such as the market value of the vehicle before the 
damage. So I find it fair and reasonable to direct UKI to reconsider and meet Mr Ds claim in 
line with the policy terms other than the terms I have dealt with above.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct U K 
Insurance Limited to:
1. reconsider and meet Mr Ds claim for damage to his car in line with the policy terms 
other than those dealt with in this decision;
2. pay Mr D, if its reconsideration results in a payment to him, simple interest on that 
payment at a yearly rate of 8% from the date of his claim to the date of its payment. If 
UKI considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr D how much its taken off. It should also give Mr D 
a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman