DRN-2728429
The complaint
Mr K complains hes suffered financial loss because of delays by Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited in processing a drawdown request.  
What happened
Mr K contacted Aviva on 3 March 2020 to make a drawdown request from his pension. He 
wanted to receive the payment before the end of the 2019/20 tax year to maximise income 
tax savings. 
But there were problems with Avivas systems and the wrong forms were sent to Mr K. 
Following a number of phone calls, Aviva said it would process the payment using unit prices 
for 10 March 2020. It said this was the earliest date it couldve processed the payment if 
there hadnt been problems with its systems. Aviva said the payment would be made within 
the 2019/20 tax year.
Mr K considered Aviva should use unit prices as at 3 March when he made the request. He 
said 10 March unit prices would have an additional cost to him of around £460. 
Aviva says Mr K decided not to proceed, and withdrew his request on 20 March. But Mr K 
says Avivas offer was subject to confirmation in writing, which he didnt receive until April 
2020. 
Aviva accepted there had been some mistakes and offered Mr K £150 compensation. It later 
increased this by another £200, in recognition that in dealing with Mr Ks complaint it hadnt 
properly taken account of a disability he suffers from.
Mr K didnt accept Avivas offer and referred the matter to this service. He maintained that 
Aviva should compensate him for the tax saving hed lost, and pay more substantial 
compensation for its poor service, mistakes and failure to properly recognise his disability.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that the 
compensation offered by Aviva was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. The 
investigator considered Avivas timescale for processing the request was reasonable, so he 
was satisfied that using the unit price on 10 March was appropriate. 
The investigator was also satisfied that Aviva had given Mr K the opportunity to take the 
payment before the end of the 2019/20 tax year, but it had been his decision not to proceed. 
So the investigator wasnt persuaded that Aviva should compensate him for the tax saving 
he considered hed lost.
Mr K didnt agree with the investigators conclusions and asked for his complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Its not in dispute that Aviva caused some delay in processing Mr Ks withdrawal request 
when it sent him the wrong forms. But the issue I need to consider is when the payment 
should have been processed, if the delay hadnt occurred.
Mr K considers Aviva should use unit prices on the day he made his request, or the day after 
(3 or 4 March 2020). He considers the drawdown is similar to withdrawal of money from a 
bank, and should therefore be instant.
I can see why Mr K might take that view. But Im not persuaded that a drawdown withdrawal 
is as straightforward as he suggests. Aviva needs to sell units in his pension fund to produce 
the payment. And that takes time. Im also mindful that the terms and conditions that govern 
income drawdown from his pension fund say:
Once we have received your written instructions to take a payment and any documentation 
we may reasonably require to proceed with this, we will cancel units and use the unit price 
available on the following basis:.
So from what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Avivas five to ten working day timeframe is 
reasonable. Aviva was also willing to use unit prices on 10 March rather than 9 March, 
because that was more favourable to Mr K. That means Im satisfied that Aviva did what it 
could to put Mr K into the position he wouldve been in if the payment had been properly 
processed following his request on 3 March.
Mr K says when Aviva offered to process the payment before the end of the 2019/20 tax 
year using 10 March unit prices, this was on the basis that he would receive confirmation in 
writing. Mr K says he didnt receive anything from Aviva until April 2020.
Aviva has also provided an extract from its records from 20 March, which was when the unit 
price date was being discussed. The note says:
Just spoke to [policyholder] again and at the moment he doesnt want to go ahead with this. 
He hasnt said he never will but he wants the complaint looking into as he is now saying he 
wants £997 in compensation for the money he would have saved in tax etc and more on top 
for his waste of time
From what Ive seen, on balance it seems likely to me that Mr K was unhappy with the 10 
March unit price proposed by Aviva. It was going to cost him more to take the payment than 
if unit prices on 3 or 4 March had been used. With that in mind, and in view of Avivas 
records, I think its likely that he decided not to proceed. 
For that reason, I dont consider its reasonable to ask Aviva to compensate Mr K for the tax 
saving he was expecting
Aviva has also accepted that it didnt properly take account of Mr Ks disability when it was 
looking into the matter and dealing with his complaint. I realise this will have been distressing for Mr K. But Ive thought about the likely impact on Mr K of Avivas actions. And when I also 
take account of the circumstances and awards made by this service in complaints of a 
similar nature, Im satisfied that the amount offered by Aviva is fair. So I wont be asking 
Aviva to make any further payment.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman