DRN-4181592
The complaint
Miss B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) irresponsibly granted her a credit card 
she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In April 2017 Miss B entered into an agreement with HSBC to have access to credit by way 
of a credit card account. She was given an opening credit limit of £7,000 which was 
increased to £8,000 in June 2019.  
The balance owing on the card was cleared in November 2020.
Miss B says HSBC acted irresponsibly by granting her such a large opening credit limit, 
given that she was already financially overcommitted with her existing credit.  
HSBC didnt agree. It said that it carried out a reasonable and proportionate assessment to 
check Miss Bs financial circumstances before granting her the credit. 
In my provisional decision dated 3 May 2023 I explained why I wasnt intending to uphold 
this complaint. I set out an extract below:
Its possible that HSBC failed to make adequate checks before providing Miss B with credit. 
I say this having noted that Miss B had other credit available to her at the time, which HSBC 
doesnt seem to have noted from its credit check. But unlike our adjudicator, I cant currently 
say that better enquiries would necessarily have caused HSBC to think the initial credit limit 
was unaffordable. I say this, having thought about what the available evidence and 
information shows. 
From my review of the information HSBC relied on, I think our adjudicator may have been 
mistaken in stating that Miss B already had £9,500 in credit, made up of her overdraft 
facility and £7,000 of existing credit. I say this having seen from her recent credit report 
that Miss B had access to credit with several other accounts at the time. Given that the 
credit was provided more than six years ago, I cant say exactly how much credit she had 
at the time and how much of it shed actually used. 
HSBC also pointed out that Miss B had used the card to take out a £3,000 balance 
transfer at a promotional rate. Whilst I agree that this would be beneficial to Miss B to a 
limited extent in reducing the overall cost of her existing borrowing, I cant say that this in 
itself is sufficient to demonstrate that the account was affordable for her. 
I agree that our adjudicator was correct in looking at the sustainability of paying off what was 
a significant amount of debt. Our adjudicator also commented on how the new credit HSBC 
had given Miss B would add significantly to any existing unsecured borrowing. She thought 
that given Miss Bs monthly income and the amount of credit she appeared to have had, it 
was unlikely that Miss B would be left with enough disposable income to cover her living 
expenses. I agree there was a risk of that happening, but to be able to make a finding about 
that I first need to consider whether in fact Miss B would be left with enough to manage 
financially each month. So far, I cant say that Miss Bs existing credit commitments plus her 
daily living costs were such that it was likely shed be left with not enough disposable income 
once shed take on the new credit HSBC was granting her.  
Ive also seen that Miss B hasnt been able to provide us with copies of her bank statements 
from around the time she was granted the credit. This would help us understand what, if 
anything, HSBC might have found out if it completed reasonable and proportionate checks. 
That means that as things stand, I currently dont have sufficient information to be able to 
say that HSBC made an unfair lending decision.
Neither Miss B nor HSBC have responded to my provisional decision with any further 
evidence or information. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Given that neither party has provided me with any further evidence or information to 
consider, there is no reason to change my finding that HSBC did not act unfairly, either in 
granting the initial credit on the card or by increasing the credit limit. So I wont be making 
any award as I dont think Miss B has been caused any loss as a result of HSBCs actions. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 July 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman