DRN-2722122
The complaint
Mr P complains HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC), trading as First Direct, has refused to refund 
a series of disputed transactions made from his bank account in 2020. 
To keep matters simple, I will refer to First Direct in the rest of my decision. 
What happened
Mr P opened a new First Direct bank account in late April 2020. First Direct sent Mr P a letter 
informing him his account had been set-up. And that his debit card and PIN details would be 
sent within five workings days. Mr P then deposited £8,000 into this new account. 
First Direct say it sent Mr P his debit card and PIN details in separate letters by post. Mr P 
says as he did not receive either of these letters within the timeframe he was told, he 
contacted First Direct. 
Mr P says its at that point he learnt of 13 transactions - amounting to just under £2,500 - 
being debited from his new First Direct account. Of these 13, nine were ATM transactions 
and four were debit card ones. The transactions are well known to both parties, so I wont list 
them here.
Mr P says he didnt receive either the debit card nor the PIN  and he did not carry out these 
transactions. Mr P says his post has been intercepted by a fraudster. Mr P wants the 
transactions refunded. 
First Direct looked into the matter. It asked Mr P for details of his other account with another 
Bank. Mr P says he was advised by this other bank to not to divulge this information. 
Unhappy with how First Directs investigation was progressing Mr P complained. First Direct 
then sent Mr P its final response. In it, First Direct said that without the information it had 
requested it was unable to progress Mr Ps claim. 
It also explained what steps Mr P could take to allay his concerns about divulging 
information First Direct had asked of him. Mr P referred his complaint to this service. 
An investigator looked into Mr Ps complaint. She didnt uphold it. In summary the main 
reasons were: 
There wasnt evidence of Mr P having problems with his post being stolen  
As Mr P had received his welcome letter from First Direct, she questioned how likely 
it was that someone would have known he was expecting a new debit card and PIN 
in separate letters.
An opportunistic fraudster would likely have attempted to spend as much money as 
quickly as they possible could. The spending pattern on Mr Ps account isnt 
consistent with this. 
She would have expected a fraudster to have continued to attempt to make 
transactions using the debit card even after the card was cancelled. But based on 
First Direct technical records, this never happened. 
Evidence from First Direct shows Mr P reported fraud on another account with HSBC 
in 2018, in which he said his mailbox had been breached and letters containing his 
PIN and debit card stolen. 
So considering he had been the victim of similar fraud before, it seemed unusual he 
would deposit such a large sum in this new account without being in receipt of the 
PIN and debit card.
Our investigator also questioned why there were four days between the last 
transaction and when Mr P reported the fraud without any further money being spent 
in between. 
Unhappy with this outcome Mr P appealed the outcome. Neither party have made any new 
points or sent in any new information for me to consider. 
It follows I must now decide this matter.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will disappoint 
Mr P, so Ill explain why. 
Generally, First Direct can hold Mr P liable for the disputed withdrawals and debit card 
transactions if the evidence suggests its more likely than not he made or authorised them 
himself. 
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr Ps genuine card and PIN were used 
to make the disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, 
on its own, enough to enable First Direct to hold him liable. 
So I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests its more likely than not that 
Mr P consented to the transactions being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable to conclude Mr P, or someone with his 
permission, authorised the transactions. This is because:
First Direct have sent me screenshots that show Mr P had raised a similar disputed 
transaction claim in May 2018; after opening a HSBC bank account the previous 
month. In that claim, Mr P disputed five ATM transactions. The file note shows Mr P 
had raised suspicions about his neighbour intercepting his post. 
The note also shows Mr P had not received his debit card or PIN for that account 
either. To be clear, this is a separate HSBC branded bank account and shouldnt be 
confused with the First Direct one that Im considering here. 
So given Mr P had previously opened a bank account, had his debit card and PIN 
intercepted, and then had unauthorised transactions carried out on it; I find it very unusual he would deposit £8,000 into his First Direct account without first having 
received the card and PIN for it. Especially as he had previous concerns about his 
neighbours intercepting his post. 
I question how an opportunistic fraudster would know Mr P was expecting two 
separate letters which contained his debit card and PIN. Mr P has said he received 
the welcome letter, so this wouldnt have helped to alert someone of what Mr P was 
expecting. 
Its difficult, and by no means an exact science, to say what is typical fraud 
behaviour. But I find it surprising that if an unauthorised person did carry out the 
transactions, why they didnt maximise any financial benefit. 
I say that because after the last disputed transaction took place, there were four days 
between this and when Mr P spoke to First Direct and says he discovered the 13 
transactions had been made. 
There was still over £5,000 in the account. And First Directs technical records show 
balance enquiries were carried out, so if the transactions were carried out by an 
unauthorised individual, they would have known how much more they could spend. 
If an unauthorised individual was carrying out fraud, then I would also have expected 
them to have kept going until either they had taken as much money as they could, or 
the card and PIN were cancelled by the account holder. That means attempts using 
the debit card should likely have been made after Mr P reported the fraud. 
But the technical records First Direct have given me show that no attempts using 
Mr Ps debit card were made after this point. 
So given what Ive said above, and after weighing everything up, Im persuaded its most 
likely Mr P consented to the transactions he disputes. In saying this, Ive also considered 
Mr P may likely have given someone else authority to carry out the transactions. But that still 
means he consented to them. 
So in summary, Im persuaded the transactions Mr P disputes were most likely authenticated 
and consented to by him  or someone he authorised. That in turns means they were 
authorised and First Direct are acting fairly by holding Mr P liable for them. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman