DRN-2166843
The complaint
Mr C complains that Pension Insurance Corporation plc (PIC) incorrectly recorded him as 
deceased, and so failed to make a pension payment to him when it was due.
What happened
Mr C receives a monthly pension income from PIC. The payments are made towards the 
end of each month and amount to £176.33.
In line with many other pension firms PIC uses a third party to help identify whether any of its 
customers have died so that the pension payments can be stopped. In March 2020 PIC 
received a notification from the third party that Mr C had passed away. So PIC stopped the 
future payments that were due and wrote to Mr Cs address to get details of any dependents 
that might be due pension payments in the future.
Around a week later, on 1 April,  Mr C called PIC to advise that the information it had 
received about his death had been incorrect. PIC wrote to Mr C two days later to apologise 
and tell him that his monthly payments had been reinstated. It told him that the delayed 
March payment would reach his account in the next three to five working days. Mr C 
ultimately received the payment on 8 April, 13 days after it had been due.
PIC investigated why it had received an incorrect notification of Mr Cs death from the third 
party. That investigation revealed an error on Mr Cs credit reference file linking him with 
another person that shared the same name and date of birth. It was that person who had 
sadly died. The third party tracing company offered to help Mr C correct his credit reference 
agency data to remove the link to the other person.
As a result of the delayed payment, Mr C said that two regular payments to his grandchildren 
were returned unpaid. He said he incurred bank charges as a result totalling £20. PIC 
offered to refund those charges and offered Mr C a further £40 for the trouble and upset its 
error had caused to him. Mr C didnt think PICs offer was sufficient so brought his complaint 
to this Service.
Mr Cs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that, as well as 
refunding the bank charges, PIC should pay Mr C a total of £100 for the trouble and upset 
hed been caused. PIC agreed to make that payment.
But Mr C didnt accept our adjudicators assessment. He thought that a much higher 
compensation payment was warranted. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mr C accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr C and by PIC. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, 
I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked 
at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what 
I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
It is clear here that PIC made an error in stopping the monthly payments that were due to 
Mr C. Whilst I entirely accept that it acted in good faith, and was reliant on the information it 
received from the third party tracing company that it employed, ultimately PIC was 
responsible for the decision to not make the payment that was due to Mr C in March 2020.
However, it seems to me that PIC acted relatively promptly in reinstating the payment that 
was due to Mr C. It doesnt seem that PIC required Mr C to undertake any onerous steps to 
confirm that he was still alive. And it made the payment that was due to him within a week of 
being notified of its error. 
I am mindful of the amount of the delayed payment. Had it been significantly larger it might 
have been appropriate for PIC to use a faster payment method to get the outstanding money 
to Mr C. But given the size of the payment, and the relative costs of faster payment methods, 
I think the time PIC took to make the payment was proportionate. And I understand that PIC 
also correctly reinstated the future payments due to Mr C so that these would be received as 
planned from April onwards.
Mr C says that as a result of the pension payment not being received, his bank was unable 
to make two payments that are scheduled each month to his grandchildren. I can appreciate 
how upsetting and embarrassing that might be to Mr C. He appears to have set those 
payments up on the basis of the income that PIC was contracted to pay him. So he had a 
strong expectation that they would be made on time. I agree with our investigator that, as 
well as refunding the £20 in bank charges that Mr C incurred, PIC should pay Mr C some 
further compensation to reflect the trouble and upset he has been caused.
I have thought carefully about what level of compensation would be appropriate here. On the 
one hand Mr C would have been understandably upset about PIC thinking he had died. And 
no doubt he would have been embarrassed that the regular payments he made to his 
grandchildren failed. But I also need to consider the amount of the payment that PIC 
delayed, the way in which PIC corrected the error, and the amount of time that Mr C was 
without the money he was owed. And having taken all this into consideration I think a 
payment of £100 for the trouble and upset Mr C has been caused is fair and reasonable.Putting things right
Unless it has done so already, PIC should;
Refund to Mr C the £20 in bank charges he incurred as a result of the delayed 
pension payment.
Pay Mr C £100 to reflect the trouble and upset this matter has caused to him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint and direct Pension Insurance 
Corporation plc to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman