DRN-2674313
The complaint
Mr C complains that Gain Credit LLC, trading as Lending Stream, lent to him irresponsibly.
Mr C is represented by a third party. 
What happened
Mr C applied for two loans in 2018. A brief Loan Table is here. Mr C repaid Loan 1 within two 
weeks. Loan 2 was not paid off and was sold to a third party in October 2019.  
loan date taken date repaid amount 
borrowedterm highest 
repayment 
(rounded)declared 
income
1 14/07/2018 01/08/2018 £200 6m £88 £4,000
2 01/08/2018 sold £1,000 6m £334 £3,000
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Lending Stream had lent 
responsibly. Mr Cs representative told us that Mr C wanted an ombudsman to review it but 
gave no reasons as to why he disagreed and sent no additional evidence. Mr C was not able 
to send us bank statements earlier in the investigation. 
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Lending Stream 
needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C could repay 
the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different things, such 
as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and 
expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might 
be reasonable and proportionate. 
 
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include: where a customers income is particularly low; where the repayments are 
particularly high; and/or where the frequency of the loans and the length of time over which a 
customer has been given loans need to be looked at: repeated refinancing could signal that 
the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable.
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable, but that is not relevant to Mr Cs 
circumstances as he took two loans which is not enough to establish a pattern. 
Lending Stream was required to establish whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  
not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines  sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments.
 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
in order to do that. I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information 
provided in this context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
Loan 1 was when Mr C was a new customer and the combination of his declared income 
and expenditure (£4,000 and £350 respectively) and his modest loan application for £200 
lead me to think that Lending Stream had enough information to make a lending decision. It 
approved the loan and I do not think it needed to do more. I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C repaid Loan 1 quickly and applied for Loan 2 on the same day. His declared income 
was £3,000 and his expenditure was £700, and Mr C applied for a £900 loan. I would have 
expected additional checks to be carried out because this was a larger sum and was applied 
for immediately after repaying Loan 1. Lending Stream did do additional checks. The credit 
search results I have seen for Loan 2 do not show anything to cause it concern. I have no 
information from Mr C about his finances in August 2018 over and above what he declared 
to Lending Stream. I do not think that the loan was lent irresponsibly and I would not have 
expected Lending Stream to do more than it did 
The records Lending Stream has sent to us show that the first instalment (due 
31 August 2018) was not paid and Mr C received notices to remind him and a charge for 
non-payment. It seems that no repayments were made to Lending Stream for Loan 2. 
I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 
16 April 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman