DRN-4138663
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc, trading as Ulster Bank, will not refund 
the money he lost as the result of an authorised push payment (APP) scam. 
Mr B has brought his complaint through a representative. For ease of reading I will refer 
solely to Mr B in this decision. 
What happened
Both parties are familiar with the details of the scam so I will provide only a summary here. 
On 21 September 2018 Mr B invested £20,000 in mini-bonds following a call from company 
A. He received this after completing an online inquiry form. He recalls the caller was well-
informed and professional, always making any follow-up call as agreed. He received a 
formal contract and went through Know Your Customer (KYC) checks before proceeding. He 
transferred the money using faster payments via his online banking. On 5 October 2018     
Mr B received his first return on the investment of £237.50. But he then struggled to contact 
the caller from company A and started to see negative reviews about it online. He says he 
realised he had been scammed by November 2018. 
Ulster Bank rejected the fraud claim Mr B made on 28 January 2019. He raised a complaint 
with the bank on 11 April 2022, it did not issue a final response letter.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Bs complaint. He said Ulster Bank did not need to have 
done anything more when Mr B made the payment. It was not unusual activity for his 
account and so did not warrant further checks. Mr B challenged this saying the similar 
payments were also investment scams so Ulster Bank should not have relied on them as 
part of his typical spending pattern.
Our investigator did not change his view saying the beneficiaries of the payments Mr B 
referenced were either regulated firms at the time or providing unregulated mini-bonds. He 
has seen no evidence Ulster Bank should have been aware Mr B was concerned about any 
of these payments at the time of this transaction.
Unhappy with this assessment Mr B asked for an ombudsmans review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that Mr B made and authorised the payment. Mr B knew why he was
making the payment. At the stage he was making this payment, he believed he was 
investing in bonds. I dont dispute Mr B didnt receive what he thought he would, but I remain 
satisfied the transactions were authorised under the Payment Services Regulations 2017.
Its also accepted that Ulster Bank has an obligation to follow Mr Bs instructions. So in the
first instance Mr B is presumed liable for his loss. But there are other factors that must be
taken into account.
To reach my decision I have considered the law, regulators rules and guidance,
relevant codes of practice and what was good industry practice at the time. To note, as the 
payment pre-dates the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code its principles do not 
apply in this case. This means I think that Ulster Bank should have:
been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism.
had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years,
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average
customer.
in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, taken
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the
possibility of financial harm.
I dont think the payment was out of character for Mr Bs account. I can see in the 12 months 
prior to this payment he had made multiple payments of similar amounts. Mr B argues that 
they were also investment scams, but I cannot see Ulster Bank was on notice of this 
possibility in September 2018. As the investigator said, the payments Mr B referenced as 
other instances of fraud were either to regulated firms at the time or to firms providing 
unregulated mini-bonds. And I can only reasonably expect it to respond to information it had 
at the time.  This means I find that it was reasonable for Ulster Bank not to carry out further 
checks before processing this payment.
However, even if this was not my finding, I am not persuaded an intervention from Ulster 
Bank would have stopped Mr B from making the payment. I say this as he has told us he 
was actively seeking investment opportunities at the time; he was impressed by the callers 
knowledge; and found the contract and KYC checks to authenticate the opportunity. I think 
he would have been able to answer a proportionate level of questions from Ulster Bank such 
that it would not have thought Mr B was at risk of financial harm. I note he would have seen 
an online warning about investment scams as he made the payment and this did not deter 
him. I would also remind Mr B that when simply executing authorised payments, banks do 
not have to protect customers against the risk of bad bargains or give investment advice.
At this time investment scams were often characterised by rates of return that were too good
to be true and by receiving the opportunity to invest via a cold call or an unsolicited offer,
with significant pressure applied to act now. Mr Bs testimony does not marry with any of 
these risk indicators.
And there is no record of any published regulatory warning about company A until May 2019. 
So it seems at the time of the event there would have been no public information that Ulster 
Bank ought to have been aware of and reacted to.  Its also notable there were no warnings 
at that time about mini-bonds as a product. The FCA published more information about mini-
bonds in May 2019 and highlighted some risks involved with investing in such instruments. 
But this information was published nearly eight months after Mr B made his payment.
The FCA temporarily banned the mass marketing of speculative mini-bonds to UK retail
consumers from January 2020, whilst it consulted on permanent rules. It made the
temporary ban permanent the following year. So I dont think Ulster Bank could have beenreasonably aware of any risks given that this information was published over two years after
Mr B made his payment.
I have then thought about whether Ulster Bank did what this service would expect to recover
the funds once Mr B made a claim in January 2019. Given the length of time
that had passed recovery from the receiving bank was unlikely, but I can see Ulster Bank 
attempted to do so in a timely manner. It was told no funds remained. 
It follows for the reasons set out above I cannot fairly hold Ulster Bank liable for Mr Bs
losses.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman