DRN-2661903
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S complain that the way Bank of Ireland UK Plc (BoI) dealt with the product 
fee in the mortgage offer meant that they delayed completing the remortgage. They would 
like compensation for the resulting stress and extra cost. 
What happened
Mr S and Mrs S had a buy to let property and were remortgaging it with BoI. Mr S and Mrs S 
applied for a mortgage of £261,000.00 to cover the balance owed to the lender. Their 
existing mortgage had a discounted rate whose term expired on 31 July 2019 and they 
asked that the new mortgage should start on or after 1 August 2019. BoI charged a product 
fee of £1,495.00 for the mortgage. Mr S and Mrs S requested in their application that this fee 
not be added to the mortgage. On 17 July 2019 BoI issued a mortgage offer. This was for 
the requested £261,000.00 but BoI said that it would be deducting from this the product fee 
of £1,495.00 and a funds transfer fee of £15.00, in total £1,510.00. 
Mr S contacted BoI on 23 July. Mr S and Mrs S say in their letter of complaint that BoI had 
done what they didnt want it to do which was to add the product fee to the mortgage. 
Between 23 July and 30 July there were a number of phone calls and emails between BoI 
and Mr and Mrs S about this. In a phone call of 25 July BoI suggested that it could issue an 
amended offer of £261,000.00 excluding the fees. But in an email of 29 July it advised Mr S 
and Mrs S to pay the £1,510 to their solicitor to be added to the monies required for 
completion. On 30 July, Mr S and Mrs S said that they had now got the redemption 
statement on their old mortgage from their solicitor and would have to pay a shortfall of 
£2,000.00 (including the product fee) as the redemption figure on their old mortgage was just 
in excess of £261,000.00. Mr S and Mrs S paid the shortfall directly to the solicitor. They 
later complained to BoI that the mortgage offer had not dealt with the product fee as they 
had requested.
 
BoI said that it had released £259,490,00 to its solicitors and expected Mr S and Mrs S to 
make up the difference of £1,510.00. It accepted that in a phone call of 25 July it had 
suggested to Mr S and Mrs S amending the offer and this may have caused a delay and 
offered compensation of £100.00.
 
Our investigators view
Our investigators view was that the call on 25 July would have caused a delay in the 
completion of the remortgage and that in addition to compensation of £200.00 for their 
trouble and upset, BoI should refund the interest paid to Mr S and Mrs Ss previous lender 
between 1 August and completion on 7 August. Mr S and Mrs S accepted this solution but 
BoI disagreed and asked for a review. 
My provisional decision
I considered the complaint and came to a different conclusion than our adjudicator. I 
summarise the main points of my provisional decision as follows. I wrote:
This was a business transaction whereby Mr S and Mrs S were remortgaging a buy to let 
property. Mr S who has mainly dealt with this complaint is an accountant. Mr S and Mrs S 
wanted a buy to let mortgage from BoI to repay their existing mortgage on 1 August or just 
after to avoid any ERC being owed to their existing lender. There was a product fee of 
£1,495.00 which Mr S and Mrs S didnt want added to the new mortgage which would avoid 
paying interest on this and the loan. My view is that that is exactly what they got in the 
mortgage offer of 17 July. They got the loan of £261,000 and they would have to pay the 
£1,495.00 and a fund transfer fee of £15.00 to BoI to complete the remortgage.
Like them I would have expected BoI to have made an offer of £261,000 and to have asked 
them to pay £1,495.00 separately. But in effect the offer of £261,000 and deduction of 
£1,495.00 achieved the very same thing. In either case Mr S and Mrs S would have had to 
make up the £1,495.00. 
About a week after the mortgage was issued on 25 July BoI, in a couple of phone calls, 
appears to have issued some conflicting information to Mr S and Mrs S and suggested that it 
issue a fresh mortgage offer. This seems to have been clarified in a call on 29 July that the 
fees could be paid directly to the solicitor without a fresh mortgage offer which Mr S and Mrs 
S agreed to do on the 30 July. 
I accept that there as a small interlude when BoI suggested issuing a fresh mortgage offer 
but any confusion caused by this was clarified rapidly. BoIs offer of £100 compensation for 
that seems appropriate. But I dont see how that delayed completion. Mr S and Mrs S would 
still have required a completion statement from their solicitor and had to put their solicitor in 
funds for the balance completion monies. The first mention of this is on 30 July when Mr S 
and Mrs S tell BoI that there was a £2,000.00 shortfall (including the £1,510.00 for the fees) 
which they said they would pay to their solicitor. Any confusion caused by the phone call on 
25 July was resolved by that time. Mr S and Mrs S would have had to transfer the money to 
their solicitor. But they are in business and it would be reasonable to expect them to have 
budgeted for this cost and to have access to banking facilities to make that transfer.
So, I cant see how the earlier phone call caused completion to be delayed and that BoI 
should be responsible for the cost of that delay. In any case I note that Mr S and Mrs Ss 
priority on their application was to complete shortly after the 31 July to avoid the ERC on 
their existing mortgage which they seem to have achieved. So, I would find it difficult to find 
BoI at fault for delivering what Mr S and Mrs S required of them and so I cant fairly uphold 
this complaint.
For the above reasons Im of the view that this complaint shouldnt be upheld. But I will 
consider any further submissions made by Mr S and Mrs S or BoI before I reach my final 
decision. 
I then invited further submissions from BoI, and Mr S and Mrs S. Mr S and Mrs S replied and 
made a number of points which I summarise below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S and Mrs S have helpfully asked us to correct a number of errors that appeared in my 
Provisional Decision. Firstly, the incorrect spelling of their surname and secondly that I said 
that Mr S was an accountant. I apologise for both errors. My reading of the application form 
was that Mr S was an accountant as it referred to both a certified and chartered accountant and I assumed Mr S to be one and his actual accountant the other. I recognise that Mr S has 
never been an accountant and again apologise for the error.
In respect of this complaint, Mr S and Mrs S made a number of points disagreeing with my 
provisional findings. I appreciate that they are concerned about how BoI sells its mortgage 
products and feel that there should be a greater degree of transparency earlier in the 
process before the mortgage offer. In passing I note that Mr S and Mrs S refer me several 
times to the MCOB regulations but as this is a buy to let mortgage, this type of lending is an 
unregulated activity. As a borrower of a buy to let mortgage Mr S and Mrs S are engaged in 
a business and with less protections than under the highly regulated environment of a 
residential mortgage That said. we expect BoI to act fairly and reasonably in lending to Mr S 
and Mrs S.  
As I said above my expectation was that the mortgage offer would be presented differently. 
But it wasnt. In any event Mr S and Mrs S would have had to pay BoI the product fee of 
£1495 and to have the previous mortgage redeemed. The only difference appears to be that 
the fee had to be paid through the solicitor. Mr S and Mrs S say that to do this cost an extra 
£50-£100 because of extra work and AML checks, Im not sure why there would be extra 
AML checks for this. It seems from the phone call of 30 July and the redemption statement 
that there was going to be a shortfall of about £2,000 including the £1,495, so Mr S and Mrs 
S would, have to undergo AML checks anyway to deposit money with the solicitor. The 
solicitor would also have had to prepare a redemption statement in any case.  
My task is to decide complaints on what is fair and reasonable. Im not a regulator so cant 
tell BoI how it should be presenting its mortgage products. My view is that BoI assisted Mr S 
and Mrs S to achieve their objectives that they tasked BoI with. Mr S and Mrs S were able to 
drawdown the mortgage shortly after the end of July as they wanted and were able to pay 
the fee to BoI without it being added to the mortgage. Because the fee was to be paid not in 
the way they expected there was an amount of minor inconvenience for Mr S and Mrs S and 
they say they incurred slightly higher solicitors fees than if BoI had arranged the payment of 
the mortgage fee in a different manner. BoI has made an offer for the inconvenience that I 
consider reasonable. Although I would have expected the fees to be presented in a different 
manner, I dont consider that BoI was wrong to require payment in the way they did and so I 
wont require BoI to make a contribution to the solicitors costs. But, given that this is a buy to 
let mortgage, and that Mr S and Mrs Ss major objectives were achieved, and for the 
reasons set out in my Provisional Decision, I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman