DRN-3304420
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Cabot Credit Management Group Limited are pursuing him for a 
debt which he says is not his.
What happened
This complaint is about a bank loan which was sold to Cabot in 2016.
Mr S asked Cabot for documents to show he owed them the debt. Cabot sent him a credit 
agreement, transaction history, and notice of assignment. But Mr S pointed out that those all 
used different references and amounts and didnt seem to relate to one another. He says he 
doesnt recognise the amount owed. Cabot said the references differed as the debt had 
been sold on more than once. They were not able to provide any further evidence that this 
was Mr Ss account.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
found that the transaction history had been taken from a wholly different account and did not 
relate to this debt. But they thought the credit agreement and notice of assignment matched 
up sufficiently. Mr S asked for an ombudsman to look at his case afresh, so the complaints 
been passed to me to decide.
I sent Mr S and Cabot a provisional decision on 11 January 2022, to explain why I thought 
the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think Cabot have sufficiently shown that they are 
entitled to pursue Mr S for this debt.
As our investigator found, the transaction history that Cabot were given has quite clearly 
been taken from a different account, and does not relate to this loan. Its dated from before 
this loan existed, it carries the wrong account references, and its for a completely different 
amount.
Our investigator thought the credit agreement and notice of assignment matched, but I think 
they were mistaken. The account references are again completely different. Cabot say that 
this is because the reference changed when the debt changed hands. They provided an 
original account number, which was also in their internal systems. But that original account 
number also does not relate to the account number on the credit agreement provided. 
Indeed, that original account number does not appear to be in the format that the original 
creditor would typically use.
The credit agreement was also for a loan of a substantially different amount to the amount 
Cabot are now chasing. And Im aware that Cabot have already been given a transaction 
history that does not relate to this account. So I am not reasonably satisfied that this credit 
agreement actually relates to this debt either. It seems likely it could be from a different 
account too. I certainly dont have enough to conclusively link the credit agreement and 
notice of assignment together.
Further, the notice of assignment only records the transfer of the debt from a previous debt 
purchaser to Cabot  it does not link the debt to the original creditor or to the original loan 
that Cabot say Mr S owes.
Cabot also argued that Mr S had made payments to this debt. But that seems to have been 
taken from the incorrect transaction history. Ive not seen anything to show that this debt 
received payments from any card or account in Mr Ss name.
Normally, in this kind of situation Id expect the debt owner to be able to provide some 
substantial evidence that the customer owed the debt and that the amount outstanding was 
correct. This could be a credit agreement, notice of assignment, and/or statements with 
matching account references. They might also provide an unbroken chain of assignment 
notices from the original creditor through to the current owner, or records showing the loan 
being paid into the customers bank account and receiving repayments in return, and so on. 
But Cabot dont appear to have such evidence here.
And if Cabot cannot reasonably show that Mr S owes this debt, nor justify what amount is 
outstanding, then I cannot reasonably conclude that they are entitled to pursue him for it.
As such, I am currently minded to direct Cabot to stop pursuing Mr S for this debt. Of course, 
if Cabot provide substantial evidence that Mr S owes this money  with that evidence 
matching up properly and being provided before the provisional decisions deadline  then Ill 
be open to reconsidering this.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
8 February 2022. Mr S had nothing further to add. Cabot said they were trying to get more 
information from the original creditor, but in the end they added nothing further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, and for the same reasons as set out in 
my provisional decision above.
Putting things right
I direct Cabot Credit Management Group Limited to cease pursuing Mr S for this debt.My final decision
I uphold Mr Ss complaint and direct Cabot Credit Management Group Limited to cease 
pursuing him for this account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman