DRN-2918023
The complaint
Mr M complains that Creation Financial Services Limited (Creation) acted irresponsibly in 
giving him a credit card and then increasing his limit. 
What happened
Mr M was approved for a credit card by Creation with a limit of £1600 in July 2018. 
He applied for a credit limit increase two weeks later so that he could do a balance transfer. 
His limit was increased to £4200, which he used to transfer a balance of £4000.
Mr M got into financial difficulty, and contacted Creation about this in October 2019. He had 
found that hed accumulated debts of £43,000. He complained to Creation that it hadnt 
carried out sufficient checks when offering him a credit card and increasing his limit.
Creation didnt uphold his complaint, saying it had carried out appropriate checks, and noting 
that Mr M used his limit to carry out a balance transfer.
Mr M brought his case to our service. Our investigator didnt have full details of Creations 
calculations, but based on Mr Ms payment history, and other information provided by 
Creation, he didnt think the approval of the application was irresponsible. He also reviewed 
the increase and didnt think this was irresponsible either. He didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr M wasnt happy with this, and so the case came to me to decide. As I reached a different 
view from the investigator, I issued a provisional decision which is set out below.  
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When deciding to offer or increase credit, a lender has to carry out a creditworthiness 
assessment, including a proportionate affordability assessment to check that the borrower 
can repay the amount borrowed in a sustainable way. This means being able to repay over a 
reasonable period without undue difficulty, while being able to meet other commitments, and 
without having to borrow further. Rules and guidance on this have been laid down by the 
current and previous regulators, the Financial Conduct Authority and the Office of Fair 
Trading. However, there is no set way to carry out the assessment.
Creation has explained that when Mr M applied for his card, its credit scoring process 
included a review of the file received from credit reference agencies. This showed Mr Ms 
repayment history, details of his financial commitments and would have shown any adverse 
information. Creation said it correctly followed its internal process in making its lending 
decision. However, in my view, the information that Creation wouldve seen shouldve alerted 
it to the risk that Mr Ms debt was becoming unsustainable, and that as a result, it would not 
be responsible to offer further credit.
Although Creation was offering a low initial limit, Mr Ms net monthly income was also low at 
£1,150, and his credit card debt relatively high, at more than £20,000 on four other credit 
cards. It wouldve been apparent from his credit file that although Mr M had been meeting his 
contractual obligations, he was generally making low repayments, and his credit card debt 
had significantly increased over the previous two years with balances moving to and fro 
between credit cards rather than reducing overall, indicating that he may be struggling to 
repay his existing debt and was at risk of financial difficulty.
Creation has explained how it calculated whether Mr M could afford new credit. I can see it 
took account of financial commitments, and Mr Ms income, and his partners income. In 
relation to financial commitments, Creation has explained that it took account of a proportion 
of Mr Ms mortgage payment having assessed the proportion Mr Ms sole income bore to his 
partners income, being 36%, in order to arrive at a disposable income figure of £280.
Creation say that half of this was deducted as an estimate of living expenses - £140 per 
month, leaving £140 as disposable income that could be used to repay the additional credit.
The basis of the fraction used here is not clear, with no apparent relation to Mr Ms actual or 
reasonably estimated expenditure. I also note that Mr M has a family, which would impact 
the level of his living expenses, but I cant see that this estimate took account of that.
Accordingly, I cant see that Creation made a reasonable estimate of Mr Ms expenditure, 
and therefore his disposable income.
As I cant see that Creation made a reasonable estimate of Mr Ms disposable income, I 
have also reviewed Mr and Mrs Ms joint account statements to assess the level of Mr Ms 
disposable income. I am not suggesting that Creation needed to look at Mr Ms bank 
statements, but I have to use the information available to me. Overall, having regard to the 
regular income and outgoings, the account shows little or no disposable income. I could see 
that there were occasional payments into the account from other sources, and that these 
were sometimes followed by larger card repayments, but from what I could see, Mr M was 
not able to make larger repayments without these additional credits. I can also see that the 
account had started to dip into overdraft in the months before Mr M applied for the card with 
Creation.
In the light of all of this, I dont think it was responsible of Creation to give Mr M an initial limit 
of £1600, or to increase it shortly afterwards so that he could do a balance transfer, and in 
my view this contributed to Mr Ms financial difficulties.
To put this right, I intend to require Creation to refund all interest and charges in relation to 
his credit card.
As Mr Ms account is now with a debt purchaser, I intend to require Creation to ensure that 
the refund is credited to Mr Ms account with the purchaser.
I also intend to require Creation to remove all adverse information it recorded with credit 
reference agencies about Mr M.
As Mr M has had the use of the money he borrowed, I dont intend to require Creation to 
have the remaining balance written off.
My provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint.
I intend to require Creation Financial Services Limited to refund all interest and charges in 
relation to his credit card and to credit these to the account held in respect of this card by the 
debt purchaser.I intend to require Creation Financial Services Limited to remove all adverse information with 
credit reference agencies that relates to this borrowing.
As Mr Ms financial situation has been very worrying for him, I intend to require Creation 
Financial Services Limited to pay him £100 by way of compensation for this.
Creation asked for further detail of what I had said I expected they wouldve been able to see 
from Mr Ms credit file. I provided details of how Mr Ms balances had increased over the two 
years before he applied for his credit card with Creation together with additional detail about 
his repayments and balance transfers. 
Creation provided full details of its creditworthiness assessment and offered to refund all 
interest and charges on the account and remove all adverse information about Mr Ms credit 
card in the light of the additional information provided by this service.  
Mr M accepted my findings but sought confirmation that all fees and interest charges would 
be refunded. I have covered this below.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by confirming that my provisional decision provided for all interest and charges to be 
refunded. For the avoidance of doubt, the reference to charges includes any charge 
described as a fee, which, as confirmed separately to Creation, includes balance transfer 
fees.
I reviewed the information Creation provided and note that it says that the information 
provided by this service wasnt available to it at the time. However, as I said in my 
provisional decision, I think Mr Ms credit file would have contained information that indicated 
that he may have been struggling financially. Overall, while I note what Creation said, my 
view hasnt changed, and my final decision is in line with my provisional decision.   
Putting things right
To put things right, I require Creation to refund all interest and charges applied to Mr Ms 
credit card account. As Creation has sold the account to a debt purchaser, I require Creation 
to ensure that the refund is applied to reduce the balance on that account.
As Mr M has had the use of the credit granted, I dont require Creation to write off the 
remaining balance. 
I require Creation to remove all adverse information about Mr Ms credit card account from 
his records with credit reference agencies 
I am also requiring Creation to pay £100 directly to Mr M in respect of the worry caused by 
his financial situation.    
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require Creation Financial Services Limited to refund all interest and charges applied to Mr Ms credit card account. As the account has been sold to a debt purchaser, I require 
Creation Financial Services Limited to ensure that the refund is applied to reduce the 
balance on that account.
As Mr M has had the use of the credit granted, I dont require Creation Financial Services  
Limited to write off the remaining balance. 
I require Creation Financial Services Limited to remove all adverse information about Mr Ms 
credit card account from his records with credit reference agencies 
I require Creation Financial Services Limited to pay £100 directly to Mr M in respect of the 
worry caused by his financial situation .
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Rosemary Campbell
Ombudsman