DRN-4220910
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Tesco Underwriting Limited (Tesco) unfairly declined a claim on her 
motor insurance policy.
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a sports utility vehicle, first registered in 
2017.
Mrs A acquired the car in April 2021 on a finance agreement. Mrs A had a comprehensive 
policy for the year from mid-April 2021. Tesco was the insurance company that was 
responsible for dealing with any claim.
From late September 2021, Mrs A made changes to the policy and paid an additional 
premium.
The policy covered Mrs A as policyholder. The policy also covered a brother (aged 29) as 
the only other named driver. Any claim for theft of the vehicle was subject to a policy excess 
of £450.00.
Tescos policy booklet (May 2019 and September 2020 editions) included the following 
exclusion:
Section C  Fire and theft

What is not covered

Loss or damage to the car if, at the time of the incident, it was being driven or 
used without your permission by someone in your family or someone who is living 
with you.
The investigator referred to that as the exclusion and so will I.
On about 24 December 2021, Mrs A was at her parents home when the car was in a serious  
accident somewhere else. The car suffered structural damage and was no longer driveable. 
On about 27 December 2021, Mrs A made a claim to Tesco. She said someone had taken 
the car without her permission.
On about 30 December 2021, Mrs A told Tesco that police had told her that they had 
arrested her brother and a friend of his at the scene of the accident. Mrs A said that that the 
brother was aged 25 and had no driving licence. She said no other vehicle had been 
involved in the accident.
In February 2022, police gave Tesco possession of the damaged car.
In May 2022, Tesco declined to pay the claim, because the person who took the car without 
Mrs As permission was a member of her family.
In January 2023, Mrs A complained to Tesco that it should pay the claim and that it was 
responsible for delay and poor communication about the damaged car.
By a final response dated early March 2023, Tesco confirmed that it wouldnt pay the claim. 
But it upheld the complaint about delay and said it was sending Mrs A a cheque for £250.00.
Mrs A brought her complaint to us in mid-April 2023.
In early May 2023, Tesco offered, through us, to pay Mrs A a further £150.00, making a total 
of £400.00.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that the 
2021 insurance product information document (IPID) said Tesco wouldnt pay a claim if the  
car was taken without consent unless reported to the police. The investigator said that the 
theft had been reported to the police. 
The investigator recommended that Tesco should:
1. pay Mrs As claim; and 
2. add 8% interest; and
3. pay Mrs A a further £350.00 compensation for the impact of the upset Tesco caused 
in declining the claim and for the delays it caused. This would bring the total 
compensation to £750.00.
Mrs A agreed with the investigators opinion.
Tesco disagreed with the investigators opinion. It asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. It says, in summary, that:
The IPID included the following:
This is a summary of cover and exclusions available under Tesco Bank Car 
Insurance. It does not include the full policy benefits, limits and exclusions. 
The full terms and conditions can be found in the Policy Booklet which can be 
found at www.tescobank.com and will be provided at the conclusion of the 
contract. This should be read in conjunction with your Policy Schedule and 
Statement of Fact.
Mrs A has confirmed the car was taken without her permission and has reported 
it to the police as such.
It is clear within the policy terms that cover does not apply to this claim.
There has been some delay in arranging what is to happen with the car as the 
vehicle is a category B total loss and therefore cannot go back on the road. 
It paid compensation of £250.00 for delay and offers a further £150.00, taking the 
total to £400.00 which is fair and reasonable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.It is not uncommon for motor policies to exclude any claim arising from a family member 
taking the car without the policyholders permission. 
But in most policies, such an exclusion is subject to an exception in the event that the 
policyholder co-operates with the police in investigating or prosecuting the family member for 
taking the vehicle without consent. We consider it significant and unusual for a policy to have 
such an exclusion without such an exception. 
Tescos policy terms in 2021 had the exclusion (quoted above), which I accept was written in 
plain and intelligible language.
However, the exclusion had no exception. So Ive looked to see whether the policy 
documents made this clear.
The 2021 IPID included the following:
What is not insured?

Car taken without consent unless reported to the police
That doesnt say anything about family members. So it doesnt accurately summarise the 
exclusion, let alone highlight the absence of an exception to the exclusion. Im not satisfied 
that this was adequately highlighted as a significant and unusual restriction on cover at the 
point of sale.
I consider that Tescos lack of clarity on that point prejudiced Mrs As ability to get a policy 
with such an exception. On balance, I find that, if Tesco had been clear about the absence of 
such an exception, Mrs A wouldve bought a different policy or otherwise acted differently. 
But Tescos policy had no such exception. And I accept that Mrs A cooperated with the 
police in the investigation of a possible prosecution of her brother for taking the car without 
consent. I accept her statement that there was no outcome to the police investigation of the 
incident nearly two years later. 
So I dont find that Tesco treated Mrs A fairly by relying on the exclusion to decline her claim.
(The 2022 edition of Tescos policy terms had a different exclusion as follows:
Loss of or damage to the car if, at the time of the incident, it was being driven or 
used, without your permission, by someone who normally lives with you, or with any 
of the named drivers.
As that edition was after 2021, I dont consider it relevant to the claim in 2021 or the 
complaint about that claim).
Also, Tesco has been responsible for delays and contradictory information about what 
should happen to the damaged car.
From what she has said, the unfair decision and the delays caused Mrs A to have been  
since December 2021 - without a vehicle but continuing to pay the finance. Tesco also 
caused her months of worry that shouldnt have been necessary. That came at an already 
difficult time for her. Putting things right
Ive thought about what to direct Tesco to do to try to put things right. 
That includes thinking about directing Tesco to reconsider the claim without reference to the 
exclusion. However, I wouldnt find it fair and  reasonable for Tesco to reject the claim on the 
basis that Mrs A failed to exercise reasonable care over the keys or the car.
So I consider it fair and reasonable to direct Tesco to pay the market value of the car 
immediately before the accident in December 2021, less the excess of £450.00. Tesco may 
pay any balance due to the finance company before paying any balance to Mrs A. The 
damaged car will become the property of Tesco (save in the unlikely event that Mrs A wishes 
to negotiate a price to keep the damaged car).
Ive thought about directing Tesco to pay interest at the finance companys rate and/or 
compensation for loss of use of a vehicle. However, I havent seen details of the finance 
agreement.
However, Mrs A accepted the investigators opinion. In any event I find it fair enough to 
direct Tesco to pay Mrs A interest at our usual rate and  in addition to its payment of 
£250.00  a further £500.00 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
Tesco Underwriting Limited to:
1. pay the market value of the car immediately before the accident in December 2021, 
less the excess of £450.00; and
2. pay Mrs A simple interest at a yearly rate of 8% on the amount it pays under 
paragraph 1 above from 27 January 2022 to the date of its payment. If Tesco 
considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mrs A how much its taken off. It should also give her a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate; and
3. pay Mrs A  in addition to its payment of £250.00  a further £500.00 compensation 
for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman