DRN-3341963
The complaint
Mr G complains that PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA has declined his request for a refund, 
after he raised a dispute under its buyer protection programme.
 
What happened
In August 2021, Mr G bought a TV, using his PayPal account. Mr Gs told us he was having 
some work done at home. So he left the TV unopened and in storage until November 2021, 
when the work was completed. When he opened the packaging, he saw that the TV screen 
was damaged. 
In December 2021 Mr G raised a dispute, saying the damage fitted PayPals category of 
significantly not as described. He provided a report from an engineer to support his claim.
PayPal declined his claim, saying the engineers report didnt conclude the item had been 
damaged in transit, only that it may have been. PayPal noted Mr G had had the item for four 
months prior to raising his dispute and wasnt able to provide evidence of the condition the 
TV was in upon receipt. Had such evidence been available, PayPal said it would have 
advised differently and issued a refund.
Mr G was unhappy with PayPals response, so referred his complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators looked into things and said PayPal had acted fairly in declining the claim. 
Mr G didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so his complaint has come to me for a final 
decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I can appreciate Mr Gs frustrations about this situation. Im aware hes sought 
redress from the manufacturer and from PayPal, both without success. Unfortunately for 
him, hes disadvantaged by the timing in this situation. Albeit for understandable reasons, Mr 
G didnt open his TV straightaway. But that delay means hes not been able to show 
evidence of its condition upon receipt. 
 
Ive looked at the engineers report Mr G provided. I can see it reports the fault as a cracked 
screen. The engineers notes say the unit look it never been used has zero us on panel may 
have been damage in transit. Unfortunately for Mr G, the engineer only lists transit damage 
as a possibility, not a probability.
 
I appreciate my decision will be disappointing for Mr G. But given the engineers comments, 
and the lack of evidence to show the TVs condition upon receipt, I dont think PayPal has 
treated Mr G unfairly in declining his claim under its buyer protection programme. So I dont 
uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie 
SCA.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman