DRN-4097307
The complaint
Mr S complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) declined payments he tried to 
make to his credit card provider.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Mr S has a credit card with a business Ill call A. Mr S has told us he makes a payment 
towards his credit card each month from his RBS bank account. On 5 July 2022 Mr S tried to 
make a payment, as normal. Mr S says he used his debit card and RBS card reader, along 
with his PIN, to initiate the payment on As website. RBS then sent Mr S a One Time 
Passcode (OTP) which he input into As system. Mr S told us that As website advised the 
payment had been successfully made. But when Mr S checked his bank account he found 
the payment hadnt been debited.
Later the same day, Mr S attempted the transaction again but has told us the same issues 
occurred after it looked like the payment had been successfully processed.
Mr S contacted RBS and was able to successfully make the payment up on 6 July 2022. Mr 
S complained and RBS said the payment had been held due to bank policy but declined to 
explain further.
Mr S complained about the way RBS had handled his payments and explained he was at 
risk of incurring fees and charges as a result of the payments being declined on 5 July 2022. 
RBS sent Mr S a final response but didnt uphold his complaint. RBS reiterated the 
payments had been correctly declined due to bank policy but didnt give a specific 
explanation. RBS didnt uphold Mr S complaint.
An investigator at this service looked at Mr S complaint and upheld it. They asked RBS to 
cover the costs of any interest or charges Mr S had incurred from A. RBS didnt agree and 
said it had correctly declined the payments Mr S tried to make on 5 July 2022. As RBS didnt 
accept, Mr S case has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr S is upset at the way his payments were handled by RBS. Mr S has 
explained he has always paid his credit card in this way. Mr S has also pointed out his 
account balance was more than sufficient to make the required payment and that he can see 
no reason why RBS would authorise all the previous payments he made but decline the 
ones attempted on 5 July 2022.
Ive looked at RBS account terms and conditions. The terms make provisions setting out 
when a business can delay or refuse to act on an instruction, like a debit card payment. The 
terms say RBS will always follow an instruction unless one of a number of situations occurs. 
The terms also say customers can contact the bank for an explanation as to why a payment 
was declined. RBS says it wont disclose the reason if theres a legal or security concern that 
prevents it from doing so. Im not going to quote the full terms here  theyre available on 
RBS website. But theres nothing in the terms that says RBS can decline a payment on the 
basis of bank policy alone.
I understand RBS may have had genuine reasons to decline to make Mr S payments. And 
its possible these reasons fell within the legal or security provisions noted in its terms. But I 
dont think the explanation it provided to Mr S was sufficiently clear  or in line with its terms. 
If RBS intended to rely on the section of its terms that said there was a legal or security 
issue that meant it couldnt disclose the reason it declined Mr S payments, I think it 
shouldve said that. And I think RBS ought to have referred Mr S to the relevant sections 
instead of citing bank policy without any further explanation. As Ive said above, the terms 
dont say RBS can decline a payment solely on the basis of bank policy. In my view the 
way RBS responded to Mr S enquiries caused an unreasonable level of confusion which 
wasnt fair.
Our investigator asked RBS to cover any charges or interest Mr S mayve incurred with A as 
a result of the payments being declined. But Mr S subsequently told us he was able to 
arrange for them to be waived by A after explaining what had happened. Mr S has pointed 
out this caused inconvenience and meant he had to convince A to waive the costs on the 
basis of the relationship hed built up over many years. I accept thats likely to be the case. 
As Mr S hasnt suffered a financial loss, Im not telling RBS to cover any charges or interest. 
But I do think a modest payment to reflect the level of distress and inconvenience caused to 
Mr S when trying to resolve the issues raised and get a clearer understanding of why RBS 
declined his payments is a fair way to resolve his complaint. Based on the information Ive 
seen, I intend to tell RBS to pay Mr S £100 in recognition of the trouble and upset caused.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments or information they wanted 
me to consider before I made my final decision. Mr S responded and said if RBS was 
concerned about the security of his account it shouldve contacted him to let him know the 
payment was blocked. Mr S also said hed tried to resolve the problem directly with RBS but 
found the service provided was poor and that he wasnt contacted as promised. RBS 
responded and confirmed it had nothing further to add to previous submissions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to the provisional decision Mr S gave us some further background concerning 
his experience with RBS and how the issues raised have impacted him. RBS has confirmed 
it has nothing further to add. 
Ive considered both responses and I remain of the view that Mr S complaint should be 
upheld, for the same reasons. As a result, Im going to proceed in line with the conclusions I 
reached in my provisional decision and uphold Mr S complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr S complaint and direct The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to 
pay him £100. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman