DRN-2881232
Complaint
Miss W has complained that Zopa Limited (Zopa) unfairly brought about an unaffordable 
loan for her. She says additional checks should have been carried out before the loan was 
approved and the interest rate was too high. 
Background
Zopa operated the electronic system in relation to lending which led to Miss W being 
provided with a loan in October 2016. The loan was for £12,000.00. The loan had a 60-
month term and an APR of 30.93%. This meant that the total amount of £22,095.68, 
including interest and other charges of £10,095.68, was due to be repaid by a first monthly 
instalment of £480.00 followed by 59 monthly instalments of around £370.
Miss Ws complaint was reviewed by one of our investigators. He thought that Zopa hadnt 
done anything wrong or treated Miss W unfairly. So he didnt recommend Miss Ws 
complaint be upheld. As Miss W disagreed with our investigators view, the complaint was 
passed to an ombudsman.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Ws complaint.
Zopa needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Miss W 
could afford to make the loan payments before bringing about this loan for her. Our website 
sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were 
proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  
in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages 
of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
As I understand it, Zopa enquiries into Miss Ws circumstances suggested that she was 
employed and earning around £1,350.00 a month. I also understand that Zopa also carried 
out a credit check which showed Miss W had a credit card and a couple of loans, which 
shed had no significant previous repayment issues. It also looks as though Miss W was 
intending to settle, at least, some of the outstanding balances she had with some of the 
proceeds from this loan. Zopa also obtained some information on Miss Ws living expenses 
from her too. 
As there was no concerning information on Miss Ws credit file, anything else to contradict 
what Miss W had declared and this was her first loan with Zopa, I dont think that it was 
unreasonable for Zopa to relay on the information provided. Furthermore even allowing for 
this there appears to have been a reasonable margin left over to make the loan payments 
and while I understand that Miss W is unhappy with the interest she would have had more 
than enough to cover her payments, especially if she didnt settle her other commitments as 
she indicated she would.
I accept that Miss W might have had difficulty making the payments to this loan and Im sorry 
to hear this. But Im satisfied that Zopas check before approving this loan were 
proportionate. Id also add that while I think Zopas checks were proportionate in this 
instance and so it didnt need to check Miss Ws bank statements to verify her income, the 
copies Miss W has provided us with dont obviously contradict what Zopa was led to believe 
she was receiving each month even though she was in the latter stages of maternity leave. 
So, in any event, I cant reasonably say that further checks would have prevented Zopa from 
bringing about Miss Ws loan either. 
I also think that I should explain that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a 
complaint in circumstances where a lender did something wrong. And, in this case, I dont 
think that Zopa did anything wrong when bringing about Miss Ws loan. The key thing here is 
that it carried out proportionate checks which suggested the repayments would be affordable 
for her. 
So overall I dont think that Zopa treated Miss W unfairly or unreasonably when bringing 
about her loan. As this is the case and while I sympathise with Miss W as a result of any 
difficulties she might have gone on to have, Im afraid that Im not upholding her complaint. I 
appreciate this will be very disappointing for Miss W. But I hope shell understand the 
reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding Miss Ws complaint, Id like to remind Zopa of its ongoing 
obligation to exercise forbearance, should it choose to collect payments from Miss W and it 
be the case shes now in financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman