DRN-3846383
The complaint
Miss L complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money she lost when she fell victim 
to a purchase scam.
What happened
Miss L saw a leather handbag advertised for sale by a seller on Instagram. She explains it 
was inspired by the shape of a designer brand, but this particular bag didnt have any logos 
or branding. She told us she had purchased other items from the social media platform 
successfully in the past, so was interested.
Miss L recalls that the price for the bag was £90. She says that she messaged the seller and 
asked questions about the delivery time and where the item would be shipped from. She 
says the seller answered her questions promptly. Shes likened the experience to buying 
from a popular online marketplace that sells vintage items and handmade goods. Shes 
explained she thought she was dealing with a small company and had no reason to believe it 
would not send her the advertised product. 
On 27 May 2022, Miss L made a faster payment of £90 from her Monzo account to the bank 
details the seller had given her. Unfortunately, Miss L wasnt dealing with a genuine seller. 
She realised shed been scammed when the seller stopped responding to her questions 
about delivery and tracking for the bag. Miss L contacted Monzo to see if it could help. 
Monzo contacted the receiving bank but was unable to recover any of the money Miss L had 
sent. It also considered whether it had any responsibility to refund Miss L for her loss. 
Monzo has agreed to adhere to the provisions of the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code) which can offer additional protection from 
Authorised Push Payment scams (APP scams) such as this one. The CRM Code says a firm 
should refund customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this one in all but a 
limited number of circumstances. But Monzo said it wouldnt refund Miss L because it didnt 
think shed taken reasonable steps to check who she was paying. 
Miss L didnt agree and contacted us. She thought Monzo should have refunded her. She 
said Monzo were making out that she had done the wrong thing but from her perspective, 
there was not much more she could have done. She explained she didnt see any negative 
reviews at the time and if she had done, she would not have risked losing her money.
One of our Investigators looked into things and recommended that the complaint should be 
upheld. She didnt think Monzo had been able to establish that Miss L did not have a 
reasonable basis for believing that the payee was the person she was expecting to pay, the 
payment was for genuine goods and /or that the person she was transacting with was 
legitimate. She didnt think Miss L had any reason to be suspicious of the deal at the time. 
She didnt think the price for the bag was too good to be true and wasnt persuaded that 
Miss L had missed any obvious red flags that ought to have made her concerned about the 
purchase. 
Monzo didnt agree. It said the business did not exist outside of Instagram and Miss L had 
trusted reviews posted by the Instagram page which are easily faked. It asked us to send 
over a copy of the advertisement for the bag if Miss L had provided it to us. It thought Miss L 
should have checked the Instagram profile more closely and if she had done, she would 
have seen negative reviews. Monzo accepted the profile has since been deleted so it is not 
possible to see those reviews now. Monzo suggested Miss L should have taken more care 
before shopping on Instagram. It concluded by saying Miss L sent money to a personal 
account and not a business account. 
Miss L was disappointed that the bank hadnt accepted the view. She felt Monzo was 
blaming her for what had happened instead of helping her. She explained that shed put 
comments on the sellers posts after the scam was uncovered to try and warn other people, 
but these comments were deleted. She thought it was possible that other negative 
comments could have been deleted too. She said the bag was listed at a price she would 
expect a leather handbag to typically be. She thought Monzo was being unreasonable. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was referred to me.
My further investigation 
When the complaint was referred to me, I had further questions for both sides.
I asked Monzo about the payment Miss L made and whether there was a positive match 
under Confirmation of Payee, which is a name checking service for UK based payments. 
Monzo said the recipient bank did not support Confirmation of Payee so it was unable to 
verify if the account details matched the account holder at the time the payment was made. 
I asked Miss L if she had copies of any of the messages shed exchanged with the seller. 
I asked her if she thought she was paying a business account or a personal account. I asked 
Miss L if she could recall the scam warning that Monzos records show was presented to her 
before she made the payment. 
Miss L said she wasnt able to access the chat now. She explained that she did check for 
reviews and it was presumptuous for Monzo to say that she didnt. Miss L wasnt overly 
concerned about paying a business or an individual. She explained that people often make 
payments to a company that has a different name or the name of a person against it, so she 
didnt think this would be unusual in and of itself. She concluded by saying Monzo did not do 
enough to protect her. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply 
in the circumstances of this case.
Ive carefully considered the banks reasons for declining Miss Ls claim and its concerns 
around whether Miss L had a reasonable basis for believing the transaction to be genuine. 
But they do not persuade me to reach a different view. When weighing this up, I have 
carefully considered everything Miss L has said and provided as well as the evidence 
submitted by the bank. But I am not persuaded theres enough to say that Miss L failed to 
take the requisite level of care required for Monzo to choose not to reimburse under the 
terms of the CRM Code. Im satisfied that Monzo has not shown Miss L lacked a reasonable basis for belief because:
At the time Miss L made the payment, shes explained that she had no reason to 
think this seller would not keep to their side of the bargain. Miss L didnt send Monzo 
screenshots showing all of her conversation with the seller at the time she reported 
the fraud. I have asked Miss L for this information, but it is not available now. This is 
not surprising as the sellers profile has been deleted. Miss L has explained that she 
didnt take screenshots at the time she was buying the bag because she wasnt 
expecting things to go wrong. I dont think this was unreasonable of Miss L, but it 
does mean that I only have very limited information to go on now. This means I cant 
be sure how the bag was presented to Miss L when she decided to buy it. Ive not 
seen enough to say that Miss L missed any obvious red flags. Ive not seen enough 
to be able to say that Miss L didnt take enough care when shopping on Instagram.
Monzo has highlighted Miss L did not see negative reviews that were on the profile at 
the time and that positive Instagram reviews are easily faked. But it has only been 
able to provide undated screenshots from its own research and it is not possible to 
check now whether this information would have been displayed at the time Miss L 
was buying the bag, or how far into the profile she would have needed to delve to 
find it. Miss L has explained she posted a negative review on the page after she was 
scammed, and those comments were deleted. It seems likely that someone looking 
to trick people into sending money under false pretences would try and take down or 
conceal negative comments on a post. As such, I dont think Miss Ls consistent 
recollection that she did not see any negative reviews at the time is implausible. 
Whilst Ive not been able to see for myself exactly what was discussed, I also have 
no reason to doubt Miss Ls recollections that she asked questions about the 
shipping time and where the bag was going to be sent from. Shes explained that the 
seller responded quickly and answered her questions. I dont think Miss L has 
described anything about the transaction itself that ought to have stood out to her or 
caused her concern. Monzo has highlighted that Miss L thought she was dealing with 
a business but actually paid a personal account. But I am not persuaded this is a red 
flag in and of itself in these circumstances. From what I have to go on, I dont think 
Miss L thought or ought to have thought there was a considerable degree of risk 
associated with this purchase. 
I dont think this offer was too good to be true. Miss L didnt think she was buying a 
designer bag. She thought she was buying a bag similar in style. I dont think it was 
implausible for the seller to be offering a leather handbag for £90, which is in line with 
what a leather handbag might typically cost on the high street.
The CRM Code is designed to give people that have fallen victim to an APP scam the 
confidence that they will be reimbursed if they have acted appropriately. For the reasons 
I have explained, I am satisfied, on balance, that Miss L had a reasonable basis for believing 
the payee was the person she was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine goods or 
services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate. 
Putting things right
Ive decided that Miss L ought reasonably to be refunded under the CRM Code.
To put things right, Monzo should now put things right by:
Paying the £90 Miss L lost to the scam;The money came from Miss Ls current account. It is not clear how she would have 
used the money if Monzo had refunded it when it should have done, so Monzo 
should also pay interest on the outstanding amount at 8% simple per year from the 
date it declined Miss Ls claim under the CRM Code to the date of settlement, less 
any tax lawfully deductible. 
My final decision
I uphold Miss Ls complaint about Monzo Bank Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman