DRN-3266997
The complaint
Ms L has complained about American International Group UK Limiteds (AIG) handling of 
a claim on her mobile phone insurance policy.
Reference to AIG includes its agents. 
What happened
After returning from a work trip Ms L couldn't find one of her mobile phones; so she made a 
claim for its loss. AIG rang her to ask some questions about the circumstances of her claim. 
Ms L was very unhappy with how that call was handled. 
AIG contacted Ms L again and said it needed more information from her in order to verify her 
claim. That information included things like: proof that she had used the phone; proof that 
the phone had been barred; proof that her network provider had swapped the sim card; and 
verification of travel shortly before making her claim. 
Ms L remained unhappy with AIG so she complained. AIG responded to Ms Ls complaint. It 
acknowledged that it had kept Ms L waiting for longer than it would like when she tried to 
contact it. But otherwise it felt it had dealt with her reasonably. Ms L didn't agree and brought 
her complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. She didn't think AIG needed to 
take any further action. Ms L didn't agree so her complaints been passed to me to decide
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
Ms L explained to AIG that her profession is incredibly demanding and time intensive. So I 
can understand that she wouldn't wish to spend any more time than is absolutely necessary 
answering questions concerning a claim for a lost mobile phone. But Ms Ls policy is clear 
that AIG can request additional information from her in order to validate a claim. And, as long 
as its requests are reasonable, I don't think theres anything unfair about that.
I'm aware Ms L feels that some of AIGs questions were intrusive and that it was 
interrogating her. For example questions about why she has a number of phones or why she 
travelled for work. I can understand that, from Ms Ls perspective, those questions don't go 
directly to how her phone was lost. 
But it might help if I explain that its usual for insurers to want to make sure that a claim 
happened as the policyholder said it did, which might include wanting to gain an 
understanding of the background to how a claim arose. Insurers often do that by interviewing 
a policyholder. That process may include asking probing questions. In doing that reasonably 
insurers can be satisfied that they are only paying claims that they should be. I don't think 
theres anything wrong with that. 
Ive listened to the call Ms L initially complained about. I've also read the notes of the other 
calls she had with AIG and seen the written request for information that AIG put to her. 
Having done so I don't think the questions AIG put to Ms L have been unfair or 
unreasonable. For example, while it might be common for people in Ms Ls profession to 
have a number of mobile phones, I don't think thats common across the community in 
general. So I think its reasonable for AIG to satisfy itself that there was nothing untoward in 
Ms L having a number of phones. And, from an independent point of view, I didn't find the 
manner in which the call handler asked questions to be anything other than professional. 
Although I understand Ms L disagrees.
Ill add that its Ms Ls responsibility to show shes suffered a loss covered by the policy. And 
she can do that by answering AIGs questions and providing the information its asked for. I 
appreciate that might be time-consuming for her. But it would, potentially, be in her interests 
to cooperate with AIGs requests as best she can, as that might be the difference between it 
paying her claim (as it feels it has enough information) and not. 
For completeness Ms L said that we should listen to all of her call recordings with AIG. But I 
don't think thats necessary. While I haven't listened to all the calls  as I've said above  I 
have read the call notes. And I don't think I need to listen to all the calls in order to decide 
whether its fair or reasonable for AIG to ask the questions of Ms L that it has. Further, as 
I've said above, I think the questions its put to her were reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman