DRN-3701380
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with the service he received from Nationwide Building Society surrounding 
a payment that he made to an overseas recipient.
What happened
Mr T made a payment from his Nationwide account to an overseas recipient. The payment 
should have been received the following day, but Mr T received notice from the intended 
recipient several days after hed made the payment that the money hadnt been received.
Mr T contacted Nationwide who explained that they would try to trace the payment, which 
could take up to 20 working days. Mr T contacted Nationwide again a few weeks later and 
raised a complaint as he hadnt received any updates. The money was eventually received 
by the intended recipient approximately two months after the payment had been made.
Nationwide looked at Mr Ts complaint. They explained that when Mr T raised his complaint, 
the initial 20 working day timeframe hadnt expired, and because of this they didnt feel that 
theyd acted unfairly towards Mr T by not providing updates on the attempted payment trace 
as Mr T believed. Mr T wasnt happy with Nationwides response, so he referred his 
complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Nationwide had 
acted unfairly towards Mr T in how theyd managed this situation, and so they didnt uphold 
the complaint. Mr T remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems apparent that Nationwide did process the payment using the details provided to 
them by Mr T when he submitted the payment request to them online. As such, I feel its 
difficult to conclude that Nationwide should be considered as being accountable for the delay 
in the payment being received by the intended recipient.
This is because if it were the case that the delay was caused by an error in the information 
provided to Nationwide by Mr T then I feel that Mr T should bear the responsibility for the 
delay. Alternatively, if the information provided to Nationwide by Mr T was correct, then it 
follows that Nationwide processed the payment correctly, and that any delay in the payment 
being received must reasonably have been caused by events later in the payment chain.
When Mr T first called Nationwide and advised that the payment hadnt been received, 
Nationwide explained to Mr T that they would look to trace the payment but that doing so 
might take up to 20 working days. Mr T then contacted Nationwide after 13 working days had 
passed and raised a complaint as he was unhappy that Nationwide hadnt updated him. 
But Nationwide had already explained to Mr T that the payment trace might take up 20 
working days, and so I dont feel that Nationwide did act unfairly or unreasonably by not 
updating Mr T while the attempt to trace the payment remained ongoing and while the 20 
working day stated timeframe hadnt elapsed. Additionally, when Mr T raised his complaint 
with Nationwide, the agent with whom he spoke confirmed the timescales for the trace. 
Nationwide issued their response to Mr Ts complaint shortly afterwards, at a time when the 
payment was still missing. And this response again reiterated the timescale that a trace 
could take and explained that Nationwide had contacted the recipient bank who were 
unwilling to carry out the requested trace until a fee had been paid. Nationwide confirmed 
that theyd asked the recipient bank what the fee amount was, and that they would pay the 
fee amount to the recipient bank at their own cost once they were told the amount.
Finally, following a further chase from Mr T, Nationwide issued a follow up response which 
explained theyd requested information from the recipient bank about the required fee on 
three separate occasions but that the recipient bank had failed to respond.
In consideration of all the above, I feel that Nationwides actions in attempting to trace the 
missing payment were reasonable. And while I can appreciate that Mr T may have wanted 
Nationwide to have acted more quickly, its ultimately at the discretion of Nationwide to set 
the timeframe for their actions that they did. And I feel it must be noted that one of the 
purposes of a business providing a timeframe to a customer is to enable that customer to 
make alternative arrangements if the given timeframe is problematic for them.
Ultimately, I dont think that Nationwide have done anything wrong here. They processed a 
payment using the information provided to them, and they attempted to trace that payment 
within their own timeframes, which they made Mr T aware of at the beginning of the process.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr T was wanting, but it follows that I wont be upholding 
this complaint or instructing Nationwide to take any further action. I hope that Mr T will 
understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman