DRN-3786387
The complaint
Mrs N complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) have failed to refund 
£2,395 she lost as part of an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision
But in summary, Mrs N was approached by a fraudster that I will call B. They persuaded Mrs 
N that they were experts at trading in crypto currencies. Mrs N first transferred funds to a 
bank in Portugal and then made two debit card payments to a crypto exchange called Luno 
that were forwarded onto B. These transactions totalled over £2,400
Mrs N subsequently tried to withdraw the profits that she had made, but was told that she 
was unable to do so unless she paid further fees. It was at this point that Mrs N found out 
that she had been scammed.
Mrs N complained to Halifax regarding this, but they declined to refund the disputed 
transactions.
 
One of our investigators looked into this matter and they did not think that that the payments 
made were out of character for Mrs Ns account. They therefore concluded that Halifax did 
nothing wrong in not preventing the payments.
Mrs N disagreed and therefore this complaint was referred to me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons.
It isnt in dispute that Mrs N authorised the disputed payments she made via transfer and 
using her Halifax debit card. The payments were requested by her using her legitimate 
security credentials provided by Halifax, and the starting position is that banks ought to 
follow the instructions given by their customers, in order for legitimate payments to be made 
as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Halifax should have done more to prevent Mrs N from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should reasonably 
have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. For example, 
if it was particularly out of character. However, having taken Mrs Ns account activity and 
limited payment history into account, I do not think the payments she is disputing should 
have been regarded as particularly unusual.
I appreciate that overall, Mrs N has lost over £2,400 which is a significant amount of money. 
But this amount wasnt paid in one single large or out of character transaction. It was 
spread over several smaller increments which, in my judgment, would not have appeared 
particularly unusual or out of character when compared with Mrs Ns spending history with 
Halifax. I dont think that they ought to have been regarded as suspicious or indicating that 
she might have been at risk of falling victim to a scam. 
The payments were not of such a large amount (largest payment was £1000) that they 
would represent a significant deviation from what would be considered as usual activity. 
So, having considered the payments Mrs N made, Im not persuaded there was anything 
that ought reasonably have triggered Halifaxs fraud monitoring systems, or that would have 
indicated she was in the process of being scammed. I therefore do not consider there to 
have been any obligation on Halifax to have intervened under any of the codes Mrs N has 
cited.
I will now address whether Halifax did enough to attempt to recover the funds. In relation to 
the transfer, I can see that Halifax did attempt to contact the bank in Portugal to ask that the 
funds be returned. This attempt was not successful. But in the circumstances, I would not 
expect Halifax to do anything more as all it can do is request a return. I should also add that 
given the timescales between the transfer and Mrs N contacting Halifax, it is highly unlikely 
that the funds would have remained in the account they were sent to, as in most cases the 
funds are withdrawn immediately by the scammer.
Ive also thought about whether Halifax did enough to attempt to recover the money Mrs N 
lost using her debit card as debit card transactions can be refunded through making a 
chargeback claim. 
In this case, a chargeback would not have been successful, as the transactions Mrs N used 
her debit card for was to pay Luno for the purchase of cryptocurrency, which she duly 
received. The money was subsequently lost from the crypto platform when she transferred 
the funds to the scammer. So, she could not claim that she did not receive the goods or 
services paid for from her Halifax account, which was the purchase of the cryptocurrency. As 
a result, I dont think Halifax have acted unreasonably by not pursuing a chargeback claim 
here in relation to the debit card payments.
Finally, I have considered whether the transaction could have been recovered by other 
means such as the Contingency Reimbursement Model (CRM) but the CRM only covers 
transfers between UK bank accounts and in this instance this does not apply for any of the 
transactions in question.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mrs N, and Im sorry to hear she has been 
the victim of a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that Halifax can fairly or reasonably 
be held liable for her loss in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman