DRN-4401417
The complaint
Mr H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc said it couldnt find the deeds of his house, then an 
unregistered property. Mr H instructed a legal firm to register the house without deeds, and 
asked HSBC to pay. HSBC then found the deeds and said it wouldnt pay for the work.
What happened
Mr H told us hed taken out a mortgage with HSBC in the 1980s, and paid it off not long 
after. When he did so, the bank manager offered to continue to keep Mr Hs deeds safe for 
him, and Mr H accepted that offer. He has shown us a letter from the time confirming that his 
deeds were in safekeeping with HSBC.
More recently, Mr H wanted to review the deeds, and he asked HSBC to retrieve them.
There was an exchange of emails, indicating HSBC was carrying out a search, but in
summer 2021, HSBC wrote to Mr H to say it couldnt find them. Its letter says After an
exhaustive search of our records and safe we have not been able to locate your deeds.
In 2022, Mr H instructed a firm of solicitors to carry out the work of first registration of his
house. Without the deeds, this work would be considerably more complex and expensive.
And on 19 April 2022, Mr Hs solicitors wrote to HSBC, saying that as HSBC had lost the
deeds, Mr H would expect HSBC to cover the cost of this work.
HSBC replied promptly on 25 April, to say that the staff member who wrote the letter no
longer worked for HSBC, and it would look into this afresh. HSBC asked Mr Hs solicitors for
more information, which was sent on 28 April 2022.
HSBC said the deeds were located on 16 May 2022. It emailed Mr Hs solicitors right away
to say they had been found. HSBC asked Mr H to authorise the release of these deeds to his
solicitor, and they were then sent, with the solicitors confirming receipt on 10 June.
Some time later, in October 2022, Mr Hs solicitors wrote to HSBC again, asking it to pay for
all the legal work that Mr H had commissioned, other than the work which would have been
required to register the property with the deeds present. Mr Hs solicitors said this came to a
little over £1,700.
HSBC said it had never agreed to pay for this work. It said it had never told Mr H that his 
documents were actually lost, and that it had advised him to contact it, if he needed any 
further assistance. So HSBC felt that it was Mr Hs choice to approach a firm of solicitors 
instead of asking HSBC again to look for the deeds.
HSBC said it would pay Mr H £500 to recognise the incorrect information initially given and
for the delays in actually locating and returning the deeds. But it wouldnt pay the legal costs
he wanted it to cover. And HSBC said that all property deeds are now held digitally at the
Land Registry Offices, so a physical copy of a propertys deeds is no longer required.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said HSBC didnt tell Mr H
the deeds were lost. It asked him to come back to HSBC if he needed further help. And our
investigator thought if Mr H had complained at this stage, then that would have been likely to
prompt a more in-depth search.
Our investigator said that after HSBC had received the solicitors letter, it located the deeds
in less than a month. Our investigator said he didnt know why Mr Hs solicitors continued to
work on preparing the first registration, and ultimately this wasnt needed.
Our investigator thought HSBC should pay some compensation, because it had made a
mistake by informing Mr H that it couldnt locate the deeds originally. But he thought that
HSBCs offer of £500 was fair for that. He said it wasnt HSBCs decision to instruct
solicitors, and it had never agreed to pay the costs.
Mr H replied to say hed accept a payment of £500 for the distress and inconvenience, but
HSBC should still pay his legal costs. He said hed spent over 4 months in early to mid-2021
trying to get his deeds from HSBC, and it then confirmed then that they couldnt be found. So
the only way to register his property was to have the deeds reconstructed, and thats a
specialist task. But our investigator didnt change his mind. Mr H asked for his complaint to
be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision. And I then 
reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold it 
in part. This is what I said then: 
I understand that Mr H spent a considerable amount of time in 2021, asking HSBC to 
return his deeds. Hes shown us correspondence from the time. Mr H had 
documentation showing that HSBC had the deeds in safekeeping in 1988, but HSBC 
apparently couldnt find the deeds themselves, or any records of its own showing they 
had been taken into safekeeping.
I dont think it was unreasonable then for Mr H to conclude that the deeds were lost.
Although HSBC has expressed the view that physical deeds to a property are no longer
actually required, this is only the case once a propertys ownership has been recorded
electronically at the Land Registry. Mr H has told us that his property was unregistered, 
so the physical deeds were his proof of ownership, and were extremely important 
documents. I think that being told these deeds could not be located, after an extensive 
search, would have been very distressing for Mr H. I think HSBCs offer of £500 in 
compensation does reflect the seriousness of this issue, and the distress this would 
have caused Mr H. So I think that provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this part of 
Mr Hs complaint.
Ive said that at this point I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr H to assume the deeds 
must be lost. I also note that HSBCs letter about his missing deeds didnt tell Mr H he 
could complain about this, or mention the role of our service in resolving such issues. So 
I also dont think it was unreasonable of Mr H to think he would need to engage a legal 
firm to do this work, and to approach it to commission the work. Because of that, I do 
think HSBC should make some contribution towards the costs that Mr H initially incurred 
in doing this. 
But I dont think that it would be fair and reasonable to ask HSBC to cover all the costs 
that Mr H has incurred. Thats because when HSBC was contacted by Mr Hs solicitors, 
it wrote back promptly to ask for enough information to allow it to look into this again. 
Whilst this letter indicating HSBC would search again may have been somewhat surprising, in view of HSBCs previous statement that it had already carried out an 
exhaustive search, and couldnt find the deeds, I do think that at this stage, HSBC was 
saying that the deeds might not be irretrievable after all. And because of that, I dont 
think it would be reasonable for HSBC to continue to contribute towards legal costs 
which Mr H incurred after this point. 
Mr H has sent us the itemised invoice from his solicitors. In my view, HSBC should pay 
for the costs Mr H incurred, up to and including the point on 28 April 2022 when those 
solicitors replied to HSBCs letter with the further information HSBC wanted to allow it to 
reinvestigate. That comes to £440 plus VAT, or £528 in total. So my current view is that 
HSBC should pay that amount to Mr H towards his legal costs, as well as £500 in 
compensation. I think that would provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC said it was disappointed with the potential outcome, but it had nothing more it could 
add to the case so it would have to agree.
Mr H replied to say he had no further material facts to add either, but he was also unhappy 
with my proposal. He still felt the whole issue was due to HSBCs serious failure in its duty to 
provide the offered guaranteed document storage and retrieval. He said confirmation that 
extensive searching had failed to locate his documents, destroyed any possibility of mutual 
trust and further relationship with the bank. So Mr H said he was left with no alternative but 
to seek professional help, and he had then taken steps to recoup the reasonable costs.
I explained in my provisional decision I thought it was reasonable for Mr H to conclude, after 
HSBC said its extensive search hadnt located the documents, that the deeds were lost. 
And, also bearing in mind that HSBC hadnt then mentioned its complaints process (so 
hadnt made Mr H aware of any alternative way of resolving this issue at that point) I also 
thought it wasnt unreasonable for Mr H to approach solicitors to reconstruct his deeds. 
Thats why I thought it was reasonable for Mr H to have incurred some initial solicitors costs 
in the particular circumstances of this case, and also reasonable here for HSBC to be asked 
to pay those initial costs, as well as some compensation for the impact I thought HSBCs 
mistake would have had on Mr H.
But I thought the position changed when HSBC replied to Mr Hs solicitors to say it would 
look again. I havent been able to see why the work those solicitors were doing couldnt be 
paused at this stage, to see if the deeds could in fact be located. So I havent been able to 
see that costs incurred after this point, were reasonable, and that it would also be fair and 
reasonable to ask HSBC to pay those further costs.
So, for the above reasons, I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally 
proposed.My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc must pay Mr H £528 for legal costs, and £500 in 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman