DRN-2786380
The complaint
Mr N says Loans 2 Go Limited advanced funds to him and increased the term of his loan 
without his consent. 
What happened
Mr N took out a £250 loan from Loans 2 Go on 10 April 2020. The agreement shows it was 
to be repaid over 18 months at £57.14 each month. I understand there is an outstanding 
balance.
Mr N says he got a quote for a six-month loan but never agreed to anything. But the 
following day the funds were in his account. It was after making his sixth repayment that he 
discovered the loan had an 18-month term - he says he never signed to accept this.  
The adjudicator said that Mr Ns complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said Mr N was provided 
with, and signed, documents that set out the term of the loan, as well as his right to withdraw 
from the agreement in the first 14 days.
Mr N disagreed saying, in summary, he was never provided with a loan agreement. All the 
quotes he got were for six-month loans, he asks why he would opt for a longer term more 
expensive solution. He believes it is a scam and the loan agreement is fraudulent.
As agreement could not be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the same conclusion as the adjudicator and for the same 
reasons. 
Loans 2 Go has provided Mr Ns signed pre-contract credit information and loan agreement, 
both of which set out the 18-month term of the loan clearly. Mr N says he never received 
these documents, or signed them, but they both carry his signature. The loan agreement 
explained that as he was entering into the agreement electronically, typing his name and 
clicking I accept would have the same effect as his handwritten signature. Loans 2 Go says 
that Mr N would have to have signed the documents before the funds were released to him. 
I have considered all of Mr Ns comments carefully, but they do not change my conclusion 
because of the available documentary evidence. Ive thought about his argument that the 
documents are fraudulent but I havent been able to find evidence to support this claim. I can 
see he has sent in details of other peoples dissatisfaction with the lender, but I can only 
consider here the individual merits of this case. I dont doubt Mr Ns testimony that he was 
looking at shorter-term loans and I cant know why he selected this loan, but Im satisfied 
that the balance of evidence shows that he entered into an 18-month agreement with Loans 
2 Go.
As it seems there is a balance outstanding on the loan he should contact Loans 2 Go to 
agree a repayment plan suitable to his current circumstances. 
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman