DRN-3329356
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain about Barclays Bank UK PLCs handling of their packaged bank 
account. They believe they have not been given the promised standard of service and that 
they have also been overcharged for insurance. 
What happened
In 2007 Mr and Mrs E started a Barclays Premier account. To be eligible for this account 
you needed to have a high level of income or savings. As part of the service at the time, 
Barclays provided an account manager to advise customers. 
Mr E says he believes the account manager should have been contacting him each year to 
review his finances, and that this would include identifying cost savings. Instead he says he 
has discovered that he has been overpaying for his house and contents insurance. He says 
that Barclays sent him a quote for renewal in 2021  but when he used a comparison 
website he was offered similar insurance for almost a third of the price. He believes he has 
been paying more than he needed to since 2007. 
When he complained to Barclays, it did not accept that it should have given Mr and Mrs E a 
lower insurance quote. It accepted that an account manager hadnt contacted them for a 
long time and offered £125 in compensation. 
Barclays told us
We would expect a customer to contact the bank if they are unhappy with an 
insurance renewal quote. It is the customers responsibility to ensure they are happy 
with the amount and make contact if there are any issues with any information on the 
renewal quote. 
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and broadly agreed with Barclays approach, and 
said he thought the £125 was reasonable compensation for the lack of contact from an 
account manager. 
Mr and Mrs E didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
I wanted to see if Barclays had promised, or implied, that it would find Mr and Mrs E 
competitively priced insurance. But I dont see evidence that it did. Ive looked at Barclays 
Welcome Packs from before and after Mr and Mrs E started this account in 2007. 
In those packs, the service offered concerns managing investments and having  a 
manager to help you achieve your financial aspirations and with your financial plan; 
and also about having a Relationship Executive team for your day-to-day banking. It 
does say that it is our exclusive, personal service designed to help our most valued 
clients protect and grow their assets. And, on one level, saving money on insurance 
would enable a customer to divert money towards their savings and investments. But I 
dont see that this was really what was implied by the information Barclays gave out. 
I asked Barclays to send me the insurance quotes it had sent to Mr and Mrs E in the past 
three years. I can see that, at least in recent years, the quotation letter has included the 
sentences:
Please check this cover still meets your needs. You have been with us a number of 
years. You may be able to get the insurance cover you want at a better price if you 
shop around.  
I know such warnings have become regular across the financial sector in recent years, 
and I accept they may not have been made in earlier years. But I dont have evidence that 
Barclays previously implied the policy was particularly cheap. 
Barclays accepts it probably didnt provide the regular contact it had promised. But I dont 
see that regular contact is likely to have led to Barclays suggesting that Mr and Mrs E find 
cheaper insurance  as Ive said, the service was presented as being about managing 
assets and giving help in day-to-day banking. So I think the £125 offered is reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman