DRN-1653846
The complaint
Mr B complains that National Westminster Bank plc (NatWest) wrongly judged he had gone 
overdrawn on his current account.  As a result, he couldnt enter a refinancing agreement for 
a loan he had from them.
What happened
Mr B had a loan with NatWest that, due to past arrears, was subject to a payment 
arrangement.  Before the bank would agree to revert to a standard loan agreement, Mr B 
had to make agreed payments for six months, to test that he could afford them.
Mr B made the agreed payments.  But, on one day in this six month period, he made a 
payment to someone from his current account using the banks app.  He then deposited 
money into his account later that day.  But because he made the deposits after 3.30 pm, 
they werent credited to his account until the next day.  So his current account was 
overdrawn for one day.
At the end of the six months, the bank wouldnt agree to the refinancing because the current 
account had been overdrawn.  
Mr B complained to NatWest that his account had gone into overdraft, even though he paid 
in money on the same day.  The bank paid him £100 compensation for this and credited his 
loan account with £250 as a goodwill gesture.  They also told him he could arrange to 
refinance his loan.  
A few days later Mr B tried to refinance his loan but NatWest didnt offer him the same terms 
 which Mr B said he had been led to believe they would.  He complained again.  NatWest 
apologised and paid another £100 compensation, but said they couldnt offer the previous 
terms.
Our investigator looked at the evidence and decided that NatWest had misled Mr B into 
believing he would be offered a new refinance plan.  But she felt that the £100 compensation 
they had paid him for this was fair.
She said about the overdraft that NatWests terms and conditions (T&Cs) say that money 
deposited after 3.30pm will be credited on the next day.  So NatWest didnt make an error 
when they said that Mr Bs account was overdrawn until the deposits were credited on the 
next day.
Mr B was unhappy with the investigators view so his complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint.  Ill explain why.I started by looking at the T&Cs of Mr Bs account.  These say that a deposit of cash made 
using the quick deposit facility will be credited to an account on the same day  if the 
deposit is made before 3.30pm  or the following day, if it is made after that.  I dont think 
this term is unclear.  
I can understand Mr Bs frustration with the situation and why he believes that his account 
shouldnt have been categorised as overdrawn.  But its agreed that the deposit was made 
later than 3.30pm.  So NatWest were applying their T&Cs when they didnt credit the deposit 
until the next day.
Mr B has said that the deposit must have been credited on the day he paid it in because he 
made a payment out on the app.  I can see why he thought that, as he doesnt have an 
arranged overdraft facility on the account.  But Ive looked at the T&Cs again to see what 
happens in this situation. 
There is a section in the T&Cs headed Unarranged overdrafts.  This says
If you give us an instruction which would result in:
 your account becoming overdrawn
 ,
well treat this as a request for an unarranged overdraft.
So it seems to me that what has happened is the bank has treated Mr Bs payment 
instruction as a request for an unarranged overdraft and allowed the payment.  This created 
the overdraft.  And because the T&Cs explain this, I dont think NatWest did anything wrong 
when they allowed the payment to be made.
Mr B says, because he went overdrawn, NatWest refused to give him a loan on the terms it 
had offered.  I can understand why he thinks this; he complained to NatWest, they 
apologised for making a mistake and paid him some compensation.  But I dont think Mr Bs 
right.
Ive looked at the documents NatWest sent us.  They show that the loan offered to Mr B was 
to be paid back over eight years.  This made the repayments lower and Mr B could afford 
them.  But NatWest made a mistake when they offered Mr B that loan; the eight year 
repayment period was only available to loans larger than Mr B needed.  For the amount he 
needed, NatWest required loans to be paid off in five years.  And that made the monthly 
payments higher. Mr B made a second complaint to NatWest about this.  NatWest agreed 
his complaint was valid.  They paid him compensation for giving him the wrong information.
As NatWest made a mistake, Ive considered whether they should pay Mr B any more 
compensation or take any other action.  Mr B wants NatWest to accept monthly instalments 
at the level he was paying.  But, even though thats what he wants, I dont think thats a fair 
outcome.  It means hed not be paying enough to pay the loan off within the term.  And I 
cant make a decision that I know wouldnt pay off the debt.
To be fair to both parties, I also need to take into account that NatWest have already done.  
Theyve paid him £450 in total for his two complaints.  I think thats a reasonable amount for 
providing the wrong information to Mr B about what loan repayments they could offer him.  
So Im not going to say they have to do anything else.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about National 
Westminster Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2020.
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman