DRN-3718132
The complaint
Mr F complains about the way in which American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) 
dealt with a claim he sought to bring under the connected lender liability provisions of section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
While Mr Fs correspondence refers to him and his wife, Ive referred only to Mr F in this 
decision as he is the American Express account holder. In doing this, I mean no disrespect, 
nor is it my intention to understate the impact of the concerns expressed.
What happened
Mr F booked a flight and accommodation with B, a third party travel company. He paid for 
the arrangements using a combination of loyalty scheme points and his American Express 
credit card. B later made amendments to the scheduled departure, at further cost to Mr F.
Part way through Mr Fs holiday B told him it had cancelled the return flight. Mr F was left 
with little option other than to accept curtailment of the holiday, returning a week early with a 
downgrade in travel class. Mr F has described how this caused him difficulty and distress, as 
well as losing out on a significant part of the holiday. On his return Mr F raised a breach of 
contract claim with both B and American Express, which he pursued separately.
B refunded the unused portion of the accommodation, and offered reimbursement of some 
of the flight costs. Mr F remained dissatisfied and pursued his claim for further redress. His 
claim against B was dealt with by an independent resolution service C, who proposed an 
additional partial refund. Mr F continued to hold American Express liable for contractual 
breach. He was unhappy that his card provider wouldnt refund him, and that it cited Bs 
refund in support of its position. After complaining to American Express about its stance, 
Mr F referred matters to us.
Our investigator didnt think American Express needed to do anything further to resolve the 
complaint. He considered the existing settlement fair and said the overall claim had been 
covered by Cs decision, which Mr F had accepted.
Mr F didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. He said (in summary) that the redress 
B paid was partly compensation for loss of enjoyment, stress and inconvenience, and he 
was still out of pocket by a significant amount, which American Express was responsible for. 
He disputed the investigators view that the amount paid was fair. And he said American 
Expresss actions in dealing with the claim had caused B to threaten him with legal action.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont doubt Mr Fs strength of feeling in this matter, or that this was a most disappointing 
chain of events. Hed arranged what was intended to be a special trip marking an important 
occasion, and it didnt turn out that way through no fault of his own.
However, Im not going to uphold his complaint. I dont find anything that suggests American 
Express acted unfairly or unreasonably towards him. It received his claim, considered it, and 
told him the outcome and basis for its decision. And it explained why it raised a chargeback 
for his purchase of additional points. Even if that resulted in the response he received from 
B, I find that American Express was entitled to deal with matters in the way it did.
Im satisfied it was relevant to Mr Fs claim that American Express raised the settlement hed 
reached with B. While that didnt cover his out-of-pocket costs in full, it was an offer made to 
settle the claim that he made in relation to Bs breach of contract. And its Bs breach of 
contract that provides the foundation to Mr Fs section 75 claim.
One effect of section 75 is that, where Mr F has bought goods or services from a supplier 
using credit provided under pre-existing arrangements between the lender and the supplier, 
he can bring a like claim for breach of contract (or misrepresentation, which isnt the issue 
here) against the lender in the same way he could against the supplier.
The supplier here was B; American Express was the lender. Mr F made a claim for breach of 
contract against B. He had the same claim against American Express, not a different claim. 
Agreeing to settle that claim with B has the effect of settling the like claim he had against 
American Express under section 75. He cannot expect to obtain redress from American 
Express, given the only basis for a breach of contract claim against the card provider arises 
out of that same cause for action. The settlement would undoubtedly affect American 
Expresss right to recover from B, which forms a key part of section 75.
With this in mind, I find that American Express was acting reasonably in citing the settlement 
Mr F reached with B, and in its conclusion that this meant it had no liability to Mr F.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman