DRN-2608164
The complaint
Mr P complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited declined his claim made on his 
motor insurance policy. He wants it to settle the claim and compensate him for his stress and 
anxiety. 
What happened
Miss L, a named driver on Mr Ps policy, was involved in a collision whilst driving Mr Ps car. 
Miss L left the scene and went home where she said she drank alcohol. The police later 
arrived at her home and said she was drunk, and a blood sample was later taken for testing. 
A court later found Miss L not guilty of drink driving. But Admiral declined the claim because 
of the drink driving and fraud exclusions in the policy. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought the 
courts decision was based on the standard of beyond reasonable doubt. But he thought 
Admiral had made its decision that Miss L was over the drink driving limit at the time of the 
accident on the basis of probabilities. It had also considered that there were inconsistencies 
in Miss Ls statements. So he thought Admiral had fairly and reasonably applied the policy 
exclusions and declined the claim. 
Mr P replied that insufficient weight had been given to an idependent forensic report that 
said, based on what Miss L reported, that she was under the drink driving limit at the time of 
the accident. He disagreed that there were inconsistencies in Miss Ls statements. He 
thought if the police had found Miss L to be drunk, they would have breathalysed her. He 
thought it was unfair for Admiral to reject the claim on the balance of probabilities.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Admirals decision has had significant financial consequences for Mr P. I can 
understand that he feels frustrated that its rejected the claim even though Miss L was found 
not guilty of drink driving. Its not for me to comment on the decision made by the court. Our 
approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
As our investigator has explained, an insurer and a court rely on different standards of proof 
when making decisions. The court convicts on the basis of beyond reasonable doubt, but 
an insurer considers the balance of probabilities. I can see that Mr P thinks this is unfair. But 
I think its for Admiral to take into account the courts decision, and other available evidence, 
but its entitled to make its decision on the balance of probabilities.
Admiral thought that, on the balance of probabilities, Miss L was over the drink driving limit at 
the time of the collision. The evidence it relied on was:
The other driver at the scene had heard shouting were going to get done, we need to 
get out of here. Admiral said this showed that Miss L was aware that she was breaking 
the law and left the scene to avoid arrest. 
Miss L said shed had two drinks during the evening before the collision. Then, when she 
got home, she continued drinking in the twenty minutes before the police arrived. Miss L 
first thought she may have been drinking vodka, but she couldnt remember. Four days 
later, she said it was half a bottle of brandy. Admiral questioned that Miss L had drunk 
this alcohol very quickly and that the effect was so apparent to the police in just twenty 
minutes. 
The police who arrived at Miss Ls house twenty minutes after her described her as 
acting in a very drunk manner and the smell of alcohol was very strong. But Miss L told 
them shed had two brandies. She didnt then tell the police about the half a bottle of 
brandy she later said shed drunk when she got home.
After she was arrested for driving under the influence, Miss L told the police, Ive 
messed up. A later blood test found Miss L to be over the legal limit for driving. 
Mr P commissioned an independent forensics report that said this reading was caused 
by Miss L drinking after the accident. But this relies on Miss Ls statement about what 
she drank on the day of the accident. And I think Admiral reasonably disagreed with the 
reports conclusions based on the number of inconsistencies in the evidence. 
So I think Admiral reasonably and fairly decided that Miss L was over the legal limit for 
alcohol at the time of the accident. Admiral then relied on a policy exclusion to reject Mr Ps 
claim:
11. Drink and drugs clause
If an accident happens whilst you or any person entitled to drive under Section 3 of your 
current Certificate of Motor Insurance is driving your vehicle and:
is found to be over the legal limit for alcohol or drugs
is driving whilst unfit through drink or drugs, whether prescribed or otherwise
fails to provide a sample of breath, blood or urine when required to do so, without lawful 
reason
No cover under the policy will be provided and instead, liability will be restricted to meeting 
the obligations as required by Road Traffic Law. In those circumstances, we will recover 
from you or the driver, all sums paid (including all legal costs), whether in settlement or 
under a Judgement, of any claim arising from the accident.
Admiral also said there were a number of inconsistencies in Miss Ls versions of events: 
When asked about the police investigations, Miss L didnt tell Admiral that shed been 
arrested for driving under the influence of alcohol. She told it that she was being 
investigated for dangerous driving and leaving the scene.  
Miss L changed her story about how she and her passengers had got home after the 
collision.
Miss L didnt tell the attending police that shed been drinking alcohol after the accident, 
but water. 
Miss L told the police that the accident was caused by faulty brakes. But she told Admiral 
that the last she recalled was bending down to retrieve her phone. 
Miss L said she was drinking alone in the kitchen after the accident. But her mother told 
the court that Miss L was drinking brandy. 
I think Admiral reasonably applied the policy exclusion for fraud as a further reason to 
decline Mr Ps claim. And so I think Admiral acted fairly and reasonably and in keeping with 
the policys terms and conditions. I dont require it to settle Mr Ps claim.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman