DRN-2900486
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs D have complained about their mortgage current account (MCA) with Barclays 
Bank Plc. Mr and Mrs D say that the MCA was mis-sold, and that, after it reached its initial 
£30,000 reserve limit, Barclays failed to increase the monthly mortgage payment to cover 
the additional payments required to go towards the MCA. In addition, after Barclays had 
been notified that Mr D was vulnerable and suffering from mental illness, the bank failed to 
limit the use of the MCA.
To settle the complaint Mr and Mrs D would like Barclays to refund all funds over and above 
the original £30,000 MCA reserve. 
The complaint has been brought on behalf of Mr and Mrs D by their son, but for simplicity, I 
will refer to Mr and Mrs D throughout.
 
What happened
In January 2006 Mr and Mrs D took out a mortgage with Barclays, under its residential 
mortgage business, Woolwich. They borrowed £70,699 (including fees) on a repayment 
basis, over a term of 15 years, against a property valued at £320,000. The monthly 
mortgage repayments at the start of the mortgage were £558.71 for the first 27 months on a 
fixed rate of 4.99%, after which the mortgage reverted to a variable rate, at the time 5.45%.
The mortgage also came with a MCA and a reserve limit of £30,000. The mortgage offer 
explained that interest on the MCA was charged at the banks Standard Variable Rate (SVR) 
of 6.59% (at the time). The mortgage offer contained an illustration of how the overall 
mortgage debt would be affected if Mr and Mrs D utilised the full £30,000 reserve. It also 
explained that the MCA reserve must be repaid in full at the end of the mortgage term.
The MCA was subject to rebalancing. This meant that, as capital was paid off the mortgage, 
the amount of the MCA reserve was increased by the same amount.
Unfortunately Mr D suffered an accident in April 2007, which affected his ability to continue 
in a manual occupation. He has not worked since. 
Mr and Mrs D began to use the MCA reserve, transferring £30,000 from the MCA into their 
joint current account in November 2007. In December 2007 Mr and Mrs D separated (they 
have since reconciled). In July 2008 Mr D purchased a swimming pool, a caravan and a car, 
and gave £7,000 to his daughter.
Barclays was first made aware of Mr Ds mental illness in September 2008. At that point, 
Barclays acknowledges it should have blocked any further withdrawals from the MCA. The 
2008 annual statement shows that the MCA balance was £31,875.95 (including interest.
In September 2008 the direct debit for the mortgage was missed. It seems that was the first 
time there were any missed payments on the account. Payments were made after that and 
the missed payment was caught up, and from April 2009 there have been regular payments 
of interest every 4 weeks (so 13 payments per year) from the Department of Work & 
Pensions (DWP). In addition, up until about 2016, the full mortgage repayments were also 
made each month  even during those periods when the MCA wasnt used at all. As a result, 
the capital balance on the mortgage decreased
The MCA wasnt used from September 2008 until about October 2011, as it had reached its 
then limit. However, interest was added, which increased the balance to £36,953.74 by 
2011. Thereafter, the overdraft increased again, due to rebalancing, and Mr and Mrs D were 
able to use it again, which they did, spending an additional £28,038.88.
I can see from Barclays internal notes that from 2015 onwards Mr D was in contact with the 
bank about the mortgage. In February 2016 Mr D explained to Barclays agent that hed had 
a nervous breakdown seven years previously following an accident, and hadnt been able 
to work since then. 
I also note that Mr D was contacting Barclays to make payments towards the MCA in 2016. 
He also explained that Mrs D was working part-time and that his daughter (who I assume 
was living in the family home) was about to start a new job. Mr D said he would consult 
StepChange about his finances.
In August 2016 Mr D explained that he was thinking of selling land and property he owned 
abroad, and that he was also owed money hed lent to a friend. And in December 2016 Mr D 
asked Barclays about consolidating the MCA into the mortgage. He explained to Barclays 
that hed been paying the mortgage from his savings but that these were now depleted. 
Barclays said Mr D would need to take financial advice, and noted that he had not yet 
contacted StepChange.. 
I will mention at this point that the MCA reserve had been fully utilised by about October 
2013, but the mortgage was paid in full and on time until November 2015. Thereafter DWP 
payments were still being made at the DWP prevailing rate of interest. As this was higher 
than the interest due on the account, the capital balance continued to reduce. But I note that 
that between October 2013 and November 2015 Mr and Mrs D were able to afford the full 
mortgage repayment from their own resources, which they had also done between 2009 and 
2011 when they were also not using the MCA reserve.
However, after November 2015, because the full mortgage repayment wasnt being made, 
Barclays was looking at collections activity, and from 2018 onwards, Mr and Mrs Ds children 
became involved in trying to resolve the situation. At one point in October 2019 Mr D told 
Barclays that his son was looking to remortgage in order to pay off the mortgage and MCA, 
but nothing further is recorded about that.
In 2020 a complaint was made to Barclays about the MCA. Mr and Mrs D said that this had 
been mis-sold. They said that, as the MCA had been used, the payments on the mortgage 
account hadnt increased to cover this. They also said that, due to Mr Ds illness, Barclays 
shouldnt have allowed any further spending on the account. Mr and Mrs D wanted Barclays 
to reduce the MCA limit to the original £30,000 and to write off the remaining balance of the 
account.
Barclays looked at what had happened. In its final response letter, Barclays noted that it 
should have prevented access to the MCA after it had been notified of Mr Ds illness in 
September 2008. The account wasnt used again until 2011, after which £28,038.88 was 
spent on it until about October 2013. Barclays acknowledged that these funds shouldnt have 
been made available.However, Barclays noted that Mr and Mrs D had had the benefit of those funds and so 
agreed to refund only 50% of this amount - £14,019.44. Barclays also refunded interest of 
£18,072.96 for the accumulated interest. In total, Barclays reimbursed £32,092.40 to the 
MCA, reducing the balance as at 14 August 2020 (the date of the final response letter) to 
£66,508.67. Barclays also said it would limit the mortgage reserve facility to £67,000.
Barclays also offered Mr and Mrs D compensation of £500 for trouble and upset, and £150 
for the length of time it took to respond to the complaint  a total of £650.
Dissatisfied with Barclays response, Mr and Mrs D brought their complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, where an investigator looked at it.
The investigator didnt think Barclays had done enough to put things right. He noted that the 
balance of £30,000 plus interest was £36,953.74 by 2011. He also noted that, whilst Mr D 
had made some extravagant purchases that were out of character, he had also used the 
funds to pay his mortgage and bills, so Mr and Mrs D had had the benefit of those funds. So 
he was satisfied that the refund of £14,019.44  50% of the amount spent  was fair.
But he thought Barclays should refund 100% of the interest from 2011 onwards (a further 
£18,072.96) in addition to the £18,072.96 the bank had already reimbursed. The investigator 
also thought the remaining balance of the MCA, over and above the 2011 balance of 
£36,953.74, should be interest-free. (He later clarified to Barclays that the £36,953.74 would 
continue to accrue interest.)
The investigator was satisfied that the compensation of £650 was fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs D largely agreed with the investigators findings. They explained, however, that 
the mortgage account matured in January 2021 and Mr and Mrs D do not have the money to 
repay the MCA balance of more than £60,000. They agree that this should be interest-free, 
as it will enable them to reduce the debt if Barclays will agree to a payment plan. But they 
dont think £650 is fair compensation for what theyve been through.
In addition, Mr and Mrs D had a text about the MCA balance, which Barclays had previously 
agreed to suppress. This was very distressing.
Barclays didnt agree with what the investigator had said. The bank clarified that the 
mortgage account matured on 16 January 2021 and so the full MCA balance is now due and 
remains outstanding.
Barclays also clarified in an email dated 1 April 2021 that its offer in the final response letter 
wasnt correct. Barclays says that the offer should have been for 50% of the capital after 
2008 and all of the interest on the additional spending (not 50% of all the MCA interest). 
Provisional decision
On 14 June 2021 I issued a provisional decision in which I made the following findings:First, Im satisfied that the MCA wasnt mis-sold. The way it operates is set out in the 
mortgage offer and the account terms and conditions. The mortgage offer doesnt 
say that payments will increase to cover the interest on the MCA, but instead 
provides an illustration of how the use of the MCA reserve will affect the total debt.
Its accepted by all parties that Barclays wasnt (and couldnt have been) aware of Mr 
Ds illness until it was told in September 2008. By this time, Mr D had spent the full 
£30,000 on the MCA. I am told this was on items that were out of character for him. 
However, Barclays wouldnt have been aware of what Mr D was spending the money 
on  either up to September 2008 or when the MCA was used again after 2011. Nor 
would the bank be aware of what Mr D spent his money on.
This is because modern banking is largely an automated, computerised process, with 
little human involvement. Banks do not monitor or police customer spending and it is 
only if something is flagged with the bank that staff will actively look at an account. 
Even where an overdraft is exceeded, initially it is only system-generated 
communications that are sent, and only if these are ignored will staff become 
involved in contacting the customer.
But in this case Barclays was contacted by Mr Ds family in September 2008 and was 
told that he was very ill. At this point Barclays has accepted it should have capped 
the MCA reserve and not allowed any further spending on it.
However, after 2011 the MCA began to be used again, until the reserve had again 
been used up by about October 2013. This shouldnt have happened, and Im glad 
Barclays has acknowledged this.
I can see Mr and Mrs D were making regular transfers from the MCA to their joint 
current account, which went on until about October 2013. I am told they were using 
the MCA reserve for their living expenses  including paying the mortgage (the full 
monthly payment in addition to the DWP interest payments). But I also note Mr and 
Mrs D must have had access to other resources too, as they were not using the MCA 
between 2009-2011 and from October 2013 onwards, but were still able to make the 
full mortgage payments, as well as receiving DWP payments.
Im not persuaded Barclays would have been aware of how Mr and Mrs D were 
spending the money theyd transferred from the MCA, because, as I stated above, 
the bank would not be monitoring Mr and Mrs Ds current account. If that account 
was operating within its limits, nothing would have been flagged on Barclays system.
But Im glad Barclays has acknowledged that it ought to have capped the MCA 
reserve in September 2008, once it was aware of Mr Ds illness. Because Barclays 
has accepted its error, I now have to decide what should be done to put it right.
The banks original offer as put forward in the final response letter has changed. 
Barclays told us on 1 April 2021 that its offer to settle the complaint is as follows:
reimbursement of 50% of the £28,038.88 spent after September 2008  
£14,019.44;
a refund 100% of the interest on the additional spend of £28,038.88 from the date 
the spending was incurred to the mortgage maturity date;
£650 for trouble and upset.
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs D are liable for the original spending on the MCA, plus 
interest  a total of £36,953.74.Im also satisfied that Mr and Mrs D have had the benefit of a substantial part of the 
funds withdrawn after 2011 and so I think a 50% reimbursement of the total 
additional spend of £28,038.88 is fair and reasonable. I note Barclays has confirmed 
it will reimburse 100% of the interest on the additional spend of £28,038.88, which 
again I think is fair.
Barclays has acknowledged that a payment for distress and inconvenience is 
warranted, and it has offered £650  of which £150 is for delay in responding to the 
complaint. Ive noted what Mr and Mrs Ds son has said about this, but I think the 
compensation offered is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, and is 
proportionate to the banks error and the implications of this for Mr and Mrs D.
This leaves the matter of the outstanding balance on the MCA, which is due to be 
repaid in full now that the mortgage has reached the end of its term. The investigator 
thought this should be at a 0% rate of interest, but I disagree. Im satisfied that, 
where Mr and Mrs D have had the benefit of the funds, Barclays is entitled to charge 
interest on those funds. I think the interest rate should be the mortgage SVR, rather 
than Barclays unauthorised overdraft interest rate.
However, I am also aware that Mr and Mrs Ds financial position is such that they are 
unlikely to have the funds available to repay the MCA balance. But Mr and Mrs D are 
not without options. 
From what Mr D told Barclays, it seems he has land and property abroad that he told 
the bank he could sell. In addition, Mr D said that his son was going to remortgage to 
repay the bank. The amount outstanding, compared with the likely value of the 
property is relatively low, so its possible Mr and Mrs D would qualify for an equity 
release mortgage (where no monthly repayments are due) in order to pay off the 
loan, or for a later life mortgage, which some lenders are offering. I think Mr and Mrs 
D would benefit from speaking to an independent financial adviser to discuss the 
options available to them.
Whilst Barclays is, according to the contractual terms, entitled to begin possession 
action to recover the debt, I think the bank should give Mr and Mrs D six months to 
repay it, from the date of acceptance of my final decision on this matter. That would 
give Mr and Mrs D sufficient time to take advice, consider their options and make a 
decision. But I think it is only right to let Mr and Mrs D know that the debt will accrue 
interest during this period so the sooner they can make arrangements to repay the 
MCA balance, the less interest they will pay on it. 
Finally, Mr and Mrs D have been upset by a text from Barclays about repaying their 
MCA overdraft. I would ask Barclays to put its collections activity on hold for six 
months, including any letters, texts or phone calls to Mr and Mrs D.
This is what I thought Barclays should do to put things right:I think Barclays offer  as clarified in its email of 1 April 2021  is fair and 
reasonable. To settle the complaint, I direct Barclays, where it has not already done 
so, to do the following in relation to the outstanding balance on the MCA:
reimburse 50% of the £28,038.88 spent after September 2008  £14,019.44;
refund 100% of the interest on the additional spend of £28,038.88 from the date 
the spending was incurred to the mortgage maturity date;
pay £650 for trouble and upset.
Responses to the provisional decision
Barclays made no further comment on the provisional decision. Mr and Mrs D made some 
further points, which I summarise below.
Mr D doesnt own any land abroad and isnt owed any money by anyone;
his daughter is currently unemployed;
there have been no conversations to date between Mr D and one of his sons 
regarding remortgaging to pay off the mortgage and MCA;
they query where in the mortgage offer rebalancing is mentioned;
they were not sent Barclays email of 1 April 2021;
Mr and Mrs D want to continue paying £500 per month to reduce the MCA balance, 
or negotiate a higher, but affordable, amount until the full balance is settled. This will 
take much longer than the six months the ombudsman thought should be allowed;
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will begin by answering the further points made by Mr and Mrs D.
Ive noted what they have said about Mr D not owning land abroad and not being owed any 
money. I also note that Mr and Mrs D say there have been no discussions with their son 
about re-mortgaging. However, Barclays was told all those things by Mr D, and was entitled 
to accept what he said in good faith. But nothing turns on this in relation to the outcome of 
this complaint. 
The information about rebalancing is set out in the Terms and Conditions which form part of 
the mortgage offer. Clause 12.14 says:
If you make a part redemption or an overpayment of a minimum amount which we 
will specify from time to time to your Loan and you have a Mortgage Current Account 
Reserve, then the amount of your Mortgage Current Account Reserve Limit will 
increase by a corresponding amount.
Barclays revised offer was in an email dated 1 April 2021 sent to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, not to Mr and Mrs D. I apologise this wasnt drawn to Mr and Mrs Ds attention, and 
it is why I decided to issue a provisional decision, because I thought the offer was fair.
Ive reviewed the complaint again in its entirety, Ive taken into account the further points 
made on behalf of Mr and Mrs D, and Ive revisited my provisional decision.
Having done so, Im satisfied that the offer made by Barclays in its email of 1 April 2021 is a 
fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint. The offer takes into account that Barclays should have limited the MCA reserve in September 2008, but recognises that Mr and Mrs D 
have had the benefit of the money spent since then. In the circumstances, I am not minded 
to change the conclusion I reached in my provisional decision.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs D would like Barclays to accept £500 per month (or an affordable 
negotiated amount per month) towards repayment of the balance outstanding on the MCA. 
Mr and Mrs D will need to discuss repayment of the MCA reserve with Barclays, as the 
balance is due in full, in line with the contractual terms. If Mr and Mrs D accept my final 
decision, it will become binding on Barclays, and the balance on the MCA will be reduced. 
Once this has been done, Mr and Mrs D will know how much they need to repay to the bank.
In this regard, I would remind Barclays that, where customers are in financial difficulty, the 
bank must treat them positively and sympathetically when considering repayment proposals. 
Furthermore, Mr and Mrs D are required to provide full and open disclosure of their financial 
circumstances, in order that Barclays can give fair consideration to any offer of payment. But 
thats not something I can intervene in as part of this decision. Mr and Mrs D will need to 
discuss their payment proposals with Barclays. If they think the bank isnt treating them fairly 
in relation to their proposals, they may be able to bring a fresh complaint about that to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
 
Putting things right
To settle the complaint, I direct Barclays, where it has not already done so, to do the 
following in relation to the outstanding balance on the MCA:
reimburse 50% of the £28,038.88 spent after September 2008  £14,019.44;
refund 100% of the interest on the additional spend of £28,038.88 from the date the 
spending was incurred to the mortgage maturity date;
pay £650 for trouble and upset.  
My final decision
My final decision is that, for the same reasons given in my provisional decision and 
reiterated above, I uphold this complaint. I direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to settle the 
complaint as directed above.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman