DRN-3205527
The complaint
Mr S complains that a car he took under a conditional sale agreement from Close Brothers 
Limited was not of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In July 2020 Mr S entered into a three-year conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers. 
The sale price of the car was £6,995 which Mr S was to repay by monthly instalments of 
£166. In addition, he paid a deposit of £1,800. The agreement recorded that the car had 
been first registered in September 2009 and had a recorded mileage of 80,000 miles.
The day after Mr S took delivery of the car, it suffered from mechanical issues. These appear 
to have been relatively minor and were resolved by the dealership at no cost to Mr S. But 
shortly after that, Mr S says that more serious issues arose, which the dealership would not 
repair. He contacted Close Brothers, who said that they would contact the dealership. It 
seems they were unable to do so, and Mr S arranged further repairs, the cost of which was 
covered under warranty. Mr S paid around £600 for a hire car while the repairs were carried 
out.
In early December Mr S reported further issues. Close Brothers said again that they would 
contact the dealership, but in the meantime Mr S should not use the car or take it to a 
garage. Close Brothers would not be responsible for any storage charges or for the cost of a 
hire car. Mr S should continue to make the monthly payments due. They would aim to 
resolve Mr Ss concerns within 56 days, after which he would be able to refer the matter to 
this service.
Mr S arranged for the car to be repaired at a cost to him of £894. He referred the matter to 
this service in January 2021.
The car continued to have problems. In January 2021 a new turbo-charger was fitted; in 
March 2021 its fuel pump was replaced and in April 2021 it needed a new head gasket.
In July 2021 our investigator issued his preliminary assessment of Mr Ss complaint. He 
believed that the car had not been of satisfactory quality and recommended that Close 
Brothers: refund the cost of repairs (around £2,600); end the conditional sale agreement; 
refund Mr Ss deposit; refund the cost of hire cars; and pay Mr S for the inconvenience he 
had been put to.
Close Brothers did not accept the investigators view. They said, in summary:
Because Mr S had arranged his own repairs, they had not had the opportunity to inspect 
the car or carry out repairs. They had not therefore been able to challenge evidence 
about the cars condition.
The age and mileage of the car made it more susceptible to faults.
Mr S had used the car for around 7,000 miles before the later faults developed, 
suggesting they were not present at the point of supply.
The repairs carried out after December 2020 appeared to be connected to the earlier 
work that Mr S had arranged. Close Brothers were not responsible for rectifying work 
done by Mr Ss own garage.
Because Close Brothers didnt accept the investigators assessment, the case was passed 
to me to review. I did that and issued a provisional decision. In summary, I said:
The conditional sale agreement was to be read as including a term that the car would 
be of satisfactory quality. One effect of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 was that there 
was a presumption that goods which were not of satisfactory quality within six months of 
delivery were not of satisfactory quality at delivery.
The car had needed four sets of repairs within six months of delivery, and Mr S had paid 
for two of those repairs. 
There was little evidence, beyond the actual repairs, of the cars condition at the point of 
delivery. That was because repairs had been carried out so that Mr S could continue to 
use it. 
Close Brothers had told Mr S not to arrange repairs until they had been able to inspect 
the car. I could understand however why he was unwilling to wait for their investigation 
to be concluded.
I thought that Close Brothers should meet the costs of repairs to the turbo-charger 
carried out in December 2020, as well as the cost of replacing the knock sensor. I noted 
that further repairs to the turbo had been needed in January 2021 but thought that it 
was likely this was because the initial repairs had not been carried out properly  for 
which Close Brothers were not liable. 
I considered that other repairs and work  an oil change, replacement fuel pump, worn 
timing chain, worn cylinders and head gasket  were matters of wear and tear and were 
consistent with the age and mileage of the car.
I concluded that Close Brothers should pay Mr S the cost of repairs to the turbo and 
replacing the knock sensor in December 2020, with interest, and a further £200 in 
recognition of the inconvenience to which he had been put.   
I said that I would consider further evidence and arguments  and in particular evidence 
about the costs of hiring cars while repairs were being carried out.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr S provided copies of invoices for hire cars 
totalling £598.56, consistent with the repairs carried out in August/September and December 
2020. 
Mr S also said that the repairs to the turbo charger in December 2020 had been to re-thread 
it and fit it correctly. It was only after that had been done that it became apparent that it was 
not working correctly. He said he should, therefore, be reimbursed for the subsequent 
replacement as well. He said too that the fuel injector should not have needed replacing after 
87,000 miles; the manufacturer recommends replacement after 100,000 miles. He also said 
that, while my provisional decision said that there was no engineers report, he had provided 
one. 
I sent Close Brothers Mr Ss further observations and invited their comments. In respect of 
the costs of a hire car, they said that they would not usually cover these; they might however 
refund the monthly payments for the period a customer was without a car. 
Close Brothers said too that they did not feel a payment of £200 in recognition of Mr Ss 
inconvenience was appropriate. They are required to keep complainants updated, and that 
includes telling them how long they have to investigate a complaint. The didnt feel that they should cover the cost of the replacement sensor. Since almost all 
their cars have a mileage below 150,000, any failure might be deemed to be a fault present 
at sale. Close Brothers acknowledged that it was possible the second repair to the turbo 
charger was necessary for the reasons Mr S had alleged. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I indicated in my provisional decision, the evidence about the cars condition at the point 
of delivery is limited. Mr S had sent a report from an approved garage, but that report only 
really noted the work that had been carried out. It did not, for example, identify why repairs 
were needed or whether faults were likely to have been present at delivery. I mean no 
criticism of Mr S or the garage in saying that; it is simply that the report was not intended to 
be a detailed experts report. 
I note what Mr S has said about the turbo repairs. Having considered the matter carefully, I 
accept the points he has made. I believe therefore that Close Brothers should reimburse him 
for all the repairs to the turbo-charger, not just those from December 2020.
There is now further evidence of the costs of hire cars. I appreciate what Close Brothers has 
said about meeting these costs, but I do not think it was unreasonable of Mr S to hire a car 
while his was being repaired because it was not of satisfactory quality as required by the 
law. In this case, the hire costs were more than the monthly payments under the conditional 
sale agreement, but in other cases they might not be. 
As far as the sensor is concerned, I do not accept that my findings mean that any failure at 
less than 150,000 miles means that a car is faulty. But in this case the failure occurred soon 
after delivery, and I think it is fair that Close Brothers cover the cost of repair. 
As Close Brothers have correctly identified, they needed to keep Mr S updated on their 
investigation and to tell him how long they had to complete it. But there can I think be no 
doubt that Mr S suffered significant inconvenience because the car was not of satisfactory 
quality  in addition to his financial loss. I think he should be compensated for that.           
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said that Mr S should receive part of the December 2020 repair 
costs, totalling £430, plus interest. As I have indicated, I now think that he should also be 
reimbursed for the cost of a new turbo-charger (£680), the cost of investigating the fault and 
fitting the replacement (£360), and the cost of hire cars (£598.56). 
In addition, Mr S should receive interest on those sums and compensation for the 
inconvenience to which he has been put.   
My final decision
My final decision is that, to resolve this complaint, Close Brothers Limited should pay Mr S:
£430 (the cost of work on the turbo and the knock sensor in December 2020), together 
with interest at 8% a year simple from 11 December 2020 to the date of payment;
£680 (the cost of the replacement turbo), together with interest at 8% a year simple from 
15 January 2021 to the date of payment;
£360 (the cost of fitting the replacement turbo), together with interest at 8% a year simple from 28 January 2021 to the date of payment;
£420.63 (the cost of car hire in August/September 2020), together with interest at 8% a 
year simple from 9 September 2020 to the date of payment;
£177.93 (the cost of car hire in December 2020), together with interest at 8% a year 
simple from 5 December 2020 to the date of payment; and
£200 in recognition of the inconvenience to which Mr S has been put.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman