DRN-3662705
The complaint
Mr B complains that Blue Motor Finance Ltd (BMF) sent a letter with confusing information 
about the balance owed on his finance agreement and that they wouldnt agree to change 
his repayment date. He also says he received poor customer service.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr B, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
BMF are obliged to send a notice of sums in arrears. As that notice spans the full loan term it 
included the amounts that would become due after the payment holiday. Whilst I understand 
that may have initially been confusing for Mr B I cant say BMF were wrong to send the letter 
or that the letter was inaccurate. Im not therefore asking BMF to take any action about it.
Mr B is upset that following our ombudsmans decision BMF havent been prepared to 
change the date payments are being taken towards his payment plan. BMF have explained 
that, on Mr Bs request, theyve already changed the date of payments from day 12 to day 
27. The contract allows for payments to be changed by no more than 15 days and as this 
has already been done once I dont think BMF are being unreasonable when refusing further 
changes. Mr B suggests that BMF should have shown him more forbearance, but I think by 
agreeing to the repayment plan they have shown forbearance of Mr Bs financial situation 
and I dont think they needed to go further. 
Ive read Mr Bs testimony and I understand that he is disappointed with the way staff treated 
him when he called BMF. This service isnt able to consider complaints about customer 
service so Im unable to consider that aspect of Mr Bs complaint.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman