DRN-2887341
The complaint
Ms B has complained about Accredited Insurance (Europe) Limiteds decision to reject a 
theft claim she made under her car insurance policy.
All reference to the underwriter Accredited Insurance (AE) in my decision includes its agents. 
What happened
In March 2020 Miss B said she got a flat tyre and parked her car. Her ex- partner picked her
up and she gave him a key to go back and change the flat tyre. A couple of days later, he
went back to change the tyre but the car was gone. Miss B said she left her purse, a laptop
and other items in the car.
Miss B reported the theft to the police and contacted her insurer, AE to make a claim.
AE instructed an investigator to discuss the incident with Miss B. The investigator asked
Miss B to send the two sets of keys she said were in her possession along with ownership
documents to them. They recommended Miss B do this by recorded delivery.
Miss B said she posted the keys, but not by recorded delivery. The investigator didnt receive
anything from Miss B. So AE didnt settle Miss Bs claim.
Miss B was very unhappy about this. She said she didnt go to a post office to send the keys
by recorded delivery as she was new to the area. She said she has two children and no car
to travel. She didnt want to take her children with her to the post office given the risks due to
the pandemic and government restrictions in place at the time. Miss B was unhappy with the 
service shed received from AE. 
AE said while it understood Miss Bs explanation, it said it wasnt a justified reason. It said
the first reason Miss B gave it for not sending the keys by recorded delivery was because
she was in a rush. So as it didnt receive Miss Bs keys, it didnt validate her claim.
Miss B asked us to look at her complaint. Our investigator thought AE had properly
considered her claim. He explained that without receiving important items to validate the
claim, he thought AE had acted reasonably.
Miss B didnt agree. She sent us a photo of the keys and V5 logbook. But the investigator
said this didnt change his view.
I issued a provisional decision on 11 May 2021. I thought EAs decision not to meet the claim 
was reasonable. But I thought it had caused some undue delay in handling the claim. For 
this I thought it should pay Miss B £100 compensation. 
From the information available, I couldnt see that Miss B had raised concerns about sending 
the keys by recorded delivery before she sent them. But I asked her to provide any evidence 
she had to support what she said and I would reconsider this part of her complaint. 
EA didnt reply to my provisional decision. Miss B doesnt agree with my provisional decision. 
She says she is able to send an email showing she explained to EA that she would be 
sending the keys. Miss B says there was a delay as she was waiting for other options on 
how to send them. Miss B says she spoke to the investigator and they didnt explain the 
importance of sending the keys by recorded delivery. 
Miss B says if she understood the importance, she wouldnt have sent them as she did. 
So the case has been passed back to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AE says it cant consider Miss Bs claim as it needs to establish if its exclusions apply. Their
investigator recommended requesting the two keys to carry out forensic checks as to when
they were last used. As their investigator didnt receive the keys, these checks couldnt be
carried out and so AE wasnt able to validate Miss Bs claim.
When Miss B reported the theft, she said both keys were in her possession. There are two
sets of keys in the photo shes sent to us. However, the photo doesnt demonstrate that the
keys were sent, or received by the investigator as requested. I can see that Miss B reported
the theft to the police and contacted the council to see if they had recovered her car, but they
told her they hadnt.
Its reasonable for an insurer to ask for important items or information to assist in validating a
claim. I can see from the investigators email sent that they recommended Miss B send both
keys and logbook by recorded delivery. Given the importance of the items, I think the advice
was reasonable. Even if AE or the investigator hadnt explained the reason for requesting 
the keys, I dont think this makes a difference. I think it was clear that these items were 
needed in order for AE to consider Miss Bs claim  so they were important as they provided 
proof of ownership of the car. 
I understand Miss Bs reasons for not wanting to go to the post office to send the items by
recorded delivery. On 1 May 2020 Miss B emailed the investigator and explained that she
was going to send the keys in the next few days and checked if they needed the V5
document too. In this email, Miss B didnt raise any concerns about not being able to send
them by recorded delivery.
Miss B says she emailed the investigator to explain why she couldnt send the keys and
documents by recorded delivery, but she says her email was ignored. AE says Miss Bs
initial reason for sending the keys by standard post was because she was in a rush. Miss B
denies this.In my provisional decision I said I couldnt find any evidence from AEs contact notes to 
confirm Miss B said she sent the keys by normal post because she was in a rush. In 
response, Miss B says there was a delay of a few weeks as she was waiting on another 
option as to how to send the keys. She says she spoke to the investigator explaining why 
there would be a delay sending the keys but the investigator didnt explain the importance of 
sending them by recorded delivery. 
I cant see any evidence of Miss B raising concerns about not being able to send the keys by 
recorded delivery before she sent them. From the information I have, Miss B explained the 
difficulties she was experiencing and was unhappy alternatives werent offered, such as a 
courier  after she sent the keys. But I dont know how the investigator or AE could have 
known to offer alternatives unless Miss B made them aware before sending the keys. In my 
provisional decision I said that if Miss B has evidence of contacting the investigator or AE to 
raise her concerns before she sent the keys, I will reconsider this part of her complaint.
In response, Miss B says she called AE on 23 June 2020 and she was told her claim would 
be paid despite the investigator not having received the keys. I checked AEs notes and 
there is a record of call from Miss B on that day. The notes read that the agent spoke to the 
investigator and established that they hadnt received the keys. Notes show that the agent 
said she would need advice from a manager and would call Miss B back to discuss the next 
steps. The notes show that Miss B called AE again on 30 June 2020 as she didnt receive a 
call back as promised. Ive addressed the service AE provided later in my decision. 
The accounts from each party as to what was discussed on 23 June 2020 is different. I dont 
have enough to safely conclude that AE told Miss B it would settle her claim during this call.
Miss B sent AE examples of posts on social media showing other cars that had been stolen
in the area. I understand shes upset that AE didnt take this into consideration. In this case, I
dont think this information is enough for me to say that AE should reconsider Miss Bs theft
claim.
So from what Ive seen, I dont think that AEs request and advice was unreasonable 
following the interview. And as it didnt receive the keys to carry out further checks - and 
theres no evidence they were sent along with the V5 logbook document - I think its decision 
not to settle Miss Bs claim was reached in a fair way and in line with the policy.
Miss B says that AE ignored her correspondence and didnt respond to most of her
complaint. Ive looked at the timeline set out in the contact notes provided by AE and the
copy emails provided by Miss B.
AE received the investigators report on 17 April 2020. Miss B had regularly chased AE for
an update on her claim since 3 April 2020, the day after the investigator had interviewed her.
Miss B chased AE a further three times after 17 April 2020. On 23 April 2020 AE asked Miss
B to provide proof shed contacted the council to see if it had recovered her car. Miss B
provided evidence by email on the same day. On 30 April 2020 their investigator emailed
Miss B to request the keys and vehicle documents on the instruction of AE.
On 5 June 2020 Miss B chased for an update as she hadnt heard anything. She said she
had sent the keys and V5 log book a month ago.
Miss B called again on 22 June 2020 as she hadnt heard from AE. On 23 June 2020 AE
called her back as it had spoken with the investigator and established that the keys hadnt
been received.I think AE is responsible for two periods of delay when dealing with Miss Bs claim. I think it
should have asked Miss B to send the additional documents and keys promptly after
receiving the investigators report on 17 April 2020 as set out in their recommendations. And
I think it should have given Miss B an update from their investigator sooner when she called
on 5 June 2020.
I think its clear that Miss B initiated contact with AE during the claim and had to chase for
updates. For the distress and inconvenience this caused, I think AE should pay Miss B £100
compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Bs complaint in part and require Accredited Insurance 
(Europe) Limited to pay Miss B £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience its 
delay in dealing with her claim caused her.
Accredited Insurance (Europe) Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell it Miss B accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
a simple rate of 8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman