DRN-3630935
The complaint
Mr S, who is a sole trader, is unhappy with the service hes received from Lloyds Bank PLC 
surrounding an application he wished to make for a Bounce Bank Loan (BBL). 
What happened
Mr S applied for a BBL with a banking brand within the Lloyds banking group. This 
application was declined, and Mr S appealed that decision and raised a complaint. Lloyds 
sent a response to Mr Ss complaint, but because it was on Lloyds headed paper and not on 
the headed paper of the banking brand to which Mr S had initially made the BBL application, 
Mr S disregarded the letter. 
However, the Lloyds headed letter explained to Mr S that he could send a copy of his tax 
return, which may allow the decision to decline the application to be reconsidered. And by 
the time that Mr S received further letters which he did read, the deadline for new BBL 
applications had passed, meaning that it was no longer possible for his declined application 
to be reconsidered.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with what had happened, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Lloyds had acted 
unfairly towards Mr S in how theyd managed the situation, and so they didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mr S remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For a BBL application to have been successful, the applicant business must have self-
declared that it met the BBL eligibility criteria set out by the British Business Bank, who 
administered the scheme. This eligibility criteria included that that the BBL must be for a 
business. Lenders were entitled  and expected  to complete checks on applications, with 
the decision as to whether to approve an application delegated entirely to them. 
Lloyds have confirmed that the reason Mr Ss application was declined was because Mr S 
applied for the BBL in reference to a personal bank account, which Mr S declared he also 
used in relation to his sole trader business. However, when Lloyds assessed Mr Ss personal 
bank account, they were unable to see evidence of business use on that account to their 
satisfaction. This meant that Lloyds didnt feel that Mr Ss application met the necessary 
criteria to allow the application to be successful.
Ive reviewed the statements for Mr Ss personal bank account and having done so I find 
Lloyds position here to be reasonable. Consequently, I dont feel that Lloyds acted unfairly 
towards Mr S for declining his BBL application in the manner that they did.
Mr S is also unhappy that Lloyds sent a complaint response letter to him on Lloyds headed 
paper, rather than on headed paper in the name of the separate banking brand to which Mr 
S first applied for the BBL. 
I can appreciate Mr Ss position here, but given that the letter was addressed to him, and 
that his application for the BBL was made to a business within the Lloyds group, it doesnt 
seem unreasonable to me that Lloyds responded to Mr S on their own headed paper. I 
therefore dont feel that Lloyds can be reasonably held accountable for the consequences Mr 
S encountered by not reading that letter.
All of which means I find it difficult to conclude that Lloyds have acted unfairly towards Mr S 
as he believes is the case here. And it follows from this that I wont be upholding this 
complaint or instructing Lloyds to take any further action.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr S was wanting, but I hope hell understand, given all 
that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman