DRN-2706322
The complaint
X complains that she received the wrong information from Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds).
What happened
X was owed money from a friend. She was due to receive £24 per month. She called Lloyds 
and who gave her the amounts paid in 2018, 2019 and 2020.
X complained that Lloyds gave her the wrong amounts paid to her. They told her less money 
had been paid to her than actually had. As a result, she asked her friend for more money. 
Her friend paid her £168 in December 2020  but because of Lloyds error, this wasnt 
needed and was returned to her friend. What happened caused a lot of upset and it badly 
affected their long-term friendship of 30 years. X also had a lot of family illness to deal with 
at the time, which made the stress and worry worse. She said she had to spend ten hours on 
the phone to Lloyds to sort things out. At the time, she didnt have internet banking  so 
couldnt use that to track the money.
Lloyds apologised. They gave X the wrong information. They paid her compensation of £210 
- £200 for distress and inconvenience, plus £10 for calls. They couldnt see there had been 
ten hours of calls  but if X could give them evidence of those, they would consider paying 
more for them.
X brought her complaint to us. Our investigator looked at what had happened. She said 
Lloyds had apologised and paid compensation of £210, which she felt was about right for 
their error and the impact on X.
X asked that her complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to decide whether Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in dealing with Xs complaint.
 
Its not in dispute that Lloyds misadvised X of the amounts paid to her. Ive listened to one of 
the calls and they clearly made some errors  they said there were some months when the 
amounts of £24 werent received, when they actually were. The result was that X asked her 
friend for more money. Her friend initially said that no money was owed to X, but then paid 
£168 in December 2020. This was then recalled by Xs friend. In January 2021, Lloyds 
admitted theyd made an error. All of this caused their 30-year friendship to end. X also had 
a lot of other stresses to deal with at the time  as members of her family were ill.
Miss Xs complaint comes down to what is an appropriate amount of compensation she 
should get. Lloyds apologised and paid £210 - £200 for distress and inconvenience, plus £10 
for the cost of calls. I can see they offered to pay any further cost of calls if X could evidence 
these  but she hasnt brought anything forward. X has told us about the illness in her family 
and the effect it had on her personal life  and the impact of what happened with Lloyds 
clearly added to that. What X was going through at the time was obviously very difficult for 
her. But  I dont think Lloyds can be held responsible for the other struggles that X was 
going through  I must think about what was right in the context of Lloyds error, rather than 
anything else.
I can see that Lloyds have apologised, which wed expect them to do. Ive thought about the 
sort of compensation this service would expect to see for what happened  and this is in line 
with that  and what wed expect Lloyds to have done. 
So  and I know X will be disappointed by my decision, but I wont be asking Lloyds to do 
anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman