DRN-2519229
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out the PPI at the same time as arranging the mortgage in a branch in 
2004.
The standalone policy cost £14.49 and provided protection for their monthly mortgage 
repayments if Mr B was unable to work because of an accident, sickness or 
unemployment. On submission of a successful claim it provided a monthly benefit of £240 
for up to twelve months.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Santander disagreed with the adjudicators view 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on 17 December 2020, which forms part of this final decision. 
I have summarised below the findings and conclusions I reached in my provisional decision, 
which forms part of this final decision.
I found that there was very little paperwork available from the time of this sale. But I 
didnt think this was that surprising given how long ago it took place. So, in my 
provisional decision, I said I needed to decide what I thought was most likely to have 
happened using the limited information available to me. 
Based on the welcome letter from Santander, together with what I knew more generally 
about how Santander normally sold PPI at around this time, I thought that it was most 
likely that Mr and Mrs B knew the PPI policy was optional and decided to take it.
As an advised sale, Santander had to ensure the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs B. 
And in my provisional decision I didnt see any reason why the policy wouldnt have 
been suitable. Mr B, the policyholder, was eligible for the policy. And he hadnt provided 
the additional information we had previously requested about the medical condition he 
said he had or about his previous employment history. So I didnt think I could conclude 
that the policy was unsuitable because of his personal circumstances when the policy 
was sold.
I also looked at whether the information Santander gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI 
was enough for them to decide if they wanted to take it. And I provisionally concluded 
that, whilst this information could have been better than it was, I didnt think better 
information would have changed their minds about taking it.
So, I provisionally decided that Mr and Mrs B hadnt lost out by anything that Santander 
may have done wrong when it sold them the PPI policy. I asked both parties to respond to 
my provisional decision with any further comments and evidence that they might wish to 
provide before I made my final decision.
Neither Santander nor Mr and Mrs B responded to my provisional decision with further 
comments or information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party responded to my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from the 
findings and conclusions I reached in that decision, which are summarised above.
I still dont think that Mr and Mrs B have lost out by anything that Santander may have 
done wrong when it sold them the PPI policy. So I dont think their complaint should be 
upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint against 
Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Simon Furse
Ombudsman