DRN-3102750
The complaint
Mr A, trading as S, has complained HIM London Limited misled him into signing two hire 
agreements for the same equipment.  
What happened
In 2018 Mr A realised he had two hire agreements for the same telephone system. He 
complained to the second finance company (who Ill call H) and the company that had 
brokered the agreements, HIM London Limited. He got no formal response from the latter 
but received a final response from H. They believed Mr A had signed the hire agreement 
which made this a valid document.
Mr A brought his complaint to the ombudsman service and explained what had happened.
Hed been looking to get a new internet-based phone system for his business, S. He was in 
discussions with a potential supplier (who Ill call N). Mr A would need finance and was 
supplied with a hire agreement. This would mean the finance provider (B in this case) would 
be the owner of Mr As phone system. Mr A signed the agreement in April 2017 and agreed 
the terms. A full schedule of his phone system was attached. After advice in 2018 Mr A had 
discovered he was paying two quarterly payments for the same system. A further hire 
agreement (signed with H this time in May 2017) had come to light. Mr A now felt that he 
may have been scammed as he had two agreements for the same equipment.
It took our investigator some time to get a response from HIM London. She also discussed 
what had happened with B and H. In the meantime H had stopped collecting regular 
payments as they became aware that it was more than likely Mr A was paying twice for the 
same telephone equipment.
In March 2021 our investigator completed a detailed view following her investigations. This 
explained why she was considering a complaint against HIM London whod been the credit 
broker involved in these agreements, as opposed to either of the finance companies. 
HIM London were the appropriate regulated business allowing our service to direct their 
future actions towards Mr A.
HIM London told us Mr A had been informed the original company (B) considering financing 
the phone system had further questions. This had then led to the split of the hire of the 
equipment into two agreements. She believed HIM London were at fault for the error in 
having a second hire agreement signed by Mr A. Both agreements were for the same 
equipment and were roughly the same value. Both B and H had confirmed theyd paid 
HIM London for the equipment. These figures were reasonably similar and each reflected 
the proper cost of the full equipment. This money was supposed to have been passed by 
HIM London to N.
Overall she felt there were a couple of options to ensure Mr A was treated fairly. Either 
HIM London could settle both agreements, reimburse Mr A minus fair usage (the equivalent 
of one agreement), and collect the equipment after allowing Mr A to set up alternative 
arrangements. Or HIM London should settle the agreement with H (which was the second 
agreement set up) and reimburse Mr A for the payments hed made to date.
HIM London didnt believe they should be held responsible for what had happened as Mr A 
had signed the second agreement. They felt he had to take some personal responsibility for 
what had happened.
Mr As complaint has been referred to an ombudsman for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusion as our investigator that 
HIM London were at fault. Ill explain why.
Our investigator completed a detailed view on 4 March 2021 which I know both Mr A and 
HIM London received and had an opportunity to review in full. I dont therefore need to go 
through all the detail again as both parties accept some of the principles. And in some 
respects the evidence is clear.
I will firstly confirm however that I believe it is correct to consider this case against 
HIM London. They are regulated for credit broking activities. As the agreements involved are 
hire agreements I cannot hold either B or H responsible for the actions of the credit broker. 
And as I explain below this is where I believe the fault lies.
There are some facts which dont appear to be in dispute as evidenced by the hire 
agreements and whats been provided to us by Mr A, B and H. Specifically:
There are two hire agreements signed in April and May 2017 with two different 
finance companies;
The charges for both agreements are similar. Invoices that Ive seen indicate that the 
charges for each agreement match what Mr A was expecting to originally pay for one 
agreement;
Both B and H paid HIM London for the same equipment: just over £14,500 was paid 
by each of them;
The schedule attached to both agreements is for identical equipment; and
Mr A only has one set of equipment.
I dont think theres any room for doubt here these two agreements duplicate each other and 
this has resulted in Mr A paying twice for the same equipment. That means something needs 
to be done to put things right.
I cant say for sure exactly how this all happened. Its certainly not my role to decide whether 
this was a deliberate act of fraud. HIM London has told us they had no relationship at all with 
Mr A. But I find this rather surprising  they may not have been the first point of contact as 
its clear another party was but it was their responsibility as a credit broker to carry out due 
diligence and ensure the customer is aware what they are signing for. The Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook under CONC 4.4 sets out pre-contractual requirements for credit broking firms. 
Ive received nothing from HIM London to confirm what actions they took when introducing 
Mr A to the finance agreements or anything to show that they properly and adequately explained why the finance was being split between two companies.
Ive considered HIM Londons point to us that Mr A signed the agreements and therefore he 
must bear some responsibility. Im afraid in the absence of any evidence to show 
HIM London explained what was going on, I have to disagree. The regulatory framework for 
credit broking places this responsibility on the credit broker.
I have seen emails between HIM London and Mr A. HIM London confirmed to Mr A:
where it seems ourselves and [N] were nave and where we were wrong was in not 
separating the equipment evenly across the two lease agreements
I believe this clearly admits there was an error on HIM Londons part. I can therefore decide 
what I think is fair and reasonable and ask HIM London to put things right. 
Putting things right
Our investigator proposed two alternatives as redress. I must plump for one when making 
my decision. I am also aware that Mr A is using his phone system and continues to pay B for 
this facility. He has never disputed needing to pay for the facility he has had. I dont wish to 
disrupt any decision he may wish to take next year  when that agreement comes to an end 
 about investing in any alternative phone system.
The neater option therefore seems to me to concentrate on the second hire agreement taken 
out. This appears to duplicate the first agreement so this is why I will be asking HIM London 
to settle outstanding costs with H to bring this agreement to an end. They will then need to 
reimburse Mr A for all the payments he has made to H for this agreement, along with 8% 
simple interest.
Its now more than three years since Mr A has discovered he was paying twice for the same 
thing. This has caused him some distress. I therefore think its fair and reasonable 
HIM London also pay him £150 in compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct HIM London Limited to:
Settle Mr As hire agreement with H by paying all outstanding costs;
Repay all the payments Mr A made to H during the period of the agreement; 
Add 8% simple interest to those payments from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement; and
Pay £150 to Mr A for the trouble caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman