DRN-4094048
The complaint
Mr M has complained that a car he acquired, using finance from RCI Financial Services 
Limited, trading as Mobilize Financial Services (RCI), isnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr M entered into a finance agreement with RCI in March 2022, for a used car. The car was 
six years old and had 47,128 miles on the clock.
However, in April 2022, Mr M contacted the dealership to report warning lights on the 
dashboard. This resulted in the ECU needing to be updated.
The, in May 2022, the car went into limp mode, and had to be recovered to the dealership. 
The gearbox had to be replaced. But in November 2022, the car broke down again, and 
again the gearbox had to be replaced. But this wasnt done until January 2023, due to staff 
shortages at the dealership.
Mr M contacted RCI in November 2022, following the second breakdown. He wanted to 
reject the car, as he didnt feel safe driving it. He also contacted our service. RCI didnt 
uphold the complaint, as it said that given the cars age and the use Mr M had of it, it didnt 
think the issue would have been present at the point of supply. Further, it said he had no 
grounds for rejection, as the car had been repaired under warranty.
Then, in March 2023, the car again broke down. The issue this time was a snapped flywheel. 
At this point, the mileage was 57,169.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. He was satisfied that there was a 
fault with the car, given the repairs that had been carried out. He noted that the first issue 
with the car presented itself after Mr M had had it for a month, and had travelled around 
1,000 miles. On this basis, he considered that the car was not sufficiently durable. He 
thought it reasonable that Mr M be allowed to reject the car  as he had requested to do 
before the second replacement gearbox was fitted. He should also be refunded for the 
period he was unable to use it.
Our investigator could also see that the matter had caused Mr M a lot of stress and worry. 
He thought £250 compensation was fair to reflect this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator that this complaint should be upheld  and for 
the same reasons as he gave. Issued presented themselves within just of month of the car 
being supplied. Then, just a month later, the gearbox had to be replaced. On balance, it 
seems likely the problem was present, or developing, at the point of supply  and goes 
beyond normal wear and tear. Further, the repair didnt solve the problem, as the gearbox 
had to be replaced again soon after. Mr M requested that he be allowed to reject the car, 
before this second repair was carried out. I agree that he should have been able to, as there 
had already been a previous unsuccessful attempt at repair. Although the repair was carried 
out, the fact remains that Mr M should fairly have been allowed to reject the car before this, 
as he requested.
Im also satisfied the matters been very stressful, particularly as he felt unsafe with his 
children in the car. I agree that £250 compensation is fair to address this aspect of the 
complaint.
Putting things right
To put things right, RCI Financial Services Limited, trading as Mobilize Financial Services, 
should:
end the agreement with nothing further to pay;
collect the car at no cost to Mr M;
refund Mr Ms deposit of £2,601;
refund Mr Ms monthly repayments, for the period 8 November 2022 to 12 January 
2023, when he was unable to use it. For ease of calculation, this should be taken to 
be the repayments for the full months of November and December 2022;
pay 8% simple yearly interest on all refunded amounts, from the date of each 
payment until the date of settlement;
pay a further amount of £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused; and
remove any adverse information from Mr Ms credit file in relation to the agreement, 
and mark it as settled.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, its my final decision to uphold this complaint. I require RCI 
Financial Services Limited, trading as Mobilize Financial Services, to take the actions set out 
above, in the section entitled Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman