DRN-3983082
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage account Ms D used to hold jointly with her former 
husband, Mr L. Ms D says:
despite giving NRAM details of change of address, correspondence was sent to her 
former address, resulting in a breach of her personal data;
it is unfair that NRAM has pursued her for repayment of the shortfall debt after the 
property was sold in possession, particularly as Mr L had agreed in the divorce 
proceedings to accept responsibility for his share of this;
it is only fair for NRAM to refund any payment made by Ms D which exceeds her 50% 
share of the shortfall debt, and for NRAM to consider the debt to be settled.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Ms D being identified. So for these reasons, I will 
keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Ms D and Mr L had a property mortgaged to NRAM. In 2011 the property was sold, leaving a 
shortfall debt of just over £55,000. Ms D made a payment arrangement with NRAM and has 
been making payments towards the shortfall debt ever since.
In July 2019 Ms D updated her address with NRAM, but due to a system error, the address 
wasnt changed. Three letters were sent to the old address.
In November 2021 Ms D complained to NRAM about its failure to change her address on its 
system, and about what she saw as the unfairness of NRAM continuing to pursue her for the 
balance of the shortfall debt. 
In its final response letter dated 18 January 2022 NRAM upheld the complaint about the 
change of address and offered compensation of £100 for this. NRAM explained that the 
letters send to the old address werent account-specific; two were about migration of the 
account to a new system, and one was about the change of ownership of NRAM. 
However, NRAM didnt uphold the complaint Ms D had made about the unfairness of NRAM 
pursuing her for the shortfall debt. NRAM said that liability for the debt was joint and several 
and that if Ms D thought Mr L was in breach of any court order made between herself and 
Mr L, shed need to take this up with him.
Unhappy with NRAMs response, Ms D brought her complaint to our service. Two 
investigators looked at the complaint but neither of them thought NRAM needed to do 
anything more. They both thought the £100 offered for the data breach was fair and 
reasonable.
Ms D asked for an ombudsman to review the investigators findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that in response to the second investigator Ms D has raised some new issues about 
not receiving statements and an allegation that NRAM has failed to comply with the 
provisions of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. As these are issues that werent raised in the 
original complaint, I cant look at these as part of this complaint. Ms D will need to raise 
these matters first with NRAM and if she is unhappy with its response, Ms D can bring a 
fresh complaint to us about those issues. But I wont be looking at them as part of this 
complaint.
Data breach: Because NRAM has accepted that it made an error when it didnt update 
Ms Ds address, the only issue I need to decide in relation to this issue is what NRAM should 
do to put this right. Ive looked at the three letters sent to the incorrect address and Im 
satisfied that there is no account-specific information contained in them. They are system-
generated letters about account migration and a change of ownership. 
In the circumstances, whilst I acknowledge this was a breach of the General Data Protection 
Regulation, Im satisfied that the £100 compensation offered by NRAM for the distress 
caused by its mistake is fair and reasonable. I am therefore not ordering NRAM to do 
anything more about this.
Shortfall debt: Liability for the mortgage debt is joint and several. What this means is that 
NRAM can pursue either or both debtors for payment of the entire shortfall; liability is not 
split 50/50 between the parties. Given this, NRAM has done nothing wrong in accepting 
payment from Ms D towards reducing the shortfall debt, even if she has paid more than 50% 
of the amount owed.
I dont have Mr Ls consent to access his personal data in relation to this complaint, so I am 
unable to consider any information about the steps NRAM has taken to contact him. Ms D 
says that, at the time of their divorce, Mr L agreed to be responsible for half the shortfall 
debt. If he hasnt kept to this agreement, this is something Ms D will need to address directly 
with Mr L. NRAM wasnt a party to any agreement, and so the joint and several responsibility 
for the outstanding debt isnt affected by it.
Conclusion: Im satisfied that the £100 offered by NRAM is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. I simply leave it to Ms D to decide if she wants to accept it in full and final 
settlement of this complaint. Whilst I acknowledge that Ms D considers it to be unfair that 
NRAM is still pursuing her for this debt, I am unable to find that NRAM has done anything 
wrong here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman