DRN-4204855
The complaint
Mr J complains that Bamboo Limited irresponsibly lent him a loan.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
Bamboo disagreed with the adjudicator and essentially reiterated its points from its file 
submission about why the loan was affordable for Mr J.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the adjudicator for these reasons:
Bamboos checks showed information that should have concerned it about Mr Js 
ability to repay the loan without struggling. 
The open banking report it obtained for Mr J showed that on average over the three 
months prior to the lending decision his income was around £1,498.
On the same report, Mr Js recurring monthly expenses were around £1,275, when 
you consider the loan repayment of £327.18, Mr J had no disposable income left.
Bamboo had this information but failed to react to it and so it lent to Mr J when he 
clearly couldnt afford the repayment over the term of loan.
Putting things right  what Bamboo needs to do
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan.
Treat any payments made by Miss C as payments towards the capital amount of 
£5,0000.
If Mr J has paid more than the capital, then any overpayments should be refunded to 
with 8%* simple interest from the date they were paid to the date of settlement.
But if theres still an outstanding balance, Bamboo should agree a reasonable 
repayment plan with Mr J.
Remove any adverse information about the loan from Mr Js credit file once he has 
fully repaid the capital borrowed.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo Limited to take off tax from this interest. Bamboo Limited 
must give Miss C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Js complaint and direct Bamboo Limited to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman