DRN-1937190
The complaint
Mrs W says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) when she took out a 
store card in November 2001.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer should accept 
responsibility for the complaint.
What happened
In November 2001 Mrs W applied for a store card by completing an application form. At the 
same time she was sold a PPI policy to protect her card payments.
The policy cost no more than £1.00 per £100 Mrs W owed on her store card. The policy 
would have paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each month if Mrs W couldnt 
work because she had an accident, was unwell or lost her job. The policy also provided life 
cover as well as price and purchase protection.
Our adjudicator thought this complaint should be upheld. He said the policy wasnt right for 
Mrs W because she had a pre-existing medical condition and this wouldve affected her 
ability to make a successful claim on the policy.
AXA says it thought the medical condition was manageable and it says there was no 
evidence it had affected Mrs Ws ability to work.
I issued a provisional decision in May 2020. In this I explained that I didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. I said:
Ive looked at the copy of the agreement Mrs W signed and I can see that she signed the 
agreement twice  once for the store card and another time for PPI. If she hadnt wanted to 
take out the PPI, I think Mrs W couldve chosen not to sign the relevant section of the 
agreement. And Ive noted that two other sections of the application form  card protection 
and an additional card holder  werent completed indicating she didnt want two other 
optional features.
So I think Mrs W knew the policy was optional and chose to take it. And as this was a 
monthly policy and wouldve appeared on her monthly store card statements, Mrs W 
couldve cancelled it at any time if she no longer wanted it or she found it unaffordable.
Theres limited information available to me about what happened at the time of sale. So I 
dont know what may or may not have been said. Given the information I do have, Ive not 
seen enough to make me think AXA advised Mrs W to take out the PPI. This means AXA 
didnt have to make sure the policy was suitable for Mrs Ws circumstances. But it still had to 
provide her with clear information about the policy so she could decide if she wanted to take 
it out - I cant say that AXA did this.
I dont know exactly what information Mrs W received about the policy at the time of sale. 
Even if I were to accept that Mrs W wasnt given clear enough information about the policy, I dont think this would have affected her decision to take out the PPI for the reasons 
explained below.
I dont know whether the significant exclusions and limitations of the policy (such as those 
relating to pre-existing medical conditions) wouldve been clear to Mrs W from the 
information given to her at the time. So Ive considered this very carefully because Mrs W 
told us she had a medical condition that shed had since 1964.
But in this particular case, I dont think this wouldve made a difference. I say this because 
we asked Mrs W for some details about her Asthma and she told us that her day to day 
activities are not affected and she said I have not had any time off work due to my asthma. 
So, I dont think her condition wouldve caused her to worry about whether shed need to 
make a claim on the policy because of it. And unlike many other policies, there was no 
exclusion against related illnesses or related medical conditions. So the policy wouldve 
provided valuable cover against any other kind of illness or injury.
Mrs W was eligible for the policy and she told us she was employed. She says she wouldve 
received some sick pay if she wasnt working  but I think the policy couldve proved useful 
to Mrs W if she had an accident, became ill or lost her job. It wouldve paid out in addition to 
any occupational sick pay. And she could also have benefitted from life cover and price and 
purchase protection.
Im not satisfied that AXA made the cost of the policy clear enough for Mrs W to understand 
what the real cost of the policy was for him. But taking everything into account, I think if      
Mrs W had properly understood the cost and benefit provided, she wouldve thought the 
policy potentially useful. The policy would pay a 15% monthly benefit until the outstanding 
balance was cleared and the monthly cost does not seem to be unaffordable.
Overall, I dont think AXA did everything it needed to when it sold the policy to Mrs W. But I 
think she knew she had a choice about taking the PPI and I think she would still have taken 
out the cover if hed been properly informed about it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account.
I issued my provisional decision in May 2020 and I invited both parties to let me have any 
further information they wanted me to see before I issued my final decision. And as neither 
party has provided any further information to alter my opinion of this complaint, I see no 
reason to depart from my provisional findings.
 
 
 
 My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman