DRN-4010755
The complaint
Mr B complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) have failed to refund over £4,900 he says he lost 
to an investment scam. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat all the details 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons. 
It isnt in dispute that Mr B has fallen victim to a scam here, nor that he authorised the 
disputed payments he made to his crypto wallets using his Revolut debit card (where his 
funds were subsequently transferred on to the scammers from those crypto wallets). The 
payments were requested by him using his legitimate security credentials provided by 
Revolut, and the starting position is that banks ought to follow the instructions given by 
their customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Revolut should have done more to prevent Mr B from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. 
For example, if it was particularly out of character. 
I appreciate that overall, Mr B has lost nearly £5,000 which is a significant amount of 
money. But this amount wasnt paid in one single large or out of character transaction. It 
was spread over several separate smaller increments over the space of two weeks. In 
my judgment, these transactions would not have appeared unusual or out of character, 
such that they ought to have been regarded as suspicious or indicating that Mr B might 
have been at risk of falling victim to a scam. The payments were not large enough that 
either of them could be considered significantly unusual, and there were no other 
patterns of spending that would indicate a risk of fraud either.
So, having considered the payments Mr B made, Im not persuaded there was anything 
that ought reasonably to have triggered Revoluts fraud monitoring systems, or that 
would have indicated he was in the process of being scammed. 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr B, and Im sorry to hear he has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, in the circumstances, I do not consider it would be 
fair and reasonable to hold Revolut liable for his loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman