DRN-4036307
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain Barclays Bank UK Plc paid two cheques belonging to them into 
another customers account in error.
 
What happened
Mr B wrote two cheques from his company account in favour of himself and Mrs B. He 
deposited these cheques at a third party with paying in details for his and Mrs Bs joint 
account at another bank, which Ill call H. 
When the cheques werent credited to Mr and Mrs Bs joint account at H, Mr B got in touch 
with the bank the cheques were drawn on, which Ill call L. Mr and Mrs B discovered the 
cheques had been deposited into someone elses account, held at Barclays.
 
Barclays looked into what happened when Mr and Mrs B contacted them. They were 
satisfied theyd paid the cheques into their customers account in good faith and without 
negligence. Mr and Mrs B werent happy with this response so referred their complaint to our 
service. 
An Investigator considered Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. She said, in summary, she was 
satisfied Barclays hadnt done anything wrong in processing the cheques. She was satisfied 
the cheques appeared to have the same payee and that corresponded with the name on the 
account the cheques were paid into. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt accept the Investigators findings. They said Barclays mustve done 
something wrong because one of the cheques was in Mr Bs name and his initials dont 
correspond with the Barclays customer account name. They also said Barclays failed to ask 
any questions when the money was being removed from the account, so the complaint was 
passed to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision. Ive set out my provisional findings again below and they 
form part of this decision. 
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to firstly explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. I say this as Im aware Ive summarised 
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint in considerably less detail than they have. If Ive not reflected 
something thats been said during the course of the complaint in my decision its not 
because I didnt see it, its because I didnt consider it relevant to the crux of the complaint. 
This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to reflect my informal role in 
deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I dont think its necessary 
to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question raised unless I think its 
relevant to the crux of the complaint.
Where a financial business wrongly credits the account of one of their customers with a 
cheque made payable to someone else its known as cheque conversion. In cases of 
cheque conversion, its for the financial business to show they acted in good faith and 
without negligence. 
There appears to be no dispute Mr and Mrs B are the true owners of the cheques 
concerned. And there appears to be no dispute that Barclays acted in good faith in 
processing the cheques. So, what remains for me to consider is whether Barclays acted 
negligently. 
Mr B says he paid the cheques in at a third party on 31 March 2022. One was payable to Mr 
Bs initial and surname, the other was payable to Mrs Bs initial and surname. The cheques 
were intended to be paid into Mr and Mrs Bs joint account at H. 
The cheques were paid into an account in someone elses name at Barclays on 8 April 2022. 
The account had already been open for several months. But the Barclays customer changed 
their name on the account. Barclays has told us the name change was completed on 4 April 
2022. The evidence provided shows Barclays received the information they needed to 
legitimately change their customers name on the account. It also shows their customer 
changed their name several days before Mr B says he paid in the cheque. I dont fully 
understand how thats possible, but in any event, Im satisfied Barclays followed the correct 
process.
Mr and Mrs B feel strongly that Barclays shouldve been alerted to there being something 
suspicious about the paying in of the cheques so shortly after the name change, and 
because, they say, one of the cheques was clearly payable to a different initial to the one on 
the account. 
The cheque deposit envelope that Barclays received with the cheques was deposited on 
6 April 2022  at a different branch of the same third-party Mr B had deposited the cheques 
at. So not in a Barclays branch or at the same time as the name change request. As these 
two things happened separately, I dont think its unreasonable that Barclays didnt make the 
connection at the time. 
Along with the cheques in the envelope, was a Barclays branded paying-in slip. This is dated 
8 April 2022  so not the same date as the envelope and has been completed in different 
handwriting to both the cheques and the envelope. However, Barclays wouldnt have known 
at this point that the cheques had been written by Mr B and for the benefit of himself and Mrs 
B  because the name the cheques were drawn on was a company. I would expect a 
paying-in slip to be usually completed by the person paying in the cheque  which isnt 
always the payee as its quite usual for people to receive cheque payments from others or 
ask others to deposit cheques on their behalf. Similarly, the envelope could also have been 
completed by anyone  also not necessarily the payee. And the mistake with the dates  
where the cheque was deposited on 6 April 2022, but the payee slip included with the 
cheque was dated two days ahead on 8 April  could have been made innocently because 
two different people had completed the forms. 
Overall, I dont think the different handwriting, or the date discrepancy should reasonably 
have alerted Barclays to a problem. And I dont think theres anything about this issue that 
should reasonably have prompted Barclays to link this and the recent name change on the 
account  for the reasons Ive already explained. 
Barclays has provided copies of the cheques. Having looked at both cheques, they do 
appear to both be payable to Mrs Bs initial and surname. We know now that they werent both intended for the same payee, so with that context I can see theres a slight difference in 
the payee on the cheques. But, at the time, and with only the cheques as presented, I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Barclays to treat them as payable to their customer.  
Having considered events as Ive laid them out here, there was a series of events which, on 
reflection and when listed out in order of what happened, look suspicious. But, as Ive 
explained, at the time I dont think there was a reasonable opportunity for Barclays to have 
linked the events and spotted something was potentially wrong. Overall, I dont think 
Barclays acted negligently in paying the cheques into their customers account based on the 
information they had at the time.
The cheque proceeds credited Barclays customers account on 8 April and over a series of 
transactions most of the money was removed by 14 April 2022. Barclays records indicate 
they first received contact from Mr and Mrs B about the cheques on 29 April 2022  so about 
two weeks after the money had been removed from the account. Mr and Mrs B had also 
received a letter from L on 27 April 2022 explaining that they had written to Barclays  
though Im aware Mr B had been in contact with L much earlier than this. 
Mr B is unhappy Barclays didnt appear to question any of the transactions their customer 
was making after paying the cheques in or ask their customer to return the funds theyd 
received in error. Its for Barclays to decide how their fraud prevention measures operate 
and these measures are usually designed to stop the banks customer being a victim of 
fraud  here that wouldve been Barclays customer and not Mr and Mrs B. Sometimes when 
money is credited to an account in error, the account holder will be asked to confirm whether 
the money is theirs and if not, asked to agree that the funds can be returned to the sender. 
As Ive said, by the time Barclays were aware of the issue most of the money had already 
been withdrawn. But, given what we now know, it seems unlikely the Barclays customer 
would have agreed to return the funds in any event. When Barclays were first notified, they 
placed blocks on the account and later closed it. Its unclear whether Barclays also reported 
this to the police but overall, I think Barclays took appropriate steps when they became 
aware of the problem.  
Mr and Mrs B were told on 2 May 2022 in a phone call with Barclays that the cheques had 
been paid in error and their money would be refunded. They also received information that 
the money was being held in a suspense account  though its unclear where this 
information came from. But, based on the evidence, this information wasnt correct. Id agree 
with our Investigator that Barclays shouldnt have given Mr and Mrs B the wrong information 
 or provided assurances about a refund  without having properly looked into what had 
happened first. I dont doubt that being assured a refund would be forthcoming only to be 
told later Barclays didnt intend to refund them wouldve been very worrying for Mr and Mrs B 
 not least because of the value of the cheques at over £30,000. So I think Barclays should 
pay Mr and Mrs B £200 in recognition of this incorrect information and the impact it had on 
them. 
I understand Mr and Mrs B have since had the money refunded by the bank the cheques 
were drawn on. So, theyre now in the position they wouldve been in had the cheques not 
gone missing. But they didnt get the money back straight away and having had the cheques 
stolen in the first place means theyve been through quite a significant period of distress and 
inconvenience. Im also sorry to hear Mr and Mrs B suffered a bereavement during this 
period. However, for the reasons Ive set out above I dont think I can fairly conclude 
Barclays acted negligently in relation to the cheques or was responsible for them being 
stolen in the first place. So, while Im sorry for everything theyve been through, I dont intend 
to require Barclays to pay them compensation for this. 
Responses to my provisional decisionMr and Mrs B replied to say they didnt agree with my findings. They made a number of 
points which Ive summarised as follows:
They dont agree Barclays followed the correct process in relation to either the name 
change or the paying in of the cheque. 
They said the date the cheque was paid in at the third-party was 28 March 2022, and 
not 31 March 2022.
They said L had been in contact with Barclays much earlier than 29 April 2022. 
They maintain the cheques were paid into a holding account before being paid to the 
Barclays customer account. 
The information about the holding account came via L and was later confirmed by 
Barclays. 
The £200 was insufficient to recognise the impact on them and the company on 
which the cheques were drawn. 
Barclays responded to say they accepted my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B dont agree with my provisional findings that Barclays followed the correct 
process when handling the name change request and cheques. But, they havent provided 
anything new for me to consider on this point. So I remain satisfied, for the same reasons set 
out in my provisional decision, Barclays didnt make a mistake in these respects. 
Mr and Mrs B say the cheque was paid in on 28 March 2022 and not 31 March 2022. The 31 
March 2022 is noted by Barclays as the date Mr B paid the cheques in. So Ive reconsidered 
matters taking 28 March as the paying-in date  having done so, Im not persuaded this 
changes anything. I say this because it seems most likely the cheques were intercepted after 
Mr B paid them in and since it was paid in the second time using a different paying-in slip 
and envelope  Barclays wouldnt have known the original paying in date when they 
received it. 
Turning to the contact with Barclays by Mr and Mrs B and the other bank, L. Mr B says the 
evidence clearly shows L was in contact with Barclays long before 29 April 2022. But 
Barclays records show the first contact from Mr and Mrs B was 29 April and Mr Bs evidence 
shows he had a conversation with L on 22 April 2022 saying L needed to raise a trace for the 
cheques. Mr and Mrs B then received a letter from L on 27 April 2022 explaining that they 
had written to Barclays although this letter doesnt say when they did so. But based on 
Mr Bs evidence and the letter, it seems most likely this was between 22 and 27 April 2022  
so some time after the majority of the funds had been removed from the account, 14 April 
2022, in any event. As the contact from L was after the majority of the funds had been 
removed, Ive seen nothing to suggest any contact from L would have led to a different 
outcome  because that contact was effectively too late.
Mr and Mrs B say they were told by both L and Barclays the cheques were initially paid into 
a suspense account. I accept this is what Mr and Mrs B were told but Ive seen no evidence 
that the cheques were in fact paid into a suspense account. They appear to have been paid 
directly into the Barclays customer account. I know Mr and Mrs B dont accept this but Im satisfied thats what happened and the other information they were given is wrong. This is, in 
part, the reason I provisionally upheld their complaint. 
Mr and Mrs B dont agree £200 is sufficient in recognition for all theyve been through. They 
also added that this matter caused the company the cheques were drawn on a great deal of 
inconvenience. Im sure it did but this complaint is about the impact on Mr and Mrs B as they 
were the true owners of the cheques  so I cant consider any inconvenience to the 
company. Also, I acknowledged Mr and Mrs B had been through a significant amount of 
distress and inconvenience because of whats happened but most of that was caused by the 
fact the cheques had been stolen in the first place  which isnt something I could fairly hold 
Barclays responsible for. 
So, while I know Mr and Mrs B will be disappointed, I still find Barclays should pay Mr and 
Mrs B £200 in respect of the wrong information they gave them and the distress and 
inconvenience this caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint in part.
 
To put things right, I require Barclays Bank UK Plc to pay Mr and Mrs B £200. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman