DRN-2407321
The complaint
Mr L complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc trading as M&S Bank (M&S) 
applied the wrong rate of interest when closing his savings account.
What happened
Mr L had a current account and a savings account with M&S. In 2020, he decided to switch 
his current account to another bank. When the current account was switched, M&S also 
closed Mr Ls savings account. Mr L says that the amount of interest M&S applied to his 
savings at this point was incorrect. They applied interest at a rate of 0.2%, but he says that 
the rate should have been 5%.
Mr L complained to M&S. They said that they had paid the correct amount of interest, in line 
with the terms and conditions of Mr Ls account. So they didnt uphold the complaint. But Mr 
L wasnt happy with M&Ss response, so he brought his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator thought that M&S had acted fairly, and in line with their terms and conditions. Mr 
L didnt agree, so he asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Mr L feels strongly about the situation, so he will find my decision disappointing. 
But I dont think that M&S have acted unfairly here, so Im not going to uphold this complaint. 
Ill explain why.
M&Ss terms and conditions say that Mr L must have an M&S current account to be eligible 
for the savings account. If he doesnt meet this condition, the terms say that M&S will close 
his savings account. The two accounts are therefore linked, and the savings account cant 
remain open if the current account is closed. M&S must close the savings account in these 
circumstances and the terms dont provide for any element of discretion on this point. Mr L 
agreed to be bound by these terms when opening his M&S accounts. And M&S must 
operate the accounts in line with these terms.
Mr L chose to close his current account and switch to another provider. Under the terms and 
conditions, this meant that he was no longer eligible for the savings account, so that had to 
be closed also. Mr L says he was aware that this might happen and says that he read the 
terms and conditions at the time.
The closure of the savings account was a direct result of, and was triggered by, the current 
account switch. The instruction to switch the current account effectively amounted to an 
instruction to close the savings account as well.
The savings account had a fixed term of 12 months. Mr L opened it in May 2019 and 
switched his current account less than 12 months later. This had the effect of closing the 
savings account before the fixed term had expired.
The terms say that, if Mr L closes the account before the end of the term, M&S will pay 
interest at the early closure rate (here, 0.2%). But, if M&S close the account before the end 
of the term, they will pay interest at the savings account rate (here, 5%) until the date of 
closure. The rate of interest paid therefore depends upon which party closes the account.
Mr L says that it was M&S who closed the savings account, so they should have paid 
interest at the higher rate. In practical terms, it will always be M&S who physically close an 
account, because this isnt something the customer can do themselves. M&S need to deal 
with the administration of any account closure and return any credit balance to the customer 
every time an account is closed. But the terms and conditions are clear that some account 
closures are seen as being made by the customer and others are seen as being made by 
M&S. So I find that the terms and conditions are concerned with which party makes the 
decision to close the account  not which party implements the closure, as that would be 
M&S every time.
Here, it was Mr L who made the decision to close his current account. This meant that the 
related savings account also had to be closed, as he was no longer eligible for the savings 
account. Although M&S physically closed the account and dealt with the administration of 
this, I find that they were simply implementing Mr Ls instructions. The savings account 
would have remained open but for Mr Ls instruction to close the current account. 
So I dont find that it was M&S who made the decision to close the savings account. 
Therefore, I dont find that the account was closed by M&S within the meaning of the terms 
and conditions. It follows that the lower, early closure rate of interest applies here.
In conclusion, I find that M&S acted in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Ls accounts. 
Mr L was aware of the terms and conditions and had agreed to them when opening the 
accounts. So I dont think M&S have acted unfairly here. Im sorry to disappoint Mr L, but I 
dont think M&S have done anything wrong here, so Im not going to ask them to do 
anything.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2021.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman