DRN-3736443
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as P has complained about AXA Insurance UK Plcs refusal of a 
claim for business interruption cover under its business insurance policy. P is represented in 
this complaint but, for ease of reading, Ill refer to all actions and comments as being those 
of P.
What Happened
P consists of a food outlet and a nightclub and it made a claim under its policy with AXA after 
it closed as a result of the restrictions imposed by the Government in response to the Covid-
19 pandemic. 
AXA refused the claim as it said it was not covered. 
P is very unhappy about this. Ps representatives have made a number of submissions in 
support of the complaint, although some of them appear to relate to other customers and not 
P as they refer to other business types. P thinks its claim should be covered under two  
different sections of the policy and Ive summarised its main points about each section of 
cover it thinks should respond to this claim below:  
Disease
The policy covers business interruption losses due to closure of the business by a 
competent authority due to a human notifiable infectious disease at the premises. 
A member of staff at P had Covid-19 symptoms just prior to the lockdown period but was not 
tested due to the unavailability of testing in the community at the time. Another member of 
staff also suffered with symptoms. P also says that two customers who had visited the 
premises also had Covid-19. Covid-19 was widespread at the time and given the number of 
customers on its premises in the run up to the lockdown, it would be fair to say Covid-19 had 
been at the premises. 
Covid-19 is a notifiable infectious disease and the Government forced the closure of Ps 
premises because of this disease. 
Defective sanitation
The same endorsement also says it will cover losses caused by defective sanitation. 
P said it was required to close due to the Governments guidance on social distancing and
therefore it had experienced a loss of use of the premises. P said the closing of the premises
was due to health and sanitation issues as it wasnt safe for people in be in close proximity
to each other.
The meaning of sanitary means conditions affecting health and cleanliness and precautions 
against infection. There have been severe restrictions imposed due to health and sanitation 
issues, as it is not safe for people to congregate in close proximity to one another, which is 
difficult to avoid in premises like Ps.
Initial investigation
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. He did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld, as he was satisfied AXA was entitled to refuse the claim. 
P does not accept the Investigators assessment. P has made some further points in 
response, and I have summarised the main ones below: 
It paid a significant premium to correctly insure the business and had a reasonable 
expectation of cover for this claim. 
If AXA wanted to avoid claims such as this, it should have included an exclusion for 
pandemics, which would have provided complete clarity. 
The policy does not exclude pandemics or coronavirus and it should not be penalised 
for lack of clarity or poor drafting of the policy. 
It was AXAs responsibility to ensure that its customers understand the limitations of 
the policies before they are purchased. 
We should also consider the imbalance of power in the relationship between AXA 
and P. 
It was also led to believe by the government that insurers would pay out. Made 
statements that the government restrictions would be enough to trigger cover for 
those with policies that covered pandemics and government ordered closures. 
 
P had also initially argued that the core business interruption section of the policy covers 
damage caused by all risks and that the definition of damage is wide enough to cover a 
loss even where there hasnt been physical damage. It also said the natural meaning of the 
word loss would include losses flowing from the interruption and interference of Ps business 
due to the presence of Covid-19 and the subsequent forced closure by the Government. 
However, it has recently confirmed to the Investigator that it is happy for me not to consider 
this argument. 
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Ps business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why. 
P has made a number of detailed points. While Ive considered them all, Im not going to
address them all in this decision but will instead focus on what I see as the central issues to
this complaint.
Business policies provide protection for some of the common things which might happen to a 
business. No policy will cover every eventuality however and each policy may provide 
different cover. 
Ps policy provides cover for various events, including business interruption. I have 
considered the entire policy carefully. I will address the extensions that P has said should 
have provided it with cover. 
Damage Although M has said it no longer requires me not consider the arguments it made about 
cover under this section, for completeness, I will address them. 
The core business interruption section of Ps policy provides cover:
If any building(s) or other property used by you at the premises for the purpose
of the business suffers damage during the period of insurance and as a result
the business is interrupted or interfered with, then we will pay you for each item
in your schedule the amount of loss resulting from the interruption or
interference...
The policy defines damage as physical loss destruction or damage.
Therefore, for cover to apply under the core business interruption section, Ps business
interruption would need to be as a result of physical loss, destruction or damage to
buildings or property used by P at its premises. 
I dont think this would provide cover for Ps claim, because I dont think the business 
interruption was as a result of damage. I consider that, for damage to have occurred, there 
would need to be a physical change or altered state to Ps property, which made it less 
valuable. Alternatively, its possible damage could be said to have occurred if specialist 
cleaning was required to remove the cause of potential damage. However, the 
Governments guidance on cleaning in non-healthcare settings doesnt recommend any 
cleaning by a specialist. Theres no evidence of an excessive amount of Covid-19 on Ps 
property. And the presence of any particular virus doesnt automatically amount to damage. 
So, this section of the policy doesnt provide cover.
Denial of access
The core business interruption cover under the policy is extended through various 
extensions. There is an extension for denial of access to include loss following damage to 
property within five miles of the premises, which prevents or hinders access to or the use of 
Ps premises. As I dont think Covid-19 caused damage to premises or property for the 
reasons set out above, I dont think this extension covers Ps claim either. 
Disease
This extension covers losses as a result of a closure or restriction to the Premises, as 
follows: 
Section B (Loss of Profits) is extended to include losses arising from the closure of 
the Premises by a competent authority due to an human notifiable infectious disease 
or food poisoning suffered by any visitor or employee or by defective sanitation 
vermin or pests at the Premises as specified in the schedule or by murder or suicide 
occurring at the Premises.
P said that customers and staff had been ill with Covid-19 and provided an undated letter 
from a customer who said he had become ill with Covid-19 symptoms shortly after having 
visited Ps premises on 17 March 2020. The customer says he thinks he caught Covid-19 
there, as he had not eaten out anywhere else. 
The Investigator asked P for further evidence but it said it was not able to provide any 
contemporaneous evidence of there being Covid-19 at the premises before the closure by the Government. P says the witness testimony should be sufficient to prove that it was more 
likely than not that there was Covid-19 at the premises. 
The witness testimony is the undated letter from a customer that was ill with Covid-19 
symptoms a few days after visiting Ps premises. P also said two members of staff had Coid-
19 symptoms but as far as I am aware, no evidence has been provided by them. I do not 
think that this is enough evidence to establish it is more likely than not that there was Covid-
19 at the premises before the Government restrictions were imposed. Rather, the evidence 
provided to me is that P closed as a result of the Government restrictions. I do not therefore 
think it was unreasonable for AXA to refuse the claim under this section of cover, as there is 
no evidence of there having been an occurrence of Covid-19 at Ps premise.
P also says that as the policy does not specifically exclude pandemics or coronaviruses and 
that this creates a lack of clarity about the cover that should be interpreted in Ps favour. 
I do not consider the policy terms to be unclear to the extent that AXA should not be entitled 
to rely on them. In my opinion, the extent of cover is sufficiently clear and the terms relied on 
are not inherently unfair. It is not necessary for insurers to specifically exclude certain 
events, if there is no suggestion they are covered in the first place. Insurers are entitled to 
decide what cover they provide in exchange for the premium. Ps policy requires there to 
have been an occurrence of the disease at the premises.  
Closure
The same extension also covers business interruption or interference as a result of:
the closing of the whole or part of the premises by order or advice of any Local or 
Government Authority consequent upon vermin and/or pets or defects in the drains 
or other sanitary arrangements at the premises.
P said that its premises were required to close due to health and sanitation issues. However, 
I dont think this would reasonably be considered to be due to a defect in Ps sanitary 
arrangements, which is what is required under the above term. Im not persuaded that the 
normal operation of a business can be called a defect, and certainly not a defect specific to 
Ps premises which led to its closure.
I also havent been provided with any evidence to persuade me that it was the
circumstances at Ps premises in particular that led to the Governments decision to
introduce the restrictions it did. For these reasons, I dont think this extension covers Ps
claim.
Other factors
Although P might have had an expectation that its claim would be covered, or understood
the same from a Government announcement, whether that is the case would still depend on
the wording within its specific policy. And in this case, I dont consider that Ps policy 
provides cover for this claim.
P also says AXA had a duty to ensure it understood the terms and limitations of the policy 
before taking it out. I am satisfied that the documents are sufficiently clear and can be relied 
on in response to this claim. However, whether the seller of the policy fulfilled its obligations 
to P at the time of the sale would need to be considered separately. It is not clear from the 
papers I have whether the policy was sold by AXA or not. P would need to raise any 
complaint about the information provided at the point of sale with the seller before we can 
address it. I understand this isnt the outcome P was hoping for but, having considered the matter very
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require AXA to pay Ps claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman