DRN-4300217
The complaint
Mr T complains about the outcome of a loss assessment calculation that ReAssure Limited 
(ReAssure) carried out following the delay it caused when transferring his two pension 
policies to a new provider. He says ReAssure hasnt included one of the policies in its 
assessment and has also used incorrect dates  which has led to ReAssure stating that he 
has made a financial gain and not suffered a loss.
What happened
Mr T held two pension policies with ReAssure which, following previous poor service, he 
wanted to transfer. So on 1 February 2022 his new provider requested the transfers. 
Unfortunately the transfers were delayed, and it wasnt until 10 and 11 March 2022 that 
ReAssure confirmed payments of £185,345.98 and £914,514.61 had been made to the 
provider. However, the funds werent cleared for investment with the provider until 
14 and 15 March 2022. 
Mr T had complained earlier in the process about what he thought was an excessive delay in 
transferring. In March 2022 ReAssure upheld the complaint and said that, as it should have 
released Mr Ts funds no later than 15 February 2022, it would carry out a calculation to see 
if he had suffered a loss because of the delay. It also said it would pay compensation of 
£200 for the distress and inconvenience caused. However Mr T said this response only 
applied to one of his policies, so he complained about the lack of response about the other 
policy  which I understand had been investigated by another ReAssure office. 
Subsequent discussions between Mr T, his adviser, his MP, and ReAssure failed to bring 
about a satisfactory loss assessment so in July 2022 Mr T brought his complaint to us. 
ReAssure then completed the loss assessment calculation which suggested Mr T hadnt 
suffered a financial loss. But Mr T said the calculation didnt represent what should have 
happened and, in any case, only accounted for one of the policies. 
ReAssure then offered Mr T £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by the delay in transferring the second policy.
 
So one of our investigators looked into the matter and set out what ReAssure should do. He 
said it should carry out a full loss assessment of both policies and provide both us and Mr T 
with a copy. In addition he said ReAssure should pay Mr P £750 total compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused by the delays. 
Mr T accepted the assessment in principle, but he thought ReAssure should be made to use 
the dates the funds were cleared with the new provider as this was only when it was allowed 
to invest them. He thought ReAssure had benefitted financially from the days it took to clear 
the funds  which he didnt think was fair. 
ReAssure said:
It had provided a loss assessment which concluded that Mr T had suffered a 17 
working day delay to the transfer but that this resulted in him making a gain of over 
£5,000. So he hadnt suffered a financial loss. 
It thought the transfer of the other policy had been investigated by us and the 
complaint closed. So it didnt understand why this should be reviewed.
It thought the compensation of £350 it had already paid was sufficient and didnt think 
a total payment of £750 was appropriate. 
Unless it wasnt possible to make a payment through the BACS system it wouldnt 
usually use the CHAPS method of payment. This was a commercial decision 
ReAssure had previously made and used when making all such payments. 
The investigator issued another assessment setting out how ReAssure should calculate any 
redress using more specific dates, but neither ReAssure nor Mr T agreed in full, and it was 
requested that an ombudsman look at the complaint  so it was passed to me to review.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said that the complaint should be upheld and that ReAssure 
needed to put things right  but I set out a revised method for calculating the redress. I made 
the following points in support of my findings:
It was unclear how ReAssure had tried to resolve this complaint as Mr T had to 
correspond with two different offices about his two policies. I made it clear that my 
decision related to the delay in transferring both policies.
There was no dispute that ReAssure did delay in transferring the policies. It received 
a transfer request on 1 February 2022 but didnt complete the transfers until 
10 and 11 March 2022. It accepted it had caused a delay and said it would carry out 
a loss assessment and calculation.
The redress calculation covered one of the policies and concluded that Mr T had 
made a financial gain following the transfer of £5,815.71.
I was mindful that Mr T and his family had suffered a number of medical issues 
subsequently  so I wanted to set out a method for calculating any redress that might 
be due that was fair and reasonable. 
I thought ReAssure needed to compare the notional value of Mr Ts plan, had the 
transfers completed in line with the dates Id set out, with the actual current value of 
his plan. 
I didnt think ReAssure should have to calculate the transfer value as of the date of 
the transfer as ReAssures usual process was to calculate the value on the day that 
all the outstanding transfer requirements had been met. I thought that approach was 
fair and reasonable. I thought that by telling ReAssure to calculate any loss from the 
date the transfers should have completed would put Mr T as close as possible to the 
position hed now be had the funds been transferred promptly and invested as soon 
as was practically possible after the transfer.
I thought a total figure of £500 was reasonable as compensation for the impact of the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr T. 
Responses to the provisional decision
Mr T made a number of comments about the events that happened to explain why he 
thought the dates that ReAssure had used for its calculations were incorrect and why he 
thought the compensation award was insufficient. He made the following points in support of 
his view:He didnt accept the dates that ReAssure had used for its loss assessment of the 
larger policy because he thought they were irrelevant. And ReAssure hadnt set out 
the dates it used to calculate the value of either policy.
ReAssure hadnt explained the interest rates it had used when doing the assessment 
for the smaller policy and over what period the interest ran.
His complaint was about the loss hed suffered because of the delay from 1 February 
to 14 March 2022. So he didnt understand the use of a date in November 2022 to 
work out the loss. He had also changed the original investment strategy of his funds 
before November 2022.
ReAssure didnt give him the option of using the quicker faster payment method of 
transferring the funds which would have allowed him to invest his funds sooner and 
wouldnt have allowed ReAssure to earn interest on his money for longer. His new 
provider has used the CHAPS method pf payment  which is quicker  so he didnt 
understand why ReAssure couldnt have used that method even if it wanted to 
charge him accordingly. He thought this meant ReAssure didnt treat him fairly. 
He said ReAssure charged him more in fees  in relative terms - because of the 
value of his plans. 
He confirmed that he was a basic rate taxpayer.
He didnt think the compensation Id awarded was fair because there were two 
policies involved here and he had to deal with two different offices who took different 
approaches to try and correct matters. He was concerned about the length of time 
he'd been pursuing this matter (over 11 months) and thought we should take into 
account his previous complaint from 2021 which demonstrated that ReAssure hadnt 
improved its administration since  a fact that was highlighted by recent press 
coverage of the number of complaints that were being made about ReAssure.  
ReAssure said that it accepted the award of £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused 
but it questioned my view that it would be able to process a payment within 5 working days 
through the electronic process. It said that its SLA for transfer payments was 10 working 
days as has been accepted by an ombudsman through a recent decision on a similar matter 
of delays.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having carefully considered Mr Ts considered response to my provisional decision  as 
well as ReAssures additional evidence regarding its SLAs for such transfers, I see no 
reason to depart from my findings. 
In my provisional decision I alluded to some possible confusion involving a previous 
complaint Mr T had made in 2021 and the confusion over whether ReAssure had included 
loss assessments for both of Mr Ts plans in its calculation. Following Mr Ts response, Id 
like to confirm that my decision covers the delay in transferring both policies and I would 
expect to see this made clear within the details of the calculation ReAssure sends to Mr T.
The delay 
Ive seen that ReAssure received transfer requests from his new provider for both of Mr Ts 
policies by 1 February, but the transfers didnt complete until 10 and 11 March 2022. 
ReAssure has said that its usual SLA for such transfers is around 10 working days so it 
accepted that the transfers had taken too long. It wasnt able to provide any explanation for 
why the transfers were delayed  so it said it would carry out a loss assessment to see if Mr T had been financially disadvantaged.
So there was no dispute here that a delay occurred, but the complaint has arisen because 
Mr T didnt accept the outcome of the calculation. He said ReAssure used incorrect dates 
and didnt take into account his second, smaller policy. The outcome of ReAssures loss 
assessment was that Mr T had actually made a financial gain of around £5,800.
Therefore my consideration is whether ReAssures loss assessment is fair and reasonable 
or whether it needs to use a different calculation method. 
The redress calculation
ReAssure said that, taking into account its SLAs for transfer completion (10 working days), it 
had delayed the transfers by 17 working days. Based on its calculation date of 
23 November 2022, it said this showed Mr T was financially better off following the delays. 
But Mr T said the use of a date in November was incorrect when he was complaining about 
a delay from February to March 2022. He didnt understand why ReAssure had used a date 
that had nothing to do with the issue hed had. He also said ReAssure hadnt included a 
calculation for his second policy either. 
Mr T also thought that ReAssure, considering the problem it had caused, ought to have 
transferred his funds using a faster payment or even a CHAPS method. He thought that by 
continuing to use the BACS system ReAssure was able to benefit from holding his funds for 
longer, and it used those dates that it completed the transfer for its calculation rather than 
the dates the funds were cleared for investment with the new provider. He didnt think that 
was fair, especially as he hadnt been given the option of using a CHAPS payment at his 
own expense. 
Ive carefully considered ReAssures calculation and the point it raised about using a 10 
working day SLA for both transfer dates instead of the five working days I recommended for 
the electronic transfer (one transfer required additional physical forms to be completed). But 
Ive decided not to depart from the provisional redress methodology I set out. I say that 
because, while I appreciate and understand its SLAs I dont think that means ReAssure has 
to necessarily take the full 10 working days to complete a transfer. In this case it has said 
that it ought to have completed the second paper based transfer within that same timespan, 
so I dont think it needed that amount of time to complete the simpler electronic one. 
ReAssure hasnt provided any evidence to support the idea that the transfer was complex or 
required any additional information to complete. So when it received everything it needed to 
progress the transfer I dont think there was good reason why ReAssure couldnt have 
completed the actions it needed to electronically, thereby accepting the transfer out and 
starting the relatively simple and straightforward process of selling the assets. 
I understand ReAssures position here and it has provided details of another decision made 
by this service which seemed to accept its 10 days turnaround time. But its important to take 
into consideration all the individual circumstances around a complaint and, although I believe 
the circumstances of the other decision to be somewhat different, I think ReAssure should 
have been able to complete the electronic transfer here within five working days. 
As I said in my assessment I have had to make some assumptions regarding what ought to 
have happened here  but I think what Ive decided is fair and reasonable and ought to have 
been achievable for ReAssure. 
I have also carefully considered Mr Ts additional points - particularly around the dates used 
and also the possible use of a faster payment method for transferring. Mr T says he cant understand why ReAssure has introduced a date in November 2022 as 
part of the calculation. But thats because ReAssure needed to use an end date in order to 
crystallise any loss or gain he may have made. ReAssure needed to work out the current 
value of Mr Ts plans if it had completed the transfer 17 working days earlier. In this case it 
used the date it carried out the calculation to obtain the current values. Mr T should note that 
Ive also said the calculation should have an end date for deciding the current value, which 
Ive set out to be the date of my final decision. 
I can also understand Mr Ts frustration about what he perceives to be an extra delay in 
transferring the money to the new provider. But I havent seen any evidence to support the 
idea that ReAssure needed to use another payment method except the one it uses in all 
such transfers  namely BACS. Of course ReAssure could have asked Mr T if he wanted to 
pay for the two quicker options which I know is what Mr T would have preferred  but that 
doesnt mean ReAssure did anything wrong or acted unreasonably by not offering that 
enhanced service. I think it simply followed its usual process of transferring funds by BACS, 
which being a commercial decision it was entitled to make we wouldnt usually interfere with.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr T should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in had ReAssure not delayed the transfer.
What must ReAssure do?
To compensate Mr T fairly, ReAssure must:
As at the date of my final decision, compare the value of Mr Ts new pension  which 
includes the transfer of both ReAssure plans - with the notional value of the plan had the 
transfers been completed in line with the dates Ive set out above. Namely five working days 
after 1 February 2022 for the plan that could be transferred using the electronic system and 
10 working days for the one which couldnt. This should factor in the actual time it then took 
for the new provider to invest the transferred proceeds.
If the actual value is greater than the notional value, no compensation is payable.
If the notional value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
ReAssure should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
ReAssure should pay into Mr T's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount of 
the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of charges 
and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If ReAssure is unable to pay the total amount into Mr T's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax 
to HMRC, so Mr T wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr T's actual or expected marginal rate of 
tax at his selected retirement age.
For example, if Mr T is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the 
reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr T would have been able 
to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Compensation for distress and inconvenience is awarded to reflect the impact the delays 
had on Mr T and seek to compensate him  rather than seeking to punish ReAssure. Ive 
carefully considered the time Mr T has told us he had to spend trying to get this matter 
sorted out and the extended length of time the matter has continued. I think Mr T has been 
inconvenienced here and had to make a lot of extra effort to sort things out. For that reason, 
I thought the compensation ReAssure had offered was not enough and I thought this should 
be increased to £500 in total. So I think ReAssure should pay Mr T £500, in total, for the 
impact of the distress and inconvenience arising from the delay in responding to his 
complaint and providing the redress calculations.
Additional interest can be added at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date of the final 
decision to settlement  if the complaint isnt settled within 28 days of the business receiving 
Mr Ts acceptance
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If ReAssure deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr T how much has been taken off. ReAssure should give Mr T a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr T asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I uphold Mr Ts complaint against ReAssure Limited. My 
decision is that ReAssure Limited should pay the amount calculated as set out above. 
ReAssure Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr T in a clear, simple format.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman