DRN-3238497
The complaint
 Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC refused his claim under s 75 Consumer Credit
Act 1974 in respect of an agreement to release property held under a chattel mortgage. 
What happened
 Mr M along with his wife put money into a company I will call A which used it to acquire
motorhomes for rent. The loans were secured by chattel mortgages on four motorhomes. In
December 2019 A went into administration and the administrators sold the interests in the
business to a company I will call B.
On 31 January 2020 the administrators wrote to the lenders, numbering in the several
hundreds, saying:
On 22 January, we sold such right, title and interest as the Company has in all of the
motorhomes, to a company of which [XX] is a director. Under the terms of the sale
agreement:
The purchaser is obliged to seek the consent of the CM holders to keep CM vehicles in their
possession.
If the CM holder does not wish to sell the CM vehicle or otherwise make it available to the
purchaser, then the purchaser is obliged to forthwith deliver the CM vehicle up to them for no
charge, save in circumstances where it does not have control of the CM motorhome.
The purchaser shall use reasonable endeavours to contact the CM holder and enter into
agreements with them. 
On 13 February 2021 B required Mr and Mrs M to enter into an agreement to release their
motorhomes for which it charged £3,952. Mr and Mrs M did so under duress and noted the
agreement document accordingly. The agreement includes the following:
IN CONSIDERATION of the release of the vehicle to the owner free of incumbrance and
UPON PRODUCING proof of identity and proof pf address to Kyoto copies of which are
attached hereto
The owner WILL FORTHWITH PAY to [B] the following amounts set out in the schedule
attached hereto.
The schedule says:
Payments to be made by the owner pursuant to paragraph 6. Of the Agreement
Tracker removal: £102
Storage charges. 27/01/20 To 14/02/2020 £570
Insurance 27/01/20 To 14/02/2020 £76
Remove T.V Bike Rack £240
Total: £988.00
Total paid for 4 Vehicles £3,952.00
This sum was paid by Mr M on 15 February using his credit card. Shortly after he made a
claim under s 75 which was rejected by the bank. It said that s 75 didnt cover investments
and it could not consider agreements made over the phone. Mr M explained that he wasnt
seeking a refund of his investment.
Mr M brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our
investigators who recommended it be upheld. He was satisfied that there was sufficient
evidence to show that the trackers, TVs and bike racks hadnt been removed so there was
no basis for this charge. He also felt there had been a breach of contract.
Barclays didnt agree. It accepted that the s 75 claim for the trackers, TVs and bike racks
should succeed, but it disputed the storage charges and insurance. Mr M had argued that
these costs were disproportionately high and unfair, but the bank said he and his wife had
signed the agreement to pay them.
I issued a provisional decision as follows:
I explained that this complaint had been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types 
of credit to make purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an 
equal right to claim against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or 
services, if there has been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
I was satisfied that the debtor-creditor-supplier link was in place. As our investigator has
explained that a third company debited the credit card, but both it and B have common
director so I considered it reasonable to conclude that the money was being processed on
behalf of B by the third company.
On the second leg of s 75 I think that the issue was whether there was misrepresentation or 
not? It was possible there was breach of contract, but I focused on misrepresentation.
I said misrepresentation in law is a statement of fact made by one party to a contract to the 
other that:
isnt true; and
has the result that the person to whom its made enters into the contract
A misrepresentation might be made before the contract was entered into, or it might be
incorporated into the contract terms.
It seemed to me that when A went into administration it was sold to B on the understanding
that the motorhomes would be released to the rightful owners without charge. This was
made clear by the administrators in their letter to the owners. It appeared to me that B 
sought to impose a charge having agreed with the administrators that they would not do so.
I said I couldnt comment on the legality of this charge, but I thought the agreement which B 
required Mr and Mrs M to sign was misleading. It made no reference to the terms of the 
agreement with the administrators. They had confirmed in a letter dated 18 February that the
motorhomes were to be delivered up to the owners free of charge. But at the time Mr and
Mrs M were pressed to sign the agreement B made no reference to this.The charges were not intended as part of the sale of A to B and I believed B did not stand by
the terms of that agreement. Items that were to be removed as part of the charges made,
werent removed. I considered Mr and Mrs M were coerced into entering into the contract to
pay based on false information and I was satisfied that this amounted to misrepresentation.
Although the above reasoning applies to all the charges for the sake of completeness I
would add that I agree that the charges for the TVs, trackers and bike racks were not
justified and amounted to a breach of contract. I was satisfied that those services were not
delivered by B.
I was also concerned that no chargeback seemed to have been attempted by the bank. Mr 
M says that others who were in similar circumstances got their money back by this route and 
B didnt contest the claims. Barclays has said that it didnt do so because Mr M didnt send 
any documentation until August 2020. However, I could see that he was in contact with the 
bank about this issue well before that.
Despite the lengthy paperwork submitted on this complaint I couldnt see the banks contact
notes or details of the first contact by Mr M. I could see that he wrote on 15 April 2020 in
response to a letter refusing the s 75 claim issued on 7 April so I thought it likely that the 
matter was brought to the attention of the bank within the 120 day time limit and it could 
have explored a chargeback. Mr M has explained he was unaware of this procedure and
presumed s75 was his only route. I said I would expect the bank to have brought the 
chargeback option to his attention and to explore that option.
I was aware that many other who have faced the same situation have had their claims 
resolved with much greater speed and while I was aware the bank has offed £50 for distress 
and inconvenience I didnt think this was sufficient.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 The bank has not responded to my provisional decision and Mr M said that he thought all 
the bases had been covered. He also supplied a timeline to show he had made contact in 
time to allow Barclays to have attempted a chargeback. I appreciate his work on this point 
which reinforces my provisional decision.
It follows that I have no reason to alter my provisional decision and so it stands.
Putting things right
 The bank should uphold Mr Ms s 75 claim and pay compensation.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay
Mr M £3,952.00. Because this was paid by credit card, the transaction will need to be
unwound as if it had never happened. If this leaves a credit balance Mr M should be paid 8%
annual interest on that sum from the date of the credit balance until the date of settlement.
Mr M should also be paid £150 for the distress and inconvenience he has suffered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman