DRN-2100458
The complaint
Mr E complains about the way Inter Partner Assistance SA handled a medical expenses and 
assistance claim on his travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr E was abroad and on a tour. Unfortunately, he hurt his knee and had to seek medical 
attention at a local clinic. The clinic X-rayed Mr Es knee and diagnosed a strain. The treating 
doctor told Mr E he needed to rest his leg. Mr E got in touch with IPA to make a medical 
assistance claim.
IPA considered the medical report from the treating hospital. Its medical team decided Mr E 
would need taxi transport, a business class seat on his flight so he could elevate his leg and 
wheelchair assistance at the airport. It arranged an upgrade for Mr E.
Unfortunately, there were some problems with Mr Es repatriation. A taxi IPA had arranged 
to take Mr E to the airport was late to pick him up, so he decided to walk. The clinic hadnt 
been able to provide him with an adequate knee brace and IPA hadnt supplied him with one 
either. The wheelchair caused Mr Es knee pain and he had to walk a distance through the 
airport. And when Mr E boarded the plane, he discovered that he couldnt get into his seat 
without bending his knee and would need to have his knee bent during the flight. So he 
didnt consider the seat was suitable for his needs. He said the cabin crew tried to find him a 
more suitable seat but werent able to do so. He had to leave the aircraft.
Mr E was unhappy with the way IPA handled his claim and his repatriation. He felt the clinic 
had wrongly diagnosed his injury, which had caused further damage. Hed managed to 
arrange a return in first-class directly with the airline for the following day, but he felt hed 
been abandoned by IPA. Itd used the wrong contact details for him and it hadnt updated 
him as often as it shouldve done. He said IPA had left him to walk to the airport and through 
the airport. And he suggested one of its call handlers had told him that he shouldve stood on 
the flight.
IPA looked into Mr Es complaint. It acknowledged there were some things it couldve done 
better. It accepted it hadnt kept Mr E updated as much as it couldve done; itd used the 
wrong details to contact him and the taxi itd booked had been late. So it offered Mr E £300 
compensation to recognise these errors. 
But it didnt accept responsibility for the hospitals diagnosis, as it said it could only rely on 
the medical evidence it was provided with. It felt itd acted on the medical teams 
recommendations when it arranged a business class seat for Mr E to return home. Itd 
offered to arrange a taxi to pick Mr E up from the airport, but hed told it hed organised this 
with a friend. It wasnt responsible for the quality of the wheelchairs at the airport, or the fact 
that the treating clinic couldnt provide an adequate knee-brace. And itd offered to help Mr E 
arrange a new flight home.
Mr E asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator thought IPAs offer of compensation was fair and reasonable. He accepted 
IPA had made some mistakes in how itd handled Mr Es claim and that some things 
couldve gone better. But he didnt think IPA was responsible for the diagnosis from the 
clinic. He thought IPA had followed the medical recommendations when it arranged Mr Es 
repatriation. He thought IPA had offered to arrange taxis for Mr E and that itd tried to help 
him with looking into new flights after he disembarked his pre-booked flight.
Mr E disagreed. He responded to the investigator with some detailed points, which Ive 
summarised below:
The assistance team had always thought hed suffered a more serious injury, which 
required a second opinion;
IPA had expected him to sit in a seat which could cause long-term damage to his 
knee;
He hadnt been reimbursed for the costs of his new flight or taxis;
IPAs call notes suggested hed told the call handler he could bend his knee, but this 
wasnt true  the call recording showed hed clearly told the call handler he couldnt 
bend his knee.
IPA said it hadnt offered Mr E the chance of a second opinion in the capital city of the 
country he was staying in. But hed wanted to return to the UK for follow-up, so this was 
immaterial.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the compensation IPA has offered Mr E is fair and reasonable. Ill 
explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say insurers must handle complaints promptly and fairly. So 
Ive thought carefully about the circumstances of Mr Es claim and whether I think IPA 
handled it fairly.
Id like to reassure Mr E that while Ive summarised the background to his complaint, Ive 
carefully considered everything hes said and sent us. 
Its clear Mr E suffered a painful injury and that he was in a great deal of discomfort and 
distress. I can understand how upsetting the situation mustve been for him and that some of 
the avoidable issues he experienced with IPA wouldve caused him additional trouble and 
upset. But in making my decision, I need to think about what IPA did wrong and the 
information it was given.
Much of Mr Es complaint seems to be centred on the fact that the treating clinic abroad 
didnt correctly diagnose his injury. I can understand how upsetting this is for him and that he 
feels his knee was further damaged as a result. But its important I make it clear that my role 
isnt to look at how the clinic treated Mr E or whether it didnt diagnose his condition 
correctly. My role is to consider whether IPA considered the available medical reports and 
acted in line with the recommendations of Mr Es treating doctors.
The treating hospital diagnosed Mr E with a knee contusion and prescribed rest. It also 
recommended that Mr E didnt take part in any strenuous exercise. It didnt have the equipment to carry out a more detailed diagnosis. I think it was reasonable for IPA to rely on 
the medical evidence it was provided with in deciding the most appropriate course of action. 
And for it to therefore base its repatriation arrangements for Mr E on this evidence. While Mr 
E speculated with IPA that he might have a ruptured patella; without medical evidence 
supporting such a diagnosis, I think it was reasonable for IPA to rely on the evidence it did 
have.
Based on the available evidence, the medical team assessed the report and decided, based 
on the diagnosis, that Mr E required taxi assistance, wheelchair assistance and business 
class seats.
Its clear from the notes that IPA arranged wheelchair assistance for Mr E at the airport and 
that it booked a business class seat for him. Its unfortunate that the taxi it arranged for Mr E 
didnt arrive on time to take Mr E to the airport. But the notes suggest that it did offer to 
arrange a new taxi for him, but that Mr E had decided to walk to the airport with his luggage. 
I dont think I can reasonably hold IPA responsible for Mr Es decision.
Mr E says the business class seat was unsuitable for him because he couldnt bend his leg. I 
think though that IPA followed the medical teams recommendation to arrange a business 
class seat for Mr E, which shouldve allowed him to elevate his leg during the trip. I dont 
think it couldve foreseen that Mr E wouldnt think it was suitable for him. And I also think that 
regardless of seat-type, Mr E would always likely have needed to bend his knee briefly to sit 
down. Additionally, I dont think I can fairly hold IPA responsible for the wheelchairs available 
in the airport not being right for Mr Es needs.
I appreciate Mr E feels IPA effectively abandoned him after he disembarked from the original 
flight. I can see from the notes though that IPA was in touch with Mr E and with the airline to 
try and resolve things. Its provider liaised with the airline and I can see it tried to keep in 
touch with Mr E and call him back. IPAs notes dont suggest its agent told Mr E itd be happy 
for him to stand during the flight back  especially as this wouldnt have been possible due to 
safety restrictions.
IPA told Mr E that it wouldnt be liable for the costs of the new flight, but I think it was entitled 
to do so, given Mr E hadnt travelled on the flight itd arranged. Ultimately, Mr E made an 
independent arrangement with the airline to fly home. Based on what Ive seen, I do think 
IPA made reasonable attempts to assist Mr E and to keep in touch with him at this point. 
Its clear IPA did make some errors though. It didnt tell Mr E it couldnt arrange a new knee 
brace for him. There were issues with the taxi and Mr E did need to chase things up at times. 
And having listened to a call between IPA and Mr E, I can see the agent did record that Mr E 
could bend his knee when he hadnt said this during the call. Mr E had mentioned being able 
to get into a car (with difficulty). So I think it was more likely that the call handler simply 
assumed this meant Mr E could bend his leg, rather than deliberately making misleading 
notes.
As Ive explained, I do think IPAs errors wouldve added to Mr Es upset at an already 
distressing time. Taking into account everything, I think the £300 IPAs offered is fair 
compensation to recognise these.
Overall, I think IPA took reasonable steps to assist Mr E in returning to the UK, based on the 
available medical evidence it had at the time. It isnt responsible for any of the treating 
hospitals actions. And Im satisfied its offered Mr E fair compensation. So Im not telling IPA 
to do anything more.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that IPAs offer of settlement is fair and 
reasonable.
I direct Inter Partner Assistance SA to pay Mr E £300 compensation if it hasnt already done 
so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman