DRN-2924524
The complaint
Mr N complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) caused delays in 
setting up his annuity, including delays in requesting funds from his pension plan providers. 
Mr N wants compensation for the delays and inconvenience caused.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint were set out clearly and in 
some detail by our investigator. Because these arent disputed  the issue is the amount of 
compensation paid - I havent repeated all of this here. So in summary:
L&G accepted there were delays in setting up Mr Ns annuity in 2020  it failed to request 
the funds from his three pension providers in a timely manner. L&G carried out an 
assessment to establish the loss incurred, which involved establishing the fund values of Mr 
Ns pensions had they been correctly received by L&G and had Mr Ns annuity started in 
August 2020. As a result L&G topped-up Mr Ns annuity to reflect the difference in fund 
values, paid him the higher tax-free cash payment based on the different fund values, paid 
him the missed annuity payments including interest to cover the relevant period and £200 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused.
L&G subsequently found that it had in fact received Mr Ns annuity application earlier than it 
thought  a date in July rather than August  so it carried out a revised loss assessment. 
This showed that the fund values L&G would have received had it acted when it should have 
were lower than L&G had already compensated Mr N for as above  but it paid him an 
addition amount for the missed payments for August and increased its payment for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by a further £500.
Our investigator considered all of this and in summary they said L&G had done everything it 
should have to put things right  it had put Mr N back in the position he would have been but 
for L&Gs mistake (in fact it had over compensated him because the fund values were lower 
than L&G had already compensated him for.) They also said the £700 it had paid Mr N for 
the trouble caused was more than they would likely award in the circumstances, so was fair.
Because Mr N disagrees, the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided that L&G has put things right for Mr N and theres nothing more 
it needs to do. My reasons are set out below.
I have to say to Mr N that I think the investigator has explained the position clearly and 
theres very little I feel I can usefully add to what hes already been told.
L&G has accepted that it made mistakes in dealing with Mr Ns annuity application. So 
theres no need for me to consider the detail of what went wrong here - the issue for me to 
decide is whether L&G has put things right and fairly compensated Mr N for the delays and 
any resulting losses. 
Having sone so, I think it has. I can see that L&G initially based its loss assessment on Mr 
Ns annuity application being processed in August 2020 and as part of that it obtained fund 
values from Mr Ns pension providers to see what his annuity would have provided had it 
processed things in a timely manner. And this showed the fund values would have been 
higher  so it compensated Mr N as I set out in the background section above.
But L&G then discovered that Mr Ns initial annuity application (previously assumed lost) was 
in fact safely received in July 2020  so it carried a revised loss assessment. I can see this 
shows that had things happened as they should have, the fund values from Mr Ns pension 
providers would have been lower than the values L&G had already used (the August date) to 
compensate Mr N. So while Mr N received the additional missed payment to cover the 
relevant period in August, overall hes been compensated more than he should have been  
Mr N is in a better position. L&G has not sought to recover this excess from Mr N and in the 
circumstances I dont think it would be fair for it to do so.
So overall Im satisfied L&G has put things right  Mr N is in the position (in fact in a better 
position) he would have been in had L&G processed his annuity application when it fairly 
and reasonably should have done.
Turning to the additional amount L&G has paid Mr N for the distress and inconvenience the 
matter has caused him - and what appears to be the issue Mr N is most dissatisfied with. 
L&G initially paid Mr N £200  but I can see it always said that this was a starting point and it 
would consider increasing this if it felt it was appropriate. And it did so, increasing its 
payment by a further £500  so a total of £700.
I think L&G has been generous here. While its clear that Mr N was inconvenienced as a 
result of the delays in setting up his annuity, £700 is more than I would likely award in the 
circumstances. In reaching this conclusion I mindful that L&G accepted its mistake and has 
already fairly compensated Mr N for the delays it caused  in fact overcompensating him. So 
taking everything into account, I think L&Gs payment of £700 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, Ive decided that Legal and General Assurance Society 
Limited has fairly compensated Mr N for the errors caused and the additional payment of 
£700 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr N is fair in all the circumstances. So 
there is nothing more Legal and General Assurance Society Limited needs to do to put 
things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman