DRN-3619162
The complaint
Mr H complains that TSB Bank plc closed his accounts without advising him. And hed like 
compensation for the impact.
What happened
Mr H had five accounts with TSB. One of which was a current account. 
On 27 July 2021 Mr H contacted TSB to advise he couldnt access three of his accounts. 
TSB explained that theyd all been closed, and hed been given notice on 
10 December 2021. They also advised him that the rest of his accounts, including his current 
account, would be closed on 10 February 2021. 
Mr H complained, but TSB didnt uphold his complaint. They advised theyd sent notification 
to him about the closure of his accounts on 10 December 2020. And in doing so theyd 
followed the terms and conditions of his account. 
Mr H wasnt satisfied with TSBs response so complained to our service. He highlighted that 
the closure of his personal account had led to cancelled direct debits and caused a negative 
impact on his credit file. 
One of our investigators looked into his complaint but they didnt uphold it. They explained 
that they were satisfied that TSB had sent Mr H notification in December 2020 that his 
current account would close in 60 days. 
Mr H didnt accept our investigators view. In summary he asked what evidence TSB 
provided to show the letter was sent, and was it sent via recorded delivery or signed for. He 
also asked why they didnt phone or email him instead. 
As Mr H didnt accept our investigators view the case was referred to me for a decision.
On picking up the case I asked TSB for further evidence to show Mr H had been given 
60 days notice. TSB responded with a screenshot showing a case management entry 
stating Mr H was given 60 days notice in December 2020 about the closure of his current 
account. And he was also aware his current account would close after speaking to the bank 
on 27 January 2021. Therefore TSB thought theyd acted fairly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator explained to Mr H that TSB were entitled to close his current account by 
giving 60 days notice. Mr Hs main unhappiness centres on his argument that TSB didnt 
notify him that his current account would be closing in February 2021. So Ill focus on this in 
my decision. 
Ive reviewed the evidence from TSB, and I understand this will disappoint Mr H, but I think, 
on balance, TSB likely did send him a letter in December 2020 to notify him of his current 
account closure. I havent seen the letters sent at this time, but I have seen an entry from the 
case management system showing the accounts were going to be closed by giving 
60 days notice. And TSB have explained that this entry is made once the letters are issued. 
I understand that Mr H didnt receive any letters  and hes questioned whether the letters 
were sent by recorded delivery or signed for. But this isnt something Id expect TSB to do. 
And neither are TSB responsible for whether any letters are received  I understand this is 
disappointing for Mr H but by sending the letter TSB are fulfilling their responsibilities, when 
closing a current account, as listed in the account terms and conditions. 
Mr H accepts that he contacted TSB on 27 January 2021  and he was informed during this 
phone call, and the subsequent final response letter, that all of his remaining accounts would 
be closed on 10 February 2021. Although I appreciate this wouldnt have given Mr H the full 
notice period, Im satisfied this demonstrates that Mr H was aware that his current account 
was due to close prior to 10 February 2021.
I understand its distressing for Mr H that TSB decided to end their contract with him  and 
remove his banking facilities. However, as long as TSB follow their terms and conditions and 
dont discriminate against a customer theyre entitled to choose who theyd like to contract 
with. Much as Mr H is. And Im satisfied theyve done that in this case.   
For the reasons Ive outlined above I wont be asking TSB to do anything further here. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman