DRN-2834716
The complaint
Mrs M complains about her insurer, Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV). Her 
complaint relates to the rejection of a claim under her home insurance policy for damage to 
her house from storms.
LV uses agents to administer and assess claims. References to LV in this decision include 
those agents.
 
Mrs M was represented in her complaint to LV and subsequently to this service by her son. 
References to Mrs M include her son as her representative.
This decision only covers those aspects of complaint made to this service by Mrs M in 
October 2020, following LVs response to Mrs M in April 2020 to her complaint to them in 
March 2020. In responding to our investigators view in February 2021, Mrs M raised 
additional issues about how her complaint to LV had been handled and their communication 
with her representative. This decision does not cover those issues
What happened
In February 2020 after periods of severe weather at the time of Storms Ciara and Dennis 
Mrs M noticed damage to her property. Mrs M described the damage to LV, including 
damage to the roof and to guttering and downpipes from the roof.
 
LV appointed contractors to assess and repair the damage, which they accepted had been 
due to the storms. But Mrs M wasnt happy that all the damage had been properly repaired, 
particularly to the cement facing apex to the roof. She was also unhappy that a damaged 
screen in the garden wasnt accepted by LV as forming part of the claim, citing a policy 
exclusion that meant fences werent covered for storm damage.
Unhappy at these issues, Mrs M complained to LV in March 2020. Mrs M included 
photographs of the damage caused in the storms as well as photographs of the roof after 
repair work had been carried out. Mrs M maintained that the latter photographs showed that 
not all the repair work had been carried out. Mrs M also asked for clarification from LV as to 
why the screen wasnt covered under the policy. She described the nature of the screen as 
freestanding, consisting of a number of horizontal boards attached to upright posts 
cemented into the ground. The screen acted as a shield for wheeled refuse bins. Mrs M 
further maintained that the screen was not a fence as the latter was interpreted under the 
policy (Mrs M accepted that the policy excluded damage to fences caused by storms).
LV responded to Mrs M in a Final Response Letter in April 2020. They considered Mrs Ms 
contention that the screen wasnt a fence but concluded that, having referred the question to 
the underwriter, they would classify the structure as a fence. In support of this conclusion 
they cited a dictionary definition of a fence, referring to a structure made of wood supported 
with posts. They also noted that the screen was being used as a boundary between two 
areas of the garden (to shield the wheeled bins).
Mrs M was unhappy at the outcome of her complaint and complained to this service in 
October 2020. The main issues of her complaint were, firstly, that LV unfairly classified the 
screen as a fence and thereby excluded it from her claim. She felt she should be reimbursed 
by LV for the cost of her replacing the damaged screen (estimated at £283). The second 
element of complaint was that LV should pay for the additional cost estimated to complete 
repairs to the roof, specifically the cement facing apex (£400 to £500).
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The investigator concluded that the insurer 
hadnt acted unreasonably in classifying the screen as a fence, and thereby excluding it from 
the claim. The investigator also thought LV had acted reasonably in relying on the opinion of 
their surveyor that damage to the cement facing apex was not due to the storm, and 
therefore shouldnt be covered by the claim for storm damage.
 
Mrs M disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. Specifically, Mrs M continued to maintain that the screen wasnt a fence, and 
that the damage to the cement facing apex was caused by the storm. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether LV has acted fairly towards Mrs M. I want to assure Mrs M 
that I have considered what she and her representative have told us about her vulnerability. I 
appreciate that this makes it more challenging to deal with the issues arising from the 
damage caused by the storm, and the impact that this has had on her. I also appreciate the 
time and effort from her representative in dealing with her complaint to LV and subsequently 
to this service.
The first part of Mrs Ms complaint is that her claim for damage to the screen should not 
have been rejected. Ive considered the evidence available concerning the nature of the 
screen, the wording of the policy document as well as the representations made by Mrs M 
and LV. Ive also looked carefully at the most recent pictures and video of the screen 
provided by Mrs M, describing the nature of the screen and its purpose.
In her complaint to LV, Mrs M referred to a definition of a fence that she had located online:
What is the difference between a fence and a screen?
A screen may be of only one or two panels, e.g. keeping a sun-bathing area in the 
garden private for you and the family. A fence, in contrast, is a more significant 
construction running along the boundary and providing security, privacy and marking 
your property.
In their Final Response Letter, LV refer to the definition of a fence in the Oxford English 
Dictionary. The full definition they cited is as follows:
A structure made of wood or wire supported with posts that is put between two areas 
of land as a boundary, or around a garden, field, etc. to keep animals in, or to keep 
people and animals out.
Looking at both these definitions, then I think there are two distinct elements. The first is the 
nature of the structure itself. Mrs Ms definition refers to a more substantial structure. LVs 
definition refers to a structure made of wood supported with posts. Looking at the 
descriptions and the photographs of the screen at Mrs Ms property, it appears to me that the screen was constructed in the way that I would expect a fence to be constructed  horizontal 
wooden boards attached to upright posts that were themselves secured in the ground by 
cement. The screen also may have been constructed in the same way as the nearby 
boundary fence (and may have been constructed to match the appearance of the boundary 
fence). It is also clearly a substantial structure, given its purpose of shielding the wheeled 
bins from the wind.
 
Ive also noted that the second element in both definitions is the purpose of a fence being to 
mark a boundary and provide privacy and security as well as a physical barrier. While I 
accept that the screen isnt acting as a boundary as would a boundary fence, I think that the 
more significant of the two elements is the nature of the structure itself  not the purpose for 
which it was constructed. So, I agree with LV that Mrs Ms screen should be considered in 
the same way as a fence. That the screen in this case is acting as a shield for the wheelie 
bins doesnt detract from its construction being very similar to the boundary fence.
 
So, Ive concluded that it was reasonable for LV to classify what Mrs M refers to as a screen 
as a fence for the purposes of determining whether to accept that part of Mrs Ms claim. Ive 
looked at the policy documents and the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) 
includes the following statement under the What is not insured heading:
Buildings & Contents
X Damage to gates and fences caused by storm, flood, falling trees or branches
The same exclusion also appears in the more detailed policy document (loss or damage to 
gates or fences against the Whats not covered section for storm or flood. So its clear that 
fences are excluded, as they commonly are in most property insurance policies. As this 
exclusion was accepted by Mrs M, then Ive concluded that LV acted reasonably in rejecting 
that part of Mrs Ms claim.
The second part of Mrs Ms complaint is that she feels part of the repair work wasnt carried 
out by LV. Ive noted LVs response to our investigator on this point, that the nature of this 
area of damage (cement verges and bedded ridge areas at the leading edge of the roof) is 
that it is prone to wear and tear and consequent cracking. Ive also noted the view of LVs 
roofing contractor that the specific area in question was subject to cracking from his 
inspection of the property to assess the damage. In his opinion the damage to the area was 
not related to the storm and therefore wouldnt be covered.
Ive considered the evidence from LV on this point, together with the photographs of the roof. 
Im persuaded by the comments from LVs contractor, given the location of the damage and 
that this is a known type of gradual damage in a roof of this form of construction. So, on the 
balance of probabilities I dont think that the damage was caused directly or predominantly 
by the storms, but that the storms highlighted existing issues with that part of the roof. Ive 
therefore concluded that LV have reasonably excluded it from the claim.
Based on these considerations I dont believe that LV have acted unfairly in rejecting Mrs 
Ms claim for damage to the screen, or the other specific damage to the roof.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman