DRN-4239548
The complaint
Mr S says American Express Services Europe Limited, has treated him unfairly in relation to 
a transaction on his credit card which paid for flights.
What happened
On 03 May 22 Mr S used his American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex for short) 
credit card to purchase flights from an Airline costing £678.66. He says he quickly realised 
hed made a mistake and called the Airline repeatedly to make use of a free cancellation 
option within 24 hours of booking. Mr S says despite trying they (the Airline) never picked 
up the phone. So he called Amex.
Amex spoke to Mr S repeatedly over a period of time. It raised a chargeback which the 
Airline defended. The Airline indicated that Mr S didnt cancel the tickets and was treated as 
a no show when the flights boarded and then flew. But the Airline did pay him a partial 
refund but refused a full refund. So Amex didnt refund Mr S his Airline tickets. But it did pay 
him £75 for what it considered were its own customer service failings. Mr S wasnt happy 
with BOS position, so he brought his complaint to this service.
Our Investigator felt BOS didnt have to do anymore. And Mr S remains unhappy and so this 
complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S accepts he didnt speak to the Airline within the 24-hour free cancellation period and 
thus didnt cancel the flights in the required manner. He says he tried to repeatedly and has 
provided evidence of this. Nevertheless it is clear that Airline treated him as a no show so it 
didnt consider hed cancelled the flights. 
Ive considered Mr S evidence of repeatedly trying to contact the Airline. I consider this to be 
significantly short of evidence that the Airline didnt provide the phone service with 
reasonable skill and care. So Im satisfied it didnt breach the implied contract term here 
which is in place through the Consumer Rights Act 2015. Accordingly Im satisfied Mr S 
didnt cancel the tickets due to a breach by the Airline. And as the tickets were non-
refundable I see no persuasive reason for the tickets to be refunded in full. I note that the 
Airline gave a voluntary partial refund. So Mr S got some money back.
And as Mr S wasnt due a refund in the circumstances I see no persuasive reason for Amex 
to refund Mr S. It can be held equally liable under a like claim in certain circumstances. 
However as there is no breach of contract or material misrepresentation here Amex has no 
obligation to refund Mr S for the flight tickets.
Ive also considered chargeback here. Mr S raised a dispute with Amex, and it supported 
him by raising the chargeback with the Airline. The Airline responded by explaining that Mr S 
didnt cancel and was treated as no show. So Amex didnt carry the chargeback forward as 
it didnt consider it had a reasonable prospect of success. Ive considered the circumstances 
and evidence here and I think Amex treated Mr S fairly. There wasnt a reasonable prospect 
of success. Accordingly Mr S complaint is unsuccessful.
For completeness I shall now turn to some of Mr Ss arguments. He says Amex didnt do 
enough to provide evidence to the Airline that he tried to cancel the flights. But the Airlines 
terms are clear there is no right to a refund as Mr S suggests. It says refunds in these 
circumstances can be requested by calling so clearly a request has to be logged with the 
Airline and it will deal with the request. But Mr S admits he never spoke to the Airline in the 
crucial period.
Mr S says the chargeback should have been done quicker. This wouldnt have made a 
difference. The prescribed manner of cancellation in these circumstances was Mr S to speak 
to the Airline call centre. But he never did in the required time period. So even if Amex had 
done the chargeback instantly on balance Im satisfied it wouldnt have been successful 
because Mr S didnt cancel in the required time period in the required manner.
Mr S says Amex told him hed be successful. Im not persuaded that this is a correct 
reflection of what happened here. But even if it had, Mr S wouldnt have got his flights fully 
refunded. Because no such refund was due. All Mr S would have received was an award 
reflecting the customer service he received. And I can see hes already received a fair award 
for the customer experience he had from Amex.
Mr S says he spoke to Amex for over four hours. I dont dispute that. But for me to make 
Amex pay more for its customer service I would need to be persuaded that Amex hadnt 
treated Mr S fairly in its awards it has paid to him. I can see that Mr S made repeated calls to 
Amex. But Im not persuaded Amex got its position on the refund wrong. In the 
circumstances I think Amex has treated Mr S fairly.
It is unfortunate that Mr S made the initial mistake which he accepts he made in booking the 
tickets. And its unfortunate that Mr S didnt get through when he rang the Airline. And he 
knew he had 24 hours to cancel the booking with the Airline but failed to do so. These facts 
mean that no refund is due. And Im satisfied Amex has properly redressed its customer 
service failings.
I appreciate that this isnt a decision which Mr S wishes to read. And I appreciate that this 
decision will mean Mr S avenues for recouping the cost of the flights will be significantly 
limited. But this does not mean that Amex has done anything wrong in dealing with the 
issues arising from this transaction which it hasnt already fixed. Or that it should refund him.
So all in all having considered the matter and everything Mr S has said, Im not persuaded 
Amex has treated Mr S unfairly. So unfortunately for Mr S his complaint does not succeed.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against American Express 
Services Europe Limited. It has nothing further to do in respect of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman