DRN-2264555
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy because Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros 
y Reaseguros, S. A has only paid part of a claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P took out travel insurance via a price comparison website. Whilst on holiday 
their youngest child, who was one at the time, was taken to a private hospital by ambulance 
as he had experienced a febrile convulsion following a high temperature. Mr and Mrs P 
made a claim on their travel insurance policy for the medical costs. 
Mapfre said Mr and Mrs P had answered the question it asked about their childs medical 
history incorrectly. They said Mr and Mrs P ought to have declared their childs previous 
febrile convulsions and chest infections. And it considered this to be a careless 
misrepresentation, which entitled it to only pay 13% of the claim. Following a further review 
Mapfre agreed to pay 75% of the claim.
Mr and Mrs P brought their complaint to us and our investigator thought it shouldnt be 
upheld. He didnt think it was unreasonable that Mapfre had concluded there had been a 
careless misrepresentation and offered a proportionate settlement.  
Mr and Mrs P dont agree with the investigator and have asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. They said that their son didnt have a defined pre-existing medical condition and 
the questions they were asked didnt define what a pre-existing condition was.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Mapfre thinks Mr and Mrs P failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when they answered questions about their childs medical history.
Ive looked at the questions Mr and Mrs P were asked. They included: 
1. Does anyone in your party have a pre-existing medical condition?
 
Youll need to tell us about any medical conditions you have or have previously had. 
Your insurance wont always cost more to cover these conditions, but if you dont tell 
us about them any claim you make could be rejected
2. Have you or anyone in your party been prescribed medication, received treatment or 
had a consultation with a doctor or hospital specialist for any medical condition in the 
past 2 years? 
3. Have you or anyone in your party even been diagnosed with or treated for any of the 
following Any heart or respiratory condition? 
Mr and Mrs P answered yes to all of the questions and declared that Mrs P had a medical 
condition in response to question one.
Mapfre says that Mr and Mrs P should have disclosed their childs respiratory tract infections 
and a febrile convulsions in response to questions two and three. Mapfre arent suggesting 
that Mr and Mrs P should have declared a pre-existing condition for their child in response to 
question one. 
I think in answer to questions two and three Mr and Mrs P failed to take reasonable care. Ive 
looked at the medical evidence available and their child had visited hospital twice in the 
relevant period, once for a febrile convulsion and once for a respiratory tract infection. He 
was also prescribed antibiotics by the GP on two occasions for respiratory tract infections. 
So, I think they should have provided this information in response to questions two and 
three.  
Ive taken into account the screenshot Mr and Mrs P have provided which shows that she 
was asked to declare all pre-existing medical conditions following her answers to questions 
two and three. Ive also considered the point that there was there was no underlying medical 
condition she could declare. But that hasnt changed my thoughts about the outcome of this 
complaint. They were asked to provide this information following a declaration that someone 
in the party had been seen prescribed medication, received treatment, consulted with a 
doctor or specialist or had a respiratory condition. So, I think it would have been clear to Mr 
and Mrs P that this was the information they needed to provide. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs P may have thought some of the conditions unremarkable as 
they are relatively common issues for children of that age. But they were relevant to the 
questions the insurer was asking. Insurers price their policies on the basis of the level of risk 
medical conditions present  so not declaring this information impacted on that risk and on 
the price of the policy. Having taken all of the above into account, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Mapfre to conclude Mr and Mrs P should have disclosed information about 
the febrile convulsions and chest infections when answering the questions Ive set out above
 
As I think Mr and Mrs P failed to take reasonable care when answering those questions I 
need to consider whether the misrepresentation was a qualifying misrepresentation under 
CIDRA. 
Mapfre has provided evidence showing that had they been aware of this information theyd 
have offered Mr and Mrs P a policy but at a higher price. This means Im satisfied Mr and 
Mrs Ps misrepresentation was a qualifying one.Mapfre has said Mr and Ps misrepresentation was careless. I agree that it was a careless 
misrepresentation because I dont think Mr and Mrs P deliberately gave the wrong 
information. 
As Im satisfied Mr and Mrs Ps misrepresentation should be treated as careless Ive looked 
at the actions Mapfre can take in accordance with CIDRA. This says that, in cases of 
careless misrepresentation, if the insurer would still have entered into the contract but would 
have charged a higher premium, then the insurer is entitled to reduce proportionately the 
amount to be paid on the claim.
Mr and Mrs P paid £42.78 for their insurance policy. Mapfre has now provided evidence to 
show the premium it would have charged is £57.04. This means Mr and Mrs P have paid 
75% of the premium they should have so, in line with the remedy set out under CIDRA, 
Mapfre should pay 75% of their claim.
Thats what Mapfre has offered to do and therefore Im satisfied that their offer to pay 75% of 
the costs of the claim is fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman