DRN-2706079
The complaint
  Mr M complains Barclays Bank UK PLC has unfairly declined a Section 75 claim in relation 
to the painting of his barge.
What happened
 I have previously set out the background to this complaint in an earlier provisional decision. 
For clarity I repeat it here.
Mr M engaged a company, Ill call H, to repaint his Dutch barge. After some negotiation H 
agreed to undertake a full repaint at a cost of £6,571. Mr M made a payment of £1,000 on 
his Barclaycard credit card.
In April 2019, Mr M noticed there were some problems with the paintwork. There were areas 
of rust appearing and paint flaking off. He contacted H about the problems.
H responded in an email dated 15 May 2019. In it, it said . clearly there are problems with 
the paintwork. It said it had spoken with the painting contractor it had used. The contractor 
said it only guaranteed its work for 12 months and as almost 18 months had passed, its work 
was no longer covered by the guarantee. H said the contractors had raised concerns about 
Mr Ms treatment of the paintwork. It said Mr M had pressure washed the barge and used 
brushes to clean the paintwork which may have caused the problems. As such it said it 
wasnt prepared to carry out any remedial work.
H went onto say despite this statement from the contractors it felt the only practical solution 
was to fully repaint the cabin roof and sides. It wasnt prepared to cover the cost of this 
remedial work without a significant contribution from Mr M. It proposed two options, both 
requiring Mr M to contribute and both of which he rejected.
In August 2019, Mr M raised a Section 75 claim on his Barclaycard. 
Barclays declined the Section 75 claim as it said there wasnt enough evidence to show what 
the paint issues were. It had asked Mr M to acquire an independent inspection for which it 
would pay up to £150. But Mr M had been unable to find a company willing or able to carry 
out this inspection. He also felt he had provided enough evidence from the merchant to show 
it accepted remedial work was required. 
Dissatisfied Mr M brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Mr M. She didnt uphold his complaint. She didnt agree 
there was sufficient evidence to uphold Mr Ms complaint. She said she couldnt show H 
was in breach of contract as it had painted his barge. She said if Mr M could acquire an 
independent inspection, she would review her findings but as things stood, she couldnt 
uphold his complaint.
Mr M disagreed. He says H has clearly acknowledged faults with the paintwork. To suggest 
a professional repainting of a barge subsequently cleaned with a pressure washer and/or 
brushes could then be the cause of flaking paint and rust beggars belief. He says a 
professional repaint should last many years and not show problems within 18 months. He 
also strongly contests he was made aware of a 12-month guarantee. He says this would 
immediately have set alarm bells ringing and he wouldnt have gone ahead. He asked for an 
ombudsman review.
In my provisional decision I looked at all the information from both parties afresh and I 
reached a different outcome to the investigator. 
I explained where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is 
here), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Mr M relies on his rights under Section 75. Section 75 says, amongst other things, that in 
certain circumstances if the debtor has, in relation to a transaction financed by a credit 
agreement, any claim against the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or a breach of 
contract, then she has a like claim against the credit provider.
I said it was important to set out my role. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under 
Section 75. Rather, in deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mr Ms complaint, I must take 
account of relevant law, amongst other things. Section 75 is relevant law. So, I took it into 
account. But that doesnt mean Im obliged to reach the same outcome as, for example, a 
court might reach if Mr M pursued a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract. Our 
service is an informal alternative to the courts.
As I mention above Section 75 applies if the debtor, (here Mr M) has, in relation to a 
transaction financed by a credit agreement, (here the credit card transaction) any claim 
against the supplier, (here this is H), in respect of a breach of contract, then he has a like 
claim against the credit provider, (here this is Barclays). 
Company H has gone onto liquidation but then the same directors have set up a new 
company in virtually the same name. In any case, Barclays has investigated this matter and 
confirmed it accepts that there is a valid debtor-creditor-supplier relationship here. So, I said 
I continued my decision on the same basis, namely there is a valid debtor-creditor-supplier 
relationship in this case.
The law says that services supplied by a business to a consumer should be provided with 
reasonable care and skill. So, this term was implied into the contract between H and Mr M. 
There isnt a clear definition of what reasonable care and skill should look like. But Im of the 
view the services would need to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory.
So, if there was a breach of contract in the services supplied then its fair to ask Barclays to 
put things right. The remedy for such a breach would be right to repeat performance or 
right to price reduction up to the total price paid.
Mr M paid H £6,571 to repaint his barge. I explained Im not an expert in painting barges or 
water bound vessels, but I think a reasonable person would expect such a job to be of a high 
quality, carried out with due skill, care and diligence and to be durable. Mr M brought 
problems with the paintwork to Hs attention within 18 months. I said I dont think a reasonable person would expect issues such as flaking paintwork and rust to be appearing I 
that timeframe. 
It also seems that company H thought likewise. Im in agreement with Mr M when he says 
the email response from H demonstrated it accepts there are clearly issues with the 
paintwork. I dont accept that H can say after the event the paintwork was only guaranteed 
for one year, if it didnt specifically say so before Mr M entered into the contract. I havent 
seen anything that suggests Mr M was advised there was only a 12-month guarantee. 
Further I agree with him when he says this would have led him to at the very least question 
the work and more than likely not proceed with job. Mr M paid a significant sum of money for 
a specialist job. As I have already said, I think a reasonable person would expect it to be 
durable for a much longer period and as such I dont agree the services were carried out 
with reasonable care and skill.
H also offered two options for remedy. But it didnt agree to cover the costs of all the 
remedial work. I said in my view, if Mr M accepted this he would have paid for a job and then 
paid again for the same job to be remedied. I dont agree this is fair or reasonable on the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Because H has agreed there is fault, it hasnt delivered the contract Mr M understood he 
had agreed to. It wasnt that he contracted with H to just paint the barge and as it has 
painted it, the contract has been fulfilled. It must be a service delivered with reasonable care 
and skill and as I have already said and on balance, I dont agree this is the case here.
I looked carefully at the two options H itself suggested. The first looks to address remedial 
repairs only to the agreed notable issues. The second suggests a full repaint of the cabin 
roof and sides, treat any rust, undercoat and two top coats.
The independent quote Mr M received, leaving aside the costs, almost mirrors the second 
quote given by H. So, it seems two professionals have independently looked at the barge 
and separately come up with same works needing to be carried out. One has to ask why H 
would even offer the option of full remedial works should it not be necessary. I dont think 
simple paint matching is a reasonable reason to suggest the whole repaint needs to be 
redone.
I considered the right to a repeat performance, but I said I dont think this is a far remedy in 
this case. I say this because H has already had the opportunity and failed to deliver an 
acceptable repeat offer to Mr M and also because it is clear Mr M has lost confidence in the 
work that has been carried out.
So, whilst I appreciate Barclays has suggested an independent inspection is needed, I said 
dont agree. Mr M is having great difficulty in securing such an inspection both H and an 
independent company have both suggested the same works be carried out. That seems to 
be to be enough to say, on balance of probability, the original work was not carried out with 
reasonable care and skill and as such a breach of contract has occurred. In my view, it 
follows it is fair and reasonable that Barclays should give Mr M a full refund.
I said I appreciate Mr M has secured a quote from an independent company which is even 
greater cost than that charged by H, but it is in fact in line with its initial quotation. Even 
though the independent company has said it will need to remove the paintwork carried out 
by H, it presumably would have had to undergo some renovation from the original 
paintwork anyway and so I dont I agree I can consider any additional monies above the 
original amount paid by Mr M as part of this redress. But I said will consider any interest 
charges applied to part of the payment made on the credit card.In my provisional decision I said I intended to ask Barclays Bank UK Plc to:
Refund the cost of the whole payment of £6,571
Rework Mr Ms credit card account as if the purchase had never been made. If this 
results in a credit balance it needs to pay him interest on this at the rate of 8% simple 
per year the interest to run from the date the credit balance occurred until the date of 
settlement. 
Mr M responded and agreed with my findings.
Barclays responded but it did not agree with my findings. It didnt agree the email exchange 
between the merchant and Mr M acknowledged any fault. It felt Mr M use of a pressure 
washer had impacted the durability of the paint and went as far to say the issues with the 
paint were due to Mr M not treating the paintwork with proper care. It goes onto say my 
provisional findings do not take into account the state of the boat prior to the paintwork 
being undertaken and it feels an independent assessment is necessary to make a 
determination in this case. 
Barclays also requested a response to its comments prior to issuing a final decision in 
respect of this complaint.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive looked at all the information afresh and carefully considered the submissions Barclays 
made. But I havent been persuaded by those submission nor have I seen any new evidence 
that has persuaded me to reach a different outcome. Ill explain why.
I direct Barclays to the remit of this service. I have already explained where the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I am required to reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. 
Im in agreement with Barclays that an independent assessment would have been useful in 
determining the cause of the issues with the paintwork. Mr M has provided consistent 
testimony to this service regarding his attempts to secure an independent inspection. He has 
contacted a number of companies and either received no response or those who did 
respond were not prepared to produce a report that could be used in litigation. This was 
mainly due to insurance reasons. Mr M was also very keen to acquire an independent report 
and Im persuaded he made every effort to do so. In the absence of an independent report 
Im required to weigh up the available evidence. 
As I have already said, the independent quote, almost mirrors the second quote given by 
H. So, it seems two professionals have independently looked at the barge and separately come up with same works needing to be carried out. I remain of the view, the fact that H 
has offered the option of full remedial works so soon after the paintwork it had already 
carried out suggests it wasnt carried out with reasonable care and skill in the first place. 
Regarding the pressure washing. Mr M has not disputed he has used a pressure washer on 
three occasions. He says this was not on the high setting and he has only used the cleaning 
treatments approved for the pressure washer. I have seen no evidence the merchant 
provided any care instructions with regard to the cleaning of the barge.
It is clear that a barge will require cleaning and if certain treatments or chemicals are not to 
be used then this should have been made clear at the outset and provided in a care leaflet 
or some form of care package. Mr M has confirmed no such advice was given either verbally 
or in written form, so Im not in agreement that Mr M should have been aware of any impact 
this could have had on the paint. That said, I dont agree that cleaning the barge in a 
reasonable fashion should cause significant issues to the paintwork in the manner that has 
been cased in this case. In my view, a reasonable person would expect to clean a barge 
without causing damage to the paintwork within 18 months of a full remedial paintwork taking 
place.
Im not sure why the condition of the boat prior to the paintwork being undertaken by the 
merchant is relevant here. Surely, this was the reason Mr M agreed to the full repaint, and in 
offering to provide this service, H was required to meet the standard a reasonable person 
would expect. I also find it likely if the condition of the boat prior to the work being carried out 
was an issue, H wouldve pointed this and any implications of this out to Mr M.
On balance I find it more likely than not that this work wasnt carried out with due care and 
skill and I dont agree the work has proved to be durable for a reasonable amount of time.
I appreciate Mr M has provided a quote for more than the original cost but I remain of the 
view that there would be a need to prepare the barge for repainting in any case and so I 
dont consider it fair and reasonable to ask Barclays to pay any additional costs to that of the 
work carried out by the original merchant.
Barclays also hasnt provided any new evidence for me to consider. Its probably worth 
pointing out this service also doesnt respond to points made by a business or a consumer 
following a provisional decision by way of separate communication.
This is to ensure transparency and impartiality to both parties when reaching a decision. If 
either party provided submissions that had persuaded me to change my view, I would have 
issued a further provisional decision in response to any such submission made. 
In this case, I havent been persuaded to reach a different view and so Ive addressed the 
points raised by the business in this my final decision.
 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I direct Barclays Bank UK Plc to:
Refund the cost of the whole payment of £6,571Rework Mr Ms credit card account as if the purchase had never been made. If this 
results in a credit balance it needs to pay him interest on this at the rate of 8% simple 
per year the interest to run from the date the credit balance occurred until the date of 
settlement. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman