DRN-3819165
The complaint
Miss C says Advantage Insurance Company Limited failed to investigate properly the claim 
she made on her motor insurance policy, causing her distress and financial loss.
What happened
Miss C told Advantage in December 2021 that in a road rage incident another driver had 
rammed her car and was so abusive that she called the police. A police officer found CCTV 
footage of the accident, which Miss C says shows she wasnt at fault. Advantage didnt try to 
get the footage before contacting the other drivers insurer. That insurer said Miss C had 
pulled out from a side road in front of the other drivers car, so it held her at fault. Advantage 
then told Miss C on 7 January 2022 that it had accepted liability on her behalf. 
Miss C complained to Advantage about its decision and it agreed that it hadnt sought all the 
evidence that was needed. It told Miss C on 20 January 2022 in its final response letter that 
the liability letter had been sent to her in error. It said it was still in the process of reviewing 
the claim. It apologised for the error and for not having made more contact with Miss C. It 
also offered her £50 compensation and advised her that she could complain to us if she 
remained unhappy. In the meantime, it had tried to contact the police officer by phone and 
had written to the police and to the local council about the CCTV footage. As the claim 
remained open, without a decision on liability, when Miss C was due to renew her policy in 
March 2022 her no claims discount (NCD) and premium were affected. 
Miss C complained to us about all of these issues in June 2022. She said Advantage hadnt 
obtained the CCTV footage because it didnt want to pay the police the fee for releasing it.  
One of our investigators reviewed Miss Cs complaint. He thought Advantage had acted 
reasonably in noting its error and offering compensation. He said her NCD and premiums 
could be adjusted if Advantage later received evidence that meant it could recover its outlay 
on the claim from the other insurer. And he noted that Advantage had tried to obtain the 
CCTV evidence and was still trying to do so. Miss C didnt accept that Advantage had done 
anything to progress the claim and asked for an ombudsmans review of her complaint.        
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see why Miss C made the initial complaint to Advantage. I think shed made it clear that 
CCTV footage of the incident in her favour was available and that a police officer had 
reviewed it. Miss C says the collision didnt occur as she joined the main road, and that the 
police officer agreed the footage showed she wasnt at fault. So it must have been a shock 
for Miss C to be advised that Advantage had accepted liability on her behalf. But the letter 
was sent to her in error, and Advantage didnt concede liability to the other insurer. 
In the circumstances, I think it was reasonable for Advantage to deal with the complaint by 
apologising and by offering Miss C £50. I dont think there were consequences from the error 
other than the distress caused to Miss C, which was dealt with by the compensation. And 
Advantage has shown that it had contacted the police officer - plus her constabulary and the 
local council - before it issued its final response letter. So the claim was open - and enquiries 
were still under way at that point.
Advantage has pointed out that if Miss C isnt satisfied with any of its actions (or believes it 
failed to progress the claim) after 20 January 2022  the date of its final response letter -  
shell need to make a formal complaint about that to Advantage before we can consider her 
further concerns. I agree that an insurer has to be given the chance to address a consumers 
concerns before we review them. But the file notes show that on 3 March 2022 Miss C told 
Advantage she wanted to make another complaint. Advantage advised her a week later that 
shed get a response to her complaint within eight weeks. According to the file notes, that 
didnt happen. So I think Miss C was entitled to ask us to look into the circumstances that 
prompted her second complaint  which was the financial consequences she faced at 
renewal with a fault claim on her record. 
  
I understand why Miss C was upset by the situation, but even if a consumer isnt at fault for 
an incident, if liability hasnt been resolved, both drivers will have a fault claim on their 
record. That just reflects the fact that neither insurer has been able to recoup what it has 
paid out on the claim (such as the cost of repairs) from the other insurer. I think Advantage 
acted in line with standard industry practice in recording a fault claim for Miss C. That 
usually leads to a loss of NCD and may also contribute to a rise in premium - but both can 
be adjusted and refunds may be made once liability is settled. 
Had Advantage been able to obtain the CCTV footage before the renewal, it may have been 
able to change its position on liability. Miss Cs NCD and premium may not then have been 
affected by the incident. I think Advantage has shown that during February 2022 it continued 
to try to get hold of the CCTV evidence from the police, and that a payment was raised (as 
required by them). Unfortunately it still wasnt able to get hold of the footage, but I dont think 
that was due to inactivity on Advantages part. The notes show that the police told it in mid-
February that the time frame for dealing with Advantages request was 12 weeks.  
Miss C believes Advantage has provided poor service since then and hasnt done anything 
to try to resolve the claim in her favour. Shes told us about her ongoing concerns, but 
Advantage hasnt been given the chance to address them. It has to be given an opportunity 
to try to resolve Miss Cs concerns to date - and we can assist Miss C in putting them to 
Advantage. Once it has addressed the further concerns, if Miss C isnt satisfied with 
Advantages response, she can ask us to review her further complaint.
As I dont think Advantage has acted unreasonably on the issues Ive been able to review, I 
cant uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 January 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman