Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
in September 2004. Mrs H says Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold her the 
PPI.
Background
In July 2004, Mrs H applied for her credit card while in branch. The PPI was added to her 
credit card in September 2004 and provided cover for accident, sickness and 
unemployment. The PPI also paid a benefit in the event of death.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Hs case.
I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Nationwide says the PPI was sold to Mrs H when she called to activate her credit card. 
Nationwide has provided us with some information to support what its said, along with a 
copy of Mrs Hs credit agreement which shows she declined the PPI when she applied for 
the credit card. Based on what Ive seen, and using what I know generally about 
Nationwides sales practices at the time the PPI was sold to Mrs H, Im satisfied its more 
likely than not that the PPI was sold to Mrs H when she called to activate her credit card.
Nationwide says Mrs H would have been given a choice about the PPI. Unfortunately, it 
hasnt been able to provide a recording of the call in which the sale took place  which isnt 
surprising given the sale took place over 15 years ago. 
So I dont know what was said in the discussion between Mrs H and the Nationwide 
representative. But Nationwide has referred me to a PPI sales script which it says its 
telephone staff would have used in 2004 when Mrs H was sold the PPI. Looking at the sales 
script, its clear Mrs H would have been asked whether she wanted to take out the PPI and 
the Nationwide representative would have to gain her consent before adding the PPI to her 
credit card. 
DRN-1128846Taking everything into account, including the fact that Mrs H initially declined the PPI when 
she applied for her credit card, I think its more likely than not Mrs H would have understood 
the PPI was optional. And I dont think she would have agreed to the cover if she didnt want 
to take it out.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs H so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Mrs H got the information she needed to decide if it was 
right for her.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been  particularly about the things it didnt cover. But Mrs H chose to take out 
the PPI, so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover, such as pre-existing medical conditions - so it would have been 
useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.
Mrs H has told us she would have been entitled to six months full pay followed by six 
months half pay from her employer if she was too unwell to work. Shes also told us that she 
had some savings and could have relied on her husband to help with her credit card 
repayments.
Having thought about what Mrs H has said about her sick pay and savings, I dont think this 
means she wouldnt have found the policy useful. I say this because the PPI would have 
paid out in addition to any sick pay Mrs H would have received from her employer and would 
have potentially paid out for longer than she would have received full pay. The PPI also 
would have paid a benefit if Mrs H was ever made redundant and would have enabled her to 
use her savings for any other financial responsibilities she may have had.
Ive also thought about what Mrs H has said about the fact that she could have relied on her 
husband to help her with her repayments. Again, I dont think this meant that the PPI wasnt 
useful for her. While Mrs Hs husband would want to help, his financial situation could 
change and so this help couldnt always be relied on.
So overall, I think Mrs H could have found the policy useful if she ever fell on hard times 
and I dont think that any better information would have put her off from taking out the policy.
Based on what Ive said above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. Which means Nationwide 
doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But Nationwide has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H because:
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium)  so it should have told Mrs H about that. Because Nationwide didnt 
tell Mrs H, that was unfair.
To put that right, Nationwide has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
In this case I think Nationwides offer is a fair way to resolve this case.
 
 
 My final decision
I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But Nationwide Building Society does have to pay back to Mrs H any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
Ombudsman