DRN-3700564
The complaint
Mr D complains AJ Bell Management Limited (AJ Bell) are responsible for delays when 
switching from his previous Investment Partner (IP) to his new one. He says these delays 
caused him a financial disadvantage for which he asks to be compensated. He further 
complains about the service he received from A J Bell after raising his concerns.
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint in an earlier provisional decision. For clarity I 
repeat it here.
Mr D holds a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with AJ Bell.
In February 2020, JM Finn wrote to AJ Bell asking them provide information regarding Mr
Ds SIPP, and to inform them that they were to be appointed as his registered financial 
advisers replacing his previous advisers. Unfortunately, AJ Bell failed to carry out this 
instruction.
In March 2020, JM Finn requested that Mr Ds account with his previous IP be closed and 
the cash transferred to a new account with JM Finn. Mr Ds cash was transferred to his new 
JM Finn account on 7 April 2020.
Mr D contacted AJ Bell to request an explanation of why there had been a delay in 
transferring his cash. As he didnt receive a response, Mr D chased up matters and was 
informed someone looking into things for him.
But by May 2020, having still received no response, Mr D told A J Bell he would bring the 
matter to this service.
AJ Bell then made contact. Mr D says the gist of this conversation was to lay the blame for 
the delay with JM Finn and asked him to withdraw his complaint. Concerned by this 
approach, Mr D asked AJ Bell to put their explanation for the delay in writing.
Having not received any written communication, Mr D tried again to contact the 
representative he spoke with but was unable to do so. He feels the adviser simply wouldnt 
take his calls.
In November 2020, Mr D received AJ Bells final response. It apologised for the delays in 
transferring his funds and accepted the level of service provided wasnt as expected.
It offered £300 for the trouble and upset caused. It then carried out calculations and offered 
to pay the interest it considered Mr D had lost of £55.08.
Dissatisfied, Mr D referred his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into matters for Mr D. In summary he found:
Mr D complained in April 2020 and received a final response in November 2020 over 
7 months later. He agreed this amounted to poor service and pointed out Mr D would 
have been within his rights to refer his complaint to this service much sooner. 
He found that the offer of £300 to compensate Mr D for the trouble and upset this 
matter had caused to be in line with what this service would usually recommend and 
on that basis, fair and reasonable redress.
He found AJ Bells error of failing to change the appointed advisers when instructed 
had directly led to a delay in the cash movement of Mr Ds funds. It should have 
taken place on 24 March 2020 but as a result of this error didnt happen until 7 April 
2020, a delay of 10 working days.
He also found that AJ Bells calculation method was not in line with the approach 
used by this service and as such he asked A J Bell to re-calculate using this services 
approach to fair compensation with the aim of putting Mr D as close as possible to 
the position he would probably now be in if AJ Bell not caused a delay.
AJ Bell does not seem to have responded to our investigators view.
Mr D did respond. He raised two main concerns regarding the redress and how it was 
calculated.
Firstly, he queried why the investigator had suggested the redress be calculated using the 
FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index). This was because it was clear he was 
looking for growth from his SIPP and as such felt the FTSE WMA Stock Market Growth 
Index was a more suitable comparison.
Secondly, he pointed out he had a further £14,000 which he felt was similarly delayed and 
as such didnt understand why the investigator hadnt included this in his calculations.
Our investigator pointed to the basis on which this service uses indices to calculate 
appropriate redress are based on the circumstances and risk profile of the consumer. In Mr 
Ds case the most appropriate benchmark is FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return 
index because it provides a mix of assets most closely suited to someone of Mr Ds 
circumstances and risk profile. 
With regard to the additional £14,000. The investigator explained he had not included this 
amount within the redress calculations because when the access situation was resolved on 
7 April, JM Finn transferred the 69K to their account. But it wasn't until 17 April that they 
transferred the additional £14,000.  He didnt agree he could find AJ Bell responsible for 
delays to this transaction as it wasnt carried out until 10 days after the access was resolved 
for so it wouldn't be fair to ask them to include this in their calculations. 
Mr D still didnt agree and so he asked for an ombudsman review.
In my provisional findings I thanked Mr D for his patience. I said I appreciated this has been 
a long process in reaching an outcome and I understood his frustration.
In deciding this complaint, I explained I had considered the law, any relevant regulatory rules 
and good industry practice at the time. I also carefully considered the submissions that have 
been made by Mr D and where they have been made, by AJ Bell. I said where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, I have made my decision based 
on the balance of probabilities. In other words, I have looked at what evidence we do have, 
and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I think is more likely to, or 
should, have happened.
I said it was important to say at the outset, the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
In this case, AJ Bell accepted it was responsible for delays when JM Finn transferred Mr
Ds cash to his JM Finn account, and that the level of service he received should have
been better. So, I explained my role here, is to determine whether the amount AJ Bell has 
offered to compensate Mr D fair and reasonable given the circumstances.
Was the redress offered by A J Bell fair and reasonable?
The crux of Mr Ds complaint is that he started to complain on 13 April 2020, but it wasnt
until 23 November 2020 that a final response was issued. I said, Mr D would have been
within his rights to contact our service sooner because his complaint should have been 
reviewed by AJ Bell in line with the guidance set out by the Financial Conduct Authority. This 
states that a business should respond to a consumer concerns within eight weeks of their 
complaint.
I could also see that there had been a number of attempted contacts by Mr D to AJ Bell by 
both email and telephone where he didnt receive timely responses and on the whole, it 
appeared to have been very poor customer service.
AJ Bell acknowledged this and offered £300 in recognition of the fact it could and should 
have done better. I said I understood that this has been incredibly frustrating for Mr D, but 
awards from this service for trouble and upset are relatively modest. This simply reflects the 
nature of this service as a free alternative to the courts and I found £300 to be a fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
However, with regard to the delays, AJ Bell received monies on 24 March 2020 in the form 
of two cash movements. It acknowledged, JM Finn been correctly registered as Mr Ds 
financial advisers on 14 February 2020, when it was notified, JM Finn would have been able 
to request a cash movement on the same day the funds were received. Because this hadnt 
been recorded correctly J M Finn werent able to request the cash movement until 7 April 
2020, this meant there was a delay of 10 working days.
Although A J Bell has accepted this error, it offered to put things right by making an interest 
payment on the amount that had been transferred to his JM Finn account. It said, although 
the Bank of England interest rate was 2%, it would pay 2.1% interest. It said the interest 
payment due would be £55.08. 
I said I was in agreement with our investigator when I say that isnt the approach this service 
would take to calculate what is appropriate redress in the circumstances of this complaint. 
How I said I thought the basis of the redress should be calculated
Mr D told this service he may have invested differently had the funds been transferred 
earlier. His fund is managed on a discretionary basis by JM Finn, and he has said that they may have invested differently had the funds been received sooner. Mr D confirmed his 
investment strategy is one of growth, and that he had a medium risk approach. JM Finn has 
explained that his funds werent invested in a model portfolio. 
On this basis, Im in agreement with the approach detailed by our investigator. I said I  
appreciated Mr Ds adviser feels strongly the benchmark index should be the FTSE WMA 
Stock Market Growth Index and so I could understand why Mr D queried the approach of 
using an Income Index when he seeks growth. 
I explained it would be useful to clarify that the benchmark index used is one that most 
closely matches Mr Ds investment strategy of growth whilst being willing to accept some 
investment risk. The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 
2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair
measure for someone, such as Mr D, who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.  Although it is called income index, its the mix and diversification provided within the 
index that Im persuaded is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of 
comparison given what Mr D has told this service about his circumstances and risk attitude. 
Should the additional £14,000 be included within the calculation
I carefully considered the submissions made by Mr D that this additional amount should be 
taken into account when calculating the redress.
I looked carefully at the cash movements of the accounts Mr D held with AJ Bell.
I explained the additional amount wasnt part of the requested funds movement on 24 March 
2020. It was held in Mr Ds cash account prior to the previous advisers account being closed 
and it wasnt until 17 April 2020 that it was moved to Mr Ds JM Finn account. For me to be 
able to include this within any redress calculation, I would need to see it was part of the 
delayed movement of funds. Had it been so I would have expected to see a request to move 
it on 7 April when the other funds were moved. Because it wasnt for a further 10 days after 
the access had been resolved, I said I wasnt persuaded I could fairly say this was down to 
AJ Bells error. As such I didnt find it fair and reasonable to include this within the redress 
calculation. But Mr D said this part of his funds were also held up by the delay in AJ Bell 
acknowledging JM Finn as his advisers. I explained if he could provide further evidence to 
support this and some documentation to show why this part of his cash wasnt moved on 7 
April 2020, I would consider any further submission. 
Putting things right
To put matters right I said the following:
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr D as close as
possible to the position he would probably now be in if AJ Bell did not cause a delay.
Had the funds arrived earlier, on balance Im persuaded Mr D would have invested 
differently. It is not possible to say precisely what he would have done, but I am satisfied that 
what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr D's circumstances and objectives 
when he invested.
What should AJ Bell do? 
To compensate Mr D fairly AJ Bell should:Compare the performance of Mr D's investment with that of the benchmark
shown below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no
compensation is payable.
It should also pay any interest set out below.
If there is a loss, it should pay into Mr D's pension plan, to increase its value
by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the
effect of charges and any available tax relief. It shouldnt pay the compensation into
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If AJ Bell is unable to pay the compensation into Mr D's pension plan, it should
pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have
provided a taxable income. So, the compensation should be reduced to notionally
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Ds actual or expected
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. For example, if Mr D is likely to be a basic 
rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate 
of tax. But, if Mr D would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should 
be applied to 75% of the compensation.
In addition to this, AJ Bell should also pay Mr D the £300 offered for the distress and 
inconvenience the level of service he received had caused him.
A J Bell should provide the details of the calculation to Mr D in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If AJ Bell considers that its required by HM
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr D how
much its taken off. It should also give Mr D a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so 
he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Investment 
Name Status BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
JM Finn & 
Co AccountStill existsFTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index24 March
2020Date of 
settlement Not 
applicable
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return
using the benchmark. Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the 
fair value calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if you total all those payments and deduct that figure at the 
end instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr D wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 
2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of 
a range of indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and 
government bonds. 
Its a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
As Ive explained, although it is called income index, the mix and diversification 
provided within the index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable 
measure of comparison given Mr D's circumstances and risk attitude.
Further information
I have explained there is guidance on how to carry out calculations available on our website, 
which can be found by following this link: 
https://www.financialombudsman.org.uk/businesses/resolvingcomplaint/
understanding-compensation/compensation-investment-complaints. 
Alternatively, just type compensation for investment complaints into the search bar on our 
website:www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk.
Mr D responded to my provisional findings. He said he had spoken with his advisers at JM 
Finn and now understood why the additional amount of £14,000 hadnt been included within 
the redress calculation. He accepted my findings.
AJ Bell initially didnt respond. But, on 20 September 2022, it apologised for the delay and 
said it had no further submissions it wished me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, there have been no further submissions to lead me to depart from my 
earlier conclusions. It follows that I have received the same outcome as that indicated in my 
provisional decision included within my final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint and direct AJ Bell Management Limited 
to undertake the redress as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 Wendy Steele
Ombudsman