DRN-2880320
The complaint
Mr M complains that he shouldnt have been defaulted by Santander UK Plc (Santander).
What happened
Mr M had a credit card from Santander since 2012. In 2019 he began to have difficulties. He 
missed the monthly payments every month between September 2019 and April 2020 (other 
than a payment of £100 in December 2019). In April 2020, Santander defaulted the account 
with the balance at £3360, and placed entries on his credit file. Mr Ms account was passed 
to a debt collection agency.
Mr M complained that it was wrong of Santander to place his account in default  when 
theyd agreed a payment holiday for him under the COVID 19 arrangements. And  his main 
complaint point was that he had taken out about five other loans, and the payments on those 
were causing him to miss payments with Santander. Those lenders had agreed their lending 
was irresponsible and so  that should mean that Santander should also now remove their 
entries from Mr Ms credit file.
Santander said theyd acted correctly. They had no record of a conversation with Mr M about 
a payment holiday on or around April 2020. But one of the criteria to agree a payment 
holiday was that werent any arrears at the time  and Mr M had been in arrears since 
December 2019, as the last payment had been received in November 2019. In March 2020 
they wrote to Mr M to ask him to contact them or make a payment into the account. But he 
hadnt got in touch, so they defaulted the account on 20 April 2020. 
Mr M brought his complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. She said 
that Santander had defaulted Mr Ms account correctly. The credit card from Santander was 
a separate agreement to the loans, and so she had to look at the credit card independently. 
She had to consider whether Santander had acted unreasonably in connection with the 
credit card  and separate from the actions of the other lenders. Santander had a duty to 
report accurate information to the credit reference agencies (CRAs)  which theyd done. 
The credit card was in arrears and was correctly defaulted. There wasnt any record of Mr M 
having applied for a COVID 19 payment holiday in April 2020  and it was unlikely he 
wouldve qualified for it  as he was already in arrears by that time.
Mr M asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The guidance for dealing with defaults is laid down by the Information Commissioners Office 
(ICO). This says when a consumer is at least three months behind with their payments then 
a default may be registered. And it would expect a default to be registered by the time the 
consumer is six months behind with their payments. It is the business responsibility to put 
an entry on the credit file. This cannot be taken off unless it is an error. So  Ive looked at 
Mr Ms complaint in the light of this.
I can see that Mr M was in arrears by April 2020. Hed missed seven of the last eight 
monthly payments by that time. So  he was seven months in arrears. So  I cant say that 
Santander were wrong to place a default on his credit file, in line with the ICO guidance. 
And  Ive also seen that they did give him warning of their actions. On 2 January 2020, 
they wrote to Mr M: Were  writing  to let you know  that due to the arrears  on   your 
account,  we may permanently  block  all your account's  facilities.  On 16 March  2020  
they sent a default  notice  which  said the arrears  were  £390.74,and  payment  of £351  
was needed  within  14 days   or If you dont  pay the overdue  amount  before  the date 
shown,  then we may take further  action  against  you as detailed  below.if  you fail to 
make  the payment,  well demand  you repay  the total balance  immediately.  We may 
also take legal  action  against  you or refer  your account  to debt recovery  agents.
On 16 March 2020, they wrote to Mr M: we plan to inform the credit reference agencies 
that youve defaulted on your account because of your outstanding balance. a default can 
stay on your file for 6 years andmay affect your ability to get credit in the future.
Mr Ms main complaint is that he had loans with four or five other lenders  and some of 
them agreed that their lending wasnt responsible and agreed to refund some interest and 
remove entries from Mr Ms credit file. Ive seen that two of those complaints were reviewed 
by us  and were resolved by agreement with the lenders in question  they were not formal 
ombudsman decisions. Mr M argues that the payments to the other lenders affected his 
ability to make payments to his Santander credit card. And  because theyve admitted they 
were at fault - then Santander should also remove their credit file entries. But I dont agree 
that follows. What Mr M is arguing is that he suffered with Santander because of the actions 
of the other lenders. But - I can only consider whether Santanders actions were correct and 
reasonable in the context of Mr Ms relationship with Santander  and I think they were. I 
cant ask Santander to do something because of what happened with other lenders. Mr Ms 
complaint in respect of the possible effect of the actions of the other lenders   would be 
something he would have to take up with them. 
Mr M had also said that Santander were wrong to default his account because theyd agreed 
to a payment holiday in April 2020 under the COVID19 support arrangements. But  
Santander dont have a record of this, or a call with Mr M. And  because Mr M was, by then, 
several months in arrears  he wouldnt have qualified for that scheme anyway. So  I dont 
agree that couldve been the case.
So  and I accept that Mr M will find this disappointing  Im not going to ask Santander to do 
anymore here.
(continued)
My final decisionI do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman