DRN-3584408
The complaint
Mr S complains that U K Insurance Limited  trading as Direct Line Home Insurance (Direct 
Line) declined his claim on his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S owned a property that he rents out. He had a landlords insurance policy to cover it  
with Direct Line. In mid-2019 there was an escape of water at the property and Mr S made a 
claim. This was accepted and the damage to the property was repaired. 
Shortly after the claim Mr S policy ended and he took out cover elsewhere. However in 2020 
he noticed cracks in the walls of the property and a dropped floor around the area the 
escape of water happened. As he thought this was linked to the first claim, he contacted 
Direct Line to claim again. 
Direct Line sent an expert to review the damage but later declined the claim. It said the 
damage was unrelated to the escape of water and if it had been, it would have expected the 
damage to have been evident much earlier. 
Mr S subsequently instructed his own expert to report on the damage. They said that the 
damage may be caused by running sand in the ground under the property that might have 
been caused by the escape of water. Mr S gave the report to Direct Line but it didnt change 
its position. So he made a complaint.
Direct Line didnt uphold the complaint about the claim decline. It said that Mr S didnt have 
subsidence cover and there wasnt enough evidence to say the escape of water was the 
cause of the damage. However it said it had taken too long to respond to Mr S expert report 
and offered £100 compensation to make up for the poor service. Unhappy with this, Mr S 
brought his complaint to this service.  
Our investigator considered the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She 
said Mr S report only suggested possible causes and didnt come to a conclusive opinion. 
She therefore thought there wasnt enough evidence to say the damage was linked to the 
original claim. 
Mr S didnt agree with our investigators opinion. He provided videos of the damage which 
she shared with Direct Line, however her position on the complaint didnt change. Mr S has 
therefore asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering a complaint, it isnt my role to make a decision about the cause of the 
damage in the claim. As I am not an expert in structural damage to buildings. Instead I rely 
on the opinions of those who are experts in order to decide if the business in question has 
made a fair and reasonable decision. 
This case comes down to a difference of opinion on the cause of the damage to Mr S 
property. Mr S says its caused by the leak that was covered by Direct Line in the original 
claim  and should therefore be covered by his policy that was in place at the time. However 
Direct Line dont agree that the two incidents are linked.
To decide if Direct Lines position is fair, Ive considered the evidence provided from both 
sides. 
Direct Lines loss adjuster first carried out a video inspection but later attended in person. On 
doing so they commented:
We lifted the floorboards in the area of the original leak and the ground fill material 
appeared dry, ruling out any on-going or subsequent escape of water issue.
They also said that if the damage had been linked to the escape of water, it would have 
appeared much earlier than a year after the first claim.
Mr S expert also inspected the damage and in his report he concludes that an escape of 
water:
May result from running sand as there was leakage detected in the water supply pipe in the 
recent past and most of the damage had appeared around that area It is highly likely that 
loosely-packed sand may become fluidised by flowing water through the space between the 
grains. Under the pressure of flowing water, the sand particles/grains may have swept along 
the flow and weakened that part of the foundation.
And goes on to recommend repair work followed by:
Monitoring of the cracks to the rear wall is to be carried out before and after the repair work 
so that causes and effectiveness of the repair work can be concluded on the basis of 
practical investigation
Based on the reports, I am persuaded that Direct Line has fairly declined Mr S claim. Its 
report is conclusive in deciding that the cause isnt linked to the escape of water. And its fair 
and reasonable for it to rely on the opinion of its experts. If Mr S disagrees its then for him to 
prove that the expert is wrong. And from the report hes provided I dont agree hes done 
this. 
While Mr S report explains that its likely that the water will cause the sand to become fluid, 
it only offers this as a suggested cause of the damage. And goes on to say that further 
monitoring will be required to confirm the cause. So while I agree it says this may be a 
cause, I dont think the report alone is enough to say that Direct Lines expert was incorrect 
in its conclusion that the damage is unrelated to the escape of water.
I note Mr S has provided a further video and letter from his expert. Ive considered these but 
they dont change my position. While the surveyor indicates the damage may be due to 
water, again this isnt conclusive. And they say that the damage is likely linked to the leak as 
it is close to where it happened, even though there is further damage identified in other 
areas that appears unexplained. 
So based on the evidence provided, I am persuaded that Direct Line has acted fairly and 
reasonably by concluding the new damage isnt linked to the original escape of water claim 
and therefore isnt covered under the policy Mr S had with it. Should Mr S choose to carry out further investigative work or monitoring, and this comes to a 
conclusion about the claims being linked then Id expect Direct Line to re-consider the claim 
based on this. However based on the evidence available, Im satisfied it has acted fairly. 
Finally, I note Direct Line caused some delays to the claim that could have been avoided 
and made an error in one of its letters to Mr S. Its offered £100 compensation to make up for 
this poor service and this is in line with how much I would have offered had it not. So I wont 
ask for it to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman