DRN-3599896
The complaint
Ms F complains that Metro Bank PLC registered a marker at CIFAS, the national fraud 
database.
What happened
Ms F opened the account in October 2017. She was then 16 and was at college. She says 
that her older boyfriend, who lived opposite the college and who she was staying with, 
accessed her account. He told her that his mother had sent a payment of £9,800 to her 
account and he had transferred most of this to his siblings. She also says that he then 
manipulated me and forced me to transfer the money to her account at a different financial 
business. And said that he went on at her about this for a whole day before being pushed 
around a little bit before me doing the transfer.
Metro Bank said it received a report from another bank that the payment of £9,800 and a 
further one of £500 were reported as fraudulently obtained as part of a scam. The money 
was credited to Ms Fs account on 5 December 2017 and all but some £44 paid out that day. 
There were two payments to Ms Fs account at another financial business  one for £50 and 
the other for £1,150. Metro Bank had closed her account and added the marker.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that CIFAS 
guidance for a marker were:
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial crime has 
been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could confidently
report the conduct of the subject to the police.
She had asked Ms F for copies of her bank statements at the other financial business the 
transfers were made to. Ms F hadnt provided these or her signed consent for this service to 
contact that business for information. So, our adjudicator said she couldnt safely say where 
that money had gone. She has also asked Ms F for information about her report of this 
matter to police but not received anything either. She noted that when Ms F opened the 
account at Metro Bank she claimed to be in employment and earning £1,800 a month and 
that wasnt true. There were discrepancies in her account of how far the nearest Metro Bank 
was when she opened the account. And it wasnt right that the branch of the business that 
shed transferred part of the money to was near the college either. Ms F had said she left 
her Metro Bank card and one for a different bank (not the one used for the transfers to her) 
in her bag at her boyfriends home. It was unclear why that other account wouldnt have 
been used.
Ms F didnt agree. She said that it was unfair that this marker had been in place for so long. 
She said that it would have been impossible for her to get this amount of money and move it 
around. Ms F was then 16 and wasnt going to know how to hack a bank. She had seen 
how these things happened to vulnerable people. Her memory of what happened isnt 
complete now as she has had mental trauma. She was put under pressure to do this. And 
her mistake was to say she had a job  she did in the end get a job as she intended. She 
disputed how far it was to the Metro Bank branch and said she could have walked there in 
the time she said. She wanted this marker to be removed given the impact it is having on 
her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is most likely. I 
think Ms F has had a reasonable period of time to provide any further evidence and she 
hasnt done so. And I consider I can fairly make my decision on what is available.
The issue is whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Metro Bank needs 
to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities.
Ive taken into account guidance from CIFAS about cases where someone receives 
fraudulent payments into their account like this  acting as a so called money mule. And 
that relevant factors in deciding whether Ms F was deliberately complicit in what happened 
include whether she knew or ought to have known that the money wasnt legitimate, whether 
she may have benefitted from the money by keeping part and whether she has provided 
generic or inconsistent explanations.
Ive listened to the call Ms F had with our adjudicator. I understand that neither of her other 
then existing accounts would have allowed any significant transfers as they were young 
peoples accounts. Ms F clearly told Metro Bank she was working and was given a full 
account which allowed these significant transfers. She said that all she wanted was the free 
lollipops given by Metro Bank as an incentive to open the account which I find difficult to 
accept as credible. I place no significant weight on what she says about how long it took her 
to walk to the branch, noting that it seemed to be relatively close to the property where her 
family lived and which shed given as her address on the account application. 
I understand Ms Fs point that there were large sums involved here. And while I make no 
assumptions relating to her age I agree with her that this was an organised fraud and as she 
says likely was co-ordinated by someone else. That doesnt rule out her involvement in 
facilitating this and thats what I need to decide on.
She says she was pressured into allowing her boyfriend to use her account which she didnt 
want to do. But she also accepts that she left the account passwords and at times her phone 
with him and which she says allowed him to do so. She was reasonably required to keep 
that information safe especially if she realised what his intentions were.
I accept that as over five years have now passed her memory of events may not be clear. 
But I think that the timing of the payments is important in assessing her explanation. The first 
payment of this fraudulent money out of her Metro Bank account was at 10:22 on 5 
December 2017. The payments to her own other account were made at 11:09 and 11:13 
and then further payments to other third parties were made. Most of the money had gone by 
12:07. But notably her card and PIN were used for a cash withdrawal at 12:59 and also at a 
convenience store for a payment of £10.73 at around that time. The point is that the 
payments to her account came during the other payments. There was no delay. And this is 
sharply counter to the testimony shes provided. She also hasnt co-operated in establishing 
where the significant amount of money paid to her other account went. She said that the 
card on this account was with her. It is unclear why it would be necessary for this transfer to take place given the other money had quickly gone without issue to other payees. 
Ms F has said that her relationship was of an abusive nature. And I think that this is 
something the police would investigate. She says she was warned by police about potential 
reprisals and so must have explained things. But again, there is nothing to show that and 
what she says.
So, while her testimony is evidence it isnt supported. Having balanced all these factors, I 
think it most likely she agreed to allow her account to be used to receive this money. I dont 
consider she reasonably thought that funds of this size were legitimate. And the money was 
moved on in part to an account she had control of and hasnt been explained. She wasnt 
entitled to that money. I am satisfied that she was most likely complicit in what happened.
Metro Bank says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Ms F received fraudulent funds 
into her account. So, Ive looked at whether Metro Bank was fair to apply the marker, based 
on the evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the 
business must have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set 
by CIFAS. This essentially means that it needs to have enough information to make a formal 
report to the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable 
grounds to believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Ms Fs account of events and the evidence she has provided; Im satisfied 
that Metro Bank had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In coming to 
this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Ms F received fraudulent funds into her account and didnt report this to Metro Bank 
at the time.
- She was in control of who had the benefit of this money.
- Metro Bank had grounds to believe that Ms F had used fraudulently obtained funds 
based on the evidence it had.
I appreciate she will be very disappointed by my decision. I dont have a reasonable basis to 
require Metro Bank to take any further action.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 Michael Crewe
Ombudsman