DRN-3915185
The complaint
Mr L complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed his business banking account without 
notice and that this had a significant impact.
What happened
Mr L explains that his account was closed in May 2022. He had no knowledge that this 
would happen and hadnt received any letters about this. Mr L says he was in regular contact 
with Barclays and that no one told him.
Barclays said that it had written to Mr L on several occasions to request information about 
his business. This was part of a know your customer exercise and as Mr L didnt respond it 
gave him two months notice of the closure of his account. Mr L had been in contact with 
member of staff on a regular basis and so it offered to pay him £200 for poor service.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Barclays do anything more. Shed seen evidence that 
letters were sent to the address held for Mr L. Hed confirmed that this was the correct 
address. Barclays wasnt required to send these by recorded delivery. The compensation 
reflected the missed opportunity for a member of staff to tell Mr L about the proposed 
closure when he was discussing his loan. A complaint about that loan was being looked into 
separately by Barclays and wouldnt be part of this complaint.
Mr L didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said he wasnt comfortable 
with the outcome and didnt think hed been treated fairly. He described the closure of the 
account as unlawful and this had a direct impact on his small business. He hadnt received 
any of the letters but had received statements to his address. He thought that the issue 
regarding the loan was all part of one complaint and hed not had a response from Barclays. 
The compensation of £200 is insufficient for the stress caused and the knock-on effects. And 
he had very frequent conversations with a manager.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service provides informal dispute resolution, and we arent a court. Ill look at whether 
the closure of the account was in line with the terms and conditions and fair here. As our 
adjudicator has previously mentioned to Mr L this complaint wont consider his loan as that 
will be separate.
Barclays needs to comply with legal and regulatory requirements. One aspect of that is for it 
to ensure it has information about its business customers. Ive seen audit evidence that it 
sent four letters about its process to do so to Mr L. It cant be responsible for the postal 
system, and these letters were sent over a period of five months. 
It's not in dispute that Mr L didnt provide the information Barclays asked for and which I 
dont see was an unreasonable requirement. Under its terms and conditions, it can give 
notice to close an account with two months notice. Im satisfied it sent that here in 
November 2021 and it explains that due to a backlog the account wasnt closed until May 
2022. Its also not in dispute that Mr L was discussing his financial position with members of 
staff at Barclays over the period. Barclays has told this service that those staff arent 
involved with the know your customer exercise and didnt have sight of the same systems. 
Nevertheless, I think the notice to close the account was a material factor and that there was 
a missed opportunity to tell Mr L about that again. So, I agree that the compensation offered 
is fair for that.
I consider that the account was closed in line with the terms and conditions and that 
Barclays hasnt acted unfairly. So, I know Mr L will be disappointed when I say that I dont 
have a reasonable basis to require Barclays to do anything more about this complaint than 
its already offered to.
My final decision
Barclays has made an offer to settle this complaint which I think is fair in the circumstances. 
So, my decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC pay Mr L £200 as it has offered to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman