DRN-3006719
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc has turned down a cancellation claim on 
their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B have travel insurance as a benefit of their packaged bank account.
Mr and Mrs B had booked a holiday abroad to a country Ill call A. They were due to travel 
between 1 and 11 March 2020.
However, in the days before Mr and Mrs B were due to travel, some towns in a country 
neighbouring A were put into quarantine as a result of growing numbers of cases of Covid-
19. On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 to be a 
pandemic. And on 17 March 2020, the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised UK 
nationals against all but essential travel abroad.
Due to Mr and Mrs Bs age and as Mr B suffered from asthma, they were concerned about 
the risks that Covid-19 potentially posed to them. So they felt it was necessary and 
unavoidable for them to cancel their trip. They made a claim on their travel insurance policy 
for the costs associated with the cancellation.
AXA turned down Mr and Mrs Bs claim. It said the policy terms simply didnt cover the 
circumstances of it.
Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with AXAs decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld. She considered the 
two sections of the policy terms which would potentially apply to Mr and Mrs Bs claim. But 
neither the FCO nor the WHO were advising against travel to A at the point Mr and Mrs Bs 
trip was cancelled. And she wasnt persuaded there was evidence to suggest that Mr and 
Mrs Bs pre-booked accommodation couldnt be used due to the pandemic. So she didnt 
think the claim was covered by the terms of Mr and Mrs Bs policy.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed. They sent a detailed response to the investigators assessment, 
which Ive summarised below:
They queried whether under the cancellation section of the policy, only formal FCO 
guidance would form the sole justification for cancelling a trip under these 
circumstances;
They queried whether, under Travel Disruption cover, accommodation has to be 
closed because of a disease, rather than the prevalence of the disease in the local 
area, in order for a claim to succeed;
Our investigator had made an error of fact, as they said their pre-booked hotel had 
been quarantined before they were due to travel;
The investigator didnt make a finding on whether it was right or wrong for Mr and 
Mrs B to cancel their holiday. They accept they were bound by the policy terms, but 
they were also required to behave in a prudent and responsible way;
They were unsure which regulations the investigator had referred to, as theyre 
aware of no such relevant statutory instrument;
The cancellation section of the policy refers to cancellation needing to be necessary 
and unavoidable;
The policy wording refers to a directive of the FCO, WHO or similar body. A directive 
isnt defined in the policy terms and they felt it was wide enough to include other 
bodies. They considered the Department of Health could be a similar body and both 
it and the BBC were providing warnings against Covid-19 at the relevant time. They 
felt that the investigator had interpreted the policy restrictively and wrongly by 
referring only to WHO and FCO advice. They believed that law-abiding and 
responsible people wouldve followed warnings given by the media and Department 
of Health;
Covid-19 had been spreading into A from the towns which bordered it. They 
considered it was irrelevant whether or not their pre-booked hotel was open  they 
believed the relevant question was whether they could have used their 
accommodation. They felt this posed the question of whether it would be prudent or 
reasonable to expose themselves to Covid-19;
The policy terms state that policyholders shouldnt travel against FCO advice. They 
queried whether if they had travelled outside of the Department of Health advice, 
AXA wouldve turned down the claim on the grounds that theyd travelled against 
government advice;
They believed the correct outcome was for me to quash both AXAs decision and the 
investigators assessment and to conclude that AXA was liable for the claim.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs B, Ive decided it was fair for AXA 
to turn down their claim. Ill explain why.
Firstly, while Ive summarised Mr and Mrs Bs detailed response to our investigator, Id like to 
reassure them that Ive carefully considered all theyve said and sent us. In making my 
decision though, I wont comment on each and every point theyve made and our rules dont 
require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues.
Its important I explain my role. It isnt for me to decide whether or not Mr and Mrs B made 
the right choice when they decided not to travel. My role is to decide whether AXA made 
any errors in the way it handled Mr and Mrs Bs claim and to reach a decision based on what 
I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
The relevant industry regulator is the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The FCA has 
issued rules for insurers to follow when carrying out insurance activities. These rules are 
called the Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook and can be found on the FCAs 
website.
ICOBS 8.1.1 states that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And they mustnt 
turn down claims unreasonably.So Ive considered, amongst other things, relevant law and the relevant regulators rules, 
together with the terms and conditions of the policy and the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Bs 
claim to decide whether AXA handled the claim fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of the policy, as these form the basis of Mr and 
Mrs Bs contract with AXA. As Mr and Mrs B cancelled their trip ahead of travelling, I think it 
was appropriate for AXA to consider the claim under two potential sections  section A  
cancellation or curtailment charges and section Q  Travel Disruption cover. Ive set out the 
relevant sections below, which Ive abridged to reflect the claim type:
Cancellation
What is covered 
We will pay You up to £10,000 (inclusive of any valid claims payable under Sections K- Ski 
pack and Section Q  Travel disruption coven for any irrecoverable unused travel and 
accommodation costs (including excursions up to £250) and other prepaid charges 
(including green fees of up to £75 per day, up to a maximum of £300) which You have paid 
or are contracted to pay together with any reasonable additional travel expenses incurred if: 
cancellation of the Trip is necessary and unavoidableas a result of any of the following 
events occurring: (Bold is my emphasis)
1. The death, Bodily Injury or illness of:
a. You
b. any person with whom You are travelling or have arranged to travel with
c. any person with whom You have arranged to reside temporarily
d. Your Close Relative
e. Your Close Business Associate
2. Compulsory quarantine, jury service attendance or being called as a witness at a Court of
Law of You or any person with whom You are travelling or have arranged to travel with.
3. Redundancy of You or any person who You are travelling or have arranged to travel with
which qualifies for payment under current United Kingdom redundancy payment legislation,
and at the time of booking the Trip there was no reason to believe anyone would be made
redundant.
4. You or any person with whom You are travelling or have arranged to travel with are a
member of the Armed Forces, Police, Fire, Nursing or Ambulance Services or employees of
a Government Department and have Your/their authorised leave cancelled for operational
reasons, provided that such cancellation or Curtailment could not reasonably have been
expected at the time this insurance is purchased by You.
5. The Police requesting You to remain at or return to Your Home when a loss in excess of
£1,500 is involved due to serious damage to Your Home caused by fire, aircraft, explosion,
storm, flood, subsidence, malicious persons or theft.
6. Medical complications as a result of Your pregnancy or the pregnancy of anyone who You
have arranged to travel or stay with during the Trip.
7. The Travel Advice Unit of the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) or the World Health
Organisation (WHO) or similar body issuing a directive:
a. prohibiting all travel or all but essential travel to or
b. recommending evacuation from the country or specific area or event to which You were
travelling providing such directive came into force after You opened Your. Account or 
booked the Trip (whichever is the later.
Travel Disruption CoverWhat is coveredBefore you reach your destination
1. We will pay You up to £10,000 for Your unused travel, accommodation (including
excursions up to £250) and other Pre-paid Charges that You cannot claim back from any
other source if You cannot travel and have to cancel Your Trip as a result of:
a. The Public Transport on which You were booked to travel from Your Home Area being
cancelled or delayed for at least 12 hours from the scheduled time of departure; or
b. You being involuntarily denied boarding (because there are too many passengers for the
seats available) and no suitable alternative flight could be provided within 12 hours; or
c. The Travel Advice Unit of the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) or other regulatory
authority in a country to/from which You are travelling advising against all travel or all but
essential travel to the country or specific area You are travelling to providing the advice
came into force after You opened Your account or made Your travel arrangements for this
Trip (whichever is the later) and was within 28 days of Your departure date; or
d. The insolvency of the Public Transport operator, accommodation providers or their
booking agents; or.
e. Fire, flood, earthquake, explosion, volcanic eruption and/or volcanic ash clouds, tsunami,
landslide, avalanche, hurricane, storm or an outbreak of food poisoning or an infectious
disease meaning You cannot use Your booked accommodation.
Im satisfied the relevant policy terms Ive outlined above clearly set out that not only does 
cancellation have to be necessary and unavoidable, but also needs to fall within the scope of 
one of the listed insured events AXA covers. So Ive turned to consider whether I think AXA 
assessed the claim fairly and in line with the listed insured events set out above. 
In my view, the chronology of events is key here. Mr and Mrs B were due to travel to A on 1 
March 2020. On 21 February 2020, some towns in part of a country neighbouring A were 
placed in quarantine. But there was no formal advice against travelling even to the 
neighbouring country at that point. This wasnt issued by the FCO until 10 March 2020. The 
WHO didnt declare Covid-19 to be a pandemic until 11 March 2020  the day Mr and Mrs B 
were due to return home. And there was no specific advice in place against travelling to A 
itself until 17 March 2020, when the FCO advised against all but essential travel abroad to all 
destinations.
Its clear Mr and Mrs B feel strongly that the Department for Health and BBC were providing 
effective guidance against travel and therefore ought to be treated as a similar body as set 
out in the policy. Ive thought about this. Im not persuaded though that any formal directive 
was given by the UK government to advise against all but essential travel prior to 17 March 
2020. And it was only on 16 March 2020 that the government recommended that higher-risk 
groups should stop unnecessary travel and social contact. Accordingly, while I appreciate 
there was media coverage relating to the potential risks of Covid-19 prior to 17 March 2020, I 
dont find that this constituted a directive against all but essential travel. 
On this basis, Im satisfied it was fair for AXA to conclude that there was no FCO, WHO or 
advice against travelling from a similar body at the point Mr and Mrs B cancelled their trip, or 
which was in place while they wouldve been abroad. 
Mr and Mrs B consider that they were prevented from using their pre-booked 
accommodation as a result of the pandemic and therefore fall within the scope of cover 
provided by Section Q, clause E. I can entirely understand why Mr and Mrs B had concerns 
about travelling to A, given the proximity to neighbouring towns where Covid-19 was 
particularly prevalent. And why they felt they were acting in a prudent manner by cancelling 
their trip. However, I dont agree that an infectious disease prevented them from staying in 
their hotel. On a plain and natural reading of this clause, I find AXAs intention is more likely to cover claims where accommodation is either closed or the area has become inaccessible 
because of one of the listed events. In this case, while Mr and Mrs B say that their hotel was 
placed in quarantine before they were due to travel, theyve provided no documentary 
evidence which supports this position. And Ive seen nothing to suggest that the relevant 
region in A was in quarantine or inaccessible as a result of Covid-19 at that point. So theres 
insufficient evidence before me to demonstrate, on balance, that Mr and Mrs B were unable 
to stay in their hotel because it was closed or inaccessible as a result of the pandemic. 
On such a reading then, Im persuaded it was fair for AXA to conclude that Mr and Mrs Bs 
claim didnt fall within the scope of Section Q, clause E.
Ive considered the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. In my view, it was 
reasonable for AXA to decide that no other section of the contract provided cover for Mr and 
Mrs Bs situation. I acknowledge the policy doesnt cover a policyholders trip if they travel 
against FCO or WHO advice. That wasnt the case here though. There was no FCO advice 
against travel at any time during Mr and Mrs Bs planned trip. And the WHO didnt declare 
Covid-19 to be a pandemic until the date of their planned return. So AXA wouldve been on 
risk for the duration of their holiday. As such, I dont find it would be fair or reasonable for me 
to direct AXA to pay the claim on this basis.
Overall, I find it was fair and reasonable for AXA to turn down Mr and Mrs Bs claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 October 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman