DRN-1863322
 
The complaint
Miss G complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua irresponsibly lent to her and didn't help 
her when she was in financial difficulties.
What happened
Miss G says Aqua's lending to her was irresponsible, and she would like all charges and 
interest refunded to her as well as interest paid on that refund. She says Aqua's actions 
caused her stress and that she opened the Aqua account in around December 2016.
Aqua says the credit card account was opened in July 2016 with a credit limit of £250. It 
says it carried out proportionate checks and that Miss G was in employment with an income 
of over £30,000 a year. It says Miss G didn't have any defaults registered on her credit file or 
any adverse information such as account arrears. Aqua says any charges were correctly 
applied in line with account terms and conditions. It says Miss G told it in early 2017 that she 
was in financial difficulties and says it placed a block on the account and asked her to 
complete and income and expenditure form so that it could help her. Aqua says the form 
was not returned and it tried to speak to Miss G about her position.
Miss G had brought her complaint to us but our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator 
thought Aqua had asked her for the income and expenditure form but Miss G didn't return it.  
And that any charges or interest were applied in line with account terms and conditions. The 
investigator thought there was an opportunity for Miss G to return the form before she was 
admitted to hospital.
Miss G says she wasn't in a position to return the form due to her hospital admission.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the 
overall view that Aqua hasn't made a mistake or acted unfairly. I realise Miss G will be 
disappointed by my decision.
I have looked at the account terms and conditions which I think Miss G would have agreed to 
when the account was opened in July 2016. Those terms and conditions say that interest 
and charges will be made in certain circumstances such as when required payments are not 
made or when spending exceeds the credit limit. I'm satisfied that is what took place here 
and in those circumstances I don't think Aqua made a mistake or acted unfairly by making 
the account charges or by applying interest.
I appreciate that Miss G says the lending was irresponsible. But I have not seen any 
evidence that was the case and I think Miss G was working at the time of the application and 
I don't think Miss G has told us about any adverse information that ought to have prevented 
the lending. I also think the credit limit was relatively low and there didn't appear to be any difficulties until the end of 2016 at the time it appears Miss G lost her job. So I think the 
lending was affordable and that Aqua's checks were reasonable and proportionate and that 
the difficulties were caused some time later when Miss G lost her job.
Lenders should treat their customers in financial difficulties positively and sympathetically. I 
can see that Aqua told Miss G that she needed to complete an income and expenditure form 
before it could provide such support and that it fairly placed an account block on Miss G's 
account for a month to allow her time to complete that form. I can see from Aqua's records 
that it tried to speak to Miss G and in March 2017 asked her again for the form. I don't think 
Miss G did return or complete that form and in those circumstances I don't think Aqua could 
have done any more to have helped Miss G. I also think that in line with account term and 
conditions Aqua was entitled to continue to apply account charges and interest until the 
account was sold.
I appreciate Miss G says she was unable to return the form due to her hospital admission. I 
have looked at the document Miss G has given us. It says Miss G was admitted to hospital 
on 21 April 2017 and discharged on 2 May 2017. I'm satisfied the income and expenditure 
form was sent to Miss G some three months before her hospital admission. And whilst I 
accept Miss G was going through a difficult time, I think she had a reasonable time period 
before her admission to return that form to Aqua.
Overall I'm satisfied the initial lending was not irresponsible and that Aqua tried to help Miss 
G when she was in financial difficulties. For those reasons I can't fairly order Aqua to refund 
any charges or interest applied to her account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 03 September 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman