DRN-3565394
The complaint
Mr J complains there was malpractice by Bank of Scotland trading as Halifax (BOS) in
relation to how they communicated about a credit card account in his name  he would like
to be compensated for this.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
an overview of some of the key events here.
A credit card account with BOS was opened in Mr Js name in around 2009 / 2010. Mr J
says he had no knowledge of this account until his partner (who Ill refer to as Ms T) sadly
passed away in late 2017. Mr J says that Ms T had handled all the household finances and it
was only when shed passed away that he discovered shed spent significant sums
gambling.
Mr J has previously complained to BOS that the card in his name was taken out without his 
knowledge or consent. BOS wrote off the outstanding balance, updated Mr Js credit record, 
and paid him £150 compensation. 
In September 2021, Mr J again complained to BOS. He says that BOS ought to have
contacted him about the credit card arrears. He says if theyd done so, he would have
become aware of Ms Ts gambling sooner and things would have worked out very differently.
He highlighted that hed received correspondence from BOS alongside a cheque for a refund
of some interest and charges in relation to the credit card. He pointed out the letter
acknowledged that BOS hadnt always taken the appropriate course of action when dealing
with his account.
BOS responded and said that they had made appropriate efforts to communicate with Mr J 
at the relevant times and didnt uphold the complaint. They also explained that the cheque 
was in relation to a rectification scheme where customers who met certain criteria were 
eligible for a refund of interest and charges during a particular time period. 
One of our Investigators considered the complaint but ultimately didnt recommend that it 
should be upheld. Mr J disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
Ive already issued a jurisdiction decision explaining that our service can only consider the 
complaint about BOS communication in relation to the credit card account from 22 
September 2015 onwards. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by thanking Mr J for taking the time to speak to me on the phone and for his 
comprehensive explanation of his complaint and the circumstances surrounding it. 
I accept Mr Js testimony that he had no knowledge of Ms Ts gambling issues prior to her 
passing away. I also accept that had he known, he would have taken steps to intervene. 
The crux of the matter here is that Mr J believes that BOS didnt appropriately communicate 
with him. And if they had, it would have put him on the path to discovering the situation with 
Ms T which would have meant things might have turned out very differently.
But just because Mr J has acted in good faith, it doesnt necessarily mean that it would be 
fair and reasonable to expect BOS to pay him compensation. The questions I need to 
consider are:
Were there failings by BOS in relation to their communication about the credit card 
account in Mr Js name?
If there were, would Mr J have gained knowledge of the fraudulent credit card sooner 
but for these?
Id only expect BOS to try to contact Mr J about the credit card (rather than anyone else), as 
at that time they believed him to be the genuine accountholder. And I wouldnt expect BOS 
to use anything other than the contact details they had on file in relation to that account. The 
evidence from BOS shows that within the time period relevant to this complaint, they tried to 
contact Mr J on numerous occasions. This took the form of both phone calls (which went 
unanswered) and text (SMS) messages. Its most likely the number used was what was 
provided at account opening by Ms T. The purposes of these calls / messages were varied 
but included notifications of being close to the credit limit or that payments were overdue. 
BOS have also said that paper statements for the credit card account were sent to Mr Js 
address. And the address on file was most likely to have been correct to enable delivery of 
the card in the first place. So it does seem that Ms T was very efficient in intercepting the 
post and keeping this from Mr J.  
Mr J has also highlighted letters that he received from BOS which he believes to be very 
important evidence. One of these is dated 14 October 2019 and in part says We have 
recently undertaken a review of our internal collections processes and have found that 
between 19 December 2016 and 28 May 2018, following an assessment of your financial 
circumstances, we did not always take the appropriate course of action when dealing with 
your account. The letter included a breakdown for the enclosed cheque indicating a 
payment to Mr J of around £157 made up of refunded interest and charges and 
compensatory interest. I understand Mr J received similar letters and refunds on other 
occasions too. 
Mr J highlights that this letter was received unprompted and includes the admission that 
BOS didnt always take the appropriate course of action in relation to the credit card account. 
As Ive mentioned above when I asked BOS what these letters were about they explained 
that they referred to a rectification scheme. The specifics of which were that they were a 
refund of interest that shouldnt have been charged during financial difficulties. They also 
said the letters and cheques were sent in error as they related to refunds which formed part 
of the outstanding balance that had been written off in early 2018 following the previous 
complaint. They also clarified that they wouldnt be seeking to recover those refunds from 
Mr J. 
It seems that BOS accept that interest was charged when it shouldnt have been  that is 
certainly implicit in the rectification scheme to put things right. But this doesnt necessarily 
mean that there was a failure to communicate about this at the relevant time. Its entirely 
possible that the interest charged could have been adjusted without the need to directly 
communicate with the accountholder. But importantly, even if I were to accept that there was a failure here and that BOS ought to 
have communicated at that time (whether about the interest, charges or for any other 
reason), we would still be in the position Ive described above. That being that Mr J wasnt 
receiving communication attempts from BOS. If he had been, Ive no doubt that he would 
have questioned the existence of the credit card in his name far sooner  as he did when
Ms T passed away and he first became aware of it. 
I have to keep in mind that the credit card remained hidden from Mr J between 2009 / 2010 
and 2018. Within that time period there would have been multiple occasions when the PIN, 
physical card (and replacements for expired cards) etc would have been sent out. BOS have 
said that paper statements were also posted out. The wider circumstances of the situation at 
the time also mean its likely there would have been numerous instances of various 
businesses writing to Mr Js address about the financial situation not being as he thought. 
Indeed, there is information on another complaint that our service considered that Mr J was 
added to a joint account with Ms T with another bank S. Again, something he had no 
knowledge of and this had gone undetected for over 20 years. 
Taking all of this into consideration, even if it could conclusively be shown that BOS didnt 
communicate when they ought to have done in relation to the credit card  Im not 
persuaded this would have resulted in Mr J discovering the existence of this card. Its clear 
that Ms T went to great lengths to hide the true situation from him. 
Ive considered that Mr J has said that at times Ms T was bedridden with her ill health. And 
so he thinks its unlikely she could have hidden everything from him. But that is what actually 
happened in relation to various sources of correspondence. So Im not persuaded that any 
failure to send any particular information or communication would have made a difference 
here. Its important to note that the difference Im referring to is Mr J gaining knowledge of 
the credit card, not whatever actions he would have taken had he found out the true picture 
of the financial situation and Ms Ts gambling at that time. 
The second part of Mr Js complaint referred to the speed with which BOS responded to his 
complaint. He says he submitted lots of information, yet he received a response within 24 
hours. He says its not possible to review that information and properly investigate in such a 
short period of time. Hes highlighted the time it has taken our service to investigate as a 
comparison. I agree with Mr J that it seems unlikely all the information he described could 
have been carefully reviewed in so little time. 
But as Im not upholding this complaint, in essence I dont think BOS got their complaint 
response wrong. So, whilst I can understand why Mr J feels like his complaint wasnt given 
proper consideration, it is up to BOS how long they wish to take to review a complaint. And if 
they decide to respond quickly, and in doing so get something wrong, this is at their own risk. 
If an error in a complaint response has an impact on a customer, then there will be times 
when a compensation award may be appropriate. But ultimately, I cant fairly criticise BOS 
for reaching what I consider to be a fair outcome too quickly. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr J was hoping for. And Id like to be clear that I dont 
think he himself is to blame for the situation in which he found himself. But that doesnt mean 
it would be fair for me to tell BOS they need to compensate him. As firstly I dont think there 
is clear evidence of a communication failure by them, and secondly even if that could be 
shown, Im not persuaded it would have resulted in Mr J becoming aware of this account 
sooner. My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman