DRN-3948890
The complaint
Ms D complains Aviva Insurance Limited trading as Norwich Union Direct (Aviva) hasnt 
handled her marine cargo insurance claim fairly. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
whats happened. 
Ms D took out a marine cargo insurance policy to protect goods she was shipping 
overseas  the policy was underwritten by Aviva.   
The policy provided cover whilst the goods were in transit and for a period when they 
were removed from the vessel and put in storage. 
Ms D paid a third-party freight company to ship her goods. They arrived at a 
warehouse in August 2020. 
In June 2021, Ms D was informed her possessions were being moved to another 
warehouse and were at risk of being auctioned because they hadnt been collected. 
They were subsequently sold, and Ms D claimed under her Aviva policy for the value 
of her goods. 
Aviva agreed to cover the claim as a gesture of goodwill. However, Ms D remained 
unhappy as she thought Aviva should also cover what shed paid the freight company 
to ship her goods.
Aviva disagreed. It said Ms D was aware cover was only in place whilst the goods 
were in transit and for a limited time after they arrived at the destination. And it said it 
couldnt get involved in a dispute with the freight company.
Unhappy, Ms D brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator considered it and 
was satisfied Aviva had settled the claim fairly. He didnt think Aviva was responsible 
for the freight companys actions and that Aviva had handled the matter reasonably. 
So, he didnt ask Aviva to do anything else. 
As Ms D remained unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why. The complaint Ive 
been asked to consider concerns Aviva and its actions. The freight company was not an 
agent of Aviva and is a separate entity, so I wont be commenting on its actions. 
The starting point is the policy document which sets out the terms and conditions of the 
policy. Principally, the policy is designed to cover goods during transit and for a period after, 
as it says: This insurance covers All Risks of loss of or damage to the insured goods []. 
Aviva has already settled Ms Ds claim for the loss of her goods as a gesture of goodwill. It 
recognised Ms D hadnt been able to take possession of these due to extenuating 
circumstances and so, agreed to cover the claim. As Aviva has paid out for the loss of       
Ms Ds goods  and the result would be the same whether it was obligated to or as a gesture 
of goodwill - Im not going to get into whether it needed to as ultimately, it has.
But Ms D also wants her shipping costs reimbursed, so Ive considered if this is covered 
under the policy terms. The policy is intended to protect goods whilst in transit and on its 
face doesnt appear to extend to the transit itself of those goods. Ms D hasnt pointed to 
where in the policy terms she considers it to state that shipping costs are covered. So, based 
on what Ive seen, Im not persuaded this is something Aviva is required to cover in the 
circumstances of Ms Ds claim.
Ms D has asked for the premium to be refunded but as shes benefitted from the policy  as 
Aviva covered the loss of her goods - it wouldnt be reasonable to ask Aviva to refund the 
premium as well. 
Whilst Im sorry to hear Ms D found the situation stressful, I havent seen anything to suggest 
this is attributable to Avivas handling of the claim. Understandably, losing possession of 
personal items would be very upsetting, but that doesnt mean Aviva is responsible for the 
upset felt. And so, I wont be asking it to pay compensation.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman