DRN-3282143
The complaint
Mr O complains that Starling Bank Limited unfairly closed his accounts when they were 
overdrawn. Mr O says he has struggled financially due to the pandemic and feels that 
Starling has harassed him to make payments towards the debt that he cannot afford.
On 10 July 2020 Starling contacted Mr O to say that it had reviewed his accounts and was 
no longer willing to offer him banking facilities. Starling noted that it was giving Mr O two 
months notice of its intention to close his accounts, and asked that he bring the account 
balances to zero by 8 September 2020.
Mr O was not able to repay the outstanding balances of his accounts, and so Starling 
continued to contact him about the debt and his accounts remained open  although his 
ability to use those accounts was restricted.
Mr O was unhappy that, in his view, Starling was pressuring him to repay a debt he could not 
afford, and so he raised a complaint. Starling responded to say that it had acted in line with 
the terms and conditions of his accounts when it decided to close them, but that it was willing 
to work with him to agree a repayment plan for the remaining debt.
Mr O remained unhappy and so he referred his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked at what had happened but didnt think Starling had done anything 
wrong. Mr O disagreed, so his complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered all the evidence provided, Im satisfied that Starling hasnt 
treated Mr O unfairly, and Ill explain why.
I appreciate that Mr O did not want his accounts closed. But the terms and conditions of his 
accounts with Starling clearly set out that Starling can close a customers accounts as long 
as it gives two months notice. And that is what Starling did here, it made a commercial 
decision that it no longer wished to offer Mr O banking facilities and gave him two months 
notice of its intention to close his accounts. This notice period was intended to give Mr O 
time to repay any outstanding balances on his accounts and to find alternative banking 
elsewhere.
But because Mr O didnt repay the overdrawn balances of his accounts, they remained open, 
and Starling made attempts to contact Mr O to arrange a repayment plan for the outstanding 
balance as Mr O had told Starling he was experiencing financial difficulties. 
I know Mr O has said he feels that he was being harassed by Starling, but I dont think its 
unreasonable for Starling to have tried to contact him about his outstanding debt. I also cant 
see that Starling was forcing or pressuring Mr O to make payments he couldnt afford. 
Starling made it clear that it was willing to work with him to find an affordable solution for him 
to repay the balance, it asked for details of his income and expenditure and directed him to 
third parties that could help if he was experiencing financial difficulties. 
So, overall, I think that Starling has acted fairly here. It was entitled to make a commercial 
decision to close his accounts, gave Mr O appropriate notice, and offered appropriate help to 
him when he explained that he was in financial difficulties and wouldnt be able to repay the 
outstanding balance.
I appreciate that this will be disappointing for Mr O, but with everything Ive seen Im satisfied 
that Starling has not acted inappropriately, and so I wont be upholding Mr Os complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Im not upholding Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman