DRN-4467981
The complaint
Mr P complains that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (Casualty) 
declined to cover a claim he made for his dog, under his pet insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr P says his dog was diagnosed with arthritis on 25 April 2023. He made a claim to 
Casualty under his policy, which it declined. It told him his dog had a pre-existing condition 
dating back to May 2018. This meant the claim for arthritis was excluded from cover. 
Mr P says the leg stiffness his dog experienced five years ago wasnt due to arthritis. He 
says his vet supports this view. Mr P says hes had to pay for several treatments for his dog 
that should be covered by his policy with Casualty. 
In its final complaint response Casualty says Mr Ps dog was seen by a vet for lameness in 
his front right leg. It says the vet was concerned the dog was suffering from discomfort in 
both elbows and prescribed a course of the drug Rimadyl. Casualty says Mr Ps dogs 
responded positively to this drug which is commonly prescribed to alleviate the symptoms of 
osteoarthritis. 
Casualty says osteoarthritis is a degenerative disease that worsens over time. It says its pre-
existing condition exclusion applies in this case, based on the issue Mr Ps dog was seen for 
in April 2018. It maintained its decision to decline his claim. 
Mr P didnt think hed been treated fairly and referred the matter to our service. Our 
investigator upheld his complaint. He didnt think the May 2023 diagnosis could reasonably 
be linked to the issue presented in April 2018. Because of this he said Casualty should 
reconsider Mr Ps claim. 
Mr P accepted our investigators findings. Casualty didnt respond. 
As an agreement wasnt reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding Mr Ps complaint. Let me explain. 
Casualty is relying on the following policy exclusions to decline Mr Ps claim:
Any claim for Illness or Accidental Injury that relates to a Pre-existing Condition
And:
Any claim where You have failed to disclose Your pets full medical history; or where Your 
pet has suffered from a Condition, whether or not Treatment was received; and You failed to 
disclose this information to Us at inception of Your Policy, and if it had been disclosed to Us, 
We would have applied an endorsement to Your Policy in respect of that Condition.
The policy defines pre-existing condition as:
..any diagnosed or undiagnosed Condition and/or Associated Condition which has 
happened or has shown Clinical Signs or Symptoms of existing in any form before the Policy 
Start Date or within the Waiting Period.
Ive read the clinical records relating to Mr Ps dogs visit to the vet on 25 April 2018. The 
records say:
lame RF, Concern poos bilateral elbow discomfort, R>L. Discussed if no significant 
improvement or on and off lameness would advise CT scan. 0.00 RIMADYL PALT TABS 
50MG
Ten days later the clinical records say:
History - much improved after ruimadyl and remains normal despite rimadyl0.00 Plan - if 
repeated problem, consider elbow CT
There are no further records showing issues with the dogs elbows or legs until 25 April 
2023. On this date the records say:
Examination - Will not tolerate flexion of the elbows and very stiff on all limbs when walking 
0.00 Diagnosis - Suspect arthritis.
Casualty is relying an exclusion for a pre-existing condition, so the onus is on it to show this 
condition was present before the policy was taken out. Having considered the evidence, I 
dont think it has. 
Mr Ps policy was incepted in October 2022. There was no diagnosis of arthritis prior to this. I 
think our investigator made a valid point that signs of lameness can be exhibited for a variety 
of reasons. The clinical records dont show that Mr Ps dog was suffering from arthritis in 
2018. This is further supported by the lack of any further presentations to the vet for this 
reason, between June 2018 and April 2023. A period of around five years. 
Its for Casualty to show that Mr P made a misrepresentation by not declaring a pre-existing 
condition. In the event that he has made a misrepresentation, the relevant law I have to 
consider is the Consumer Insurance Disclosure and Representations Act (CIDRA). Under 
CIDRA Casualty must show that Mr P made a misrepresentation in the information provided 
at the inception of his policy. He must take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. 
Casualty hasnt shown what it asked Mr P or what his responses were. So, it hasnt shown 
that he made a misrepresentation.
If it were the case that Mr P did make a misrepresentation, Casualty would need to show
that without the misrepresentation it wouldnt have offered cover at all or would only have
done so on different terms. It hasnt demonstrated through its established underwriting
criteria that this is the case here. 
If Casualty considers Mr P made a qualifying misrepresentation, it has to act in line with the
CIDRA rules. But, based on what Ive read it hasnt reasonably shown that the
condition being claimed for was pre-existing, or that there was a misrepresentation that
allowed it to decline Mr Ps claim using the exclusion term it has.    Having considered all of this I dont think Casualty treated Mr P fairly when declining his 
claim for the reason it gave. It should now reconsider his claim without reliance on the pre-
existing condition exclusion.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Casualty & General Insurance Company 
(Europe) Ltd should:
reconsider Mr Ps claim without relying on the pre-existing condition exclusion.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman