DRN-1556154
 
The complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC removed him from a joint account without his 
permission.
What happened
Mr W had a current account with Barclays that he held jointly with his wife. But Barclays 
received a letter to request that Mr W be removed from it, so it would solely be in his wifes 
name. Barclays checked the signatures on this letter and believed it to be a genuine request 
and so took steps to remove Mr Ws name. It wrote to Mr W to confirm this had been done.
But Mr W hadnt signed the letter and hadnt made this request. He complained as he 
believed this was a fraud, and he felt Barclays should have a more formal process 
for making changes to an account like this. He discussed the matter with his local branch 
manager on a number of occasions and Barclays investigated what had happened. 
Barclays apologised for the level of service Mr W had received and for the stress hed been 
caused. But it said that its fraud department didnt have a process which would cover an 
issue such as this situation. It offered to pay Mr W £450 in compensation. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and thought this offer was fair. She looked 
at the signature on the request letter and said that she could understand why Barclays had 
acted on this in good faith. She said she was unable to stipulate what process Barclays 
should have in place for making account changes. The investigator said Barclays had 
acknowledged the poor level of service Mr W had received through the compensation it had 
offered.
Mr W didnt accept the investigators findings. He said he believed he was entitled to half of 
the money in the account at the time and so didnt think the compensation amount was fair 
as this was what he should have anyway.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate Mr Ws strength of feeling about whats happened, particularly because of 
the difficulties of the circumstances at the time.
And I understand that by acting on the request it received, Barclays has removed Mr W from 
a joint account when this wasnt what he wanted or had agreed to. But I dont think Barclays 
acted unfairly or was at fault for the process it followed in making this change.
I say this because it appeared to Barclays that the request to remove Mr W was a genuine 
one, authorised by the signatures of the account holders which matched its records. It has since found that this wasnt the case, and that his signature was forged on the letter. 
As I understand it, Barclays said it could put Mr W back on the account, but that wasnt what 
he wanted. 
Barclays has acknowledged that there were delays in it addressing the matter, and that it 
provided a poor service to Mr W. And for this it has offered to pay Mr W £450 which I think 
represents fair compensation.
I appreciate that Mr W feels he should be entitled to half of the money in the account at the 
time he was removed from it, and that may well be right. But I dont think it should be 
Barclayss responsibility to pay this to him, when it should form part of the settlement or 
negotiations between Mr W and his wife. 
My final decision
My decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr W £450, as it has already offered 
to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2020.
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman