DRN-1641766
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that a direct debit instruction wasnt set up correctly after 
they switched bank account to Nationwide Building Society. 
What happened
In October 2018 Mr and Mrs P opened a joint current account with Nationwide. In November 
2018 they completed a partial account switch and transferred their direct debits. One of the 
direct debits related to a vehicle finance in Mr Ps name. 
When the joint account was opened Mrs P was added as the primary account holder. As a 
result, the direct debit instruction Nationwide sent to the vehicle finance business contained 
Mrs Ps name, not Mr Ps. The vehicle finance business didnt accept the direct debit 
instruction and no further payments were collected. 
In April 2019 Mr and Mrs P became aware of the problem after contact from debt collectors. 
Mrs P contacted Nationwide and was incorrectly told the direct debit instruction noted that 
the account was held in joint names. Mrs P has told us she was able to get a loan in her 
name to resolve the issue with Mr Ps vehicle finance. 
Mr and Mrs P complained to Nationwide and said its error had led to the missed payments 
on the vehicle finance. Nationwide responded on 16 May 2019 and said that Mrs P was the 
primary account holder and it had included her name in the direct debit instruction in line with 
its normal process. Nationwide also said the vehicle finance business must have made 
reasonable efforts to contact Mr P before referring the debt to a third party to collect. 
Nationwide agreed that the service Mrs P received when she complained should have been 
better and paid £50 to apologise. 
Mr and Mrs P referred their complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. 
They didnt uphold the complaint and Mr and Mrs P asked to appeal. As a result, Mr and Mrs 
Ps complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs P are upset. They completed an account switch on the 
basis that their direct debits would be transferred to Nationwide and paid. But, I havent 
found that Nationwide made an error in the way it arranged the account switch and direct 
debit instructions. 
Nationwide wouldnt have been aware which account holders name the vehicle finance 
direct debit was in, so wouldnt have known to include Mr P's name in place of Mrs Ps 
name. Nationwide says that it uses the first applicant as the primary account holder, in this 
case Mrs P, and adds their name to the direct debit instructions. I appreciate that has caused issues here, but I wouldnt expect Nationwide to have specifically checked whos 
name to include on the instruction unless Mr and Mrs P notified them first. 
In its submission to our service, Nationwide noted the vehicle finance business could have 
contacted it after it received a direct debit instruction it couldnt use. But Nationwide wasnt 
made aware of any problems with the direct debit instruction it sent or that it had been 
rejected. In addition, Nationwide has pointed out that the vehicle finance business would 
have needed to contact Mr P about the debt before taking serious steps like passing it to a 
third party to collect. In this case, I can only look at Nationwides actions. But I agree that it 
would be unusual for a lender not to contact a borrower about arrears. 
Mr and Mrs P have said they want the adverse information removed from Mr Ps credit file as 
part of the settlement of this complaint. But Nationwide cant amend information recorded by 
a different business. If Mr P remains unhappy with the information reported on his credit file 
he will have to discuss that with the vehicle finance business. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs P but I havent found that Nationwide made mistakes 
when it arranged for their direct debits to be switched. Nationwide acted in line with its 
normal processes by adding Mrs P as the primary account holder and including her details 
on the direct debit instruction. Nationwide wasnt subsequently made aware the direct debit 
instruction had been refused or that Mr Ps payments werent being made. 
Mrs P says that Nationwide lied when it said the direct debit instruction was sent in joint 
names. Its clear that it was sent in Mrs Ps sole name and I agree she was given the wrong 
information. Nationwide has apologised for the service provided. I can see Mr and Mrs P 
have spent a lot of time trying to sort matters out. But I think that reflects the situation in 
general, rather than mistakes made by Nationwide. Nationwide has paid Mr and Mrs P £50 
for the service they received when discussing the situation and Im satisfied thats fair in all 
the circumstances. As I think Nationwide has dealt with this complaint fairly, Im not telling it 
to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman