DRN-2039049
The complaint
Mrs Ks complaint is about the withholding of her trading profits by ICM Capital Limited 
(ICM).
What happened
Mrs K opened the account  a Contracts for Differences (CFD), including Foreign Exchange 
(Forex), trading account  in early June 2019 and by 19 June 2019 she had funded it with 
capital of $50,000. On this date she also began to trade in the account. The following trades 
took place:
At 14:38:43 on 19 June 2019, she opened a short September Dow Jones Futures 
position (1 lot)  this position was subsequently closed at 19:16:28 on the same date, 
with a loss of $45. 
At 19:34:56 on 19 June 2019, she opened a long position on Gold (10 lots)  this 
position was subsequently closed at 11:46:42 on 20 June 2019, with a profit of 
$26,720.
At 19:36:45 on 19 June 2019, she opened a long position on EUR/USD (20 lots)  
this position was subsequently closed at 12:18:31 on 21 June 2019, with a profit of 
$12,200.
At 19:41:20 on 19 June 2019, she opened another long position on EUR/USD (10 
lots)  this position was subsequently closed at 12:48:52 on 21 June 2019, with a 
profit of $8,070.
At 12:20:06 on 20 June 2019, she opened another long position on EUR/USD (20 
lots) which remained open and was thereafter closed (by ICM) on 21 June 2019, 
generating profit of $11,460.
At 12:20:34 on 20 June 2019, she opened another long position on EUR/USD (10 
lots)  this position was subsequently closed at 12:48:59 on 21 June 2019, with a 
profit of $460.
At 14:24:00 on 21 June 2019, she opened a short position on USD/JPY (10 lots) 
which remained open and was thereafter closed (by ICM) on the same date, 
generating profit of $690.
On 21 June 2019 ICM suspended Mrs Ks account and gave her notice of this. No new 
positions in the account or withdrawals from it were allowed. ICM considered that her trading 
in the above positions were suspicious. It conducted an investigation. On 25 June 2019 it 
gave her notice of the outcome. The notice mainly said:
We have conducted an internal investigation on the grounds of suspecting the integrity of 
the trades that were placed on the 19th, 20th, and 21st June  which related to the EURUSD, 
and USDJPY CFD pairs, and spot gold.
Upon concluding our internal investigation, we have made a decision to terminate your 
account as per our terms and conditions 
It is with regret, that we have taken this decision, but we have a regulatory duty to ensure 
market integrity. We can confirm that, we will return the deposit amount which was made on 
the 19th June of $50,000 
In relation to your closed positions, we have also made a decision to cancel all trades, based 
on our investigation and the terms and conditions mentioned above. As a result, you will not 
be eligible to withdraw the profits made from the positions.
The notice referred to section 17.3 of the accounts terms and conditions which, overall, 
gave it the right to suspend or close an account at its discretion or where an account holder 
committed any of a list of specified wrongdoings.
Mrs K denies any wrongdoing in the account and in the positions she traded. She says the 
account was legitimately funded within ICMs account funding process, that the trades were 
executed on ICMs MT4 platform and that the trades were based on products available on its 
platform. She seeks recovery of the trading profits (as detailed above) withheld by ICM.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should be upheld. 
He noted the following:
That Mrs K was an experienced trader prior to opening her ICM account and that this 
was reflected in the fact that she opened the account with elective professional 
status.
ICMs discretion under section 17.3 ought not to have been exercised arbitrarily. Its 
investigation recorded a concern about sudden large trades matching buying of 
specific products which have a higher risk of arbitrage, but there is a lack of evidence 
to support the concern. In addition, neither the products traded (mainly commonly 
traded currency pairs and a common commodity in gold) nor the duration over which 
they were held suggests the arbitrage trading that ICM alleges.
ICM said it was also concerned about the sizes of Mrs Ks trades, but this can be 
explained on the basis of Mrs Ks previous trading experience. Evidence of that 
showed examples of her trading in comparable products and trade sizes, so her 
trading manner in the ICM account was not unusual for her. It is also worth noting 
that most of her profit was made from two positions  her long EUR/USD positions 
and her Gold position  the markets for which happened to move positively.
After the event, ICM raised another concern about Mrs Ks account being secretly 
conducted by someone else. However, this did not feature in the investigation and 
the evidence that it relies upon in this respect is not persuasive.
ICM should return Mrs Ks trading profits to her with interest and with an additional 
payment of £200 for the trouble and upset the matter has caused her.
ICM disagreed with this outcome. It maintained that the accounts terms and conditions gave 
it the right to terminate the account and withhold the trading profits as it did; and that, there is 
merit in its allegation that Mrs K committed another wrongdoing  which justifies its actions  
by secretly allowing her husband to operate the account (despite her husbands application 
for an account having been declined by ICM shortly before her application). The matter was 
referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as the investigator and I uphold Mrs 
Ks complaint.
ICM has stressed that its two core arguments are as I summarised above. I said  
It maintained that the accounts terms and conditions gave it the right to terminate the 
account and withhold the trading profits as it did; and that, there is merit in its allegation that 
Mrs K committed another wrongdoing  which justifies its actions  by secretly allowing her 
husband to operate the account (despite her husbands application for an account having 
been declined by ICM shortly before her application).
I address the second argument first. I consider, on balance, that it does not hold merit.
ICM concedes as follows    our on-boarding team and the Compliance department had 
very strong suspicions from the onset that [Mrs K] was the wife/spouse of [her husband] 
(whom we rejected a few weeks prior due to a positive match with a Sanctions)  we never 
the less wanted to treat her case on its own merit and gave her the benefit of the doubt by 
allowing the account opening. [my emphasis]
The above, with emphasis, confirms that the suspicion that ICM refers to as its second 
justification for closing the account and withholding Mrs Ks profits after the account had 
been opened and after the relevant trades had been placed (and some closed) was the very 
same suspicion it held at the outset, even before Mrs K was granted the account. ICM 
elected to waive its suspicion and to grant her the account. This, on balance, leads to two 
main conclusions:
ICM determined at the outset, and after its initial view, that it no longer held any 
suspicion about a connection between Mrs K and her husband; or, if it retained its 
suspicion, it is more likely (than not) that it determined there was no concern about 
the connection so Mrs K could proceed to open the account despite the connection. It 
is arguably implausible that ICM would have granted her the account if it was 
concerned about her connection to an applicant it had rejected.
In either case, by allowing the account to be opened despite ICMs suspicion at the 
outset, it has effectively nullified any possible merit that could have existed in citing 
the connection or suspected connection as a ground for the action it took on 25 June 
2019. If, on its own, the connection or suspected connection is to be regarded as 
sufficient reason to terminate Mrs Ks account it surely would have been sufficient 
reason to ensure she was not granted the account in the first instance.
In addition to the above points, the investigator made valid observations about the suspected 
connection between Mrs K and her husband being absent from ICMs investigation and 
about the details relied upon by ICM falling short of establishing a wrongdoing on Mrs Ks 
part.
The argument, from ICM, that survives is its allegation of arbitrage trading by Mrs K. The 
investigation document provides no information about precisely what Mrs K is supposed to 
have done in this respect. To date, ICM does not appear to have provided such information. 
The details of her trades are as I summarised above. They were a total of seven; the only 
loss making trade was held for less than a day; another trade was open for less than a day, 
but only because it was closed as a result of ICMs investigation; three trades were opened 
and closed over the course of two days (with one of the trades closed as a result of ICMs 
investigation); and two trades were opened and closed over the course of three days. 
Overall and on balance, I do not consider these holding times to be indicative of arbitrage 
trading. ICMs own definition of such trading highlights, as its main characteristic, the simultaneous opening and closing of trades to exploit price imperfections in the market. 
Such should usually result in short holding times, which was not the case in Mrs Ks trades.
In terms of the sizes of her trades, I echo the investigators findings. The relevant lot sizes do 
not appear to have been unusual for Mrs K, based on evidence of her previous trading. I 
also note that not only did she have previous trading experience there is evidence to suggest 
she also had professional working experience in investments. 
I do not consider that ICMs suspension of the account, its investigation and its termination of 
the account are the main issues for Mrs K. I appreciate that she is aggrieved by the manners 
in which ICM did all three, but the pursuit within her complaint is for recovery of her trading 
profits and I consider this to be the main issue  given that her capital has already been 
returned to her.
ICM has highlighted the terms for the account which gave it the right or discretion to suspend 
the account, to investigate and to terminate the account, but it appears to have said much 
less about the term for the account that addresses the matter of withholding trading profits. 
The terms for the former do not address the latter, they only concentrate on the suspension 
and/or closure of an account. Section 5.12 addresses the matter of withholding or cancelling 
trading profits in the event of market abuse (including arbitrage trading) by an account 
holder. It says ICM had the right to  disqualify any participant or cancel the trades found in 
violation of the trading rules or applying inappropriate trading strategies. [my emphasis]
Section 5.12 goes on to say ICMs cancellation of trades can include the cancellation of 
profits.
As quoted and emphasised above, ICM needed to have found that Mrs Ks trades had 
violated trading rules by using arbitrage (an inappropriate trading strategy according to the 
terms); and as I noted above, its investigation did not establish this. I have not seen 
evidence of findings by ICM on the way she is supposed to have operated the alleged 
arbitrage trading. There does not even appear to have been a proposed theory in this 
respect, let alone evidence of such trading in practice. ICM appears to have drawn its 
conclusion mainly on the basis of the lot sizes she traded and the products she selected. I 
have addressed the former above. With regards to the latter, I have not seen evidence that 
the specific  and arguably common  currency pair trades and Gold trades which Mrs K 
profited from were inherently vulnerable to arbitrage trading at the times she made them.
Overall and on balance, I do not consider that ICM were entitled to cancel or withhold Mrs 
Ks trading profits and I agree with the investigators conclusion that they must be returned to 
her. I also agree with his proposal of a £200 payment being made by ICM to Mrs K for the 
trouble and upset the matter has caused her.
Putting things right
what must ICM do?
ICM must compensate Mrs K as follows:
Return the total of her trading profits, as summarised above, to her.
Pay her interest on the total of her trading profits at the rate of 8% simple per year 
from the date they were cancelled/withheld to the date of settlement.
Pay her £200 for the trouble and upset the matter has caused her.compensation limit
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000 or £355,000 (depending on when the 
complaint event occurred and when the complaint was referred to us) plus any interest that I 
consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds the compensation limit the respondent 
firm may be asked to pay the balance. Payment of such balance is not part of my 
determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and it is unlikely that a 
complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such balance. A complainant 
may therefore want to consider getting independent legal advice in this respect before 
deciding whether to accept the decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mrs Ks complaint and I order ICM Capital Limited to 
compensate her as set out above. It must also provide her with a calculation of the 
compensation in a clear and simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2020.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman