DRN-3354642
The complaint
Mr F complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc mishandled his requests for a payment holiday, 
including a lack of communication and ultimately adverse information being reported on his 
credit file.
What happened
Mr F had two personal loans with HSBC. In April 2020, he contacted them and said his 
income had been negatively impacted as a result of the global pandemic. He wanted to 
apply for a payment holiday on both his loans. HSBC agreed to his request in May 2020 and 
deferred his loan repayments during June, July and August 2020.
Mr Fs loan repayments were collected by direct debit as normal in September. But as his 
earnings were still impacted, Mr F contacted HSBC in October 2020 to request a three-
month extension of the payment holidays. When he didnt receive a response, Mr F 
assumed his request had been agreed. So, no payments were made in October and 
November 2020. 
Mr F received letters from HSBC advising that hed missed payments. So, he contacted 
them to discuss this. HSBC said his application for a payment holiday extension had been 
declined. So, Mr F complained as they hadnt told him that previously. HSBC agreed theyd 
not told him about the decline and agreed to amend his credit file to remove the reported 
missed payments in October and November 2020.
Mr F received letters again in December 2020 advising that hed missed further payments. 
So, he contacted them to complain. To resolve the problem, HSBC agreed to provide a 
three-month payment break for both his loans.
Mr F wasnt happy with how HSBC had handled his requests and subsequent complaints. 
He thought they shouldve agreed to the payment holiday extension. But where they didnt, 
he thought they shouldve told him promptly so that he could consider other options to 
address his financial challenges. He was also unhappy that the missed payments had 
adversely impacted his credit file with the credit reference agencies. Mr F decided to refer 
his complaint to this service.
HSBC told our adjudicator they agreed theyd made mistakes. They confirmed that any 
adverse information reported in October and November 2020 would be removed from Mr Fs 
credit file. HSBC also offered to pay £500 compensation, should Mr F wish to accept it.
Our adjudicator also agreed that HSBC had made mistakes and thought that the steps 
theyd taken to resolve these were fair in the circumstances. Our adjudicator also thought 
that HSBCs offer of compensation was fair.
Mr F didnt agree with our adjudicators view. He thought HSBC should remove all 
information relating to missed payments and arrangements from his credit file. He also didnt 
think HSBCs decision to refuse his payment holiday extension request met with the FCAs 
guidance. He said their actions, and the impact upon his credit file, meant that he couldnt 
apply for further credit. He also had to delay plans to apply for a mortgage for a property 
purchase as a consequence.
An as agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Fs complaint has been passed to me to consider 
further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to lenders in April 2020 which 
explained what they expected from businesses during the exceptional circumstances arising 
out of the global pandemic. They provided guidance asking businesses to consider payment 
deferrals of up to three months under regulated credit agreements. 
The FCA said their guidance applied where consumers were already experiencing or 
reasonably expect to experience temporary payment difficulties as a result of the pandemic. 
The FCA also said that firms should ensure that there is no negative impact on the 
consumers credit file because of the payment deferral.  
Mr Fs initial request was submitted to HSBC in April 2020. HSBC agreed a three-month 
payment deferral, and the missed payments werent reported on Mr Fs credit file. So, they 
appear to have met the FCAs requirements here.
Further guidance issued by the FCA on 1 July 2020 extended these measures, and where 
consumers were still struggling due to the global pandemic, businesses were advised to 
freeze or reduce their payments for a further three months. In September 2020, the FCA 
announced that the support scheme would change from the end of October 2020. From 
then, firms could continue to support customers in difficulty  but it was down to their 
discretion and customers circumstances.
I cant see that Mr F contacted HSBC before his initial payment deferrals expired. As a 
result, the direct debits for his two loan repayments were reinstated and the loan repayments 
due in September were paid. Mr F made applications to HSBC for a further three-month 
payment deferral on both loans in October 2020. HSBC have confirmed these were 
received. But they also admit that they failed to advise Mr F of the outcome of his 
applications. As a result, Mr F missed the payments due in October and November 2020. 
HSBC explained that Mr Fs applications were declined as hed already met the September 
loan repayments. They said this suggested he could now afford the repayments. But Mr F 
said this wasnt the case, hence his application. Having studied the FCAs guidance, I cant 
find any reference to further payment deferrals not being available where repayments have 
been met after expiry of the first deferrals. So, this appears to be HSBCs own policy. The 
FCAs original guidance only asked business to consider payment deferrals. Any application 
needed to be assessed on its own merits. Given Mr Fs financial circumstances at the time, 
further deferrals may not have been appropriate. Particularly as this would result in 
additional interest being added to Mr Fs existing debts. So, I cant reasonably conclude that 
HSBC ultimately made a mistake by declining his application.
It isnt the role of this service to ask a business to alter its procedures, processes and 
policies, or impose improvements on the level of service offered to their customers. These 
aspects fall firmly within the remit of the regulator  in this case, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). But it is our role to examine and decide whether HSBC has been fair and 
reasonable in the manner in which those policies and procedures are applied in the 
individual circumstances of Mr Fs experience with them.
I agree HSBC couldve done better here. I think if Mr F had been made aware of their 
decision sooner, he couldve considered other options. This may have included a request for 
HSBC to consider alternative forms of support. HSBC reported the missed repayments on 
Mr Fs credit file with the credit reference agency and it was only later he discovered this. 
HSBC agreed to remove the missed payments reported from his credit file. And I think that 
was the right thing to do here. In December 2020, HSBC agreed a three-month payment break for Mr Fs loans. Given the 
changes in the FCAs guidance, this appears to have been an appropriate solution to 
address Mr Fs problems at the time. But Mr F is unhappy that this resulted in details of the 
arrangement being reported on his credit file.
HSBC confirmed the payment breaks in letters to Mr F in December 2020. Their letters said, 
that the payment break doesnt change the terms of your agreementWe have let the 
credit reference agenciesknow that we have entered into an arrangement with you. This 
could make it more difficult for you to borrow in the future. So, I think HSBC were clear 
about the consequences of the arrangements agreed.
Mr F suggests that HSBCs action negatively impacted his credit file. HSBC removed any 
adverse information reported in October and November 2020. So, I dont believe Mr F has 
been disadvantaged here. And I also think the payment breaks appeared to be appropriate, 
given Mr Fs circumstances at the time. Hes confirmed that he didnt have the funds to bring 
payments up to date. HSBC were obliged to report the payment break arrangements to the 
credit reference agencies as this was an accurate reflection of what actually happened. So, I 
cant reasonably say they did anything wrong by doing that. But as Ive already mentioned, I 
do think HSBCs communication couldve been better throughout.
After Mr F referred his complaint to this service, HSBC offered to pay him compensation of 
£500, should he wish to accept it. I think this feels fair in the circumstances here and serves 
to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused by HSBCs failings. So, I shall be formally 
reflecting this in my decision. But, while I realise Mr F will be disappointed, I shant be asking 
HSBC to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Fs complaint:
I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay compensation to Mr F of £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman