DRN-3105219
The complaint
Mr S complains that Underwoods Garage (Tiptree) Limited didnt settle his previous finance 
agreement when he traded in his old car.  
What happened
In June 2020 Mr S went to his local dealership  Underwoods  to trade in his old car. Mr S 
signed an agreement for his new car on 29 June 2020 and it was delivered the following day.
When Mr S purchased the new car, Underwoods advised him that it would arrange for 
settlement of his old finance agreement. It also advised him that he could cancel his direct 
debit for the old agreement.
Underwoods didnt settle the finance agreement. Mr S was unaware of this until he received 
a letter from the finance provider advising him that he had missed a payment.
Mr S complained to his finance provider, who said that responsibility was with the dealership 
because it hadnt sent the funds to settle the agreement.  As a result of the missed payment, 
Mr S says his credit file was negatively impacted, which led to him being unable to proceed 
with a mortgage application and his credit limit being reduced. 
Mr S complained to Underwoods. It acknowledged that it had made an administrative error 
and apologised for any inconvenience caused. It noted that Mr S claimed to have suffered 
loss due to the impact on his credit but said it hadnt been provided with any evidence of 
these losses.
Mr S wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator considered the impact that Underwoods error had had on Mr S. He said he 
thought the marker on Mr Ss credit file wouldve caused an issue but that it had been 
removed after a short time, so the extent of the impact was limited. The investigator said that 
Underwoods should pay compensation of £150 to Mr S.
Mr S didnt agree. He said he didnt think the compensation reflected the loss hed suffered. 
He said the marker had been on his credit file for several months.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under woods has acknowledged that it made an error when it failed to settle the finance. So, 
Ive focussed on the impact the error had on Mr S. In doing so, Ive taken account of 
everything Mr S has said about the losses hes suffered.
Theres no dispute that a marker was recorded on Mr Ss credit file. Mr S has provided 
evidence to show that he was in the process of applying for a mortgage at the time. I think 
its likely that the adverse information on Mr Ss credit file would have caused some issues 
with the mortgage application. Ive also seen some evidence to suggest that Mr S had his 
credit limit reduced on some accounts. I cant be certain that this was solely due to the 
missed payment marker, but again, I think its likely that the negative information o Mr Ss 
credit file would have had an impact.
Underwoods has said that Mr Ss credit file was corrected by the finance provider in August 
2020. Mr S doesnt dispute that the marker was removed, but says it remained on his credit 
file for several months. Ive looked at Mr Ss credit file but Im unable to say how long the 
marker was there for, as its since been removed.
Given that the finance agreement was settled in August 2020, I think its likely that the marker 
wouldve been removed at around the same time. So, I think its fair to say that the adverse 
information would have been on Mr Ss credit file for around 2 months.
Based on everything Ive seen, and whilst I agree that the missed payment marker would 
have had an impact, Im of the view that the impact was limited because the marker was 
removed within a couple of months. Therefore, I agree with the investigator that 
compensation in the sum of £150 is fair and reasonable.   
Putting things right
To put things right, Underwoods Garage (Tiptree) Limited must pay compensation of £150 to 
Mr S. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Underwoods must take the steps Ive set out 
above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman