DRN-3843074
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) changed his fee-paying 
Additions account to a fee-free current account but with a fee-paying Tech Pack added 
without his consent, in January 2017.
Mr W says he never made a claim under the policy, nor registered any device and has never 
received a policy document or registration document.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint, and he didnt think that Barclays had acted 
unfairly or unreasonably.
Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, and so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, Im 
unable to conclude that Barclays has acted unfairly or unreasonably in this matter. I will 
explain why.
In 2016 Barclays decided to withdraw the Additions packaged account  which came into 
effect in January 2017. When it did this, it migrated all Additions accounts to a fee-free 
current account. At the same time, Barclays also added on a Tech Pack to the account, but 
gave all affected account holders the choice to opt out of the Pack being added, if they no 
longer needed the cover it provided. I understand Barclays did this to ensure that similar 
mobile phone insurance cover was provided for those who were relying on the cover 
provided on their existing Additions account.
Mr W says that he never agreed to the changes that were made to the account or agreed to 
the Pack being added to his account. However, as the change to the account in January 
2017 was a migration, rather than the sale of a new account, I think that it was not 
unreasonable for Barclays to do this on an opt out, rather than opt in basis. I say this as 
the Pack was essentially introduced to replace mobile phone insurance benefits that account 
holders had already agreed to and were already paying for under the Additions account.
Barclays was able to make such changes to the Additions account - but only if it gave 
sufficient notice to all affected account holders. This was to ensure account holders had 
sufficient information and time to understand what changes would be made to their account. 
And to ensure account holders understood what options were available to them. I have 
therefore considered whether Barclays gave sufficient notice of the migration that took place 
on Mr Ws account.
Barclays wrote to Mr W on 29 September 2016 to inform him that the Additions package was 
being removed and explained that the account would be changing in January 2017. Included 
with this letter was a summary of all the benefits that will be removed  which included the 
Legal and Tax Helpline feature. It also explained what benefits will continue (via the Tech 
Pack) i.e. mobile phone insurance, that also included gadget cover.
Barclays then wrote to Mr W again, this time on 20 January 2017. This letter confirmed that 
Mr Ws account had been changed to a fee-free account that included a fee-paying Tech 
Pack. The letter explained that Mr W would be charged £9.50 per month for the Pack and 
provided a summary of the insurance cover that was included with the Tech Pack. The letter 
invited Mr W to check whether the account and the Pack benefits were still right for him, and 
if not, to contact Barclays by phone or in branch.
Having looked at copies of the letters that Barclays has provided from its system records, I 
can see that they were correctly addressed. So overall, I think its more likely than not that 
they were sent to Mr W. 
I note that Mr W says that he suffers from a number of medical conditions and was 
recovering from two operations at the time. Im sorry to hear about this, but given the dates 
of the two letters, I think Barclays did give Mr W a reasonable amount of time, so that he 
could decide what to do and contact Barclays, before the changes to the account were due 
to take place. I can also see that after the Tech Pack was added to his account, further 
letters were sent to him in November 2017, January 2018, February 2018 and May 2019. 
These all explained that he had a Tech Pack on his account; that it was optional; how much 
it cost; what benefits it included; and invited Mr W to contact Barclays if the pack was no 
longer needed.
Therefore, Im satisfied that Barclays had done what it was required to do in terms of 
informing Mr W about the changes that were taking place on his account and explaining 
what his options were. Mr W says that the Tech Pack was not a suitable substitute for the 
bundle of benefits provided by the Additions account. However, if Mr W was unhappy with 
what it provided, he was given the choice to opt out of it if he didnt want it. 
So, taking everything into account, I dont think it would be appropriate to ask Barclays to 
refund the fees Mr W paid for the Tech Pack on the account, as I cant see that Barclays has 
done anything wrong when the Pack was added to Mr Ws account. 
Finally, I note that Mr W said that some Additions account holders were able to stay on the 
Additions account after January 2017 and has referred to Barclays website mentioning 
Additions Active. It might help to explain that the Additions Active account was a different 
packaged account to the Additions account. But either way, as far as Im aware, the 
Additions packaged account was completely removed from Barclays range of accounts in 
January 2017. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, Ive not seen Barclays Bank UK Plc do anything that 
was unfair or unreasonable when it migrated Mr Ws Additions account to a fee-free account 
with a Tech Pack added. I therefore dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman