DRN-2208186
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that their policys performance has been mismanaged. They are also 
unhappy at the transfer of business from Legal & General to ReAssure Limited. 
Although this complaint is now against ReAssure Limited, because of a court approved 
transfer of business, the actions being considered are those of Legal & General, and for 
ease Ill refer to Legal & General in this decision. 
What happened
In 1999, Mr and Mrs F were advised by an independent adviser to take out a unit linked 
With-Profits endowment policy for the repayment of their mortgage. Although they still retain 
the policy, Mr and Mrs F changed the basis of their mortgage to repayment a number of 
years ago and kept the policy an investment. 
In 2018, they complained to Legal & General about the poor performance of the policy, and 
that they had been mis-led during the sale. Legal & General didnt uphold their complaint; it 
was satisfied the performance of the policy was reflective of market conditions and an 
independent adviser was responsible for the sale. 
Not happy with that Mr and Mrs F asked us to look into their complaint. They provided an 
extract from the proposal for the transfer of business which they believe is evidence that 
Legal & General was no longer managing their policy effectively. They also wanted to add 
the transfer of business to their complaint. Legal & General agreed to this. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He was satisfied Legal & General were entitled 
to make a commercial decision to transfer some of its business to another provider. And he 
was satisfied the poor performance was reflective of market conditions. 
Mr and Mrs F asked for matter to be referred to an ombudsman. They also indicated their 
expectation of both parties being interviewed as part of the decision-making process. We 
treated this as a hearing request which I considered carefully. And I was satisfied I could 
fairly decide this complaint on the papers before me  something I remain satisfied I can do 
without holding a hearing.
 
Mr and Mrs F have told us that their complaint about mis-selling (which was directed to a 
third-party) has now been upheld. However, they maintain that Legal & General 
mismanaged their premiums. They consider the transfer proposal to be evidence of this and 
a clear admission it mismanaged traditional business in favour of new opportunities and is 
one of the reasons why they should be compensated. They say Legal & General abandoned 
traditional products and their customers to whom they made bold predictions at the outset.
 
They say Legal & General has inferred the predictions were purely down to what the 
regulator allowed. But they consider the ridiculously bold predictions attracted customers 
such as themselves. They have seen shockingly poor performance and have been given a 
range of excuses about the stock market conditions. Their policy is worth little over what they 
have paid into it, and even though they have had life cover the return against that promised 
is way below expectations and Legal & General should pay for the mismanagement  they 
estimate a shortfall of £20-30,000 at maturity.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly like to reassure both parties that although I have only summarised the 
evidence and arguments made, I have read and considered everything provided in its 
entirety. My role isnt to comment on the service Mr and Mrs F have received from us (of 
which they also complain) but to decide the case before me.
 
Transfer of business
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy about Legal & General transferring some of their business, 
including their policy to ReAssure. Many businesses make such commercial decisions and 
that isnt something wed generally interfere with; a business is entitled to decide what 
products it does and doesnt want to continue providing. Im also mindful the process has 
now been completed with the high court approving the transfer of business, so there is little I 
can usefully add to this; a court of law has already agreed it can go ahead. 
Performance of the policy
Mr and Mrs Fs policy is unit linked and invested into the With-Profits fund. The illustration 
provided during the sale shows the fund was invested into a broad spread of shares 
government stocks and commercial property both within the UK and abroad. It was also 
explained that any bonuses were dependent on investment performance of the fund and 
were at Legal & Generals discretion  it also said future bonus rates werent guaranteed. 
As with all With-Profits funds, when investment returns are good some returns are held back 
for a period when investment returns are poor. This is known as the smoothing effect, But 
the fund is still dependent on the overall performance of the investment to determine what 
bonuses, if any, are payable. 
Mr and Mrs F say they were made promises about the performance of the policy. However, I 
have not seen any persuasive evidence that Legal & General made any promises as to how 
the policy would perform. In fact, the illustration from the sale shows that Legal & General 
didnt guarantee any particular value on maturity. It says:
What might the benefits be after 25 years?
If investments grew at 4.0% a year you would get back £75,200
If investments grew at 6.0% a year you would get back £100,000
If investments grew at 8.0% a year you would get back £131,000
These figures are only examples and are not guaranteed  they are not the minimum 
or maximum amounts. What you will get back depends on how your investments 
grow.
You could get back more or less than this.
All insurance companies use the same rates of growth for illustration purposes but 
their charges might vary. 
A yearly growth rate of 6.0% for 25 years would be needed to provide a cash sum of 
£100,000.Do not forget that inflation would reduce what could buy in the future with the 
amounts shown. 
The illustration clearly explains there is no guarantee as to the performance of the policy and 
goes further in explaining that Mr and Mrs F could get more or less than that illustrated. Far 
from making any promises, the illustration shows the risks of investing. If Mr and Mrs F were 
promised anything over and above that during the sales process, that is something for the 
seller to address not Legal & General. 
Mr and Mrs F consider Legal & General has been hiding been hiding behind regulatory 
growth rates. I disagree. From 1999 after the previous regulator became aware of a number 
of endowment providers investment returns being lower than predicted, and because of a 
sustained period of lower investment returns more generally, providers were not allowed to 
use rates higher than those set out above (unless the investment was tax free such as an 
ISA). And those are the rates that have continued to be used since. But as explained in the 
illustration  those rates are not guaranteed to be achieved. 
Investment returns havent been high for many years.  In 1999/2000 the then regulator 
required all endowment providers to regularly write out to its policy holders with projections 
on what policies were likely to achieve on maturity. The very reason this exercise was 
required was due to low investments returns generally, and the high risk of policyholders not 
having sufficient funds from policies to repay their mortgages when due. The letters were 
sent to give a warning to policyholders and to prompt them into acting to ensure the 
repayment of any mortgage. I understand Mr and Mrs F have been regularly sent such 
letters and so have been aware of how their policy was performing. Whilst Mr and Mrs F 
believe Legal & General to have been hiding behind these growth rates, the actions of the 
regulator show investment returns were generally poor across the industry.
That a policy or fund hasnt performed well, is not, of itself, reason enough to uphold this 
complaint. In order to uphold such a complaint about the performance of a policy, I would 
need to conclude the business has been negligent in the management of the underlying 
investments, or in some way mismanaged the fund. Such a complaint is very unlikely to 
succeed. I say this because investment decisions necessarily involve subjective judgments 
by professionals and decision makers about the best or most prudent course of action open 
to them. That another set of professionals may have made a different set of investment 
decisions, or the judgments may have turned out to be wrong (in the sense they didnt 
produce the desired returns) it not evidence of negligence or mismanagement. As Mr and 
Mrs F have alleged negligence and/or mismanagement by Legal & General it is for them to 
provide evidence in support of their position.
 
Mr and Mrs F have provided an extract from the business transfer proposal; they consider 
this is evidence of Legal & Generals mismanagement. The extract says:
Since 2015, Legal & Generals traditional insurance-based savings, pensions, life 
and with profits policies have been largely closed to new customers. At the same 
time, weve shifted our focus to growing our business in other areas, such as creating 
new annuity and insurance contracts, and offering well designed, good quality 
investment options for our growing workplace savings community. 
I fully accept this extract demonstrates that Legal & General was moving away from more 
traditional products to new opportunities. I also accept this shows that Legal & Generals  
focus has shifted to growing business in other areas. But that, of itself, isnt evidence of 
negligence or mismanagement; it is only evidence of Legal & Generals changing business 
model. Mr and Mrs F have inferred mismanagement from the statement. But their belief and inference isnt actual evidence that Legal & General has been negligent in the decisions it 
made about the With-Profits fund or that it has been mismanaged. 
 
Mr and Mrs F have also referred to the amount paid into the policy and its value. But again 
this isnt evidence of negligence or mismanagement. Mr and Mrs Fs policy has a target sum 
of £100,000. And Mr and Mrs F acknowledge the policy has also been providing life cover. 
The cost of life cover and management and administration charges all come out of the 
premium paid (through unit encashment). As Mr and Mrs F get older, the cost of that life 
cover increases. And the value of the policy has an effect on that as well. Mr and Mrs F 
estimate they will have a short fall of £20-30,000. This is broadly in-line with the 4% figure 
illustrated in their quote - £75,200 and so an outcome they were quoted. In broad terms this 
means the policy has been growing at 4% instead of the 6% the premiums were set at  that 
is, their premiums needed to achieve 6% growth to achieve the target sum (it was open to 
Mr and Mrs F to base their premiums on a lower growth rate had they wished  which would 
have resulted in a higher premium and is something that ought to have been discussed with 
the seller).
 
Mr and Mrs F believe Legal & General are hiding behind market conditions. But market 
conditions do have an impact on investment returns whether directly or indirectly, as do 
interest rates. Mr and Mrs F took their policy out when interest rates were low and they have 
fallen a lot lower since. And there have been several periods of upheaval and volatility in the 
market  the terrorist attacks of 9/11 and the financial market crash for example. Im afraid it 
is the nature of investments to be affected by market conditions. 
I have considered Mr and Mrs Fs complaint carefully, but Im not satisfied they have 
provided any persuasive evidence to support their complaint that Legal & General was 
negligent in the management of the With-Profits fund or that it was mismanaged. It follows 
that I dont uphold their complaint. I understand Mr and Mrs F will be disappointed with this 
outcome, given how strongly they feel about this. They are under no obligation to accept it, 
and if they dont it wont be legally binding. This means they will be free to pursue their 
concerns elsewhere if they wish to do so. 
 
This final decision marks the final stage in our process. I hope Mr and Mrs F will understand 
that we wont be able to enter into any further correspondence about the merits of their 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 November 2020. 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman