DRN-3129396
The complaint
Mr P has complained about the way in which his motor insurance provider Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company Limited (LV) recorded an accident he was involved in, and the impact 
this has had on his insurance premiums.
What happened
Mr P was involved in a car accident. In February 2019 after the third-party reported the 
accident Mr P discussed the circumstances with LV.
Mr P explained he was leaving a roundabout when a third-party crossed the lane he was in 
and collided with his vehicle. He explained the accident was low impact and only a small 
amount of damage was caused.
As the third-party had given a different version of events from Mr P, that would have held Mr 
P at fault for the accident, it was agreed between the insurers that the claim would be settled 
on a 50/50 basis. 
Mr P says he was told the claim was closed, so he didnt think any more of it. He only found 
out the claim had been settled on a 50/50 basis when he took out insurance with a different 
provider and after answering no to having a fault claim, was contacted by that provider as it 
had found the claim recorded against him.
As a result of the information being updated Mr P was charged an increased premium. 
LV offered Mr P £100 compensation. It said that although it had made Mr P aware the likely 
outcome of the claim, it could have given more detail of the possible implications.
Mr P feels LV has acted unfairly, it should not have recorded the claim as a fault claim and 
should remove this record. He also feels the compensation offered by LV is too low.
Our Investigator considered Mr Ps complaint. She felt LV had told him it was likely the claim 
would be settled on a 50/50 basis from the outset, and that it had settled his claim fairly. She 
also found that the premium LV applied to Mr Ps policy was fair. So, she didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. 
  
Mr P disagreed. He said the actions of LV could have had a much more serious impact on 
him due to the job that he does. The compensation LV offered also doesnt come close to 
the additional premium being charged by his new insurer. 
As Mr P didnt agree this complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to explain that I am unable to ask LV to change any of its processes or tell it how 
it should handle claims. This is the job of the regulator. I will be looking at whether LV has 
acted fairly and within the terms and conditions of Mr Ps policy when dealing with his 
individual claim.
As our investigator explained, Mr Ps motor insurance policy allowed LV to take over and 
settle his claim in the way it saw fit. This is a common term in motor insurance policies, but 
we expect insurers to act fairly, and consider the available evidence before deciding the 
outcome of any claim.
Mr P gave an explanation as to the accident circumstances when he spoke to LV that 
supported the third-party being at fault. The third-party gave a different explanation that 
favoured them. As there were no independent witnesses or CCTV available it could not be 
determined which version was accurate. As such the claim was settled on a 50/50 basis.
Based on the information available I feel the decision to agree a 50/50 settlement for the 
claim was reasonable. Neither LV nor the third-party insurer were able to prove the other 
side was at fault. When a claim is settled 50/50 it means both parties are considered equally 
at fault for the accident.
The term fault in insurance terms does not mean that either driver is to blame for the 
accident. It simply means that the insurer has had a financial outlay in relation to the claim 
that it has not been able to recover from a third-party.
As LV did incur a cost for the claim it has recorded the claim correctly as a fault claim so I 
wont be asking LV to change this record.
I have listened to the call between LV and Mr P when he discussed the circumstances of the 
claim. Mr P gives a detailed account of the accident and the LV representative explains the 
likely outcome of the claim is that it would be settled 50/50. I agree with LV that it could have 
given more detail of the implications of a 50/50 settlement, but I also think Mr P would have 
been aware that his claim would likely be settled with him being found partly at fault (50/50).
LV offered Mr P £100 compensation for not giving clearer information, and I think this offer is 
reasonable.
Mr P has also complained about the effect the fault claim has had on his insurance 
premiums. As Ive explained above, I think the recording of the claim was fair and I have 
looked at the information provided by LV to support the premium it requested. Again, we are 
unable to ask LV to change its processes. This includes how it calculates premiums. I have 
looked at whether LV has used its usual pricing methods and not treated Mr P differently to 
how it would treat another person in the same circumstances.
LV has provided information on how it calculated Mr Ps premium and provided evidence 
from its underwriting criteria to show it calculated his premium correctly. I am unable to 
provide a copy of this information to Mr P as it is commercially sensitive. But from what I 
have seen, LV applied its underwriting criteria correctly. 
I understand the fault claim will affect Mr Ps motor insurance premiums moving forward, but 
as LV has correctly recorded the claim in a way that accurately reflects the claim outcome, I 
wont be asking it to do anything more.
 My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman