DRN-4434136
The complaint
Mr J complains Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) incorrectly increased 
his premium on his motor insurance policy and threatened to cancel it following a wrongful 
claim by a third party. He says this caused him upset and inconvenience. 
Any reference to Advantage includes its agents.   
What happened
Mr J renewed his comprehensive motor insurance policy with Advantage in December 2022 
for around £270 for the year. In February 2023, Advantage said it had been informed his car 
was involved in an incident around 12 months previously  in March 2022. Mr J said his car 
wasnt involved and provided evidence to support this. 
As the alleged incident happened the previous insurance year, Advantage increased Mr Js 
premium by around £200 to reflect how much more it wouldve cost at renewal if it was 
aware of the incident. Advantage has said it put a hold on the payment of this until 
6 April 2023 so it had time to investigate the claim before Mr J needed to pay. 
On 13 April 2023, Mr J says Advantage wrote to him to explain his identity had been 
mistaken and it was satisfied he wasnt involved in the incident. It said the claim would be 
deleted. But around 24 April 2023, Mr J says he received further correspondence demanding 
payment of the premium increase otherwise his policy would be cancelled. 
As Mr J was worried, he says he called Advantage to confirm the extra charge shouldve 
been removed. He says it was explained to him over the phone, the policy wouldnt be 
cancelled. Mr Js told us he received another threat his policy would be cancelled the 
following day so he called again. Neither party has given us a copy of this correspondence.
On 3 May 2023, Advantage wrote to Mr J to confirm the claim was closed and the £200 
charge had been removed. But Mr J was unhappy that Advantage had increased his 
premium before investigating what had happened and chased him for payment even after it 
identified he wasnt involved in the incident. So he made a complaint. 
As Advantage didnt uphold Mr Js complaint, he asked our service to look into it. Our 
Investigator upheld the complaint and directed Advantage to pay Mr J £100 to make up for 
the distress and inconvenience hed been put through. Mr J accepted our Investigators 
opinion but Advantage didnt as it thought it had followed the correct process and treated him 
fairly. So the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint, Ill explain why. 
Advantage has said after it was notified of an incident involving Mr Js car, it correctly 
increased his premium while it investigated the claim. And, to prevent him being sent 
chasers to pay the fee, it applied a temporary hold on the payment which I accept was fair in 
this case. But overall, I dont think the service provided by Advantage was what Id expect 
and it hasnt done enough to put that right.
Mr J says Advantage wrote to him on 13 April 2023 accepting his vehicle hadnt been 
involved in the incident. And I can see the internal notes support this. So Im satisfied by 
13 April 2023, at the latest, Advantage had enough information to remove the claim and the 
outstanding balance from Mr Js policy. But, as Mr J received a letter around 11 days later 
explaining his policy would be cancelled if he didnt pay, I dont think it did. And I can see 
Advantage told our Investigator it only removed the premium increase on 25 April 2023, 
which was after Mr J had called it the second time. 
Im satisfied receiving this letter and being threatened with the cancellation of the policy 
wouldve been very worrying for Mr J  and I dont think he shouldve needed to call 
Advantage to get the outstanding amount removed. I havent seen any evidence he was 
warned he might receive a letter like this once the hold was removed, or given any guidance 
it could be ignored. So I think receiving the letter wouldve been a shock for him.
Advantage has argued that Mr J wouldve received many more letters throughout the time it 
was investigating the claim if it hadnt put a hold on the payment as a goodwill gesture. And 
whilst that might be the case, I dont think it makes up for the unnecessary worry he wouldve 
experienced receiving the letter later  or the inconvenience of needing to call Advantage to 
find out what had happened. So that doesnt change the outcome in this case.
To put things right in this case, I direct Advantage to pay Mr J £100 in compensation to make 
up for the distress and inconvenience hes been put through. I know Mr Js also said he sent 
some complaint letters by recorded delivery so hes lost out financially due to that. But I think 
the compensation Ive suggested is enough to make up for this too. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Js complaint and direct 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited to put things right by paying him £100 in 
compensation. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr J to accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman