DRN-4052546
The complaint
Mr D and the estate of Mrs D complain that they were given unsuitable investment advice by 
Santander UK Plc. 
What happened
Mr D and the late Mrs D received investment advice from Santander in 2009. They were 
advised to invest c.£229,000 into a Grow Real Wealth investment portfolio. Mr D and the 
estate of Mrs D complained to Santander in 2021 and said, in summary:
Mr and Mrs Ds attitude to risk and circumstances wasnt fully assessed - especially 
Mrs Ds poor health
Too much of their capital had been invested at a level of risk that was unsuitable for 
their circumstances at the time
Their future needs and objectives werent considered
Santander didnt uphold the complaint, so Mr D and the estate of Mrs D asked for our help. 
One of investigators looked into the matter but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
She thought that Mr D and the late Mrs D were experienced investors and had demonstrated 
that they understood high level investment risks and were willing to take these risks. 
She didnt see any evidence that they had declared any health conditions, so it wasnt 
unreasonable that Santander hadnt taken this into account. And she thought that their 
circumstances at the time - no outstanding debt or mortgages and a substantial amount of 
assets and cash savings - meant that they were in a position where they could take some 
risk. 
Mr D and the estate of Mrs D didnt agree and said, in summary:
Any prior experience was from when they were running a profitable business. At the 
time of the advice, theyd sold the business, partly due to Mrs D suffering from 
cancer.
Although they were feeling relatively well at the time of the sale, they werent in good 
health at the time. This would have been apparent with appropriate questioning 
which hadnt occurred. 
Investing almost £230,000 into higher risk investments wasnt appropriate given that 
they had income of just £1,350 per month and had no real opportunity to recover any 
losses from their income. Whilst they had a cash reserve, they were still adapting to 
their recent retirement and were still planning their future. 
The investigator didnt change her opinion so the complaint has been passed to me to make 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and while I think this complaint is finely balanced, I dont think it should be 
upheld and I will now explain why. 
Ive thought about if it was fair and reasonable for Santander to determine that the 
recommended portfolio was suitable for Mr and Mrs D at the time. In doing so, Ive taken into 
account the regulatory requirements that were in place at the time. 
The regulators Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) chapter 9 says, in part, that a firm 
must take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal recommendation, or a decision to 
trade, is suitable for its client. And when making the personal recommendation, the firm must 
obtain the necessary information regarding the client's knowledge and experience, financial 
situation and investment objectives; so as to enable the firm to make the recommendation 
which is suitable for the client. 
Ive considered Santanders actions in reviewing Mr D and the late Mrs Ds circumstances at 
the time of the sale. It was noted that they were both retired and had a joint monthly net 
income of £1,366 and monthly disposable income of £266. They had joint assets of 
c.£408,000 - ISAs valued at c.£61,000, investments of c.£168,000 and cash savings of 
c.£179,000. They were looking to invest for growth and wanted to move to Santander as 
they were unhappy with the service they were receiving from their existing investment 
manager. 
They were experienced investors and the answers they gave to the risk profile questionnaire 
showed that they were happy to accept risk. Some of the questions and their responses 
were:
Investments that offer higher long term returns typically fluctuate in value over time 
Given this, which of the following best applies to you? Response - I am more 
concerned with achieving a high long-term return and accept that the value of my 
investment may rise and fall significantly from month to month.
You make an investment that immediately begins to perform poorly. All similar 
investments are also doing badly. Which of the following applies to you? Response - 
Markets usually rise over long term. However, during an extended fall in markets, I 
would, in principle, either continue with my investment or consider adding to it as a 
long-term buying opportunity.
In investment, there is a common sense trade off between risk and reward. Given 
this, which of the following best applies to you? Response  I would like a high long-
term return from my investment. Sizeable day to day movements in value do not 
particularly concern me.
Living standards go up because wages and real asset prices, including housing, tend 
to rise faster than inflation. Response  I would like to see the value of my investment 
grow over the long term, so I can achieve a better standard of living I accept my 
investment by go down as well as up in value.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that they had a good awareness of risk and 
reward and wanted to invest some of their capital into a product that could deliver the high 
returns they were seeking. But I am mindful that a portfolio which contained 90% equities could be high-risk. However, from what Ive seen, the portfolio invested into equity funds 
which carried a lower level of volatility when compared to direct equity investment. 
Mr and Mrs D were advised to invest c.£327,000 but chose to invest a lower amount of 
c.£230,000 which represented around 56% of their available capital. I think the fact that they 
chose to invest a lower amount than recommended shows that they were in an informed 
position and played an active role in the process. After the investments were put in place 
they had an asset split of 51% equities, 44% cash deposits and 5% bonds which I dont think 
was unreasonable for their circumstances.
I take the point that they would struggle to make up any losses, but this needs to be 
balanced with their objectives. As they were in an informed position about the potential to 
lose money and were still happy to take a high level of risk, Im not persuaded that the 
recommendation was unsuitable. Im also conscious that their disposable income would 
have increased to over £500 when their car loan was repaid, so I dont think they didnt have 
any capacity for loss. 
Ive considered the point thats been made about the advice not taking Mr and Mrs Ds 
recent change in circumstances into account - especially as their income had reduced and 
there was likely to be significant spending from their cash reserves. The documentation from 
the time states that there had been a discussion and Mr and Mrs D had no planned 
expenditure. 
The amount they invested was roughly equal to what they previously held in investments 
and therefore didnt tie up any more of their capital, and meant that they held a substantial 
cash reserve. So, while Mr and Mrs D had unforeseen expenditure after the 
recommendation, I dont think Santander acted unfairly based on the information available to 
them at the time they gave the advice. 
Ive also thought about the point that has been made about Santander not asking enough 
questions to fully establish that Mr and Mrs D werent in good health at the time. Im sorry to 
hear that Mrs D passed away a few years after the advice and I appreciate this would 
undoubtedly have caused a great deal of upset. But given that I wasnt there when the 
advice was given, I must give weight to the contemporaneous records from the time. 
The recommendation letter Santander sent to Mr and Mrs D said We talked about the 
nature of medium to long term (5 years plus) stock market linked investments in relation to 
your current age and health. You said that you are in good health at the moment and are 
happy to invest for the medium to long term.
I can also see that Mr and Mrs D were invited to get in touch with Santander if there were 
any errors in the letter. So, given that they didnt mention any health concerns, I dont see 
how Santander could have taken any health concerns into account when making their 
recommendation so I dont think I can fairly say they acted unfairly or didnt ask enough 
questions. I think its not unreasonable to suggest that if there were any major health 
concerns then these should have been brought up when questions were asked about their 
health or corrected upon receipt of the recommendation letter. 
So, having taken everything into account, I dont think that the advice was unsuitable and I 
wont be asking Santander to do anything else to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and the 
estate of Mrs D to accept or reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman