DRN-2860827
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L say Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold them a payment protection insurance
(PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L took out the PPI policy in 1991 to protect their mortgage repayments. 
The policy was in Mr Ls sole name and gave him accident and sickness cover. They paid a
monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs L disagreed so the complaint was
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed
it here. In response to the adjudicators view Mr L said some of the points he raised with 
Bradford & Bingley hadnt been addressed. I have considered all of his comments carefully 
but will comment here only on those I find to be material to the outcome of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Bradford & Bingley had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs L that the PPI was optional, and they
had to agree to take it out. 
I cant know what was said in the meeting as there are no meeting notes or records, but I
have looked at the available paperwork. The mortgage application form Mr and Mrs L signed 
shows they indicated that they wanted PPI. They selected accident and sickness protection 
and £300 of monthly cover. In the same section of the form there was the option to decline 
PPI. It read If cover is NOT required, please indicate with a cross in the box. Mr L said 
some parts of the form are completed in a different handwriting. I accept an adviser may 
completed certain parts for them, but given the significance of a mortgage application I 
would have expected them to read the form carefully before signing.
Overall, I think the balance of evidence shows Bradford & Bingley made it clear the PPI was 
optional  and Mr and Mrs L chose to take it out. I note they later queried the cover but did 
not go ahead and cancel it in writing as Bradford & Bingley explained they would need to do.
Bradford & Bingley didnt recommend the policy to Mr and Mrs L, so it didnt have to check it
was right for Mr L. Mr L has asked how we established the policy wasnt recommended. The 
finding is based on what we know about how Bradford & Bingley sold PPI at the time, and 
the fact Ive seen no evidence that the lender reviewed their individual circumstances before 
advising they buy PPI  which is the process it would have followed if making a 
recommendation. 
This means its obligation was to give them enough information so they could make an
informed decision about whether they wanted to buy it.
Its possible the information Bradford & Bingley gave Mr and Mrs L about the PPI wasnt as
clear as it should have been. But I dont think they wouldve been put off taking out the policy
if theyd received better information. I say this because:
Mr L was eligible for the policy given his circumstances at the time and the policys
terms and conditions. Mr L wasnt affected by any of the things, such as a pre-
existing medical condition or type of employment, which limited the policys main 
benefits. I note Mr L was self-employed but the policy did not make it any harder for 
someone who was self-employed to claim. As he couldve benefitted from the full 
extent of the cover, I think it unlikely they needed better information about the policys 
exclusions and limitations.
Mr L was self-employed so had no sick pay entitlement, and the PPI offered accident 
and sickness cover for up to 24 months. Mr L told us they had an erratic level of 
savings, but the PPI would have meant they could use them to cover other living 
expenses whilst Mr L wasnt working, or to keep them intact for their future needs. 
Mr L argues the policy was not suitable as he has never had more than 10 to 12 days 
off sick and the claim waiting period was longer than this. But that does mean he 
would never have needed the cover - if he had an accident or become more seriously 
ill it would have provided longer term protection than his existing means. 
Mr and Mrs L were borrowing a large sum of money over a long period, secured 
against their home. Given the serious consequences of missing mortgage 
repayments I think the PPI wouldve been useful for Mr and Mrs L if Mr L was sick or 
had an accident.
I dont know when during the sale the cost of the policy was made clear. But it was 
reasonably priced for the benefit it offered and apparently affordable.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs L have lost out because of any failures at the time of the
sale.
As set out in its final response letter, Bradford & Bingley has made an offer to refund all
premiums paid from 25 October 2000 onwards once it became aware Mr L was no longer 
living at the property and so cannot evidence the policy was suitable for him. Mr L queried 
that date. Bradford & Bingley has evidenced this was when it confirmed to Mr & Mrs L that it 
knew the property was now let - and its records had been subsequently amended. It seems 
that refund has not been yet been paid so the business should now make that payment to Mr 
and Mrs L, adding simple interest* to each payment from when they paid it until the date of 
settlement. It can deduct the value of any successful claims from the amount it owes.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Bradford & Bingley to take off tax from this interest. Bradford &
Bingley must give Mr and Mrs L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr and Mrs Ls complaint for the reasons set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman