DRN-4186598
The complaint
Miss E complains about how Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) handled 
a claim under her car insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss E had a motor insurance policy with Advantage covering her car.
In late November 2022 she collided with another vehicle causing damage to her car. She 
contacted Advantage and made a claim.
Advantage recovered her car and provided Miss E with a courtesy car about eight days later.
Repairs to her car took a total of about eleven weeks to resolve.
Miss E wasnt happy with Advantages communication and processes. She spent a long time 
on the phone and email chasing it for updates and in several instances telling it where her 
car was to move the claim forward.
She complained to Advantage, which offered her £150 for her distress and inconvenience 
during her claim.
Miss E remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. She complains about 
delays during her claim, the poor communication from Advantage, and the way it dealt with 
her complaint. She asks that Advantage pays considerably more for its poor processes and 
service which caused her physical and mental distress throughout her claim.
Our investigator looked into her complaint and said she thought Advantages service hadnt 
been very good, but the compensation it offered was fair and reasonable. 
Miss E didnt agree with the view and asked that her complaint was reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important that I say this service isnt the regulator. Were not able to require an insurance 
company to change its processes. What we can do is look at the way a company has acted 
during a claim and see if its actions are fair and reasonable. 
Also, this service doesnt look to punish or penalise a company for its actions, but instead 
looks at the impact its service has had on an individual and makes an award of 
compensation if its appropriate. The guidelines for compensation are set out on our website.
Some parts of Miss Es complaint are about Advantages complaints process. Were not able 
to consider complaints about complaints activity as that isnt a regulated activity.
Ive read the details about what happened during Miss Es claim and focused on the 
interactions between it and her and the delays getting her car repaired.
I can see Miss E feels particularly strongly about the delays, which started when Advantage 
took about eight days to supply her with a courtesy car. Miss E says she paid for a premium 
service and shes entitled to a courtesy car faster than Advantage sent her. 
Ive looked at Advantages policy wording which says a courtesy car is available during 
repairs. So by it supplying her with a car when her car was taken to a repairer, Advantages 
actions are fair and in line with its cover.
In later correspondence Miss E says that the period of time she was waiting for her car to be 
repaired was excessive and she blames Advantage for this. Ive looked at a timeline of 
events during her claim and I can see there are periods when the claim should have moved 
on quicker. But I can also see the damage to her car was significant, and further damage 
was found when the car was stripped down. I cant reasonably say thats Advantages fault. 
It also said there were delays awaiting parts, which is due to the ongoing disruption to the 
global supply chain. Again, I cant reasonably say thats Advantages fault.
In the file Ive been provided I can see Miss E points out that the impact was at a speed of 
about 35 mph and as the damage was only to the front of her car she thinks Advantage took 
too long to repair it. The total claim took about 11 weeks to resolve, which Miss E believed 
was about double what was actually required. 
Ive thought about this and I think its fair to say that damage caused by hitting another 
vehicle at this speed could have caused significant damage to Miss Es car. Its likely that a 
substantial number of parts were damaged in an impact of this type, including ones that cant 
be seen on first inspection. In its final response, Advantage mentions that if further damage 
was found it could mean that Miss Es car might be written-off, which I think is a useful guide 
as to the complexity of the damage caused, and the subsequent repair.
I can also see that repairs were initially authorised within about 16 days. Then further 
damage was found and parts needed to be ordered. Much of this took place over the festive 
period. Then the repairs began in late-January. Its my understanding that a courtesy car 
was provided to Miss E during this time, so I think Advantage has acted fairly and 
reasonably to minimise her disruption. 
Taking everything into account, I think its likely that some delays in repairing Miss Es car 
were caused by Advantage and Ill consider this further below.
Miss E is also very unhappy with Advantages communication, both internally between it and 
its suppliers and repairers, and with her. I can see from her evidence that she spent a 
considerable amount of time and effort contacting Advantage. I can see from Advantages 
responses to her that it felt its service wasnt good enough for her and it apologised and 
offered her £150 compensation for the delays and poor communication.
In later correspondence with this service Miss E rejected this amount saying she didnt think 
it was enough for Advantage not following its own processes. Ive said above that this 
service doesnt look to punish companies for their actions.
Taking into account this services guidelines on compensation, I think the amount of 
compensation offered by Advantage is fair and reasonable and Im not doing to ask it to pay 
more.My final decision
Advantage Insurance Company Limited has already made an offer of £150 to settle this 
complaint and I think this offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Advantage Insurance Company Limited should pay Miss E £150 if it 
hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman