DRN-3552781
The complaint
Ms and Mr K are unhappy that AWP P&C SA declined a claim they made on their travel 
insurance policy. 
What happened
In January 2020 Ms K and Mr K booked flights to a country Ill refer to as S. On 11 
March 2020 the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 to be a global 
pandemic. A few days later, on 17 March 2020, the Foreign and Commonwealth 
Development Office (FCDO) advised against all but essential travel abroad.
Ms and Mr K took out a travel insurance policy on 12 March 2020 via a price 
comparison website. They purchased a single trip policy to cover a trip abroad which 
was due to take place in August 2020.
The FCDO advice remained in force until early July 2020 when the UK government 
introduced travel corridors which allowed some travel abroad. Travellers returning from 
countries which werent on the travel corridor were legally required to self-isolate for 14 
days. S was placed on the travel corridor list but was removed from it in late July 2020. The 
FCDO advice against travel to S remained in place until Ms and Mr Ks planned departure 
date in August 2020. Ms and Mr K didnt fly to S as theyd planned, although I understand 
the flight went ahead.
Ms and Mr K claimed on their travel insurance policy, but their claim was declined as it 
wasnt an insured event under the policy. Unhappy, Ms and Mr K complained to our 
service. They highlighted that they travelled, but also not covered if they had travelled to 
S.
Our investigator looked into what had happened. He explained that there was no cover 
under the policy for a change in FCDO advice. But he noted that there was a general 
exclusion for epidemics and pandemics. As the World Health Organisation (WHO) had 
declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic on 11 March 2020 he thought that AWP had fairly 
declined the claim.
Ms and Mr K didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. They 
explained that it wasnt fair that some policies covered pandemics, and others didnt. They 
also highlighted that there were inconsistencies in the policy documentation available via 
the links in the email compared to the policy documents that AWP said applied to their 
claim. And they reiterated that the policies didnt cover FCDO advice.
Having reviewed the complaint, I asked AWP to provide further information. I asked AWP to 
clarify that they had provided our service with the correct policy terms and conditions. This 
was because in the covering email to Ms and Mr K the policy code was detailed as 
7452TVL 09/19. This didnt match the policy documents provided to our service which had 
a policy code of 7452TVL 03/20. AWP provided a copy of the Insurance Product 
Information Document (IPID) and policy terms for 7452TVL 09/19.
In May 2022 I issued a provisional decision explaining that I wasnt intending to uphold this 
complaint. I said: 
Industry rules and guidance
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set 
out rules and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle 
claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
What are the correct policy terms and conditions?
The email to Ms and Mr K when the policy was sold stated that policies issued after 
23:59 on 13 March 2020 would not cover Covid-19. Ms and Mr K say that as they 
purchased their policy before this cut off time they should be covered for 
cancellation. Im also aware that Ms and Mr K have concerns about the policy terms 
used to assess their claim.
Ive looked at the covering email from AWP to Ms and Mr K which was issued when 
they purchased the policy on 12 March 2020. The email refers to the policy scheme 
number as 7452TVL 09/19.
As Ive explained above, I asked AWP to provide the relevant policy terms and 
conditions for that policy scheme. Having reviewed the policy terms and conditions 
there is no general exclusion for pandemics and epidemics in that version of that 
policy. Thats consistent with the other information in the email which says that 
Covid-19 wont be covered after 23:59 on 12 March 2020. It appears the documents 
originally provided to our service were a later version which included an exclusion 
for pandemics and epidemics.
Taking all of the evidence into account I think the correct policy terms and conditions 
which apply are 7452/TVL 09/19 which dont contain the exclusion for pandemics and 
epidemics.
The relevant documentation
Ive considered the policy terms and conditions and the Insurance Product 
Information Document (IPID) in this case. An IPID is designed to give consumers a 
summary of certain information about a policy in a way that is easy to understand. 
This includes risks which are not covered under the policy.
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) which the insurer has provided 
as relating to Ms and Mr Ks policy says on page one:
What is not covered?
Travel against Foreign and Commonwealth Office advice
Claims arising from prohibitive regulations by the government of any country.
The terms and conditions of Ms and Mr Ks policy say:We will pay you up to the amount shown in the summary of cover for the unused 
portion of your travel and accommodation costs that you have paid or 
contracted to pay and you suffer a financial loss because you cannot get a full 
refund if you cancel before the start of your trip or cut short your trip and return 
home early during the period of insurance because of the following:
1.the death,  bodily  injury,  illness  or being  subject  to quarantine  of 
you, a close  relative  or any person  you have  arranged  to travel  or 
stay with during  your trip; or
2.you being called for jury service  or as a witness in a court  of law (but 
not as an expert  witness or where your employment would normally 
require you to attend court);  or
3.your redundancy, provided that you were working at your current 
place of employment for a minimum of 2 continuous years and that 
you were not aware of any impending redundancy at the time this 
policy was issued or the trip was booked; or
4.your home  being made  uninhabitable due to accidental damage, 
burglary, flooding  or fire; or
5.the police requesting your presence following burglary  or 
attempted burglary  at your home; or
6.your passport,  or the passport  of any person you were intending to 
travel with, being stolen during the 7 days  before the start date of 
your booked trip; or
7.you, or any person you intended to travel with, who is a member 
of the Armed  Forces, emergency services,  the nursing profession 
or a government  employee  being  ordered  to return  to duty.
There is no cover for not travelling due to:
Claims arising from prohibitive regulations by the government of any country.
There is also a general exclusion for:
Your travel to a country or specific area or event which the travel advice unit 
of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office or the World Health Organisation 
has advised against all, or all but essential travel.
Ms and Mr Ks trip didnt go ahead for any of the seven reasons listed in the policy. 
This means their claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions of their policy.
Ive also looked at the remaining sections of Ms and Mr Ks insurance policy, but I 
dont think they held any cover which would pay a benefit in the circumstances they 
found themselves in.
Ive moved on to consider what I think is fair and reasonable in the overall 
circumstances of the case, taking into account the industry rules and guidance and 
the relevant law.There are some limited situations where, if I didnt think an insurer had clearly and 
transparently signposted a policyholder to certain policy exclusions such as an 
exclusion for claims for travelling against FCDO advice, I might think its fair and 
reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of the policy terms and 
conditions. However, I dont think thats the case here and Ill explain why.
Ms and Mr Ks policy also contains an exclusion from claims arising from the 
prohibitive regulations of any government. Its hard to say with any certainty that 
there was one specific reason for Ms and Mr Ks claim. I think a combination of 
factors  the spread of Covid-19, FCDO advice and the requirement to self-isolate 
on their return from S  are all likely to have impacted to some degree on the 
cancellation of the holiday.
Ms and Mr Ks trip didnt go ahead because S was removed from the travel 
corridor exemption list in July 2020. So, the FCDO was no longer advising that S 
was exempt from its advice against all but essential travel. This means Ms and Mr 
K would need to have quarantined on their return to the UK.
The reasons for the trip not going ahead are not covered as listed, insured events 
under their policy. And, in any event, I think its likely the exclusion Ive quoted 
above would apply to the circumstances of their claim anyway. Thats because the 
requirement to quarantine on their return was a regulation imposed by the UK 
government.
Im sorry to disappoint Ms and Mr K but I dont think their claim is covered under 
the terms and conditions of their policy and I dont think there are any 
reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask the insurer to accept their 
claim.
I appreciate that Ms and Mr K are concerned that different policies provided by the 
same insurers contain different terms and conditions. Theyve queried whether 
thats legal or ethical. Insurers are entitled to decide upon the risks they are 
prepared to over and price their policies accordingly. And the level of cover offered 
by an insurer often varies between, and often within, brands. So, Ms and Mr Ks 
comments havent changed my thoughts about the overall outcome of the 
complaint.
AWP didnt respond to my provisional decision. Ms and Mr K made a number of further 
comments. In summary, they said at no point had the requirement to self-isolate been 
mentioned and this wasnt the reason why they didnt travel. They said it was the impact of 
the FCDO advice invalidating cover and theyd have been happy to self-isolate. Mr K said I 
was basing my decision on factors that werent relevant and they couldnt afford to lose the 
money.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im really sorry to disappoint Ms and Mr K but Im not upholding their complaint. The further 
comments havent changed my thoughts about the outcome of this complaint because: 
Im sorry that Ms and Mr K feel that Im basing my decision on factors that havent 
been mentioned before or that they dont feel are relevant. But, as I outlined in my provisional decision, there is no cover under the policy terms for the circumstances in 
which they found themselves. Travel insurance policies arent designed to cover 
every eventuality and unfortunately there is no cover for a change in FCDO advice 
under this policy 
I appreciate that Ms and Mr K say that theyd have been happy to self-isolate and 
that the factors I identified in my provisional decision were not the reason for their 
cancellation. However, I still think its most likely that a combination of factors  the 
spread of Covid-19, FCDO advice and the requirement to self-isolate on their return 
from S  are all likely to have impacted to some degree on the cancellation of the 
holiday.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman