DRN-2255366
The complaint
Mr R complains that Santander UK Plc refused his claim brought under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in relation to flight tickets he purchased. He wants a 
refund and compensation.
What happened
Mr R tells us he booked international flights through a travel agent Ill call T. He states the 
tickets he ordered were for flights from an airline Ill call S. Having arrived at an overseas 
stopping point  where he was required to change flights to proceed to his intended 
destination  he says that the onward flight was provided not by S but by an airline Ill call 
TA. Mr R considers hes been scammed. He explains that he incurred further expense as 
he had to pay additionally for the return flight home using a different airline.
Santander told us that it had refused Mr Rs section 75 claim as the required debtor - creditor 
 supplier link (d-c-s) had been broken.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said the d-c-s 
link had been broken and section 75 didnt apply. He further explained that even if the d-c-s 
link hadnt been broken he would still not have found there had been any misrepresentation. 
He said that all the flights which had been booked for Mr R had been supplied by airlines 
with which S was in a business alliance to supply flights.
Mr R didnt accept this outcome. He said he considered that T was the relevant supplier. As 
its not been possible to resolve this complaint an ombudsmans been asked to make the 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr R was disappointed when he discovered that part of his journey was to 
be on flights supplied by a business which was different to his preferred airline.
Mr Rs complaint is that he was misled into believing that the flights he booked would be 
provided directly by S. In short, it amounts both to an allegation of a misrepresentation and 
breach of contract.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Theres very little dispute in the basic facts which ultimately led to this complaint. Mr R states 
he purchased flights which T had advertised would be supplied by S. But in the event the 
flights on which he was booked and for which e tickets were supplied were - with the 
exception of the outward bound first leg  those of other airlines. Mr R considers himself to 
have been the victim of a scam by T. He also believes T is the supplier of the services about 
which he complains. 
For reasons Ill explain, I do not agree with Mr R that T is the relevant supplier in relation to 
his section 75 claim.
I dont apply the law - directly  but I do take it into account. In some limited circumstances, 
Section 75 gives a consumer an equal claim against the provider of finance as they would 
have against the supplier of the goods or services about which complaint is brought.
For section 75 to be available to the consumer a number of conditions have to apply. There 
has to be an unbroken d-c-s link. And it requires there to have been a misrepresentation and 
/ or breach of contract by the supplier.
Here, Mr R used T to book flights which he expected were to be supplied by S. So whilst T 
was supplying a service to Mr R it wasnt suppling the flights themselves. 
In terms of the d-c-s link the debtor here is Mr R (as he is paying for the flights); the creditor 
is Santander (as it is initially providing the finance to pay for the services via its credit card); 
the supplier of the flights is S (or its business alliance partners). 
If Mr R had booked flights direct with S and used his Santander credit card, then the d-c-s 
link would have remained unbroken. But here theres a fourth party  T. And so the 
transaction was that Mr R used his credit card to pay T  which in turn booked and 
presumably paid its suppliers for the flights.
I accept that the legislation may appear complex and technical but I still have to take it into 
account. Here the presence of a fourth party in the booking chain means that there is no 
valid section 75 claim. And I find that Santander was entitled to decline to uphold Mr Rs 
complaint on that basis.
The investigators view went on to discuss the probable outcome even if the d-c-s link had 
remained unbroken. Whilst I dont disagree with what was said, I dont need to make any 
formal findings on whether there was also any misrepresentation or breach of contract. The 
broken d-c-s link is sufficient by itself to determine the outcome of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman