DRN-4204132
The complaint
K complain that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited  trading as Cashplus (CPlus) made 
errors on their direct debits.
What happened.
K is a farming partnership and they transferred their account to CPlus early in 2022. They 
set up new direct debits (DD) with their energy company (which I shall call X). There were 
two DDs in favour of X, one for the farmhouse and one for the farm buildings. They had 
different reference numbers. The DD for the farmhouse was collected successfully from 
when it was set up. The first payment was collected by X in March 2022 for £152.95, and 
monthly thereafter in variable amounts.
Ks complaint concerns the second DD  for the farm buildings. This wasnt paid until 
January 2023  when a payment of £13.78 was collected by X. So  no payments were 
made throughout 2022.
K complained that CPlus only allowed payment of the first DD (for the farmhouse), but not 
the second one (for farm buildings). X told K that CPlus had cancelled that DD and so K sent 
several new DD mandates to X. But K said that CPlus continually rejected these  and 
couldnt understand why. The upshot of it all was that K had to complete a new DD mandate 
with a new reference number  which involved getting a new energy contract from X, and at 
a higher price than previously. K said theyd complained to OFGEM who said the issue lay 
with the bank - CPlus.
CPlus wrote to K. CPlus said:
- The DD for the farm buildings was set up on 1 March 2022.
- But X didnt make any claims for payment on the DD mandate. 
- Instead, CPlus received several requests from X to set up the DD again  on the 
same reference number. These had been declined as it wasnt possible to have two 
DDs with the same reference number.
- So all X needed to do  was to claim money under the original DD mandate.
- In May 2022, K cancelled the DD. But this cancellation wasnt processed 
successfully, so the DD mandate remained in place.
- But X continued to try to set up the DD mandate again, even though it was still in 
place.
- In November 2022, K contacted CPlus and was advised to cancel the DD mandate  
which was done. CPlus said that in fact, the best thing to have done was simply to 
ask X to claim the money under the existing live mandate. So  that was an error.
- CPlus then reinstated the DD under the old reference. And from then on, X needed to 
collect money under that reference.
- CPlus accepted that the advice to cancel the DD in November 2022 wasnt the best 
thing to do and offered compensation of £40 for that.
K didnt agree and brought their complaint to us. Our investigator said CPlus dealt with the 
complaint reasonably. She said CPlus werent responsible for the DD payments not being 
made.
K asked that their complaint be looked at by an ombudsman and so it has come to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see how frustrating this experience has been for K. As K will appreciate, when a DD is 
set up, the mandate is held by the bank (CPlus), and it is the responsibility of the beneficiary 
(X) to collect the payments under the mandate.
I appreciate that K has complained to OFGEM who said the fault lay with CPlus  but here, I 
can only look at the actions of CPlus  as thats our role. I dont have any information as to 
how OFGEM arrived at their decision.
The DD in question is on Ks farm buildings. I can see it was set up (as CPlus have said) in 
March 2022. And it remained in place as a live DD mandate until November 2022  when it 
was cancelled by CPlus. Ive seen the evidence of this in CPluss records. So  it does 
appear that the responsibility then lay with X to collect the payments due in accordance with 
the mandate. But I can see that this wasnt done throughout 2022  as there arent any 
debits to Ks account with the DD reference number. And CPluss DD records also show that 
no payments were claimed during that period either.
I can also see in CPluss records that X tried to set up the same DD again a further five 
times between the end of March 2022 and September 2022. Each time, this was rejected by 
CPlus  as the DD with the same reference number already existed.
CPlus admitted that they made an error in November 2022 when they advised K to cancel 
the DD  but CPlus then reinstated it (in January 2023) with the same reference number. So 
they resolved matters then  and offered compensation of £40 for that. But  as the DD was 
set up again with the same reference number, and it is this number that is linked to Ks 
energy contract, I presume that Ks energy deal isnt affected.
I can see that the DD is live and money is being collected by X  so matters seem to have 
been resolved.
Therefore, as far as CPlus are concerned, I think theyve acted reasonably and Im not 
asking them to do anymore here  other than to pay the offered compensation of £40  
which I think is a fair way to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
Cashplus has already made an offer to pay £40 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is 
fair in all the circumstances.So my decision is that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited  trading as Cashplus should 
pay £40.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman