DRN-2887751
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard transferred an external 
credit card balance to the wrong Barclaycard when he requested a balance transfer. He 
would like compensation for the stress the matter has caused him.
What happened
Mr C made an online request to transfer his credit card balance from another provider to his 
Barclaycard. The request was processed, but the balance was transferred to a different card 
than Mr C intended. Mr C thought he held just one card with Barclaycard (card A) and said 
he logged onto his online banking using that cards details, so feels the balance shouldve 
been transferred there. Unhappy that it wasnt, he complained. Hes also unhappy with the 
call wait times he experienced, and that when he returned a missed call from Barclaycard, 
no one came back to him to discuss the complaint.
Barclaycard responded. They said Mr C did log in using card As details, but this took him 
into his online banking which gave him access to all active cards. They said the screen 
where the balance transfer was requested wouldve shown the last four digits of the card the 
balance was being transferred to, and this was Mr Cs older card (card B)  so they said the 
error was Mr Cs. 
Barclaycard apologised for the call wait times Mr C experienced, but said in April 2020 due 
to the Covid-19 pandemic, they were experiencing extremely high call volumes and were 
doing what they could to support their customers. They explained that they did try to call 
Mr C to discuss his complaint but were unable to reach him. But overall, they were satisfied 
with how Mr Cs request had been handled. Unhappy with this, Mr C brought his complaint to 
our service. 
An investigator considered Mr Cs complaint and said there was no error on Barclaycards 
part in transferring the balance to card B, as this is what Mr C had requested. And she was 
satisfied Barclaycard tried to contact Mr C to discuss his complaint but couldnt reach him. 
She accepted it wouldve been frustrating for Mr C not to be called back after he returned 
Barclaycards call, and she suggested Barclaycard provide feedback to staff about this. But 
she didnt feel any compensation was due as a result. She agreed it wouldve been 
frustrating that Mr C was unable to reach Barclaycard when he first tried to contact them, but 
she thought that call delays were understandable, given it was at the start of the Covid-19 
pandemic, with many businesses put under tremendous strain.  Overall, she was satisfied with 
how Barclaycard handled Mr Cs request, so she didnt recommend his complaint be upheld.
Unhappy with these findings, Mr C requested an ombudsmans decision. The case has now 
been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate this wouldve been a frustrating issue for Mr C, because as I understand it, to his 
knowledge, he only had one active credit card at the time he requested the balance transfer. 
But Barclaycard have provided evidence showing that at this time there were in fact two 
cards active, and the last four digits of the card showing on the page where Mr C processed 
the request, was for card B, not card A. I can understand why Mr C may not have checked 
the card number, especially as he believed there was only one card active, but on balance, 
from what Ive seen, I dont think Barclaycard were wrong in transferring the balance to card 
B, as this was in line with Mr Cs request at the time. I can also see that no interest was 
charged on this card either, so there was no monetary loss to Mr C. 
Mr C has said he is unhappy with the call wait times he experienced when trying to call 
Barclaycard. But as the investigator has explained, this was at the start of the Covid-19 
pandemic, when businesses were receiving unprecedented volumes of calls, with many 
businesses facing staff shortages, as well as trying to adapt to home working in a very short 
space of time. So given the circumstances, I dont think a lengthy wait, while frustrating, was 
unreasonable at the time. 
Mr C has said Barclaycard told him theyd call him to discuss his complaint, and is unhappy 
that he didnt get that opportunity prior to receiving Barclaycards final response letter (FRL). 
But from the records provided and from Mr Cs testimony, it seems Barclaycard did attempt 
to call Mr C, but were unable to reach him. I can see that Mr C returned this call and was told 
someone would call him back, so I accept it wouldve been frustrating not to have received 
that call prior to receiving Barclaycards FRL. But from all the evidence Ive seen, theres 
nothing to suggest this wouldve changed the outcome of Mr Cs complaint. So, while I agree 
Barclaycard should provide feedback to staff about this, I dont think any compensation is 
due in the circumstances. 
I appreciate Mr C will not be happy with this outcome but, on balance, Im satisfied 
Barclaycard treated Mr C fairly and reasonably. So, for the reasons set out above, I am not 
upholding Mr Cs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman