DRN-3958429
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy Ald Automotive Ltd (ALD) charged him for damage at the end of a hire 
agreement.
What happened
In July 2020 Mr L leased a new car using a hire agreement provided by ALD over 24 
months. The monthly rental payments were £278.26. 
Mr L returned the car at the end of the agreement. The car was inspected and ALD sent him 
an invoice for damage. It was set out as follows:
Left hand rear door £155
Right hand rear door £155
Right hand front door £85
Mr L was unhappy with this and complained to ALD in October 2022. He told ALD he was 
unhappy that it sent him an invoice for damage. He also said he was unhappy that ALD 
didnt give him the opportunity to agree the amount and engage in a settlement discussion. 
He also was unhappy that it didnt provide him with proof that the repair work was carried out 
on the car. 
ALD sent its final response on 26th October 2022. It said, in summary, that it had reviewed 
the damage and thought the charges had been fairly applied. It said it wasnt under any 
obligation to send Mr L proof repairs had been carried out.
ALD then sent a follow-up to Mr L saying that at the end of the lease it was entitled to charge 
for the damage, even where it took a commercial decision not to repair the car before it was 
sold.
Mr L remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator issued an opinion. He said, in summary, that he didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. He said that ALD was entitled to charge for damage under the hire 
agreement. He also said that he didnt think that ALD was required to conduct the repairs for 
which Mr L was charged. Finally, he thought the charges sent to Mr L were fairly applied in 
terms of the damage that had been done to the car. 
Mr L disagreed. He reiterated that ALD hadnt repaired the vehicle. He also told us that the 
person who collected the vehicle on behalf of ALD assured him that the inspection and 
results would trigger a discussion around payment. And he said he didnt think evidence had 
been provided that the car was worth less at auction. Our investigator considered Mr Ls 
response and said this didnt change his opinion.
Mr L remained unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L complains about a hire agreement. Entering into a regulated consumer credit contract 
such as this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider Mr Ls complaint against 
ALD.
Ive firstly considered whether ALD could charge Mr L for the damage to the car. In the terms 
and conditions he agreed to it was stated:
"Fair Wear and Tear" means the most recent British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association (BVRLA) guidelines and Fair Wear and Tear shall be interpreted in accordance 
with those guidelines
So the agreement defined fair wear and tear by reference to guidelines set out by the 
British Vehicle and Rental Leasing Association (BVRLA). 
In addition, the terms and conditions stated:
You agree, and at your own expense to: 
a. maintain the bodywork and the exterior and interior of the Vehicle in good condition, 
having regard to the age and mileage of the Vehicle. In assessing appropriate Vehicle 
condition with regard to age and mileage, we will use the criteria set out in the definition of 
Fair Wear and Tear;
So, I think Mr L agreed to return the car in line with certain guidelines.   It was also agreed 
that ALD would assess the appropriate condition, and that Mr L would pay ALD if the car 
wasnt in this condition. 
Next, Ive considered the fair wear and tear guide from the BVRLA in detail. 
On dents the BVRLA guidance says:
Dents of 15 mm or less in diameter are acceptable provided there are no more than two per 
panel and paint surface is not broken. Chips within dents are not acceptable. Dents on the 
roof or on the swage line of any panel are not acceptable. 
Ive carefully considered the areas of damage for which ALD charged Mr L. On the left hand 
rear door, theres a visible dent in which the paint surface has been broken. Its also along 
the swage line. On the right-hand front door there are around eight separate dents. The 
damage to that particular door is especially obvious. Finally, on the right hand rear door 
there is a visible dent, which Im satisfied based on the photographs is larger than 15 mm. 
So overall, I think the damage falls outside fair wear and tear. And as Mr L agreed to the 
terms and conditions, I think its fair for ALD to have charged him for the damage.
Mr L told us that he was prepared to make some payment for the damage if ALD produced 
evidence to show the charges they incurred for repairs. But I dont think its necessary for 
ALD to do this in order to charge Mr L.
The BVRLA says:
Charges can still be applied at end of lease in cases where the leasing company decides for 
commercial reasons not to repair damageAnd, the terms and conditions Mr L agreed to in relation to damage set out hes responsible 
for :
any resultant decrease in the Vehicle Market Value
So, it follows Im satisfied ALD didnt have to repair the car, nor provide evidence of this.
Mr L has also raised that ALD hasnt evidenced an actual loss to the cars value when it was 
sold. But, in this case, I dont think that would be a reasonable expectation. I say this as what 
a car sells for at auction can depend on many factors  including damage. So, I dont think 
ALD could reasonably evidence this. I need to consider what would be fair and reasonable 
here. Im satisfied estimating the loss of value is a reasonable way of dealing with this 
situation. And I havent seen enough to persuade me the charges ALD made are not fair 
under the circumstances.
Finally, Mr L told us that the collection agent said he could negotiate the cost of the damage. 
But whatever was said to Mr L by the person who collected the car, it doesnt change my 
mind about the damage and charges. So considering everything here, I dont think that ALD 
has acted unfairly or unreasonably in Mr Ls case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Katrina Hyde
Ombudsman