DRN-3268303
The complaint
Miss J has complained that AvantCredit of UK, LLC was irresponsible in lending to her.
What happened
In October 2015 AvantCredit provided Miss J with a loan of £3,000. The loan was repayable 
over 36 months and the monthly repayments were £138.23. The APR was 42.52%. The loan 
was repaid in April 2021.
Miss J complained that AvantCredit hadnt properly checked she could afford the loan.
AvantCredit looked into her complaint and didnt uphold it. It said its checks had been 
properly carried out and it thought the loan was sustainable. Miss J referred her complaint to 
us. 
Our adjudicator upheld Miss Js complaint. She thought AvantCredit was wrong to have 
offered the loan to Miss J. 
As AvantCredit disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the 
overarching questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint are:
Did AvantCredit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss J 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Miss J would have been able to do so?
Did AvantCredit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required AvantCredit to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Miss Js ability to make the repayments under the loan 
agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so AvantCredit had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Miss J undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for AvantCredit to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss J. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Js complaint.
Before granting this loan, AvantCredit verified Miss Js income using a standard industry 
tool. The check came back showing Miss Js monthly income was a minimum of £1,185.64. 
Miss J also said her expenses (including her other credit commitments) were £450 a month. 
AvantCredit carried out a credit search. That showed Miss J had opened 15 credit accounts 
in the last 12 months. Her total monthly credit payments on her active credit accounts were 
£1,050. There is also evidence that she had a history of taking pay day lending. 
I acknowledge AvantCredits point that Miss J had applied for the loan to consolidate her 
existing debts. She had four loans of £2,440, £735, £123 and £92 with repayments of £152, 
£734, £50 and £114 respectively. She owed £1,037 on her credit card and had an overdraft 
of £1,600. The loan of £734 would probably have been a priority to repay together with the 
smaller loans of £123 and £92. She wouldnt have had enough to repay all the loan of 
£2,440 but could have settled her credit card debt and reduced her overdraft. Assuming 
shed done that, her credit commitments could have been reduced but this is all speculation 
because I havent seen any evidence that Miss J told AvantCredit what she intended to do 
with the proceeds of the new loan. 
In my opinion the credit search ought to have raised concerns to AvantCredit that Miss J had 
problems managing her finances. I think AvantCredit should have been concerned about 
whether Miss J could afford the loan. Also given Miss Js credit file showed a clear history of 
using short-term loans, I think it would have been advisable to try to find out whether any 
recent loans werent yet on her credit file. I think overall based on what it had initially 
gathered, it should have looked to carry out a complete review of Miss Js finances to assure 
itself that she could repay the loan in a sustainable way, especially as the loan term was for 
36 months.Miss J has provided us with some bank statements for the period just before taking out this 
loan. Im not suggesting here that these are the checks that AvantCredit should necessarily 
have done. But I think looking at these might have given a good indication of Miss Js 
financial situation around the time she applied for this loan. 
They show that for the month of August she took out three payday/short term loans of over 
£800 and was paying over £600 in respect of her existing credit commitments. She was near 
the limit of her arranged overdraft. This suggests to me that Miss J was at that time 
struggling financially and was applying for short-term credit to repay her other credit 
commitments. That can be one of the hallmarks of someone in financial difficulty. If 
AvantCredit had carried out proportionate checks, I think it is more likely than not that it 
would have uncovered this and then not lent to Miss J. So Im not persuaded that 
AvantCredit acted fairly in lending to Miss J.
Ive also thought about whether AvantCredit acted unfairly in some other way and I havent 
seen any evidence that it did. 
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Miss J to repay the principal amount that she borrowed, 
because shes had the benefit of that lending. But as I have concluded AvantCredit shouldnt 
have provided the loan, it should look to remove the interest and any fees and charges from 
the amount due under the loan agreement. 
AvantCredit should:
  refund all interest, fees and charges on the loan;
pay interest* of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest, fees and charges from the 
date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement; and
remove any negative information about the loan from Miss Js credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to deduct tax from this interest. AvantCredit 
should give Miss J a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Miss Js complaint and require AvantCredit of UK, 
LLC to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman