DRN-2845315
The complaint
Mrs J and Mr J complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) breached their data. 
What happened
Mrs J and Mr J had an account with HSBC. In December 2019 they had transactions 
declined. Their account had been frozen due to a change of address. It transpired that the 
profiles of two customers with the same name and date of birth had been mixed up.
Mrs J and Mr J complained that their statements between August 2019 and December 2019 
had been sent to the wrong address. Their account had then been blocked. And it later 
emerged that there were six entries on Mrs J and Mr Js credit file that had nothing to do with 
them  as it showed the wrong address. This was a consequence of HSBC somehow 
merging the profiles of the two customers. Mrs J and Mr J were looking to move to a new 
house and get another mortgage  this would be affected by what had happened. A PPI 
claim had also been made by the other party at the other address  all of this was stressful 
for Mrs J and Mr J.
HSBC apologised for the data breach. They sent new statements to Mrs J and Mr J. They 
said to us that they couldnt see how the erroneous credit file entries could have been 
caused by HSBCs error.
Mrs J and Mr J brought their complaint to us. Our investigator said that after discussions, 
HSBC offered compensation of £100. But he didnt think that went far enough to address the 
impact on Mrs J and Mr J. The connection of Mrs J and Mr J to the other address had 
caused a financial association to another customer  and caused the entries to be linked. All 
of that would need sorting out. He said HSBC should contact the Credit Reference Agencies 
(CRAs) to explain their mistake  to help Mrs J and Mr J get their credit files corrected. And 
they should pay compensation of £350 in recognition of the stress and inconvenience 
caused.
Mrs J and Mr J didnt accept this. They said that changing their credit files could take months 
of work  causing more anxiety and stress. And - they said that HSBC had been slow to get 
to grips with w complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
I take a slightly different view from our investigator  I think HSBC should pay a higher 
amount of compensation for what happened; and provide more support to Mrs J and Mr J to 
get things sorted out.
I can see that this must have been very stressful for Mrs J and Mr J. They found out their 
names had somehow been associated with someone of the same name, with the same date 
of birth as Mrs J, but at another address. And HSBC had  without their knowledge or 
authority  sent their statements to another address. And because  somehow  HSBC had 
merged the profiles of two customers with the same name  this had also caused Mrs J and 
Mr J to be identified with six product entries at the CRAs. One was for an HSBC current 
account  which wasnt theirs.
I can see that HSBC apologised for its data breach. They sent to Mrs J and Mr J the missing 
statements for the period August 2019 to December 2019. And, after negotiation with our 
investigator, agreed to pay compensation of £100. Our investigator increased this to a 
recommended £350.
But  to be fair, I dont think Ive seen that HSBC have been particularly helpful or proactive 
in supporting Mrs J and Mr J sort out the problems caused. HSBC have made the point  
correctly  that they can only change entries at the CRAs that have been made by HSBC. 
They agreed to change the HSBC entries. But Mrs J and Mr J then got an advice from a 
CRA saying that HSBC had declined to accept the change. So  our investigator had to ask 
HSBC again. And this also impacted again on Mrs J and Mr J.
The entries on the credit file lodged by lenders other than HSBC will need to be changed by 
those lenders or by the CRAs. So - Mrs J and Mr J now must contact the CRAs and 
negotiate with them to amend the entries to disassociate themselves from them. This will 
take some time and work  in an area they wont be familiar with. So, they need help. So, Id 
like to see HSBC supporting them here. And during this period, Mrs J and Mr J will be 
affected if they want to get another mortgage to move to a new house  as prospective 
lenders will see the entries on their credit file.
So  the impact of this on Mrs J and Mr J  both up to now and going forward  is quite 
significant. So, HSBC should:
pay compensation of £500 for distress and inconvenience.
And  they should give positive support to Mrs J and Mr J in amending their credit 
files by (1) changing the HSBC entry (2) writing a letter addressed to the individual 
CRAs (for Mrs J and Mr J to use) which says that HSBC made a mistake in 
confusing the two customer profiles - this letter can then be used by Mrs J and Mr J 
when they correspond with the CRAs (3) HSBC to provide support and guidance to 
Mrs J and make the changes to their credit files  who and how to contact, email 
addresses, phone numbers.
Responses to the provisional decision:
HSBC responded. They said theyd made the changes at the CRA as far as their entries 
were concerned and showed us evidence of that. Mrs J and Mr J didnt have any material 
comments that I needed to consider.
So  I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC advised that theyd changed their entries at the CRA. Other than that, they had no 
particular comments. And neither did Mrs J and Mr J. So, in view of that, I wont be departing 
from what I said in my provisional decision, and for the reasons I gave in it. So, my final 
decision is that HSBC should do what I said in it  other than what theyve already done.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc must:
pay compensation of £500 to Mrs J and Mr J for distress and inconvenience.
  And  they should give positive support to Mrs J and Mr J in amending their credit 
files by (1) writing a letter addressed to the individual CRAs (for Mrs J and Mr J to 
use) which says that HSBC made a mistake in confusing the two customer profiles - 
this letter can then be used by Mrs J and Mr J when they correspond with the CRAs 
(2) HSBC to provide support and guidance to Mrs J and make the changes to their 
credit files  who and how to contact, email addresses, phone numbers.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman