DRN-4310964
The complaint
Mr V complains that Carnegie Consumer Finance Limited will not let him cancel his fixed 
sum loan. 
What happened
In January 2023 Mr V bought a training course from a supplier Ill call E. 
E introduced Mr V to Carnegie with whom he took out a fixed sum loan to finance the 
purchase of the course. The course cost £7,800 and Mr V paid a deposit of £60. The loan 
was repayable over 43 monthly payments of £180 with an APR of 0%.
Within a few weeks of taking out the loan Mr V began to express concerns with E and 
Carnegie. He said he was unhappy with Carnegies actions in administering the agreement 
as it had sent a welcome email with an incorrect end date, overstating it by a month. He was 
also unhappy with the way Carnegie had collected identification and payment details from 
him. 
After these issues, Mr V said he searched online about E and Carnegie and was shocked by 
negative reviews which said it was a scam. Mr V contacted Carnegie and E by email in 
February 2023 asking to cancel the contract due to alleged fraud and because its 
inception was intentionally misleading or false and he no longer ha(d) faith in the services 
provided by your company and cannot continue to work with you in good faith.
When asked by E to elaborate on his concerns Mr V said the course adviser did not discuss 
thoroughly the terms and conditions upon signing the contract.
Mr V later updated this to say that your decision to cancel my contract is not based on any 
accusations of fraud or illegal activity but rather my personal concerns about the system and 
my trust issues.
In its response to Mr V, Carnegie apologised that it made a mistake with the payment end 
date in the email and confirmed its system did have the correct information. It said the 14 
day cooling off period set out in the supply contract had passed and it was no longer 
possible to end the loan agreement with nothing to pay. It said that the monthly payments 
were expected under the agreement.
Dissatisfied Mr V referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. He said the 
cancellation provisions in the supply contract had not been made clear to him before he 
agreed to enrol on the course.
An Investigator didnt think Carnegie needed to put anything right. She said the negative 
online reviews didnt automatically mean there were issues with the content of Mr Vs course 
or that it had been mis-sold and it appeared the course had been made available for him to 
use. She said from the available evidence it appeared Mr V had been made aware of his 
right to cancel the course within the first 14 days but hadnt cancelled within this time. Lastly, 
she didnt think there were any problems with the way Carnegie had collected identification 
or payment information from Mr V. She thought Carnegies apology for getting the term 
wrong in its welcome letter was enough.
Mr V disagreed with the investigator and asked an ombudsman to review his complaint. He 
said:
Unfortunately, I don't have the means to provide to Carnegie right now, due to financial 
concerns, this brought me so much stress at work and affects my mental health as well. 
That's why I would like to completely cancel my course and not to be involve with Carnegie 
and (E) anymore.
It is entirely my fault that I commit to these financing with little knowledge and research, I 
know that it is too late to cancel the course but I am hoping you could understand my 
situation here, I come from the Philippines last March 2022 as a dependent visa, I am fairly 
new around this country as well as the financing stuff.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr V paid for the training course through a fixed sum loan agreement from Carnegie. Section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75) sets out that in certain circumstances, as 
the finance provider, Carnegie is jointly liable for any breach of contract or misrepresentation 
by the supplier, E. 
Also, Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 56) has the effect of making E 
an agent of Carnegie during the antecedent negotiations leading up to Mr V entering into 
the loan agreement. This means Carnegie can be held responsible for the things E said or 
didnt say, and what it did or didnt do during the sales process. This would include all the 
discussions Mr V had with Es salesperson on the day he agreed to buy the course. 
Carnegie has provided a number of documents which it said were signed during the process 
of selling the course to Mr V including the registration form and the loan agreement. Mr V 
hasnt said that these documents are not genuine or that he did not sign them, so Ive 
proceeded on the basis that these are documents he signed. 
Its generally held that if someone has signed a document they are taken to have read and 
understood it. I think in most circumstances the documents Mr V signed would have left a 
reasonable person with the impression that they had 14 days to cancel their purchase. So, 
the starting point here is that Mr V had understood and agreed that he would only have 14 
days to cancel his purchase. 
Mr V does not appear to have said that he was misled about the cancellation provisions, just 
that they were not made clear to him. The registration form that Mr V signed was only two 
pages long and almost half of the second page contained information about the right to 
cancel within 14 days  including that cancelling the supply contract within this time would 
automatically cancel the related loan agreement with Carnegie. Ive not seen enough to 
make me think E failed to give Mr V sufficient information about his cancellation rights before 
he agreed to enrol on the course. 
Mr V pointed out a number of negative online reviews about E and Carnegie which he said 
caused him to lose trust with them. I do understand why this would have concerned Mr V 
when hed just entered into a significant time and cost commitment. But as the investigator 
explained, the experiences of other customers were not necessarily indicative of the experience Mr V would have. The available evidence does not lead me to conclude E failed 
to provide the course with reasonable care and skill or misrepresented it to him  indeed Mr 
V has made little in the way of allegations of such relating to his specific case. Im not 
persuaded there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation by E for which Carnegie 
would be liable. 
Mr V also raised concerns with the way identification and payment information were 
collected from him. The investigator gave detailed reasons as to why she didnt think 
Carnegie had acted inappropriately in this respect and Mr V doesnt appear to have 
challenged these. 
For the avoidance of doubt however, while I do understand why Mr V would be cautious of 
giving away information that was not appropriate, Ive not seen anything that makes me think 
E or Carnegie acted inappropriately in the way it collected information from him either. It 
appears the information asked for was necessary to either verify Mr Vs identity or to obtain 
his authorisation for the deposit or the monthly repayments under the loan agreement. 
Overall, having thought about Carnegies liability to Mr V under the relevant legislation, and 
taking everything else into account, Ive not seen enough to make me think Carnegie unfairly 
declined Mr Vs request to cancel his loan. 
I would remind Carnegie however of its obligation under the Financial Conduct Authority 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) 7.3.4R to treat Mr V with forbearance and due 
consideration in respect of any default or any arrears difficulties he may experience.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Vs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman