DRN-3234221
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that a deposit that he paid for a car acquired with finance from FCE Bank 
Plc has been incorrectly recorded.
What happened
In April 2016 Mr C was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement with 
FCE. Mr C experienced some financial difficulties in 2019 and contacted FCE to see if he 
could reach an agreement to pay off what he owed. FCE provided Mr C with a copy of his 
finance agreement but it didnt match the copy Mr C held  the dates and figures were 
different. Mr C queried this and thought FCE was dealing with the matter, but the agreement 
was defaulted, and a debt recovery company demanded the outstanding balance. Mr C 
complained to FCE.
In response, FCE said the figures in the agreement signed by Mr C were correct and that 
some of the payments he had queried had been paid directly to the dealership and didnt 
form part of the deposit and/or the finance agreement.
Mr C wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator said that although it was confusing that Mr C had been provided with 
different agreements, she was satisfied that the agreement which came into force was the 
one under which there was a lower amount repayable by Mr C, so he hadnt been 
overcharged. The investigator looked at all the payments made by Mr C and said she 
thought FCE had recorded the deposit correctly, and that the other payments made by Mr C 
had been made to the dealership for items which didnt form part of the finance agreement.
Mr C didnt agree. He said hed paid another sum to the dealership and had been told it 
would be used as a deposit in addition to his deposit payment of £4540. He said hed paid a 
total of over £5000 deposit and that this wasnt correctly recorded in the finance agreement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at all the information provided by Mr C, FCE and the dealership with a view to 
determining what the various payments made by Mr C were for, and whether the deposit 
figure shown on the agreement is correct.
Ive also looked at the agreements. Its not clear why so many agreements were generated. 
The difference between the various agreements relates to the amount of deposit and the 
optional final payment.
The agreement which came into force shows a deposit of £4,601, a deposit allowance of 
£1,700 from FCE and an optional final payment of £7,092. Mr C has signed the agreement 
to confirm that he had read it, and that he accepts the terms and conditions.
Ive also looked at the payments made by Mr C towards the optional final payment. These 
total £6,490, which is less than the £7,092 required.
The nub of this complaint is about the payments Mr C made, and how these were applied. 
Mr C says he made the following payments to the dealer:
£320.96
£4,540.00
£289.41
Together these total £5,150.37. Mr C says that all of these payments were towards the 
deposit.
The information provided by the dealership includes invoices for £320.96 and £578.41 for 
work carried out to Mr Cs car. The dealership said that Mr C paid the latter invoice in two 
instalments, the first instalment being £289.41.
Mr C disputes this. He says he was told that the £320.96 would be used as a deposit on the 
car. he says it was also his understanding that the £289.41 was going to be used towards 
the deposit. 
Ive thought about this, but on balance, and because Mr C hasnt provided any evidence that 
he paid the two invoices by any other means, I think its likely that the payments of £320.96 
and £289.41 were paid to settle these invoices.
This means that the only payments made towards the deposit were £460 and £4540. Of this, 
£399 was deducted by the dealership for GAP insurance. Im not persuaded that Mr C paid 
£5150.37 as a deposit.
Taking everything into account, Im unable to say that FCE has recorded the deposit 
incorrectly. I appreciate that Mr C may be unhappy about how his payments were applied by 
the dealership, but this is something he will need to take up with the dealership directly. It 
isnt something Im able to hold FCE responsible for.
For the reasons Ive given, Im unable to uphold the complaint. Im satisfied that FCE has 
recorded the deposit correctly on the agreement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman