DRN-4095116
The complaint
Mr A complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd has terminated an incapacity claim he made on 
his group income protection insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so Im not going to set it out 
in detail here. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key events.
Mr A was insured under his employers group income protection insurance policy. In 2016, 
Mr A became very unwell with neurological symptoms and was signed-off work. His 
employer made an incapacity claim on the policy. Zurich accepted the claim and paid 
monthly benefit from March 2017.
Zurich periodically reviewed the claim over the next few years. Mr A continued to have 
neurological consultations and tried a number of treatments. But he remained incapacitated.
On 25 August 2020, Mr A underwent a video call assessment with Dr M  an independent 
medical examiner (IME). Dr M is a consultant in occupational medicine. Dr M also reviewed 
Mr As medical records. They concluded that based on Mr As reported symptoms and 
activities, he was fit to return to work on a phased basis. Dr M considered Mr A should 
initially return to work for 16 hours per week, building up to full-time hours after three 
months. Dr M recommended that Mr A should be allocated a quieter place in the workplace.
Zurich accordingly decided to terminate Mr As claim from December 2020, as it concluded 
Mr A no longer met the policy definition of incapacity.
Mr A appealed Zurichs decision. He provided evidence from a neurologist which stated that 
he wasnt fit for work. And he underwent an occupational health assessment with a doctor Ill 
call Dr S, who also felt Mr A remained unfit for work.
Zurich asked Dr M to review the further medical evidence. Dr M did so and maintained their 
initial opinion that Mr A had been fit to return to work on a phased basis, in August 2020, 
although they acknowledged that his condition may have further deteriorated since then. 
Based on Dr Ms clinical assessment, Zurich didnt agree to reinstate Mr As claim.
Mr A asked us to look into his complaint. 
Our investigator didnt think it had been unfair for Zurich to terminate Mr As claim. Briefly, 
she concluded it had been fair for Zurich to rely on Dr Ms opinion to cease the payment of 
benefit on the grounds that Mr A no longer met the definition of incapacity.
I issued a provisional decision on 6 April 2023, which explained the reasons why I planned to 
uphold Mr As complaint. I said:
This claim has been in payment for some years. This means that there is extensive medical 
and other evidence and both parties have provided detailed submissions. Id like to reassure 
both parties that Ive read and carefully thought about all theyve said and sent us. In 
reaching my decision though, I havent commented on each point thats been raised and nor 
do our rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of this income protection insurance policy and the available medical evidence, to 
decide whether I think Zurich treated Mr A fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of the insurance 
contract between Mr As employer and Zurich. Theres no dispute that Mr As claim was 
assessed in line with the standard definition of incapacity. This says:
Incapacity or Incapacitated means an illness or injury that causes the Member to be unable 
to work and is applicable under this policy. The Incapacity definition that applies is in your 
policy schedule. The Member must be under the regular supervision and treatment of a 
Medical Practitioner. We can ask for medical evidence at regular intervals throughout a 
claim.
Standard
The Member cannot perform the Material And Substantial Duties of their employment and 
they are not doing any paid work.
The policy terms set out for how long Zurich will continue to pay incapacity benefit. Ive set 
out below what I consider to be the most applicable of the events which trigger termination of 
benefit:
 the limited Income Benefit period ends (if this applies), or
the Member:
 returns to work or no longer satisfies the terms and conditions
 no longer satisfies the definition of Incapacity shown in your policy schedule. 
In my view, Zurichs terms indicate that subject to other conditions, it will continue to pay 
benefit, for as long as its satisfied that a policy beneficiary remains incapacitated. Its clear 
that whilst Zurich accepted that Mr A was entitled to policy benefit for some years, it now 
considers that hes no longer incapacitated and is able to return to work in his own 
occupation. So Ive thought about whether this was a fair conclusion for Zurich to reach.
It's for a policyholder to provide enough evidence to show that they have a valid claim under 
their policy. However, once a claim is in payment, it becomes the insurers responsibility to 
show that the policyholder no longer meets the policy terms. Generally, its fair and 
reasonable for an insurer to periodically review income protection claims and request 
medical evidence to determine whether a claim remains payable. So I think Zurich was
reasonably entitled to commission IME reports during the life of the claim.
Ive looked closely at Dr Ms report of their meeting with Mr A in August 2020. This, taken 
together with their follow-up reviews of additional medical information, appears to be the 
evidence upon which Zurich has placed most weight. Ive set out below some of the reports 
key content:
(Mr A) describes himself as a house husband and carries out a full range of household tasks and also helps to look after his two young children. He does not appear to be restricted on 
the majority of days; however, he does have approximately 3 or 4 days a month which he 
terms bad" when he cannot do anything much. Although he informed me that his symptoms 
are exacerbated by noise, for example when the children are noisy in the same room as Mr 
A, he is able to coach a local (sports) team, which are [sic] likely to involve a fair degree of 
noise.
Prior to the lockdown he was going to the gym 3 or 4 times a week and on one day had a full 
body workout. During his exercise programme at the gym, he is able to weight train, he also 
cycles and walks locally
Today he informed me that it was a good day for him and had a great deal to tell me and 
appeared to be a very articulate individual. He was alert, had good concentration and 
memory and there was no evidence of any psychological difficulties. He gave a very full and 
detailed description of his problems during the 1  hours duration of the remote 
assessment.
Dr Ms report concluded:
After considering all facets of (Mr As) case. I find it difficult to conclude that he is totally 
unable to undertake his normal occupation as. The symptoms, as he described to me are 
variable in degree and there are 3 or 4 days a month where they are severe and he would 
not be able to function in his job environment.
However, for most of the month, symptoms are not so intrusive and severe, although hinder 
him from leading a completely normal life. It would be preferable if he were to be allocated a 
quieter area in the workplace as he complained that noise made his symptoms worse. 
Initially, he should return on a phased basis, working 16 hours a week when he first returns 
to the workplace and to gradually increase his hours of attendance, dependent of course on 
his progress with his full-time hours after 3 months back at work.
Its clear that Dr M, an expert in their field, concluded (and continued to maintain) that Mr A 
was fit for work and therefore no longer met the policy definition of incapacity. In particular, I 
note that Dr M placed some weight on the sports coaching Mr A conducted bi-weekly. As Dr 
M is a consultant in occupational medicine, Ive read and thought about his report(s) very 
carefully, as they represent key evidence.
But in deciding whats fair and reasonable, I also need to think about any other medical 
evidence which has been considered as part of this claim. I am not a medical expert and my 
role is to assess the medical evidence provided by medical professionals who are experts in 
their field to decide which evidence I find most persuasive. As such then, while Ive given a 
great deal of thought to Dr Ms conclusions and rationale, Ive also borne in mind additional 
medical evidence and Mr As job role.
I can see from Mr As neurologists records (and indeed from Dr Ms report) that Mr A was 
prescribed medication for his symptoms and had undergone various forms of treatment. In
July 2019, Mr A was assessed by another IME - a consultant clinical psychologist who Ill call 
Dr F. Its clear from Dr Fs report that they carried out a number of neuropsychological tests 
on Mr A as part of that assessment.
Below, Ive set out what I think are the key findings from Dr Fs report:
The results of the present assessment suggest that Mr A is experiencing cognitive 
problems, particularly with reference to situations whereby he is placed under more significant demands. It is likely that his cognitive load and ability to manage demands is now 
limited as a result of his (illness) and that this would make it extremely difficult for him to 
manage situations in future whereby additional cognitive demands are placed on him.
Mr A has experienced considerable psychological difficulties with reference to adjusting to 
the changes that have occurred in his life as a result of the impact of (his illness) on his loss 
of occupation. He is adjusting somewhat to this, however, I would recommend that he is 
provided with twenty sessions of Cognitive Behaviour Therapy, delivered by a clinical 
psychologist with expertise in the area of neurological disorder or brain injury. This should be 
helpful in terms of improving Mr As current symptoms, however, is unlikely to lead to any 
resolution which would allow him to return to work in his previous role.
Mr A is experiencing significant cognitive symptoms, particularly within the area of executive 
functioning. It is likely that when he is placed under more complex demands that his 
cognitive functioning will suffer further.
Mr A was assessed in a quiet clinic room with little distraction. Despite this, he still had 
difficulties with reference to more complex cognitive tests and I would consider that within a 
real life situation, such as his return to work, then this will result in more significant cognitive 
problems.
Mr A is unlikely to be able to return to his pre-accident job asgiven the complex cognitive 
demands that would be placed on him in this position. This is unlikely to change at any point 
in the future, particularly given the length of time that has elapsed since his period of 
(illness).
Dr F concluded, following a series of assessments, that Mr A was unlikely to be able to 
return to his role. They also noted that even though Mr A was assessed in a quiet room, he 
had difficulties with more complex tests. And, while I note this report was completed in 2019, 
Dr F felt Mr A was unlikely to be able to return to his own occupation and that this was 
unlikely to change at any point in the future.
Following the termination of the claim, Mr As employer arranged for him to see Dr S, an 
occupational health doctor. Again, Ive set out below what I think are their key findings:
There is no clear date for a return to work and further absence over a number of months is 
required. There is also a question as to whether he would be able to return to the extended 
hours of working which have been described for his position.
Recommendations
What is this employees current state of fitness to work?
My findings based on my assessment today is that Mr A is not yet fit for work.
What effect will this illness have on the employee's ability to carry out his current
occupation?
His affects on his function with headaches, dizziness, fatigue and triggers with light from 
computer based work, limit his ability to carry out his current occupation.
Are there any work modifications which would alleviate the condition or facilitate 
rehabilitation?At a time of increased health and a suitable level of function, modifications such as a phased 
return to work is an example of one that would assist. There are no work modifications I can 
identify at present to enable a return to his position in the foreseeable future.
Dr S report did not identify their qualifications. However, from my own research, I 
understand that Dr S is also a consultant occupational physician. I appreciate Dr M has 
referred to the fact that Dr S report was based on Mr As reported symptoms, rather than a 
review of his medical records. But Im satisfied that Dr S is also an expert in the field of 
occupational medicine and reached a clinical opinion that Mr A remained unfit for work.
Ive looked closely too at letters from Mr As neurologist. One letter, dated 5 March 2021, 
(post-dating the termination of the claim) followed a remote consultation. The neurologist 
said:
You are certainly not fit to work and the psychological stress of returning to work would lead 
to a relapse of your migraine to serious levels, which would make you incapacitated.
Zurichs chief medical officer wrote to the neurologist to ask for further information. Im 
mindful that in July 2021, in response to that request, the neurologist said:
I agree that Mr A is able to work 90 minute coaching sessions twice a week. This would 
indicate that he would be able to return to the workplace for 90 minutes twice a week. I am 
not sure that is compatible with normal work patterns.
Physical symptoms like this are generally improved by physical activity and I encourage all 
my patients to increase their level of physical activity as much as possible.
I have not ever said that he should not return to work or be supported in a phased return to 
work. That is very much a matter for an Occupational Health Physician to provide an opinion 
on, rather than a Neurologist.
I would definitely support engagement of an Occupational Health Physician and 
rehabilitation support. With most physical and mental illnesses, physical activity is good for 
patients, and employment has also proven to be beneficial. If Mr A can be got back to work, 
this would certainly be in his long-term health interests.
Its evident there is conflicting medical evidence, most of which I think is broadly supportive 
of Mr As position. I accept that the neurologist later clarified that he hadnt said that Mr A 
shouldnt return to work. However, his comments on 5 March 2021 did explicitly state that Mr 
A wasnt fit for work and that a return to work could exacerbate his condition. The neurologist 
has, at times, been involved in Mr As care over the life of his illness and so I think his clinical 
opinion as to Mr As symptoms is important. Taking together Dr Fs, Dr S and the 
neurologists evidence, I think the majority of the medical evidence points to Mr A remaining 
incapacitated from carrying out the material and substantial duties of his occupation at the 
time the claim was terminated.
I have to weigh up whether I am more persuaded by Dr Ms conclusions, or the totality of Dr 
Fs, Dr S and the neurologists evidence. And currently, on balance, I am less persuaded by 
Dr Ms conclusions than the combination of the other specialist evidence. Ive looked 
carefully at Mr As job description. It doesnt appear to me that Mr As role could be carried 
out in a quiet area, given the nature of it. It may well be that a different role could be done in 
such a way  but it doesnt seem that Mr A could carry out the material and substantial 
duties of his role were his office location moved. Dr F carried out neurological tests which 
indicated that Mr A wouldnt be able to carry out his own occupation. However, Ive seen no 
evidence that Dr M undertook such neurological assessments during their call with Mr A. Im also not persuaded that bi-weekly sports training sessions are commensurate with a return 
to work  especially given Mr A says this is a volunteer role and he simply doesnt take part if 
hes too unwell.
Overall, I dont think theres enough medical evidence from the point the claim was 
terminated to show that Mr As symptoms had improved to the point he was no longer 
incapacitated, in line with the policy terms.
This means that currently, I dont think Zurich has shown, on balance, that Mr A no longer 
met the policy definition of incapacity when the claim was terminated. So I currently find that 
it needs to reinstate the claim with effect from December 2020 and pay Mr A backdated 
benefit, together with interest. I should add that Zurich remains entitled to periodically 
request further medical evidence or IME assessment to determine whether Mr As claim still 
satisfies the policy definition of incapacity. If Mr A is unhappy with any future, further 
reassessment of his claim, he may be able to bring a new complaint to us about that issue 
alone.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further evidence or comments they wanted me to 
take into account.
Mr A accepted my provisional findings.
Zurich did not accept my provisional findings and provided detailed further comments, and, 
upon my request, further medical evidence from a rehabilitation consultant (RC). Ive 
summarised its key response points below:
It felt it was unclear whether Id considered why itd placed more weight on Dr Ms 
report, rather than Dr S report. It said it was its firm belief that once Mr As claim had 
been terminated; his symptom reporting had changed to allow Dr S to reach a 
different conclusion and recommendation around a return to work. It said thered 
been no medical explanation for the change in symptoms and sudden deterioration;
Dr M had been asked to comment on Dr S report and he specifically noted that while 
Mr A had reported word finding difficulties and memory problems to his employer, 
these were not evident during the 90 minute consultation which had taken place with 
him. Dr M stated that all times, Mr A had been focused, with good concentration;
It didnt agree that a return to work shouldnt have been attempted. It felt that if the 
neurologist had felt so strongly that a return to work shouldnt have been trialled, they 
wouldnt have deferred to an occupational health specialist. The neurologist had also 
specifically stated that a return to work could be beneficial;
Zurich said it wasnt just considering whether Mr A met the policy definition of 
incapacity when the claim was terminated. The policy also states:
The member must be under the regular supervision and treatment of Medical 
Practitioners and must be taking reasonable steps to manage their condition or help 
their recovery.
It considered that taking reasonable steps to manage Mr As condition would include 
full engagement in the return to work process;
It had engaged an RC to help Mr A to return to work, but that hed refused to engage 
with the process. This was in clear breach of the policy terms and conditions. And 
under the Equality Act 2010, an employer has a duty to make reasonable adjustments at work;
Dr M believed that dependent on the return to work progress, Mr A couldve achieved 
full-time hours after three months back at work. If Mr A could coach a rugby team, it 
felt he shouldve at least attempted a return to work;
If a successful return to work had been achieved, which Dr M had felt was possible, 
there wouldve been no debate about whether the definition of incapacity had been 
met, but establishment of this point had been denied to it by Mr A.
I asked Zurich to send me a copy of the RCs report it had referred to. The consultation 
between Mr A and the RC appears to have taken place on 30 July 2020  shortly before the 
engagement of Dr M by Zurich. Ive set out the key findings from that report below:
Mr A informed me that he remained symptomatic with constant persistent headaches that 
have variable intensity on any given day. He explained that his symptoms include dizziness, 
forgetfulness, fatigue, nausea, visual disturbance. He said he experienced sleep disturbance 
and poor energy levels.
Return to work initiatives:
Mr A has not attempted a return to work since becoming absent and does not believe that he 
is in a position to do so. His contact with his employers is infrequent.
The claimants perceived barrier for returning to work is his persistent symptoms.
Summary and Recommendations
Mr A has been absent from the work place for a significant number of years, realistically a 
return to his insured occupation with or without fitness to work is consider (sic) poor.
Points to consider/ establish:
1. The CM (claims manager) may consider writing to the claimants current specialist in a bid 
to understand whether in his opinion Mr A could be considered for a phased supported 
return to work. The CM would need to focus on the fact that there is a level of functionality, 
(driving, caring for children, travelling, domestic chores etc that supports day to day activities 
and that the only exception of his functionality is a return to work. The CM would need 
advocate that if the specialist feels that a return to work is not appropriate they would need 
to offer clear rational as to why the claimant is not fit and work and what the longer term 
prognosis is.
2. Alternatively the CM could consider an IME with occupational health physician, (whom as 
we know is a specialist around the occupational capacity and considers this as well as the 
reported diagnosis.
3. Another option would be to obtain an opinion from a psychologist who can help determine 
as to whether the barriers for not returning to work are more functional than medical, the 
issue with this is that the claimant is likely to contest the medical qualifications and validity of 
this opinion.
4. I note that the claim expiry is 2022 and possibly the most achievable option is to discuss 
with the employers reasonable exit strategies and to explore why these were discussed but 
not pursued.5. The challenge with this case is the subjective nature of the claim, the length of time we 
have already being paying it and the lack of medical opinion that is likely to support a return 
to work, however it is clear that this claimant does have an apparently ordinary lifestyle with 
the exception of work and this in itself is a concern and should be further explored.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still dont think it was fair for Zurich to terminate Mr As claim and Ill 
explain why.
Id like to thank Zurich for its detailed response to my provisional decision and for the further 
medical evidence its provided. Id assure Zurich that I have considered its submissions in 
detail and very carefully weighed up all that Ive been presented with. As I explained in my 
provisional decision, Im not required to comment on each specific point that Zurich has 
raised. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key issues.
It's clear that Zurich feels strongly that Mr A changed his reported cognitive symptoms in 
response to its decision to terminate his claim. And that it was that change in symptom 
reporting which resulted in Dr S conclusions that Mr A wasnt fit for work. Ive borne in mind 
Dr Ms comments on that point.
But I dont think the totality of the medical evidence does indicate that Mr A changed his 
reported cognitive symptoms in response to the termination of his claim. As I set out above, 
in 2019, Dr F specifically stated the following, which I think its important I repeat:
Mr A is experiencing significant cognitive symptoms, particularly within the area of executive 
functioning. It is likely that when he is placed under more complex demands that his 
cognitive functioning will suffer further.
Mr A was assessed in a quiet clinic room with little distraction. Despite this, he still had 
difficulties with reference to more complex cognitive tests and I would consider that within a 
real life situation, such as his return to work, then this will result in more significant cognitive 
problems.
Mr A is unlikely to be able to return to his pre-accident job as [], given the complex 
cognitive demands that would be placed on him in this position.
Dr F also carried out neurological assessments on Mr A, which informed his conclusions 
about Mr As fitness to work. 
It seems to me then that the symptoms Mr A reported to Dr S are the same symptoms he 
reported to Dr F. As such, his symptom reporting appears consistent.  I note that the 
symptoms of a difficulty in word-finding were reported to another consultant neurologist in 
January 2020. And Id add that Mr A also clearly reported cognitive symptoms to Dr M (and 
the RC), even if Dr M didnt conclude that Mr A did show signs of a lack of concentration 
during that particular assessment. I remain mindful though that Dr M doesnt appear to have 
carried out any neurological assessment on Mr A, despite his reported symptoms and 
despite Dr Fs findings. Based on what Ive seen, Im not persuaded that Zurich has shown 
that Mr A deliberately changed his symptom reporting following its decision to terminate the 
claim.
Ive considered too whether Zurich has demonstrated that Mr A breached the policy term requiring him to engage in his recovery. I dont think it has. The available evidence indicates 
that Mr A was under the care of consultant neurologists; underwent a range of treatments 
and remained on medication. It also appears that he was prepared to engage fully with the 
IMEs and other occupational health specialists Zurich asked to review his claim. I havent 
seen enough evidence to persuade me that Mr A declined to engage with medical experts  
he simply disagreed with Dr Ms conclusions regarding his fitness to work, which had 
contradicted the medical opinion of Dr F (and also later, Dr S and Mr As neurologist). 
Indeed, I note that while the RC had concerns about whether Mr A did remain medically 
incapacitated, they also referred to the lack of medical opinion which would support a return 
to work.
Zurich has referred again to Mr As ability to coach a rugby team. As I explained, I dont think 
that this is enough to demonstrate that Mr A is fit to return to work in his own occupation. 
This is a voluntary role, which Mr A says he simply doesnt take part in if hes feeling unwell. 
Its also a markedly different role to Mr As own occupation. Zurich has referred to the 
employers duties under the Equality Act. However, Im not persuaded these have any 
bearing on my decision, as thats a matter between Mr A and his employer. But it still 
appears that given the nature and duties of Mr As own occupation (rather than a new role), 
it would be extremely difficult for him to undertake the material and substantial duties of it 
within the quiet area Dr M recommended.
I acknowledge that Mr As neurologist did defer to the medical opinion of an occupational 
health specialist, following his earlier view that Mr A wasnt fit to work. I also accept that the 
neurologist agreed that a return to work could be beneficial. But it remains the case that they 
did initially conclude that Mr A wasnt fit for work. And taking together that opinion, alongside 
the conclusions of Dr F and Dr S, who are both consultant specialists in occupational 
medicine, I am not persuaded, on balance, that Zurich has shown that Mr A no longer met 
the policy definition of incapacity when the claim was terminated.
It follows then that I still find that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of 
this complaint is that Zurich should reinstate Mr As claim and pay him backdated incapacity 
benefit, together with interest. Id add that as I set out previously, Zurich is entitled to 
periodically review the claim to decide whether Mr As claim remains payable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint.
I direct Zurich Assurance Ltd to reinstate Mr As claim from the point it was terminated. It 
must calculate and pay Mr A any backdated benefit payments due, and it must add interest 
at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date each backdated payment was due until the 
date of settlement.
If Zurich considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest it should tell Mr A how much it has taken off. It should also give Mr A a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman