DRN-2196979
The complaint
Miss E complains about the fee The Protection Specialist Limited (TPSL) charged her for 
representing her in a payment protection insurance (PPI) complaint. Shes also unhappy 
about the customer service she received.
What happened
In 2019, Miss E instructed TPSL to represent her in claims for mis-sold PPI. In early 2020, a 
lender wrote to Miss E to let her know it was upholding her complaint and was offering her a 
settlement. Shortly afterwards, TPSL invoiced Miss E for its success fee.
Miss E complained to TPSL about the amount it was charging her. She didnt think it was fair 
for it to calculate its fee based on the gross amount of the lenders settlement. The lender 
had deducted income tax from the statutory compensatory interest it had awarded her.   
Miss E thought TPSL should have calculated its fee on the amount shed received from the 
lender.
Miss E also raised concerns about the customer service TPSL had provided. The lender had 
asked Miss E for further information when it was assessing her claim. Miss E believed this 
was because TPSL hadnt sent on information shed previously provided. She said she was 
also unhappy with the service and a lack of communication shed received from TPSL.
TPSL said its terms and condition stated the fee would be based on the full amount of a 
financial award before tax. Miss E had signed a letter of authority (LOA) which confirmed 
shed read and accepted TPSLs terms and conditions. It said Miss E wasnt under any 
obligation to liaise with the lender directly. TPSL had asked the lender to direct all contact 
and correspondence to it. It didnt see any reason to reduce Miss Es fee.
Miss E remained unhappy, so she asked our service to consider her complaint. Our 
investigator looked into her concerns but didnt think Miss Es complaint should be upheld. 
Miss E had confirmed shed agreed to TPSLs terms and conditions when she signed its 
LOA. The terms and conditions showed how the fee would be calculated. He also didnt think 
TPSL was responsible for the lender choosing to correspond with Miss E directly.
Miss E disagreed with our investigators view. She felt shed been misled by TPSL. She said 
she hadnt had sight of TPSLs terms and conditions. If shed seen them beforehand, she 
wouldnt have gone ahead with the claim. Her application was conducted over the phone 
and email. Shed printed off forms and returned them by post, but she didnt receive a copy 
of the terms and conditions. 
Miss E also didnt think TPSL had done enough to keep her up to date with her claim. Emails 
from TPSL were vague and she would have to call them to find out what theyd meant. She 
felt TPSL was getting a substantial amount more than it deserved, considering that her claim 
was conducted unprofessionally, misleadingly and rushed.
As Miss E has disagreed with our investigators opinion, her complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Es complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant industry rules require TPSL to communicate with its customers in a way that is 
fair, clear and not misleading.
TPSL says it provided Miss E with a copy of its terms and conditions before she agreed for it 
to pursue her PPI claims. This document gives information about how TPSLs fee of 24% 
(including VAT) is calculated. It includes the wording: If a lender takes off the basic rate of 
tax from a financial award, we will charge our fee based on the full amount before tax. 
Miss E says TPSL didnt provide her with a copy of its terms and conditions. But shes 
signed an LOA which says: I confirm that I have read, understand and accept (TPSLs) 
terms and conditions a full copy of which were enclosed with, or are attached to, this letter.
Given the above, I think TPSL is likely to have provided Miss E with a copy of its terms and 
conditions alongside the LOA. But even if it didnt, I think the LOA made it clear that by 
signing it Miss E was agreeing to TPSLs terms and conditions. Miss Es mentioned being in 
a rush due to the impending deadline for PPI compensation. Her initial conversation with 
TPSL took place before the Financial Conduct Authoritys 29 August 2019 deadline for PPI 
complaints. But Miss E signed the LOA in October 2019. So, I cant see that she was 
prevented from requesting a copy of TPSLs terms and conditions before she agreed to 
them.
Overall, Im satisfied TPSL gave Miss E clear information to let her know that its fee would 
be calculated on the amount of compensation awarded before tax. So, I think it was fair for it 
to invoice Miss E accordingly.
Miss E believes the lender asked her for information to support her claim because TPSL 
didnt pass on what shed previously provided. I can see the lender asked Miss E to 
complete PPI questionnaires in December 2019. But TPSL has provided a copy of the 
complaint letter it sent to the lender in October 2019, which includes the PPI questionnaire 
signed by Miss E on 2 October 2019. I appreciate it was frustrating for Miss E to be asked to 
provide the same information again. But I dont think TPSL was likely to be responsible for 
this.
When the lender wrote to Miss E again in February 2020, they told Miss E what information it 
had regarding her address and employment at the time the PPI was sold. They asked     
Miss E to contact them if the information was wrong or she had further information she 
thought might help. So, I dont think this suggests TPSL hadnt provided information to them.
When it sent the lender details of Miss Es claim, TPSL asked them to direct all 
correspondence and contact to it. Its unclear why the lender decided to write to Miss E 
directly. But I dont think this was because of anything TPSL did or didnt do. 
Ive considered all of Miss Es points including what shes said about how TPSL has 
communicated with her. But these havent made a difference to my decision. Some of 
TPSLs communication might have been better, but this doesnt appear to have had an 
impact on Miss Es PPI claim. I appreciate my answer will be disappointing for Miss E, but I think TPSL gave Miss E clear 
information about how it would calculate its fee. It was successful in securing a settlement 
for her and has calculated the fee in line with the terms and conditions she agreed to. So, I 
dont think it would be fair to tell it to reduce the fee its charged.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 November 2020.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman