DRN-4322039
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with Nationwide Building Society for not making reasonable adjustments 
for his disabilities under Section 20 of the Equality Act 2010, in relation to his credit card and 
debit card. 
What happened
I issued my provisional findings to both parties setting out why I thought Mr Ws complaint 
should be upheld and invited both parties to provide any further submissions in reply to my 
provisional decision. 
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision together with my 
provisional findings. The background and my provisional findings are copied below and now 
form part of this final decision. 
Background 
Mr W raised several concerns about his dealings with Nationwide including how their
automated telephone system operated; their email verification process and how they
interacted with the service he has on his telephone to block nuisance and unwanted callers.
But mostly he was unhappy with how Nationwide was not able to make an adjustment for
him by changing the colour for one of his cards so that he could tell them apart more easily.
Mr W has both a debit card and a credit card with Nationwide, and he initially complained
that the silver colour of the credit card and the colour of the writing and numbers on it were
too similar, so due to his visual impairment it was difficult for him to easily read the
information on the card.
Nationwide responded to Mr Ws concerns about their automated telephone service, and
also about his concerns relating to the colour of the cards.
Nationwide explained they were aware that the colour of their silver card had been a
problem for some of their customers and they had already made changes in response to
this.
Nationwide said theyd worked with a charity for people with sight loss when reviewing the
design of the cards. And although Mr Ws credit card was not yet due to expire, Nationwide
suggested he contact them to change it to the new design. The new design included added
features such as raised dots to distinguish between a credit and debit card, as well as a
notch at the end of the card. The cards were also different shades of blue, and had larger
writing to describe the card product and telephone number.
Nationwide also highlighted other methods of communication to Mr W to engage with them
so that he wouldnt have to provide his card number in the limited time on the automated
system, which was something Mr W said he found difficult. Nationwide said he could use
their specialist support team (which he has now done), and they let Mr W know that by
holding on a call with their helpline it would take him past their automated system and he
would be put through to someone regardless.
Mr W didnt accept Nationwides findings so he brought his complaint to our service. Mr W
confirmed to our service that he was mainly unhappy with the colour of his credit card.
Mr W was unhappy with changing his credit card to another blue toned card as it would be
too similar to his debit card. In his submissions Mr W mentioned that Nationwide had
suggested he could have a black card (rather than a blue card) but he would need to close
his account and open it again to qualify for this. And this wasnt something Mr W said he
wanted to do at that time.
Our Investigator asked Nationwide whether it was possible to change Mr Ws credit card to a
black credit card. Nationwide responded and confirmed that they had no record of such an
offer being made to Mr W, or that it was possible.
The Investigator reviewed the case and concluded Mr Ws complaint should not be upheld
as they thought Nationwide had done enough with the design of their new card. The
investigator therefore said there was nothing further for Nationwide to do.
Mr W didnt accept the investigators conclusions. In summary, he felt not enough
consideration had been given to what would be considered a reasonable adjustment under
the Equality Act 2010. And he questioned why providing a card with a different colour to blue
was not possible given the other changes Nationwide had made to their cards - particularly
noting that other institutions offered different colours. Mr W felt that offering a different colour
card was a reasonable adjustment.
Mr W also didnt feel the raised dots on the card would be helpful to those people with both
visual and sensory impairment (something Mr W also experienced due to reduced feeling in
his hands), and he felt this also had not been considered.
In addition, Mr W said Nationwides submissions had been accepted without question, and
he queried whether as part of the investigation the charity Nationwide consulted with had
been approached. Mr W suggested the charity may have simply been forced to accept
Nationwides position, and that Nationwide wished to use corporate colours for their cards.
As the Investigator was unable to reach a resolution, the matter has come to me to decide.
Before reaching the provisional findings I have set out below, both Mr W and Nationwide
were asked for further submissions in relation to this matter.
Mr W explained that when trying to use the existing silver card and blue card, in order to
read the numbers he would have to use a magnifying glass, and for the silver card in
particular he required additional light to help distinguish the numbers on the card 
something Mr W said took him some time to do and which could be particularly stressful for
him with limited time when using Nationwides automated telephone system.
More recently Mr W was sent a new credit card after his existing one expired  so he now
has two blue-toned cards. Mr W has said he has tried the new card, but he says the colour is
imperceptible with his other card. He also explained that while the numbers are clearer, on
a daily basis the silver card was the lesser of two evils and easier to deal with when in a
shop. Most recently Mr W has mentioned that the wording Nationwide printed on the
background on the card, behind his card number, is shiny compared to the eggshell finish
on the card and the shiny finish reflects the light making it harder for him to read the last 12
digits on the card number.
In relation to the raised dots on the new cards and the notch, Mr W has said he tried using
these but due to the reduced feeling in his hands he found it difficult to locate the notch andfeel the raised dots, so this did not help him.
Further questions were asked of Nationwide to better understand what steps had been taken
to make reasonable adjustments for Mr W, and what was preventing Nationwide from being
able to do more for Mr Ws circumstances.
Nationwide explained they no longer offered another card colour, and were unable to do so
even as an exception for Mr W due to how their manufacturing process works, but they did
not provide any further detail around this. Nationwide reiterated they had invested much time
in working with a relevant charity to develop a card which could be as suitable as it could for
the majority of their members. But due to card scheme rules and their mass manufacturing
arrangements they were unable to offer anything more bespoke.
Nationwide expressed sympathy towards Mr Ws loss of feeling, and explained that based
on their current manufacturing set up there werent any alternative options they could
provide in order to offer the bespoke card that Mr W was looking for.
My provisional findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached a different
outcome to our Investigator, and Ill explain why.
I would say this has not been a straightforward case to decide, and while I have upheld
Mr Ws complaint, I suspect it will not be the resolution he was hoping for.
It may help if I start by explaining the role of this service. The Financial Ombudsman Service
is an alternative dispute resolution service set up to resolve individual complaints based on
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of each case. The Financial Ombudsman
Service does not fine or punish businesses, or request that businesses change their
processes or practices  that is for the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, to
consider. So I will only consider here what has happened in the circumstances of Mr Ws
individual complaint.
When deciding what is a fair and reasonable resolution to a complaint, I am required to take
into account any relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice and (where appropriate) what is considered to have been good industry
practice at the relevant time.
Mr Ws complaint is that Nationwide have not made reasonable adjustments for him under
the Equality Act 2010.
Its not for the Financial Ombudsman Service to judge whether Nationwide has breached the
Equality Act 2010  that is an issue for the courts. But, as Ive explained, I can take into
account any relevant law when deciding whether I think Nationwide has treated Mr W fairly
and reasonably in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this matter is the Equality Act 2010. Under the Equality Act 2010,
businesses must take reasonable steps to remove barriers people face as a result of their
disability so that, as far as possible, people with disabilities receive the same service as
people who dont have a disability and are therefore not placed at a substantial
disadvantage. This is known as the duty to make reasonable adjustments.
Having reviewed the submissions from both parties, the silver colour of the credit card Mr W
first complained to Nationwide about presented a problem for other Nationwide customers.Nationwide have already accepted that the silver-coloured card was unhelpful, so they
reviewed the design of their cards.
Nationwide said they consulted with an appropriate charity during the design process of their
new cards. They have explained the charity tried and tested the physical card and card
designs, including raised dots to help identify a credit or debit card, and a notch on the card
(which I have assumed is either to help identify the card as a banking card or to know which
way the card should face when being used in a machine). Nationwide explained larger
product names and telephone numbers were added to the cards to make them more visible,
and while they acknowledged the blue colours were similar they offered the best contrast
between the base colour of the card and any information on the cards. As part of the testing
process Nationwide explained they had tried alternative colours, but the feedback from the
charity was about the lack of contrast between the base colour of the card and the on-card
text. Nationwide said the new dot and notch eco cards also included the product name on
the top-left hand corner to help differentiate them.
The anticipatory duty upon Nationwide to make reasonable adjustments for customers that
may find it more difficult to access their services due to different kinds of disabilities is asking
Nationwide to consider taking reasonable steps to overcome any such barriers. I can see
how Nationwide have reached this first step to anticipate the needs of as many of their
customers as possible. However, I think this doesnt exclude the need to give further
consideration for those individuals who may require something different in place to help them
reasonably access the same banking services and ensure they are not being substantially
disadvantaged.
Mr W does not only manage his visual impairment on a day-to-day basis, but he has also
shared that he has developed a reduced loss of feeling in his hands which makes it difficult
for him to use some of the new card features that may help many other visually impaired
people.
It seems to me that while Nationwide have taken steps to anticipate the wider needs of their
customers, by including these new card features for visually impaired customers as standard
features for all their members  and these no doubt help many individuals  it would appear,
however, that there is no further flexibility available to help Mr W given his particular
circumstances in order for him to reasonably access the same banking services.
I note Nationwide have explained to Mr W how he can contact them using services such as
their specialist support team, but it seems  understandably  Mr Ws main concern is how
he is able to use his cards on a day-to-day basis. And given Mr Ws individual circumstances
it seems the features of the new cards fall short of being able to help him.
I can see Nationwide have said the issues raised in this case are being taken away for
consideration, which I think is a reasonable thing to do.
However, having taken everything into account I note that this does not resolve Mr Ws more
immediate problem of using his cards on a daily basis. So I think its fair to say Mr Ws
experience of using Nationwides cards is more difficult for him when compared to other
members. And that Mr W feels the silver credit card (something Nationwide has accepted
numerous Nationwide customers were unhappy with) is the lesser of two evils for him,
suggests to me the new card design is very much not something Mr W finds easy to use
now.
I acknowledge Mr Ws individual circumstances are likely not something the charity
Nationwide worked with for these new cards may have taken into account given the charitys
focus would have been for visually impaired customers. But Im also mindful that it isultimately Nationwides decision on how they provide their services to their customers, and it
is for them to meet their anticipatory duty when providing these services, and be able to
make reasonable adjustments for individual customers when appropriate.
I understand Nationwide have said Mr W brought his concerns to this service while they
believed there was still some level of engagement between them and Mr W, but I think in the
circumstances perhaps more could have been done to work with Mr W to better understand
his needs to explore whether a solution could be found that would be more suitable for his
circumstances, rather than simply say there was nothing Nationwide could do.
The reasonable adjustment Mr W is seeking to manage both his visual impairment and the
reduced loss of feeling in his hands is for Nationwide to offer him a different colour card, as
he has said other banking institutions are able to offer this. Nationwide have not provided
any detail around what would be required to change the colour of a card at this time, so it
isnt clear to me how practicable it is at this time.
Taking everything into account, I do think this matter has caused Mr W much trouble, and I
think more could have been done to engage with Mr W to find a reasonable solution. It
appears Mr W feels he is now in a worse position than he was previously when using
Nationwides banking services.
As Mr W will continue to use his cards on a daily basis, and this will be more time-consuming
and challenging for him than for most people, I think it fair to say that Nationwide pay Mr W
£750 to recognise the impact this matter has had on him. I consider compensation of this
amount is fair where the impact of what has happened has caused considerable distress,
upset and worry and/ or significant inconvenience and disruption. And I think this reflects
Mr Ws experience in this matter.
I leave it to Mr W to decide how to take his banking relationship forward with Nationwide,
noting that should Mr W move his banking away from Nationwide, this will have added to his
inconvenience.
Responses to my Provisional Decision 
Mr W initially replied to accept my provisional decision recognising the limitations of this 
services involvement. Mr W expressed a hope that Nationwide would also accept the 
provisional decision and going forward review their processes and procedures. 
Nationwide replied to my provisional decision with several points which Ive summarised 
below and will refer to in more detail later on where relevant. Nationwide said they: 
did not feel they had breached the Equality Act 2010. 
had tried to engage with Mr W, but he had not engaged with them. 
could not reasonably be expected to anticipate every disability. 
only needed to make reasonable adjustments under the Equality Act 2010. 
did not feel the £750 award proposed was fair. 
However, to try and help Mr W, Nationwide offered a workaround to produce Mr Ws credit 
card on one of their Gold Card plastic credit cards which would emboss the card information 
in black. The gold-coloured card is used for a different product that Nationwide offer. 
Nationwide asked if Mr W would be happy to explore this and if so they would begin to make 
arrangements for doing this. In light of Nationwides response, our Investigator approached Mr W for further comments. 
Ive summarised Mr Ws additional comments below, and will again refer in more detail to 
them later on in my decision where appropriate. Mr W: 
accepted Nationwides offer to change his credit card to the gold and black 
embossed card. 
said the issue of touch only came into play when Nationwide identified the touch 
features on their credit card. 
said Nationwides engagement with him had been poor and left him feeling that 
having a disability was not a priority. 
said given Nationwide had not considered issues surrounding touch it was his 
opinion Nationwide have a blind-spot with regards to disabilities. 
the level of compensation proposed was fair and reasonable in the circumstances to 
recognise the ongoing distress the matter has been causing him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the additional submissions in reply to my provisional decision, for 
reasons I will explain later on, I think it fair to reduce the offer for the trouble and upset 
caused to £500. And I think, in the circumstances, Nationwides offer of the workaround 
described above is reasonable in this case. 
I have considered Nationwides points about believing they have not breached the Equality 
Act 2010; that they could not reasonably be expected to anticipate every disability when 
setting their processes and procedures; and that they are only required to make reasonable 
adjustments. 
In their recent submissions Nationwide have explained the challenges in producing a 
bespoke coloured card for Mr W are such that it would mean to make the change would not 
be a reasonable adjustment. 
Theyve set out that the card scheme operator rules are strict in terms of what can be printed 
 including the colour of the card. And that printing a one off card is not straightforward as 
any order for cards would require a minimum of 1000 cards, at a cost. Nationwide have also 
explained that designing a new card that may be suitable for just one cardholder could also 
take around 6 months. 
In the circumstances Nationwide do not view taking the above course of action as a 
reasonable adjustment, and they have referred to the Equality and Human Rights 
Commission which  in respect of reasonable adjustments  references that consideration 
be given to how effective the change will be in assisting disabled people in general or a 
particular customer, client, service user or member; whether it can be done; the cost; the 
organisations resources and size. 
Nationwide also noted that the Treasury Select Committee Report  Consumers access to 
financial services (May 2019)  recommended that the regulator (the Financial Conduct 
Authority) should mandate that all debit and credit cards have tactile markings as soon as 
possible, but there was no consideration to visually impaired customers who could not use 
the tactile markings. 
Nationwides view  based also on their findings that other banks have mostly provided similar cards without anticipating that a customer may have other adjustment needs  is that 
they have not breached the anticipatory duty under the act. 
As I noted in my provisional decision, as this service is not a court it is not for this service to 
determine whether the Equality Act 2010 has been breached, and its not for this service to 
determine what would be considered a reasonable adjustment under the act. I can only 
take into account the law, together with other regulatory rules, guidance and standards, 
codes of practice and good practice. And in doing so, decide, overall what I think is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the individual case. 
In the circumstances I think Nationwide took reasonable steps to engage a relevant charity 
and anticipate the likely needs of many of their customers by making the changes to their 
cards that they did. 
However, I think its reasonable to expect that where a customer has particular individual 
needs, the business engages with the customer to see what is reasonably possible to help 
them. I will return to this point later on. 
Nationwides proposed solution does not appear straightforward as it will require some 
system changes for Mr Ws card details to be printed onto a card that is used for a different 
type of credit card to the one that Mr W holds. I understand that doing this will allow Mr Ws 
account features to remain the same. 
Nationwide have said this is not something they would normally do as there are challenges 
in adapting their internal system to accommodate what they are proposing to do for Mr W. It 
therefore seems to me that Nationwide is stepping outside of their usual processes on this 
occasion, and in the circumstances I think what theyve proposed to do for Mr W is fair. I 
note that Mr W has already said this would be acceptable to him. 
Ive considered what Nationwide have said about the level of compensation proposed in my 
provisional decision and Ive reflected once more on whether this is a fair sum to recognise 
the impact this matter has had on Mr W. 
Mr W initially raised his concerns with Nationwide in June 2022, and Nationwide responded 
to Mr W with their final response letter (FRL) dated 28 July 2022. Nationwide said Mr W had 
not wished to engage with them on the phone, so they agreed to send the FRL instead 
inviting him to contact them about changing his silver card to the new blue design. 
Nationwide say that Mr W didnt contact them, but instead came to this service. 
Mr W has said he called Nationwides card services at 8.03am on 13 August 2022, but they 
told him nothing could be done and he also called the Specialist Support team later on the 
same day at 9.05am, where he also understood they could not provide him with what he was 
looking for. And so he brought the complaint to our service. Mr W said he found Nationwide 
unhelpful. 
Our service asked Nationwide for any call recordings or records of conversations they had 
with Mr W, but nothing was provided. In the circumstances, its therefore difficult for me to 
know what happened here, but I accept it is possible Mr W called Nationwide to try and 
engage with them as he has described. 
Ive revisited the file and it would appear more likely than not that Mr Ws sensory challenges 
werent raised directly with Nationwide, and were not brought to this services attention until 
after our Investigator had issued their view  so it would be difficult for Nationwide to have 
considered whether they could have helped Mr W in relation to this condition. That said, 
Nationwide told this service  during the course of our investigation  that they could not have offered anything that could help Mr W specifically in relation to his sensory needs and 
maintained that they could not provide a bespoke card. 
As Nationwide are aware, Mr W has described how, day-to-day, using the cards Nationwide 
gave him has not been easy. I understand Nationwide feel they tried to engage with Mr W 
but he would not talk to them, but Im also mindful Mr Ws submissions have been consistent 
in his version of events in trying to engage with Nationwide. Im also aware Nationwide said 
Mr W chose to come to our service, but he did so after Nationwide had given him his referral 
rights to do so  I therefore think it would be unfair to say Mr W was wrong in approaching 
our service at that time. 
All that said, I am mindful that Nationwide has, since my provisional findings, been able to 
escalate the matter internally and provide an alternative solution to help Mr W. At the time of 
my provisional findings it was understood there were no options available to help Mr W with 
his day-to-day use of his cards, and I think it fair to say that knowing there was this impasse 
would have added to Mr Ws distress. However, I think it only fair to recognise that the 
solution now offered by Nationwide is able, to an extent, mitigate that for Mr W. In the 
circumstances I therefore think it reasonable to reduce the award Nationwide should pay   
Mr W to £500.  
Putting things right
Nationwide should take the necessary steps to arrange the gold-coloured card they have 
offered for Mr W. 
Nationwide should pay Mr W £500 to reflect the distress and inconvenience this matter has 
caused him. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Nationwide 
Building Society should put things right as Ive described above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman