DRN-3259540
The complaint
Mr T complains about a delay in opening a bank account with The Royal Bank of Scotland 
Plc (RBS).
What happened
In September 2020, Mr T applied for a new account with RBS and expected to receive a 
switching incentive for doing so. Following a successful application, the account wasnt until 
November 2020. Mr T has now complained about the length of time this took, the delay with 
the incentive bonus being paid, and the time spent writing emails and on telephone calls with 
RBS advisors. 
RBS looked into the complaint and upheld it. RBS paid Mr T £90 for the delay and the 
inconvenience caused by the delay, £60 for the time spent on calls, and the £100 switching 
bonus. Mr T doesnt think the compensation amount is enough and would like £800. So, he 
brought a complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and thought the compensation amount was fair. 
Our investigator found that although there had been a delay with opening the account, RBS 
had paid a fair amount to compensate Mr T for this.
As Mr T didnt agree with the investigators view, the complaints been passed to me for a 
final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same outcome as the investigator, for largely the same 
reasons. 
There is no doubt there was a delay in opening Mr Ts account. RBS have admitted this and 
offered compensation to Mr T. So, I dont find I need to investigate or make a finding on this 
point. What I do need to decide is whether I think the compensation amount offered is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. 
When Mr T applied for the account in September 2021, there were some issues with his 
identification which meant he needed to visit a branch. This was done and may have 
delayed the account opening process slightly, but I still wouldnt expect the process to take 
around three months. RBS have acknowledged the delay and apologised for this.  
When Mr T spoke to the complaint handler at RBS, she did say that RBS couldnt explain all 
the delays and that she would provide feedback to the relevant account opening department. 
The advisor did go on to say that RBS had large number of applications due to the account 
switching bonus, but that it still shouldnt have taken the time it did. The complaint handler 
apologised several times for this, and this is what wed expect in these circumstances. 
Mr T has said that he was looking for work at the time and the emails and calls he had with 
RBS were a distraction. I appreciate the point Mr T is making here, but Ive seen no 
evidence to suggest Mr T lost out on job opportunities because of this. Although Mr T did 
make several calls to RBS, and this must have been frustrating, Im satisfied that the £90 
RBS have paid fairly compensates Mr T for this. 
Of the calls Mr T sent our service, they total just over an hour. RBS have sent our service 
records of another six calls that go back to the day after the account application was 
submitted, these also total around an hour. So, in total Mr T spent just over two hours on the 
telephone to RBS that we have evidence of. Had this complaint come to our service without 
an offer of compensation, I would be asking for around £50 to be paid to compensate Mr T 
for his time. So, Im satisfied the £60 paid by RBS to Mr T fairly compensates him. 
RBS have said there may be other calls that are no longer recorded but neither party have 
supplied any details of these. 
Mr T has mentioned a few times that RBS originally offered to pay £10 an hour for lost time, 
then moved the goal posts and withdrew that offer. Ive thought about this point carefully, but 
it doesnt change my mind. Our service doesnt generally work out lost time by an hourly 
rate, but rather an overall amount that we think compensates fairly in the circumstances. 
Having said that, I find in these circumstances that had RBS calculated the lost time by the 
hour, it would work out to be roughly the same amount of compensation already paid. 
In summary, having taken everything both parties have given me into consideration, given 
the delay and the time I can see Mr T spent on the phone and responding to emails and 
texts, Im satisfied a total of £150 compensates him fairly for this. 
I can see the complaint advisor at RBS paid the £100 switching bonus on the day it was due, 
so there was no detriment suffered by Mr T there. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman