DRN-1850538
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Aviva Insurance Limited wont pay the full replacement cost after her 
boiler was damaged during repairs carried out through a home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs B had a home emergency policy (homeserve) underwritten by Aviva. I will refer to both 
homeserve and Aviva as Aviva to keep things simple. Mrs B reported a fault to her boiler 
just before Christmas. She said she thought the issue was connected to the repairs made by 
an engineer in September 2019. 
An engineer visited in early January and fixed a problem. Mrs B was told there werent any 
other faults and the boiler was in good working condition. But Mrs B wasnt happy and asked 
for another check. A couple of days later the same engineer returned and after several calls 
Mrs Bs boiler was classed as beyond economical repair (BER). 
Mrs B contacted an engineer from a different company who found a fault with the heat 
exchange  most probably caused by the recent repairs - and the boiler was declared 
dangerous and disconnected. Mrs B had a young family without heating or hot water, and 
shed lost faith in Aviva. So she arranged for another firm to install a replacement boiler 
system. 
Mrs B wants Aviva to pay for the full cost of the new system as its engineer caused the 
problem. And shed like compensation for her trouble and upset and for putting her family in 
danger from a faulty boiler. 
Aviva agreed its engineer shouldve picked up that the burner pins were cross-threaded. If 
theyd been checked, and if necessary replaced, the boiler wouldnt have been BER. Aviva 
apologised for leaving Mrs B and her family without heating or hot water. Itd offered to 
replace the heat exchanger and pump to put Mrs B back in the position shed been in before. 
But Mrs B didnt want Aviva to do any more work for her.
Aviva could see Mrs B had decided to have the boiler replaced elsewhere. So it offered just 
under £1000 towards the cost of the new boiler, which is what it wouldve cost to rectify the 
fault. And Aviva offered £350 compensation for any inconvenience caused together with an 
additional £45 towards her electrical bill.
Mrs B wasnt satisfied with Avivas response. So she contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. He explained our service would expect the business to 
put Mrs B back in the position shed been in before the error  or as close to it as possible. 
He understood Mrs Bs argument that Avivas actions had made her boiler BER. So it should 
cover any financial consequences. But he hadnt seen any indication the boiler wasnt 
repairable  only that it was beyond economical repair. 
So he thought Avivas offer wasnt unreasonable. It wouldve put Mrs B back in her previous 
position. 
Our investigator said Mrs B wouldve been responsible for the installation cost of a new 
boiler under her homeserve policy. So he couldnt ask Aviva to pay for the full cost of her 
new boiler, including installation, as it would put Mrs B in a better position than shed been in 
before.
He felt the fairest way to resolve the complaint was for Aviva to make a contribution towards 
Mrs Bs costs and increase its offer from £948.41 (45% of the cost shed paid) to £1380.60 
(65%). He felt the offer of £350 compensation (plus £45 for electricity) was reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Mrs B didnt agree. So shes asked for an ombudsmans final decision. Shed obtained 
quotes from two other suppliers and wasnt in a position to search high and low for the 
cheapest option. She needed a fast resolution and opted for what seemed a reasonable 
choice. Her old boiler had been well-maintained and serviced regularly. Shed only had to 
replace because of Avivas mistake. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see how upsetting this has been for Mrs B. Aviva has agreed the accidental damage to 
her boiler occurred during the repair visit in September 2019. So Ill focus this decision on 
what Aviva needs to do to put things right.
Unfortunately mistakes do sometimes happen. And when something has gone wrong, our 
service would normally expect a business to put the customer back in the position theyd 
been in before the mistake happened - or as close to that position as possible. That would 
mean either carrying out the necessary repairs or offering Mrs B a cash settlement for the 
same value if she decided to have the work done elsewhere. 
After it accepted the damage had occurred during the repair visit, Aviva offered to make any 
necessary repairs and replacements under the home emergency policy. Aviva estimates the 
repair costs at around £950. 
I do understand why Mrs B felt she needed to arrange a replacement boiler elsewhere. She 
wanted it done quickly as her family were without heating or hot water. And she no longer 
trusted Avivas engineers. Because Mrs B chose to have the work done elsewhere Aviva 
offered £950 to Mrs B towards the cost of her new boiler. And it feels that would put Mrs B 
back in the position she was in before the boiler was damaged. 
Mrs B says Aviva declared her boiler as beyond economic repair (BER). But it was now only 
offering the cost of repairs when the policy should allow for a replacement in those 
circumstances.
I can see Mrs Bs homeserve policy provides cover in relation to the breakdown of her 
central heating. Under the section beyond economical repair (BER) it states upon making a 
claim, the total costs of parts (including VAT) required to repair the boiler will be determined 
by us using reputable suppliers. If this cost exceeds 85% of the manufacturers current retail 
price for a boiler of the same or similar make and model to your boiler it will be deemed to be 
BER.
The policy also says where the boiler is seven years or older and BER, the policy will replace 
and install a new boiler to provide the same heating and hot water requirements and match 
the existing type. But Mrs B would be required to pay the installation cost. Mrs B chose a slightly more powerful model at a total cost of £2124. And she thinks Aviva 
should pay for that instead. But if the boiler had been replaced under the terms of the home 
emergency policy Aviva wouldve provided a model of similar heating output. And it wouldve 
been able to use its buying power to purchase one at a more competitive price that Mrs B 
mightve been able to obtain.
So I dont think Aviva has acted unfairly by offering what it wouldve cost to repair the boiler 
and put Mrs B back in her previous position. Mrs B wouldve been asked to pay for the cost 
of installation if a replacement boiler had been installed by Aviva.
I appreciate Mrs B says the only reason she needed a new boiler was because of the 
engineers mistake. But although Mrs B says the boiler was well-maintained and regularly 
serviced it was about 12 years old. So repairs wouldve become more difficult and 
replacement parts harder to find. And I think it would be fair to say the boiler would likely 
have needed replacing in the not-too-distant future. 
Its clear the actions of Avivas engineers brought the replacement date forward. At thats 
why I agree with our investigator that Aviva should contribute towards the replacement costs 
Mrs B incurred. Mrs B chose to install a new, potentially better, system rather than allow 
Aviva to put things right. And she had to make that decision now, rather than in a year or 
two, because of Avivas actions. 
But I dont think it would be fair to ask Aviva to cover the full cost of the new boiler. Its likely 
Aviva couldve repaired her existing boiler if itd been given the chance. And any 
replacement under the policy wouldve meant Mrs B making a contribution towards the cost - 
she wouldve been responsible for the paying for the installation.
I realise Mrs B feels let down by Aviva. She was a loyal paying customer and didnt receive 
the level of service she expected. She feels let down by Avivas engineers and worried that 
she was left with a potentially dangerous boiler before it was replaced. 
I cant ask Aviva to compensate Mrs B for any potential danger to her and her family. I cant 
look at what mightve happened  I can only look at what did happen. But I would expect 
Aviva to compensate Mrs B for the trouble and upset she suffered while this was being 
sorted out. Her family were without heating or hot water for nearly two weeks and the 
situation has clearly caused her a lot of stress and upset.
Putting things right
I appreciate Mrs B feels the whole situation was caused by Aviva. But for the reasons Ive 
explained above I dont think it would be fair to ask Aviva to cover the total cost of installing a 
new, and slightly more powerful, boiler system. That wouldnt be fair when considering the 
terms and conditions of the homeserve policy.
Having thought carefully about everything thats happened, I do think Aviva should do more 
than offer the replacement costs of around £950. The actions of its engineers led to Mrs B 
feeling she couldnt trust Aviva to repair the system again.
I can see our investigator suggested Aviva increase its offer to £1380.60 from £948.41. This 
means the amount its paying towards the cost of the newly installed boiler has increased 
from 45% to 65%. And I think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I can see Aviva has offered £350 compensation for Mrs Bs trouble and upset. And a further 
£45 towards her increased electricity costs. I think thats the right amount given whats 
happened. And I wont be asking Aviva to increase the compensation offered.  My final decision
My final decision is that Aviva Insurance Limited should pay Mrs B a total of £1775.60 as 
follows:
£1380.60 towards the cost of her replacement boiler
£350 compensation for her trouble and upset
£45 towards her increased electricity costs
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman