DRN-4042278
The complaint
Mr T complains about how Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) has handled 
a claim he made under his home insurance policy. He doesnt think its offer to settle his 
claim is fair.
LV is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the actions 
of its agent. As LV has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agent, in my 
decision, any reference to LV includes the actions of the agent.
What happened
In mid-2022, Mr T made a water damage claim under his home insurance policy with LV. A 
pipe under his bath had leaked causing damage to the ceiling below, his kitchen and hallway 
as well as some of his contents.
LV arranged for a surveyor to visit his home and assess the damage. Mr T said he was 
planning to renovate his kitchen, so LV made him a cash settlement offer.
Mr T didnt think LVs offer was enough for him to get the work done. He asked for LV to 
arrange for the works to be completed as he was having difficulty finding a contractor 
himself. LV didnt agree to this, so he made a complaint.
LV said it couldnt carry out the reinstatement works due to pre-existing wear and tear issues 
which werent covered. It said Mr T had the option of providing a quote for works which could 
then be reviewed.
Mr T remained unhappy, so he asked our service to consider his concerns.
I issued a provisional decision on 22 February 2023 where I explained why I intended to 
uphold Mr Ts complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy terms and conditions set out how buildings claims will be settled. They say:
If the loss or damage is covered by this insurance well agree with you to:
arrange for repair or replacement using one of our suppliers; or
pay the cost of repair; or
make a cash payment
LV has provided a scope of works which shows a total estimate of costs of £3,315. Its 
deducted an adjustment of £1,151 and the excess of £350 to reach a figure of £1,814. This 
was the amount of LVs initial cash settlement offer to Mr T. 
I can see that LV increased its settlement offer to £2,500, which it says was revised to 
include sanding and re-finishing of the parquet floor in the hall. LV says there was also a rise 
to the maximum level before needing to remove VAT.
LV says cash settlements are worked out via a cash settlement tool which has a range from 
which to make an offer, the lowest being the household rate and the maximum being the 
contractor rate. 
From what I can see, LV appears to have based its offer on the household rate rather than 
the contractor rate. Ive asked LV for some clarification as to why it chose to do this, but it 
hasnt provided any additional comments. 
It appears that LV has based the settlement offer on the amount it would cost it to have its 
own trades to the work, rather than what it would likely cost Mr T to get the repairs done 
himself.
Under cash payments the policy terms say:
If we can offer a repair or replacement through one of our suppliers and you choose not to 
have the item repaired or replaced or you wish to use your own supplier, we will not pay 
more than the amount we would have paid our supplier.
If were unable to offer repair or an equivalent replacement is not available, well pay the 
nearest cash equivalent or current market value of the item at the time of the loss or 
damage.
LV says that when the surveyor visited the property, Mr T said he intended to refurbish the 
whole kitchen and he wanted a cash settlement. Mr T says he has had difficulty finding his 
own contractor and would be happy for LVs suppliers to carry out the work. 
However, LV says it would be impractical for it to complete the works because of the existing 
condition of the kitchen and the fact that a lot of damage was not due to the claim. It says Mr 
T asked it to carry out the repairs at his convenience in a piecemeal fashion as and when he 
carried out the non-claim related refurbishments. 
I appreciate why LV reached the conclusion that it would be impractical for it to carry out the 
repairs. However, Im satisfied that it was LVs decision to cash settle the claim, rather than 
Mr Ts. So, I dont think its fair for LV to base its settlement towards the lower range of 
estimates. I think it would be fair for LVs offer to reflect the cost to Mr T of getting the work 
done.
I also asked LV to clarify why it deducted £1,151 from the estimate showing in its scope of 
works, but it didnt answer my question. It only referred to information it had previously sent 
us. LV seems to have deducted this amount for wear and tear. 
The policy terms say:
Well pay the full cost of any repair or replacement, including any architects and surveyors 
fees, demolition, removal of debris or local authority costs we have agreed to payIf the 
damage to the buildings is not rebuilt or repaired, or the buildings were not in good condition 
when damaged, well pay the lower of:the cost of repair or replacement less an amount for wear and tear
LV says the kitchen units are over 20 years old and show a great deal of wear and tear, with 
no evidence of damage relating to the claim. It says the decorations (wallpapering etc.) have 
suffered previous water damage unrelated to this claim. Its referred to stripping and peeling 
in some areas due to wear and tear. 
Its unclear how LV has reached the figure of £1,151 for wear and tear. The kitchen units 
arent included in LVs scope of works, so the age and any wear on these doesnt appear to 
be relevant. The photographs Ive seen suggest that the decorations (wallpaper etc) has 
been there for a long time. This isnt disputed by Mr T. I acknowledge what LV has said 
about their being some pre-existing damage to the wallpaper. However, Mr T says the water 
damage has caused the wallpaper to bubble and LV seems to have accepted that there was 
some damage to the decorations due to the incident claimed for. 
The terms of the policy allow LV to deduct an amount for wear and tear. I also appreciate 
that Mr T would be placed in a better position than he was prior to the damage, if LV was to 
cover the full cost of the repairs. However, LV has an obligation to indemnify Mr T for his 
insured losses. Mr T wouldnt be able to redecorate his house to be of the exact same 
standard that it was before the incident he is claiming for. So, I dont think its possible to 
avoid Mr T receiving betterment if LV is to fulfil its obligation to indemnify Mr T. It follows that 
I dont think its fair for LV to deduct an amount for wear and tear from its cash settlement 
offer. 
LV says its policy is not to pay VAT on settlements above £2,500 without the customer 
evidencing vatable bills. I think this is reasonable, but LV shouldnt limit the amount its 
prepared to offer to £2,500 for this reason. If LV agrees a cash settlement that doesnt 
include VAT, Id expect it to pay the VAT once Mr T has shown hes paid it.
In its final response to Mr Ts complaint, LV said it would be willing to review quotes for 
works if Mr T provided them. I shared the quote Mr T sent to us in January 2023 with LV and 
asked for its comments. It said an estimate like this would usually be referred to LVs 
validation team. It commented that there are some betterment items and something that 
wasnt required as part of the current claim. It said the quote seemed highly overpriced 
compared to current market rates.
I think it would be reasonable for LV to discuss the quote with Mr T once it has been 
reviewed by its validation team. Mr T may also wish to obtain some quotes from other 
contractors and share these with LV.
Mr T has acknowledged that some work needed to be done to his home, prior to the water 
damage incident. But he wasnt previously ashamed to invite people to visit him as he is 
now. He says he cant see to cook because of the damage to the lights in his kitchen. I 
understand that LVs surveyor wasnt able to visit Mr T until September because Mr T wasnt 
able to get time off work. However, I think if LV had made a reasonable offer to settle his 
claim, Mr T might have been able to get at least some of the repairs completed sooner. Im 
also persuaded that Mr T has experienced some unnecessary frustration and inconvenience 
as a result of LVs handling of his claim. So, I also intend to award him £300 for distress and 
inconvenience.
I set out what I intended to direct LV to do to put things right. And I gave both parties the 
opportunity to send me any further information or comments they wanted me to consider 
before I issued my final decision.Responses
Mr T provided another quote for repairs, which we forwarded to LV on his behalf. 
LV said it agreed with my provisional decision, but it wanted to make it clear that it wasnt 
agreeing to pay Mr Ts estimates in full. It said that once the complaint had been closed, it 
would review the estimates submitted by Mr T and engage with him to provide a revised 
settlement taking into account what Id said.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has disagreed with the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision, I 
see no reason to change them. 
Putting things right
LV should:
Make Mr T a revised settlement offer. This should be sufficient to enable Mr T to 
complete repairs to the parts of his property which were damaged by the incident he 
is claiming for, without a deduction for wear and tear. 
Pay Mr T £300 for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ts complaint and direct Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company Limited to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman