DRN-3915282
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) wont refund the money he lost as 
the result of a scam. 
What happened
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them all 
here. But briefly, both parties accept that Mr Ds son was the victim of a romance scam.
Some of the testimony is unclear and contradictory  which is not surprising given it was the 
consumers son that fell victim to the scam. But from what Ive seen - around September 
2021, Mr Ds son met someone (I will refer to as Ms A) via an online dating site. The 
conversation quickly moved onto a messaging forum outside the dating site. After a few 
weeks Ms A began asking for money for various things including a car, medical expenses for 
her mother, and house purchase. Mr Ds son appears to have been of the understanding 
that this was on the basis they would be getting married and moving in together. Mr Ds son 
met the person in question once when he travelled to her country. She made a variety of 
excuses for not meeting up but eventually met up it seems for around an hour. It seems she 
had promised to return home with him, but the following morning Ms A told Mr Ds son her 
unwell mother had now died and she needed to stay in the country and needed more money 
for funeral costs.
Between 25 September 2021 and 20 December 2021 Mr Ds son made multiple payments 
totalling £13,020.50. He transferred a further £12,563 from his own account with another 
bank.
Mr D raised a scam case on 7 February 2022. The case was declined for a refund as RBS 
did not feel Mr D had a reasonable basis to believe the request was genuine and did not 
carry out sufficient due diligence. It also considered Mr D breached the Terms and 
Conditions of use of his account, by allowing his son to have access to his online/mobile 
banking.
RBS tried to claim back funds on a best endeavours basis, however there was none left to 
refund.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. Mr D did not agree so the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 6 July 2023. RBS did not respond. Mr D did not accept 
my decision. He said:
He didnt think it is enough to say his sons banks case has no bearing on this case because 
I dont have the details. He feels that because it is the same scam with the same people that 
is enough. He says those details are available and should be considered.
He has asked me to reconsider the emotional side of this case. As mentioned in the decision 
he and his wife were happy when their son told them he had met someone. They were 
elated and more than happy to help financially. They had not heard of romance scams and 
nothing gave them cause for concern. It was their understanding that their son had met Ms A 
in the UK as well as abroad.
He also feels the question of whether RBS should have warned them also needs further 
thought. Warnings were not given because the threshold of £1,000 was not breached but he 
would question whether £13,000 in three months from an account that was previously hardly 
used should have sounded alarm bells.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Although Mr D doesnt agree with me that the outcome on his sons case is not relevant to 
my consideration of this case  I note that he hasnt provided that information during the 
course of his complaint or in response to my provisional decision. 
I havent asked for this information because my role is to judge each case on its own merits. 
The bank in that case (a different bank) made a decision (before coming to this service) 
relating to a different account holder. As I said in my provisional decision, what may appear 
to be a similar set of circumstances - may often transpire not to be the case. But ultimately 
each case presented to me is considered based on the particular set of facts to that case. 
I do appreciate the emotional side here and do understand that Mr D and his wife were 
happy for their son. Making decisions on cases like this are not easy but my role is 
independent. I also have to be fair to the bank and need to be satisfied it should be held 
responsible for what happened on a fair and reasonable basis. 
I note part of Mr Ds testimony was that his son had met Ms A more than once. This was not 
something that came across in the direct testimony received from Mr Ds son (or in the 
messages that were sent at the time - some of which were withheld). But I dont think this 
point makes a difference to the outcome here. In fact, if there were more meetings between 
the two, it could be argued this was more of a civil dispute between two parties which, as 
mentioned by the investigator previously, would not be covered by the CRM Code.
I also appreciate £13,000 was spent from the account over three months  which had been 
largely inactive. But as I said in my provisional decision theres a balance to be struck 
between identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent and ensuring minimal 
disruption to legitimate payments. I dont think the size and pattern of transactions in this 
case would have presented to the bank as being a scam risk.
Because these points dont lead me to reach a different conclusion, I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional decision. I have concluded that the fair and reasonable outcome, 
in all the circumstances, would be not to uphold this complaint. For completeness, I have set 
this out below.
My decision
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulatory rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. I should start by saying that I do accept Mr Ds son has fallen victim to what can only be 
described as a cruel and callous scam. Im sorry Mr D has lost money as a result and I can 
understand why he would like to be compensated for all his losses. When I consider cases 
like this  I am looking at whether the bank  who was not party to the scam itself  should 
have done more. And it doesnt automatically follow that RBS is liable for a loss, just 
because a customer is a victim of fraud. 
It also doesnt follow that because another bank has issued a refund in relation to the same 
scam  that would apply to another case. I am not party to the details of that case  for 
example; I dont know why the bank issued a refund, what the transactions looked like or 
other details. It may be pertinent that the account holder is different here too. Ultimately each 
case is judged on its own merits and - what may appear to be a similar set of circumstances 
- may often transpire not to be the case.
Authorisation
The question of authorisation is a key one in a case of this kind. Because, although its not in 
dispute that Mr D (and his son) didnt set out to be scammed, under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs), and general banking terms and conditions, Mr D is presumed 
liable in the first instance if he authorised the transactions. 
Mr D did not carry out the transactions himself. However, by providing his secure account 
details to his son, Mr D permitted a third party to appear as if they had his authority to make 
payment transactions -  even where Mr D didnt ask his son to make any payments or know 
about them. In other words, Mr D provided apparent authority to his son for the disputed 
transactions to be carried out. I therefore consider the payments were authorised, even 
though Mr Ds son carried out the transactions and even though his son, in turn, was the 
victim of a scam. 
The Contingent Reimbursement Model 
As Mr D was the victim of an authorised push payment (APP) scam, my considerations dont 
end with the PSRs. Thats because RBS is a signatory to the Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM) Code. Although Mr D wasnt the direct victim himself, I consider the payments 
are covered by the CRM Code even though it was Mr Ds son that fell victim to the scam.
The investigator mentioned this might be a civil dispute. The CRM Code doesnt cover civil 
disputes - so, for example genuine relationships where funds have been exchanged 
between the two parties and now one party wants their money back. I dont think this was an 
argument RBS was necessarily making, but for the avoidance of doubt, I dont agree this is a 
civil dispute. I appreciate it is unusual in what we typically see in a romance scam for a victim to meet up 
with the scammer. But reading the messages between Ms A and Mr Ds son in the run up to 
Mr Ds sons trip to meet Ms A  in the first instance, I think its clear the trip was Mr Ds 
sons idea and Ms A tried to put him off coming to her country  she suggested it wasnt 
safe. Then once hed arrived Ms A appears to have made a series of excuses not to meet 
him once hed arrived  this went on for a few days. In the end the messages indicate that 
they did meet but for a limited amount of time and Mr Ds son told us it was around an hour. I 
think the message history broadly supports that. This seems odd to me and not what I would 
expect if the romance was genuine.
I think Ms A deliberately set out to deceive Mr Ds son  she struck up a false relationship 
with him and persuaded him to give her money (for reasons I also believe - on balance - 
were not genuine). And she had no real intention of repaying. Overall, Im satisfied that its 
more likely than not Ms A acted fraudulently.
So Im satisfied that Mr Ds claim should be considered under the provisions of the Code and 
the bank has not questioned that.
The Code requires RBS to refund victims of APP scams in all but limited circumstances. 
Those exceptions are: 
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate. 
The customer has been grossly negligent
There are further exceptions within the CRM Code, but these arent relevant here.
Did Mr D act with gross negligence? 
The Code does say a business can decline to refund the customer in full if it believes its 
customer has been grossly negligent.
I have considered whether the actions Mr D took fell so far below the standard of a 
reasonable person that he could be said to have failed with gross negligence to take all 
reasonable steps to keep his security information safe or to comply with the terms and 
conditions of his account. Its important to take into account all the circumstances when 
considering whether an individuals action amount to gross negligence.
Mr D told us he originally opened the account for his son because his son doesnt work and 
so he didnt have anything to fall back on. It was an emergency account if his son needed to 
use it. Mr D further explained that his son was in his forties and hed never had a girlfriend.
Mr D also explained his son and has a neurodiversity which means he finds personal
relationships difficult.
Mr D also told us his son is intelligent; he reads a lot and there has never been a problem 
with financial things until this scam. He said  there was no issue regarding his son's 
capacity to deal with money and that he was usually very careful with money.
Whilst I appreciate the bank says Mr D breached the Terms and Conditions of use of his 
account, by allowing his son to have access to his online/mobile banking. I dont think this is 
enough on its own to warrant not refunding Mr D under the Code.The Code also says that it needs to be established that those actions were material to the 
success of the scam. There are two parts to the test, and both must be established to show 
the exception can be applied. In other words, that terms were breached and, further, the 
breach was material to the success of the scam.
Even if I thought the breach amounted to gross negligence (thats not a decision I need to 
make here) I dont think the breach was material to the success of the scam. I say this 
because I think the scam would have happened anyway even if Mr D had carried out the 
transfers himself on behalf of his son. Mr D was also taken in by the story the scammer was 
relaying to his son. He was happy for his son to be in a relationship and so wanted to help. 
He thought investing in the supposed property was a good investment. So I dont think this 
exception applies.
Did Mr D have a reasonable basis for belief? 
In thinking about reasonable basis for belief  it is Mr Ds basis for belief, rather than his 
sons basis for belief that is key here. I need to consider not just whether Mr D believed he 
was giving his son money for him in turn to send to someone he had recently met on a 
dating site, but whether it was reasonable for him to do so. Ive thought about the steps Mr D 
took to reassure himself about the legitimacy of the transactions and whether it was 
reasonable for him to proceed with the payments. 
Mr D allowed his son to use his account to enable him to give money to someone his son 
had recently met online. And Mr D had not met Ms A himself. I think the risk is clearly 
heightened and warranted further checking. Mr D was also aware that this was his sons first
relationship. He explained his son has a neurodiversity which means he had found personal
relationships difficult. Given these circumstances, Mr D ought reasonably to have questioned
the situation where someone his son had recently met romantically was asking for money so
early on in their relationship. So, I think RBS is entitled to apply this exception under the 
CRM Code.
Did RBS meet its obligations under the CRM code? 
Even though I dont think Mr D  had a reasonable basis for belief when making the 
payments, he may still be entitled to a refund of 50% of the money he lost if RBS didnt meet 
its obligations under the CRM code  one of which is to provide effective warnings. The 
CRM code says that, where firms identify scam risks, they should provide effective warnings 
to their customers. 
Ive looked at Mr Ds account statements in the lead up to the scam payments but the 
transfers werent particularly large (although I appreciate overall it is a lot of money to Mr D) 
and didnt leave the balance of his account at a particularly unusual level. Whilst the size of 
payments does increase over time (the first few are in the hundreds and later on transfers of 
£1,000 are made). But by then they are to the same known payee and transactions are 
spread out with gaps in between. So, I dont think the transfers will have looked suspicious 
or would have stood out to RBS and I wouldnt expect RBS to have identified a scam risk as 
a result. Theres a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially 
be fraudulent and ensuring minimal disruption to legitimate payments. And so, I dont think 
RBS was required to provide an effective warning under the CRM code, or that it has failed 
to meet its obligations under the Code by not doing so. I therefore dont think RBS should be 
required to refund the money Mr D lost.Did RBS do enough to recover Mr Ds funds?
Ive thought about whether RBS took reasonable steps to recover Mr Ds funds once it was 
made aware, he was the victim of a scam. The scam payments were first made on 27 
September 2021 and the last one on 20 December 2021. Mr D reported the scam to RBS on 
8 February 2022. RBS contacted the receiving bank on 8 February 2022. The receiving bank 
confirmed that no funds remained. 
I understand that Mr D didnt know he was the victim of a scam before this, but the delay 
means any recovery action was most unlikely to be successful as scammers usually remove 
funds within hours. From what Ive seen RBS has done what it should have to try and 
recover the funds for Mr D, but have been unable to obtain a refund for him.
I realise this will be a significant disappointment to Mr D. He has put time and effort into 
bringing this complaint, but I dont think RBS has acted unfairly in declining to refund Mr D in 
all the circumstances of this case.
My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman