DRN-2665589
The complaint
Miss C complains that Grove & Dean (trading as Performance Direct) misled her when she 
purchased her motor insurance. 
What happened
In June 2020 Miss C purchased an annual insurance policy through Performance Direct to 
cover her motor vehicle. She paid £116.90 which included charges of £32.62. 
At the time of the sale Miss C said she may not need cover for a full year. She was advised if 
she paid in full, she would get more back (if anything was due) if the policy was cancelled 
part way through than if she paid in instalments.
Miss C decided to pay in full and the adviser explained the charges that applied, specifically 
a cancellation charge of £55 if cancelled within the 14-day cooling off period and charges of 
between £55 and £75 if cancelled after. Miss C continued with the sale and the policy 
documents were then provided for cover to commence on 27 June 2020.
In October 2020 Miss C contacted Performance Direct to cancel the policy. At the time of 
cancellation, the return would have been £59.57 (calculated on a pro rata basis) but she was 
advised that after deducting the insurers administration charge of £28 this left £31.57. 
There was also a further cancellation charge of £55 that applied. So, to ensure there was no 
debt outstanding, Performance Direct had reduced their cancellation fee to £31.57 which 
meant no refund was due.
Miss C was unhappy and asked to make a complaint. She said she wasnt aware of the 
charges and she thought any unused premiums would be refunded. The adviser said she 
would pass the complaint to the relevant department and asked if Miss C wished to cancel 
the policy in the meantime or keep it active. Miss C said the policy could be cancelled.
Whilst waiting to hear in relation to the complaint, Miss C contacted Performance Direct to 
ask if the policy could be reinstated. She was advised it wasnt possible to do so.
Performance Direct sent their final response to Miss C on 24 November 2020. They said 
their agent had given Miss C details of the cancellation charges at the time of purchase but 
hadnt told Miss C about the insurers administration charge, although they noted it was in 
the policy documents. 
They also said they felt the agent had given correct advice in relation to paying for the policy 
in full, and there would likely have been money owed if she had been paying in instalments 
due to the interest chargeable and the way it works.
Performance Direct re-calculated the refund excluding the insurers administration charge 
and refunded £4.57 to Miss C on an ex-gratia basis. This is what remained after deducting 
their cancellation charges.
Miss C was unhappy with this so referred her concerns to this service. Our investigator 
looked into it and felt Performance Direct didnt need to do anything more. 
Miss C disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Performance Direct need to do anything more. I know this will 
be disappointing for Miss C, but Ive explained my reasoning below.
Miss C says Performance Direct misled her and had they been clear she would have made a 
different decision as she feels a monthly arrangement may have been more favourable.
Paying in instalments means Miss C would have been signed up to a credit agreement. 
There would have been interest chargeable and potentially penalties for exiting the 
agreement early. And as it isnt a pay as you go process, and one payment isnt equivalent 
to one months cover, its possible there may have been a shortfall depending when Miss C 
decided to cancel. 
The adviser told Miss C she would end up with more of a refund (if one were due) if she paid 
in full, depending when she cancelled. Given the interest and how the credit agreement 
would have worked, I think on balance, paying for the policy in full was the better option for 
Miss C so I dont think the adviser misled her. 
When cancelling the policy, the adviser was clear about what would have been due and the 
charges that applied. The adviser explained that taking account of fees and charges, they 
had reduced their fee to cancel the policy with nil outstanding. If they didnt do this Miss C 
would have owed a small amount. Miss C wasnt happy with this, as she thought she would 
get something back, so made a complaint. 
At the time of the sale the adviser was clear that there was a cancellation fee of £55 that was 
applicable if cancelled within the 14-day cooling off period. And detailed additional charges 
that may apply if cancelled after. The terms and conditions also detailed this.
In responding to the complaint, Performance Direct re-calculated the refund excluding the 
insurers administration fee. The premium refund due was £59.57, after deducting their 
cancellation fee of £55 this left £4.57 which they refunded on an ex-gratia basis as they said 
they reserved the right not to refund anything under £20. I can see this was detailed in the 
terms and conditions.
The original adviser wasnt clear about the insurers administration fee, so I think 
Performance Direct have been fair not deducting this from any refund due. Even though the 
fee is set out in the policy documents, it wasnt brought to Miss Cs attention during the call, 
when she was specifically asking about what would happen if she cancelled.
Shortly after cancellation I can see Miss C asked for the policy to be reinstated but was told 
this wasnt possible. I note that at the time of cancellation the adviser asked Miss C if she 
wanted to keep the policy active whilst her concerns were being investigated. Miss C chose 
to cancel it and said she had taken her vehicle off the road and provided a Statutory Off 
Road Notification (SORN) to the DVLA. So, I think Performance Direct gave Miss C fair 
opportunity to keep the policy active at the time of cancellation. In summary, I dont think Performance Direct misled Miss C at the time of sale, and theyve 
been fair excluding the insurers administration fee from the cancellation charges that 
applied.
My final decision
For reasons I have explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman