DRN-1546298
 
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs H are unhappy the No Claims Bonus (NCB) for their motor insurance policy 
has been reduced by Admiral Insurance Company Limited after Mrs H had notified them of 
an incident.
For ease of reading, as Mrs H was the driver when the incident happened, I will only refer to 
her throughout my decision.
What happened
In September 2018, Mrs H took out a motor insurance policy with Admiral. It was a fully 
comprehensive policy with 14 years NCB. In August 2019 Mrs H called Admiral as she 
wanted to add her father in law to the policy. During this call Mrs H said she mentioned an 
incident that had happened the weekend before. She said she didnt want to make a claim 
as there hadnt been any damage caused. And she said she was told that the incident had to 
be recorded but that there wouldnt be any impact on her NCB.
In September 2019, on renewal of her motor insurance policy Mrs H saw her premiums had 
increased significantly, and her NCB had been reduced to three years. She complained to 
Admiral. 
Admiral said her premium had increased as she was a greater risk to insure, and that they 
had added the details of the incident to the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE). They 
also said that Mrs Hs NCB was reduced as a claim could be made by the third party. They 
said if the third party let them know they wouldnt be making a claim then theyd reinstate her 
NCB. Admiral accepted Mrs H had been given mis-leading information about the incident not 
affecting her NCB and offered £20 compensation for this.
Mrs H said the third party was a neighbour and that theyd hired the vehicle. Mrs H said 
theyd confirmed there wasnt any damage and they wouldnt be making a claim. But they 
said they didnt want to tell this to Admiral as they didnt want Admiral to report it. Admiral 
said without the confirmation from the third party they would keep the claim open for six 
months. But if a claim wasnt made, theyd close the claim and reconsider Mrs H s NCB 
allowance.
Mrs H wasnt happy with Admirals response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said Admiral had acted fairly and reasonably in adding the information on 
CUE, and that the renewal premiums reflected the higher risk Mrs H now posed. But as no 
claim had been made by either Mrs H or the third party, he said Mrs Hs NCB shouldnt have 
been reduced. He asked Admiral to refund the reduction back to Mrs H and to apply 8% 
simple interest to the amount. And said a further £30 should be paid for the trouble and 
upset caused.Admiral said the claim was now closed, and as a claim hadnt been made, they would refund 
the difference in NCB back to Mrs H. But didnt think the 8% simple interest should be paid 
as theyd followed industry standards. Theyve asked for an ombudsman to decide.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Im upholding this 
complaint.
Mrs H has accepted her premiums will increase as a result of the incident. And that Admiral 
has a responsibility to add this information to CUE. So, I wont comment on these further. 
What I need to determine is whether Admiral has acted fairly and reasonably in reducing Mrs 
Hs NCB after she notified them of the incident. I have looked at the terms and conditions 
Admiral gave to Mrs H when she took out her motor insurance policy. About her NCB it says:
If you (or any driver named on your policy) make a claim or a claim is made against you,and 
you do not have protected or guaranteed No Claims Bonus, your No Claims Bonus willbe 
reduced.
Mrs H didnt make a claim for the incident against her policy. And neither had there been a 
claim made by the third party. The terms and conditions dont say a possible claim but 
clearly say a claim is made against you
Admiral said they noted the claim as open in case the third party made a claim. But their 
terms and conditions go on to say:
If you make a claim and your renewal premium has already been calculated, your No 
Claims Bonus will be amended and your premium will change.
This shows that its within Admirals processes to change Mrs Hs premium, after it has been 
renewed and within the year of the motor insurance cover should a claim be made against 
her. So, I dont think it was fair or reasonable for Admiral to reduce her NCB because of the 
chance a claim might be made. I think Admiral should have calculated her renewal premium 
based on her increased risk, because shed had this incident. But continued to apply her full 
NCB allowance as no claim had been made. And if a claim was later made, Admiral could 
have made the required adjustment to Mrs Hs premium to reflect this.
So, I think there has been a financial impact on Mrs H, Admiral has already agreed to 
recalculate her premium based on her full NCB allowance. And I can see that Mrs Hs CUE 
records correctly show as notification only  NCB allowed. But I agree with our investigator 
that Admiral should also pay 8% simple interest on the difference from the date Mrs H paid 
her renewal premium to the date the premium was amended to reflect her full NCB 
allowance.
Admiral has already offered Mrs H £20 in compensation for what they considered was mis-
leading information. But I think a further £30 compensation is fair and reasonable for the 
trouble and upset this has caused. 
 
 
  
 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Admiral Insurance Company Limited to: 
recalculate Mrs Hs renewal premium based on her full NCB allowance. And to apply 
8% simple interest to the difference.
pay a further £30 for trouble and upset.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman