DRN-3121442
The complaint
Ms W complains that Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) disclosed her personal information.
What happened
Ms W had a Vanquis card account since 2013. It was set up using her company mobile 
number. In February 2019, Ms W asked Vanquis to stop using that number. Again, in 
October 2020 and December 2020, she asked the same thing. Vanquis changed the contact 
number in May 2021.
Ms W complained. She asked Vanquis several times to change her number by which they 
contacted her, but they didnt. As a result, a lot of personal information had been texted to 
her company mobile number  which was also used by other people. She didnt feel able to 
change jobs within her company  as the new people in her old job would see the 
information. When Ms W complained to Vanquis, they took a long time to respond to her 
complaint. And  after they said theyd paid compensation of £125, it wasnt credited to her 
account.
Vanquis said that they hadnt updated their system due to a systems error. They apologised 
and paid compensation of £75. They also admitted that they hadnt dealt with Ms Ws 
complaint as quickly as they should have and paid a further £50 for that. Later, during our 
investigation, they agreed to pay another £125.
Ms W brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said that Vanquis were advised in 
February 2019 to change Ms Ws contact number. But didnt until May 2021. In that time, a 
lot of text messages had been sent. Some contained personal information such as the 
outstanding balance, and amount to be paid  but also over limit advices and the amount 
that needed to be paid. The issue went on for over two years and therefore  the amount of 
compensation should be increased by a further £250  making a total of £325.
Vanquis agreed with the investigator, but Ms W didnt. She said that more compensation 
should be paid  as this went on for over two years. She asked that an ombudsman look at 
her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see from Vanquis records - that Ms W originally raised this issue with Vanquis in 
February 2019. And again, she contacted them again about it in October 2020 and then in 
December 2020, and finally in January 2021. Vanquis apologised and said that due to 
systems problems, the matter wasnt put right when it shouldve been. 
So - its clear that as a result, Ms Ws personal data was disclosed. Ive seen that on most 
occasions, monthly texts were sent to say that her statement was available to view  but this 
also showed the minimum payment needed. On other occasions, the texts advised she was 
over her limit  and that a payment was needed, and how much that was.
We asked Ms W what the impact of this was. She told us that the phone was available to be 
used by others in her department  so they could see her information. And because she felt 
she couldnt delete the texts  because she needed evidence for her complaint - this also 
prevented her from moving jobs. This was because she would have to leave the phone for 
her replacement to use and see. I can see that all this this must have been concerning for 
her. 
Theres no doubt that Ms W has been impacted here  and suffered distress in knowing that 
her account details were available for others to see; and inconvenience  as she had to 
make repeated requests to Vanquis to sort things out. So - this comes down to how much 
compensation she should receive for this. I can appreciate what happened was a concern 
for her, and that she needed to contact Vanquis several times over a long period to sort 
things out. But equally I havent seen that there was a serious consequence of what 
happened  for example, an action resulting at her work. So, I must take that into 
consideration also.
Vanquis apologised and paid compensation of £75 and agreed with our investigator to pay a 
further £250  so a total of £325. The matter of compensation is a subjective one, and Ive 
considered whats the right amount that Ms W should be paid. Our service says that where 
there have been repeated, but small mistakes  which havent been sorted out - then 
compensation might be up to approximately £300. I think that what happened here falls into 
that bracket. And so  I think that the compensation of £325 is right here. In addition, 
Vanquis paid £50 to Ms W for not dealing with her complaint within the timescales they 
should have.
Putting things right
Vanquis have already paid compensation of £75. And they should therefore pay a further 
£250 to Ms W. This should be paid to Ms Ws bank account (and not to her Vanquis 
account) if she wishes. I note also that Ms W has also received compensation of £50 for 
delays in dealing with her complaint. 
(continued)
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.  Vanquis Bank Limited must:Pay compensation of £250 for distress and inconvenience, to an account to be 
nominated by Ms W. This is in addition to the £75 already paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman