DRN-2499086
The complaint
Mr I complains about a sharp increase in his premium when his car insurance with Aviva 
Insurance Limited auto-renewed.
What happened
Mr I had car insurance with Aviva which auto-renewed in October 2019. He later realised the 
premiums had more than doubled  from just over £650 to almost £1,400.
Mr I hadnt made any claims during the previous year. And he says his circumstances hadnt 
changed. For example, he had the same car, lived at the same address and had the same 
job.
Mr I made a complaint to Aviva. He believed there must have been an error in the way his 
premium had been calculated.
Aviva told Mr I there had been no error and his premium had been calculated correctly. They 
said there were a number of factors that went into their calculation of the risk  and therefore 
the premium  including many which werent about Mr I as an individual. 
Aviva did however offer to waive the usual cancellation fee if Mr I wanted to shop around for 
car insurance elsewhere.
Mr I wasnt happy with this, so he complained to us. Our investigator looked into it and didnt 
think Aviva had done anything wrong.
Mr I disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I should be clear about our role. Were here as an informal dispute resolution 
service, a free and - we hope - quicker alternative to the courts. We can look into whether a 
financial business has acted fairly and reasonably towards a particular customer. And if we 
dont think they have, we can tell them what they need to do to put things right. 
So, our focus is on the individual customer and what happened to them. We arent 
empowered to determine whether, for example, the way the insurance industry as a whole 
runs its processes is a good thing or a bad thing. Thats a matter for the regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority.
Its not for us to tell insurers how to calculate risk. They will make a commercial decision, 
which they are of course entitled to do, about what cover they want to offer and at what 
price. They then make that offer to the market, which is a competitive one. 
If they over-estimate the risk compared to their competitors  and so ask higher premiums - 
they will presumably do less business, unless they differentiate their product in some other 
way than price.
In calculating risk, insurers will take many different factors into account. These may be 
specific to the individual. For example, how many previous claims theyve made. But they 
may also relate to statistical data. In the case of car insurance, they may take into account, 
for example, the type of car, the cost of replacement parts, the prevalence of car-related 
crime in the neighbourhood, the number of claims in the neighbourhood and so on.
All insurers make these calculations. But the factors they take into account will differ from 
one insurer to another  as will the comparative weight they give to each factor.
I can understand why Mr I was confused  and frustrated  by the increase in his premium at 
the point of renewal of his policy with Aviva. It is a very stark increase. And I can see how he 
feels that his circumstances hadnt changed in any way which would justify the rise in price.
So, Im not entirely surprised that he thought Aviva had made some sort of administrative 
error when they calculated his premium and/or when they communicated that to him. 
If they had, of course  if Mr I were in effect being asked to pay more than other customers 
in the same circumstances  we would agree with Mr I that that was unfair and 
unreasonable. And wed ask Aviva to put things right by adjusting the premium.
Aviva have disclosed to us how they made their calculations when Mr Is policy was due for 
renewal. Having seen their calculations, Im satisfied they havent made an error. They 
havent arbitrarily increased Mr Is premium. Any other customer in the same circumstances 
as Mr I would have been offered the same premium. 
Mr I may think those calculations must be odd or unjustified, if they allow such radical swings 
in the price hes being asked to pay. Aviva would no doubt disagree. But its not for us to get 
into the middle of that argument. The important point, as far as this decision goes, is that we 
cant tell Aviva how they should calculate risk. Thats wholly and properly a matter for them.
As I say, all insurers constantly update how they rate the risk of consumers. And their rates 
continually change. Aviva has provided me with confidential business sensitive information 
to explain how the price increase was calculated. 
I have to ask Mr I to understand that I cant share that commercially sensitive information 
with him  for obvious reasons. But he can rest assured Ive checked it carefully. And Im 
satisfied his premium has been calculated correctly. All of Avivas customers in the same 
position will have been charged a similar premium.
Im also satisfied that Mr I was given a fair and reasonable opportunity to decline Avivas 
offer when his policy auto-renewed. They told him before the policy renewed that it would do 
so unless he took action to stop that happening. They were clear about the dates, the 
process for Mr I to follow if he didnt want the policy to renew, and the relative prices of the 
policy before and after renewal. They also contacted him again when the policy had 
renewed. 
So, I cant see that Aviva acted unfairly or unreasonably in any way when the policy was 
renewed. Im also aware that  as soon as Mr I brought his dissatisfaction to their attention  
they offered to waive the usual cancellation fee so that Mr I could look for a cheaper policy 
elsewhere.Mr I says that was only after several monthly payments had already been taken. But Im not 
sure what Aviva could have done about that before Mr I let them know about his concerns. 
And in that period, he was on cover with Aviva.
I understand Mr I also had come concerns about the credit rating information Aviva may 
have used in calculating the premium they offered. As I understand it, Aviva use information 
provided by a reputable third party. I cant see that Aviva mis-used that information or failed 
to translate it accurately into their own calculations.
If Mr I thinks that information may not be accurate, Aviva tell us theyll be happy to speak to 
Mr I and refer him to the supplier of the information if appropriate. But, for the purposes of 
this decision, I cant say Aviva have acted unfairly in assuming the information supplied to 
them is accurate.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Is complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman