DRN-3225495
The complaint
Mr M complains that the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement (HPA) with 
Advantage Finance Ltd wasnt fit for purpose. 
What happened
Mr M entered into a HPA with Advantage Finance in February 2021 to acquire a used car. 
He says he had to return the car on three occasions meaning he was without the car for six 
weeks. He says Advantage Finance told him to return the car to the dealer and an inspection 
took place which concluded the car was fit for purpose. Mr M disagreed and provided 
photographs and videos to support his complaint.
Advantage Finance had an independent inspection carried out. This included a diagnostics 
check and a two week road test. The inspection said the checks showed no fault codes and 
that the issues of excessive oil usage and tyre pressure sensor issues couldnt be replicated.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He noted the conclusions of the independent 
inspection and that these didnt suggest the car was faulty. 
Mr M didnt agree with our investigators view. He said the car had no oil when he acquired it 
and it wasnt acceptable that he had needed to return the car on three occasions. He said 
the inspection didnt involve any mechanical tests but just took the car for a test drive.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M acquired a used car in February 2021. Under the regulations, specifically the 
Consumer Rights Act, Advantage Finance, as the finance provider can be held liable if the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Satisfactory quality can take into 
account a number of factors and I note that at the time of acquisition the car was over 11 
years old and had been driven around 74,000 miles.
Given the age and mileage of the car at acquisition it would be reasonable to expect that 
issues could arise which wouldnt be acceptable on a new car. That said, the car should still 
be of a standard a reasonable person would expect and it is in this context I have considered 
the issues Mr M has raised and the timing of these.
Mr M says the car was supplied with no oil. I can understand that this would raise concerns 
about the dealer and how the car was supplied but I do not find this means the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. Mr M has provided copies of photographs showing engine warning lights 
and based on the mileage in the pictures these are from shortly after acquisition, I can see 
he then raised concerns about the cars oil consumption and the tyre pressure. I understand 
how upsetting it must have been for Mr M to need to return the car more than once so soon 
after acquisition but in order to uphold the complaint I need to be satisfied that the car wasnt 
of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
Given when the issues arose, I find it reasonable that Advantage Finance arranged for an 
independent inspection to take place to confirm if there were faults with the car. I note 
Mr Ms comments about the extent of the inspection, but I can see that a diagnostics check 
was carried out and an extended road test. I find this reasonable. The inspection report 
carried out in July 2021 notes the car had been previously returned to the supplying dealer 
for a repair to the fuel pressure sensor after Mr M had reported a noise from the engine, 
warning light, low oil and a tyre going down.
Mr M has sent photographs of engine warning lights and also faults arising from a scan. 
While I appreciate the information Mr M has provided, I find it reasonable to place significant 
weight on the inspection report as this was carried out by an independent expert. As this 
included a two week road test in which the issues reported regarding the oil usage and tyre 
pressure were monitored and the faults werent replicated, I do not find I can say there is 
evidence to say the car was faulty. Based on the mileage details recorded in the July 2021 
inspection report, Mr M was able to drive the car over 3,000 miles which I do not find 
unreasonable.
Overall, I do not find that I have enough evidence to say that the car wasnt fit for purpose or 
not of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. I think Advantage Finance took reasonable 
action in response to Mr Ms complaint by having an independent inspection carried out and 
as this didnt find any faults and couldnt replicate the issues Mr M had raised, I do not find 
that I can uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman