DRN-3650971
The complaint
Miss S has complained that she wasnt able to apply for a mortgage interest rate with 
Barclays Bank UK PLC that was shown on Barclays website. To settle the complaint, Miss S 
would like Barclays to make the interest rate available to her.
What happened
Miss S has a mortgage with Barclays and in March 2021 her interest rate product was due to 
end. Miss S looked online and saw a three-year fixed rate at 1.73%. Miss S decided to apply 
for it but wasnt able to do so, spending 30 minutes trying to pay the application fee. 
On contacting Barclays, Miss S was told that there had been a technical error on Barclays 
website, resulting in expired interest rate products being shown. The rate Miss S wanted had 
expired in 2019 and so wasnt available. Miss S later took out a new interest rate product.
Barclays acknowledged Miss S had been inconvenienced and offered her £80 
compensation. Miss S rejected this and brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. An investigator looked at what had happened but didnt think the complaint should 
be upheld. He noted that the rate wasnt available and so, although Miss S had been 
inconvenienced, he didnt think shed suffered any financial loss as she could never have 
had that rate. He thought the £80 Barclays had offered for the inconvenience caused was 
fair.
Miss S didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. Neither party has submitted any new evidence or arguments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where a mistake has been made by a business we try, as far as possible, to put the 
customer in the position theyd have been in had the mistake not been made.
Here the mistake was that Barclays website was showing an interest rate product that had 
expired two years earlier, due to a technical error. So I have to look at what would have 
happened if that mistake hadnt been made.
If there had been no mistake, the website would have shown the interest rates that were 
actually available, rather than historic expired rates. At that point, Miss S would have been 
able to choose a new product from the rates that were available. 
What this means is that when Miss S was looking for a new product in 2021, the 1.73% rate 
was never available, and so neither she nor any other customer could have applied for that 
rate. Given this, Im not persuaded Miss S has suffered any actual financial loss by not being 
able to take out that product.
Miss S was caused inconvenience and upset, and wasted her time trying to apply for the 
rate. Barclays has offered compensation of £80 for this, which I think is fair in all the 
circumstances. It is proportionate to the trouble and inconvenience caused to Miss S by the 
error on the website.
However, for the reasons given above, Im not persuaded theres any basis on which I could 
reasonably order Barclays to switch Miss Ss mortgage to the interest rate product she saw 
online that had expired in 2019.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, insofar as I am satisfied that the 
compensation of £80 offered by Barclays Bank UK PLC for distress and inconvenience is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances. I simply leave it to Miss S to decide if she wants to 
accept it in full and final settlement of her complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman