DRN-3998248
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, issued a replacement 
debit card to him which he didnt ask for and which lacks the functionality of his previous 
card. 
What happened
Mr M received a replacement debit card from Virgin which he hadnt requested and which 
replaced his previous debit card with which he had no issue. Mr M attempted to use the 
replacement card, but he found that purchases which hed been able to make with the old 
card were now not completing. Mr M wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Virgin responded to Mr M and explained that the new card had been issued to comply with 
new industry regulations and that some purchases would now need to be verified via a one-
time passcode issued to the mobile phone number registered to the account. Virgin also 
explained that because Mr M didnt have a mobile phone number registered with them, this 
was likely to be the cause of the attempted transactions not completing. Mr M wasnt 
satisfied with Virgins response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt the explanation provided by 
Virgin as to why Mr M had experienced issues with the new debit card represented a 
reasonable resolution to what had happened. Mr M remained dissatisfied, so the matter was 
escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that Virgin have acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. Such declarations would 
be for a regulatory body or a Court of Law to potentially make. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
In this instance, Virgin have explained that they updated Mr Ms debit card as part of a wider 
program to update all their account holders debit cards so that they complied with the then 
incoming Payment Services Regulations  which mandated heightened levels of payment 
security on various methods of payment. 
This seems reasonable to me, and I would expect Virgin to have taken such action  as 
many electronic payment services providers have  in order to comply with the incoming 
regulations. And Virgin have confirmed that before beginning the debit card update program, 
they sent out communications informing their customers about the upcoming change, why it 
was being done, and what it would mean for Virgin customers moving forwards. 
This included that some payments would now need to be verified by account holders via a 
one-time passcode sent to the mobile phone number registered on the account. And while I 
accept that Mr M didnt have a mobile phone number registered to the account, I feel that 
this information reasonably should have alerted him to the fact that he would need to register 
a mobile phone number with Virgin in anticipation of the update to the new debit card. 
It seems clear from Mr Ms complaint that he didnt read or receive the pre-update 
communications sent by Virgin alluded to above. But Virgin, in their response to Mr Ms 
complaint, confirmed that the issues that Mr M was experiencing stemmed from their not 
holding a registered phone number for him to enable one-time verification passcodes to be 
sent to. Its my understanding that Mr M has now registered a phone number with Virgin. 
As such, while I appreciate Mr Ms frustrations here, I dont feel that Virgin have acted 
unfairly or done anything wrong. I say this because Im satisfied that Virgin were entitled and 
expected to update their customers debit cards as they did, and that Virgin provided 
information about the requirements of the new debit card  including the need to have a 
phone number registered with them  both before and after Mr M complained to them. 
Finally, I note that Mr M has explained that he found it difficult to register a phone number 
with Virgin because of a debilitating illness he suffers with. I sympathise with Mr M in this 
regard, and it would be hoped that Virgin  should they have been made aware of Mr Ms 
illness  would work with Mr M in an appropriate manner to try to mitigate against him 
encountering similar difficulties moving forwards. 
I realise this might not be the outcome Mr M was wanting, but it follows from the above that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Virgin to take any action. I hope Mr M will 
understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman