DRN-4452339
The complaint
Mr S complains about a delayed payment he tried to make from his bank account with The 
Co-operative Bank Plc.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Mr S opened an account with Co-op on 31 August 2022 and added his phone number on 1 
September 2022. Mr S went on to transfer in funds from an account he holds with another 
bank (B). On 6 September 2022 Mr S arranged a transfer of £6,000 from his Co-op account 
to his account with B. But the transfer was picked up by Co-ops fraud prevention systems 
for further checks.
Co-op has explained it would normally contact customers using their recorded phone 
numbers. But because Mr S account was so new and his phone number had only been 
recorded for less than a week, Co-op said its security procedures mean it didnt attempt a 
call. Co-op has explained it has this process to protect customers from fraud.
Mr S called Co-op on 6 September 2022 but had to wait a long time to speak with a member 
of staff. Mr S says he was promised a call back on 7 September 2022 but no call was 
received. So, on 8 September 2022 Mr S called Co-op and his payment was released.
Mr S has explained that he intended to use the funds to invest in precious metals online. As 
a result of the delay in receiving his funds from Co-op Mr S says he delayed his investment. 
Mr S complained to Co-op and it issued a final response on 21 January 2023. Co-op 
accepted that Mr S experienced long call wait times when he phoned on 6 and 8 September 
2022 and apologised. Co-op also said the agent Mr S spoke with on 6 September 2022 
should have advised him to speak with the fraud team. Co-op also accepted it had delayed 
Mr S investment. Whilst Co-op agreed there were some issues with Mr S transfer, it said
the payment had been correctly held for further checks. Co-op added that Mr S phone 
number had only been registered for less than a week which meant it couldnt be used to 
complete outbound fraud checks. Co-op paid Mr S £150 in recognition of his losses and the 
distress and inconvenience caused. Co-op went on pay Mr S a further £100 in 
compensation.
Mr S referred he complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Co-op had agreed a fair settlement to resolve Mr S complaint and didnt ask it to do anything 
else. Mr S asked to appeal and said the settlement didnt reflect his losses and the distress 
and inconvenience caused. As Mr S asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me 
to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
I understand the funds Mr S wanted to transfer to B originally came from that account. And I 
understand the account with B also belonged to Mr S. But businesses are obliged to have 
fraud prevention systems in place. And the account terms and conditions say Co-op can 
hold a payment for further checks where there are concerns about fraud. I also have to 
factor in that Mr S account had only been open for around a week so there was little history 
for Co-op to review and that the sums involved in the transfers were large. Im satisfied Co-
op reasonably held Mr S payment on 6 September 2022 for further checks.
With that being said, it should have been possible for Mr S to resolve the payment issues on 
6 September 2022 when he called. The issue was compounded due to how recently Co-op 
had recorded Mr S phone number. Because it was so new to Co-ops systems, there was a 
security process in place that meant it couldnt complete the outbound fraud verification call 
or text that would normally have been undertaken. So, whilst I appreciate the normal process 
would be for Co-op to contact Mr S directly to carry out some fraud checks, that didnt 
happen here. But Mr S took quick action when the payment wasnt received and contact Co-
op instead.
Co-ops final response accepts that Mr S shouldve been told to speak with its fraud 
department on 6 September 2022 but wasnt. Im satisfied that if the agent Mr S spoke with 
had given him instructions on how to contact the fraud department at that time, or transferred 
him, he wouldve completed the checks on 6 September 2022 and the payment wouldve 
been released either that day, or on 7 September 2022. So, Im satisfied the way Mr S call 
was handled did cause a delay.
The funds were ultimately released when Mr S called back on 8 September 2022 after the 
promised call back wasnt received from Co-op. Ive looked at Mr S emails with Co-op 
following his complaint. I can see that Co-op agreed to pay him the difference between what 
he wouldve got if hed invested on 7 September 2022 and what he wouldve received on 8 
September 2022, when the payment was released. Looking at Co-ops calculations, Im 
satisfied £186.31 fairly reflects that loss.
Mr S has told us the delay caused him to reconsider his options and missed the price point 
he was looking to invest at. But once the payment was released, it was then up to Mr S to 
decide how to proceed. My view is that the agreement to cover losses totalling £186.31 is 
fair.
Co-op paid Mr S a total of £250 in recognition of his losses and the distress and 
inconvenient caused. But Im not persuaded the remaining sum of £64 fairly recognises Mr 
S experiences of the inconvenience caused. As Co-op has said, Mr S experienced lengthy 
call wait times both on 6 September 2022 and 8 September 2022 which was inconvenient for 
him.
In addition, the agent Mr S spoke with on 6 September 2022 failed to take appropriate steps 
to resolve the payment issue and advised him to wait for call which couldnt be made. It was 
only after Mr S took proactive steps to contact Co-op again that his payment problem was 
resolved. In my view, a total payment of £200, in addition to the £186.31 loss, is a fairer way to resolve Mr S complaint and more reasonably recognises the distress and inconvenience 
caused. So, unless I see new information that changes my mind, I intend to uphold Mr S 
complaint on that basis.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments or information they wanted 
me to consider before I made my final decision. Both parties confirmed they were willing to 
proceed in line with the settlement I gave in the provisional decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no new information has been provided and both Mr S and Co-op have confirmed theyre 
willing to accept I see no reason to change the conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision. I still think Mr S complaint should be upheld, for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr S complaint and direct The Co- operative Bank Plc to settle 
by paying Mr S £186.31 plus £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused (less any 
compensation already paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman