DRN-3806761
The complaint
Miss T, helped by a representative, complained because Lloyds Bank plc refused to delete 
all the records it had about her.
What happened
An account in Miss Ts name was opened in June 2020. It was used to receive a number of 
payments, which were then paid to a cryptocurrency organisation. Lloyds was then told that 
some of the money paid in had been fraudulent. So it closed the account in Miss Ts name, 
and recorded a marker against her on the anti-fraud database CIFAS. 
A representative acting for Miss T told Lloyds about Miss Ts medical circumstances. She 
said that Miss T hadnt been well at the time, and had no memory of having opened the 
account. Miss Ts representative sent Lloyds an official medical record about Miss T, 
including that shed been in hospital on a number of occasions, including from July to August 
2020. Miss T hadnt been in hospital when the account was opened, but shed been very 
unwell, and she had been in hospital at the time when the fraudulent funds were received, 
and when the payment out was sent to the cryptocurrency organisation.
After receiving this information, Lloyds arranged to remove the CIFAS marker against Miss 
Ts name. 
But Lloyds told Miss Ts representative that the Lloyds group would keep details on its 
systems. It warned that this meant it might be difficult for Miss T to open accounts with any 
of the brands within the Lloyds group if she wanted to do so in future.
Miss Ts representative wasnt satisfied, and complained to this service, about Lloyds and 
about two other financial organisations where there had been similar events. This decision 
relates solely to the complaint about Lloyds.
Miss Ts representative explained that Miss T was still subject to medical reviews. But Miss T 
had previously considered going into the property rental business, and didnt want to 
jeopardise either this, or her chances of getting a mortgage in future. So Miss Ts 
representative was concerned about Lloyds statement that it would keep records of what 
had happened, and that it might be difficult for Miss T to open accounts with any of the 
Lloyds group organisations in future.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Ts complaint. She said she thought it was reasonable for 
Lloyds to keep the information in line with its processes. She also explained to Miss Ts 
representative that if shed like more information about what data could be stored by 
businesses, she could contact the Information Commissioners Office (ICO).
The investigator explained that although Miss T had been used by fraudsters, it had been 
demonstrated that the account was a risk to Lloyds. And in line with its obligations, Lloyds 
had to keep a record of past risks, in order to prevent future instances of fraud. And although 
she didnt believe Miss T would be a risk to the bank herself, deleting the details would also 
mean deleting information about the fraudsters  such as where the payments were sent to 
and from, contact and application information etc. The investigator didnt think that not 
having access to Lloyds group products and services would prevent Miss T from getting a 
mortgage with other providers. 
Miss Ts representative didnt agree. She said that the purpose of the appeal was to clear 
Miss Ts name. Miss T had been coerced into opening the account when she was mentally 
ill, and had been the victim of ruthless criminals. She said that she understood Lloyds 
wanted to keep a record of the criminal activity. But as Miss T hadnt been party to it, she 
asked if Miss Ts name could be removed so that she wouldnt be associated with it, and so 
that shed be able to apply for any Lloyds group financial products in future. Miss Ts 
representative explained that with the help of charities and Miss Ts mental health team, 
Miss T was trying to get her life back on track, and not having access to any bank account 
was hampering her ability to live day-to-day. 
The investigator explained that no-one doubted Miss T was a victim in this situation. But 
Lloyds couldnt just delete Miss Ts personal information without deleting information it 
needed to retain. Lloyds wasnt preventing Miss T having access to any bank account, just 
its own products. The investigator explained that if other banks had left external markers 
(e.g. CIFAS) on Miss Ts name, this would have a greater impact than Lloyds not deleting 
the details from its internal records.
Miss Ts representative asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very sorry to hear that Miss T was a victim of fraud, and that her identity was used 
in this way. I dont doubt that she was the victim here, and it must be very difficult for her and 
those around her.
Ill first explain what this service can consider, and what the Information Commissioners 
Office (ICO) can consider:
- The ICO regulates compliance to data protection laws in the UK. It has a number of 
powers including the power to order businesses to comply with data protection laws. 
Only the ICO can determine whether or not an organisation has broken data 
protection laws. There are time limits which Miss Ts representative will need to 
check with ICO if she wishes to contact it. 
- This service cant act in place of the ICO, or make a finding about whether or not a 
business has broken data protection laws. But we can look at whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of a dispute. Here, the complaint arises from the 
fact that Lloyds has continued to hold information about Miss T and the situation in 
relation to the fraud  and thats ancillary to the provision of banking services. So we 
can consider this.
Ive gone on to look at whether Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably when it decided not to 
delete Miss Ts details. I realise this will be distressing to Miss T and her representative, but I 
find that it did act fairly and reasonably. Thats because banks have a key responsibility to 
avoid and prevent fraud. They need to ensure robust systems are in place for monitoring 
accounts and detecting potentially fraudulent transactions and instructions. I can quite see 
Miss Ts representatives point, when she asked for Miss Ts details to be removed so that 
only the account details were retained. But unfortunately the fraudsters have Miss Ts personal details too, which means that its reasonable that Lloyds wishes to retain these, in 
order to pick up on any future attempt to use them.
I do understand that this is distressing to Miss T and her representative, and Im sorry for 
that. But I agree with the investigator that although Lloyds has said this may cause problems 
in future if Miss T wishes to open an account with the Lloyds group, the bigger problem for 
Miss T was the CIFAS marking. Lloyds removed its category 6, Misuse of facility, CIFAS 
marking, which would otherwise have stayed on this anti-fraud database for seven years. 
The CIFAS database is checked by many CIFAS-member financial organisations, so a 
marker on that would be potentially much more restrictive for Miss Ts future activities.
Given the importance of fraud prevention and the circumstances here, I dont uphold Miss 
Ts complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman