DRN-3098251
The complaint
Mr L complains that Sainsbury's Bank Plc (Sainsburys) are chasing him for a debt he 
doesnt owe. 
What happened
In March 2020 Mr L made a payment of £3,400 from his account with Bank A to his 
Sainsburys credit card. This placed his Sainsburys account in credit by £1,984.31, which he 
asked them to pay into his current account.  
Sainsburys said they tried to pay the credit into Mr Ls current account in April 2020, but that 
it wasnt possible as the payment had come from a credit card. Because of this, on 3 April 
they returned the money to the account it had come from but didnt tell Mr L they had done 
so. They paid him £50 as an apology for not keeping him informed. 
Mr L said the payment didnt arrive meaning he had to borrow money and incurred additional 
costs while using other forms of credit. He asked Sainsburys to return his missing money 
plus interest, and to also reimburse his costs and award him compensation for the 
inconvenience caused. He raised a complaint and brought it to our service. 
We looked into Mr Ls complaint and an ombudsman issued a final decision. The decision 
accepted there had been a disagreement between Sainsburys and Bank A in relation to 
where the money had ended up. They decided that Sainsburys should return the amount of 
£1,984.31 to Mr L, with 8% simple interest from 31 March to the date of the refund. 
Sainsburys were also asked to award Mr L £200 in compensation and £120 towards 
additional interest incurred as a result of borrowing against the missing funds. 
Mr L has now made another complaint to our service and has said he is being chased for 
money that he doesnt owe. 
He has said that even though he paid his credit card in full in March 2020 and closed the 
account, Sainsburys are still demanding money from him. Hes also worried his credit score 
will now be damaged. 
Sainsburys said they wrote to Mr L in March 2020 following the decision on his previous 
complaint. They said they explained that if they were to refund the full amount, he would be 
left with a debit balance of £101.55. They said Mr L replied and asked for the payment to be 
made. Because of this, Sainsburys made the transfer and explained that Mr L would need to 
make a payment to the account by 1 June 2021. Sainsburys said Mr L didnt make a 
payment and so a late fee of £12.00 was applied to his account. 
Sainsburys have said the debit balance is made up of purchases that were made by Mr L 
after he put his account into credit and is therefore correct. They said that between 3 and 6 
of April 2020, Mr L made purchases on the card totalling £151.55. These appeared on his 
statement dated 7 April 2020. 
Our investigator was of the opinion that Sainsburys had acted correctly. He explained that 
he couldnt see any evidence to show the transactions made by Mr L were cleared and 
therefore the payment due on his account was genuine. 
Mr L disagreed. He said that at the time of closing his account all outstanding balances had 
been settled and therefore he shouldnt owe Sainsburys any money. He said they deducted 
anything outstanding before closing the account. He also explained that Sainsburys had 
sold his debt to a debt management company who was contacting him on a regular basis. 
Because Mr L disagreed the complaint has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked through everything I agree with the investigator for the same reasons. I will 
explain why. 
Following the final decision made by our service on Mr Ls previous complaint, Sainsburys 
sent him an email explaining that while the original amount owed to him was £1,984.31, they 
had used some of it to offset the amount outstanding on his credit card, leaving the total 
balance at £1,882.76. They explained that they could refund the full amount to his personal 
bank account instead, however this would place Mr Ls account into a debit balance and 
wasnt something they would usually do. But if Mr L wanted this to be done, they would 
comply. 
Mr L replied and said he expected to be paid the full amount in line with the ombudsmans 
decision. Because of this, Sainsburys paid him the full amount of £1,984.31, along with the 
compensation and interest that had been set out in the decision. 
Mr L has said his account was closed and all balances settled, however I can see from his 
April 2020 statement that, at that time, there was an outstanding balance of £151.55. 
Sainsburys paid Mr L £50 compensation as part of his first complaint, leaving the remaining 
balance at £101.55 outstanding. This is the amount that remained on his credit card account 
after Sainsburys paid the £1,984.31 to his personal account and it was outlined on his May 
2021 statement. 
As Mr L never paid towards this amount on his credit card by June 2021, a late payment fee 
was applied to his account. 
After looking through everything I cant see that Sainsburys have done anything wrong here. 
The email they sent was clear and let Mr L know that if he were to request the refund in full, 
he would be left with a debit balance. 
I understand that Mr Ls account has been passed to a third party, but Sainsburys are 
entitled to do this if they dont receive payment towards a debt. 
While I appreciate this matter is causing Mr L a lot of distress, I cant see anything to suggest 
that Sainsburys have done anything wrong. I think that there may have been some 
confusion as Sainsburys did originally offset the outstanding balance, but they then asked 
Mr L if he wanted the full amount put into his personal account and he said yes. After that was done, the outstanding amount from April 2020 remained and so is a genuine 
amount owed by Mr L. 
Because of this, Im satisfied that Sainsburys have acted on Mr Ls instruction and so I wont 
be asking them to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman