DRN-4341524
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC overcharged him for his early repayment charge 
(ERC) and is unhappy with the service he has received.
What happened
Mr B had a mortgage with Barclays with two parts. One of these was on a fixed rate product 
with a fixed interest rate of 2.09% that ended on 31 January 2023. Mr Bs sale of his house 
was to complete on 24 August 2022 and in advance of that, his solicitor got a redemption 
figure. When Mr B visited the solicitor on 12 August he was shocked to see on the 
redemption statement an ERC of £1,062.73 which he says is completely inaccurate. Mr B 
says that the part of his mortgage on a fixed rate with a balance of £35,400.15 should have 
had a 1% ERC. 
Mr B made a number of other complaints arising thereafter about Barclays service and that 
the bank was holding money belonging to him. 
Barclays replied on 1 November 2022 saying that the mortgage product with the ERC was a 
non-advised sale and the mortgage offer said that Mr B would have to pay an ERC of 3% of 
the mortgage balance on that account at the time. Barclays said that the ERC was fairly 
charged but offered Mr B £200 compensation for some poor customer service and for the 
time taken to resolve the complaint. Our investigators view was that Barclays charged the 
correct ERC and its offer of settlement for the other issues was fair. Mr B disagreed and 
asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are a number of complaints here which I will deal with below:
ERC  Mr B says he was shocked by the size of the ERC he was asked to pay. Barclays 
says that the ERC was contained in the mortgage offer and set at 3% of the outstanding 
balance. Mr B says that the ERC was charged at 3% but as it was in its final year should 
have been charged at 1% as he had a stepped ERC going down in the final year. 
The amount of an ERC that a customer will pay is set out prominently in the mortgage 
illustration that precedes a mortgage offer and the mortgage offer itself. Barclays has 
produced a mortgage offer that Mr B says he never saw. Barclays says that the application 
for a mortgage switch was completed online, and Mr B would have clicked to accept that. 
The mortgage offer produced in evidence by Barclays prominently at Section 10 states that 
the ERC on this part of the mortgage, if it was redeemed before 31 January 2023 will be 3% 
of the amount repaid. That agrees with what Barclays says and not Mr B. Mr B says that his 
ERC was stepped with the percentage of the ERC declining as time passed. 
Clearly, there was a mortgage offer for the mortgage product or else the fixed rate mortgage 
wouldnt have commenced. That offer would have included a figure for the ERC. Mr B 
agrees that there was an ERC, so the only argument is about the figure. Mr B says its 1%. 
But there is simply no evidence for that figure. Mr B has produced no mortgage offer 
confirming what he believes to be true whereas Barclays has produced a mortgage offer 
confirming that the ERC was 3%. I accept that Mr B believed that the ERC was declining 
which it was but that was because of the reducing mortgage balance rather than the 
percentage ERC. The evidence supports what Barclays says namely that the figure was 3%. 
As Mr B has produced no compelling evidence to dispute that figure, I cant fairly uphold that 
part of the complaint.
Mr B raised a number of complaints about Barclays service in a letter of 26 August 2022. 
These were issues related to the redemption of his mortgage, how the mortgage account 
had vanished from his online portal though there was still money in it, that his mortgage 
current account was still registered at the old address although he had now moved, the 
difficulties of registering his new address lacking documentation to do so. and other issues. 
Barclays replied to that on 1 November 2022 addressing each of the issues that Mr B raised 
and offering £200 by way of apology for the time taken to resolve the complaint and the poor 
customer service. 
Mr B in his email to us of 2 June 2023 says that he still had no answer to many of the 
questions asked and that £200 offered was an insult given the all-round poor communication 
and customer service. Our investigator issued a further view addressing each of the issues 
Mr B raised in the email of 2 June concluding that the only real error Barclays made was in 
regard to updating Mr Bs address and why it couldnt be done on the phone.  In my view the 
letter from Barclays dated the 1 November 2022 and the further view from our investigator 
reasonably addresses the complaints that Mr B had.  
Barclays has said it provided a poor service although if I look at the actions individually, 
there are reasonable explanations for the actions taken. Apart that is from the information 
that Mr B got about changing his address and the unsatisfactory phone call that Mr B had in 
relation to it. Barclays has offered Mr B compensation of £200 for its service failure.
This complaint arises out of the redemption of the mortgage which was the big issue in the 
case. I dont find that there was any fault with the redemption itself. Mr B complains about his 
solicitor getting the redemption statement but not him but that is the practice of all lenders as 
the solicitor is normally the agent of the seller. There were clearly issues that Mr B was 
unhappy about, but these were explained and resolved within a reasonable period. Mr B 
suffered no financial loss but a degree of inconvenience. In those circumstances, I agree 
that £200 represents fair compensation and a fair settlement to this complaint. 
Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr B £200.
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already made an offer to pay £200 to settle the complaint and I 
think the offer is fair in all the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman