DRN-1621449
 
complaint
Miss H says St Andrew's Insurance Plc (St Andrews) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Miss H took out a PPI policy when she applied for a loan in 1997. Miss H paid a monthly 
amount for the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Hs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Hs complaint and Ill explain why below. 
Ive looked first at whether St Andrews made it clear to Miss H that she had a choice, and 
obtained her consent, in taking out the policy. 
Its not straightforward to decide a case when there are few documents available from the 
time of the sale, as is the case here. The sale happened over 22 years ago, so Im not 
surprised that is the case. Where there isnt much evidence for me to consider, I need to 
make my decision based on a balance of probabilities  that is to say, Ill consider what I do 
have, look at what both sides have said, and make a decision based on what I think most 
likely happened. 
Ive considered that there is no mention of PPI on the loan agreement. So the PPI was not 
sold when the loan was applied for and agreed to. St Andrews said that Miss H bought the 
PPI a month after she took the loan through a mailing activity. We have the form that Miss H 
completed at that time. To get the cover Miss H had to complete the direct debit for the PPI 
by signing and dating it and then return the form to St Andrews.  
So, I think its more likely that St Andrews wouldve made Miss H aware that the PPI was 
optional and she chose to take it, even though she may not remember that now, many years 
later. But, even without those documents, considering how long ago the sale was in this 
case, I wouldnt have seen sufficient evidence to be able to uphold the complaint on these 
points anyway. 
St Andrews didnt recommend the PPI to Miss H so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Miss H got the information she needed to decide if it was 
right for her. Its possible the information St Andrews gave Miss H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it seems she was eligible 
for the policy and it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions from or 
limitations to the PPI cover. And Ive considered that Miss H told us that whilst her initial sick 
pay was good, it wouldnt have lasted much more than six months, and Miss H told us she 
had no other means to rely on to help meet her repayments, such that she may have had to 
rely on her partner for help. Upon a successful claim the policy couldve paid out for up to at 
least 12 months if ill health stopped her from working or if she lost her job. And it wouldve 
paid out in addition to and for longer than her employer would have paid her at her full rate of 
pay and would have reduced her reliance on any help her partner may have been in a 
position to offer her. So, I think Miss H couldve found the policy useful. 
So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Miss H off taking out the 
cover.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Hs complaint and I make no award 
against St Andrew's Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman