DRN-2853023
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Brightside Insurance Services Ltd (Brightside) mis sold Mrs H a 
policy which didnt have sufficient cover for personal belongings. Consequently, her losses 
werent covered when her car was broken into abroad.  
 
What happened
On 7 April 2020 Mrs H purchased a motor insurance policy through Brightside, who are 
independent insurance brokers. The purchase was made online, and commenced on 12 
April 2020. During the purchase, Mrs H was asked to confirm that she had read the Terms of 
Business and Policy Wording, which she did in order to complete the purchase. 
In August 2020 whist on holiday abroad, Mrs Hs car was broken into and contents valued at 
£3000 were stolen. Mrs H made claim on her insurance.
The underwriters paid out £100 for personal belongings as that was the level of cover 
provided for in the terms of the policy.  
Mr H then complained on behalf of Mrs H. They were surprised about the level of cover as 
they say that they had not been made aware that the personal belongings cover was limited 
to £100. They complained to Brightside that the policy was mis sold as they were not made 
aware of the limit of £100 on personal belongings. 
Brightside issued a final response on 10 September 2020 in which they said that the policy 
hadnt been mis-sold. They said that the policy was purchased online, and Mrs H agreed to 
the Terms of Business. It is the policyholders responsibility to check the documents to 
ensure the policy is suitable. 
They say that the Insurance Policy Information Document refers Mrs H to the full policy 
wording which was available on the portal, and it clearly explains the contents limit 
information in the policy. 
Mrs H was not happy with this and so Mr H complained to us on Mrs Hs behalf. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. He thought that the 
information about the limit on personal belongings was made reasonably clear in the 
documents provided and didnt recommend Brightside do anything further.  
Mrs H disagreed with our investigators view and so the case has come to me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not upheld the complaint and I will explain why below. 
What I have to consider here is whether this policy has been mis sold to Mrs H. In other 
words, was the policy that was sold to Mrs H suitable for her needs, giving her the cover that 
she wanted. Its acceptable for the policy to have exclusions and limitations on the cover, 
provided that Mrs H was made aware of them and was not in any way misled about the 
cover she was purchasing either directly, or because important information about that cover 
was not made clear to her. 
I have looked at what information was provided to Mrs H, when that information was 
provided, and whether it should have been clearer to her that there was limit on personal 
belongings. 
During the purchase process, Brightsides Terms of Business have to be consented to. They 
say:
Awareness of policy terms. 
You can access your documents from your account  
www.brightsideinsurance.co.uk/existingcustomers, please check that the cover provided to 
you is the cover you need. When you take out a policy we will send you a proposal form or a 
statement of information which shows the information you have supplied to obtain insurance 
cover.  Please check this carefully and inform us immediately of any errors. You should also 
check the schedule, policy wording, and where applicable, the certificate of motor insurance, 
as these documents form the contract the of insurance with your insurer. 
I think this information is clear enough to put Mrs H on notice from the start of the process 
that it was her responsibility to check all the documents and ensure the policy was 
appropriate for her needs. It specifically refers her to the policy wording.  
The first documents that are provided following the purchase are the welcome letter, policy 
schedule, insurance product information document and certificate of motor insurance. These 
are also available in the online portal which Mrs H registered for on 7 April 2020. 
On the Insurance Product Information Document provided key information about the policy is 
outlined. In the What is insured column it says, Personal belongings lost or damaged in or 
on your vehicle caused by an accident, fire, theft or attempted theft.. 
It doesnt state a limit to this cover on the key information, and I can see why Mr and Mrs H 
are arguing that this is misleading, as many of the other areas of cover listed do have limits 
stated. However, I can also see that at the top of this document it does say that this is a 
summary of the key information and does not contain full term and conditions. It refers the 
policyholder to the policy document which was available on the website and also on the 
online portal which Mrs H registered for on 7 April 2020.  
On page 2 of the Key Facts document provided, it says 
SECTION 5  
There is a £100 limit on personal belongings
And in the full policy document Section 5 says, 
 We will pay up to £100 for personal belongings in or on your vehicle if they are lost or 
damaged because of an accident, fire, theft or attempted theft I dont think this is ambiguous, and I dont agree that this is buried in the fine print. It is in the 
main policy booklet and has its own section, in which the terms are made clear. 
I appreciate that Mrs H may not have read the full policy booklet until she needed to, 
following the theft, and may not have been aware of the term, but I dont consider that is an 
error on Brightsides part. They have directed Mrs H to the main policy documents on more 
than one occasion and advised that the full details of the policy are contained in it.
I am also mindful of the fact that all motor insurance policies have limitations on personal 
belongings cover. If Mr and Mrs H were conscious that they would be carrying a high value 
of personal belongings in their car then I would have expected them to have been more alert 
to the terms relating to this in the policy and sought alternative cover. 
I appreciate that this is not the decision that Mr and Mrs H had hoped for, but I dont think in 
view of the above that I can fairly say that Brightside have done anything wrong or that the 
policy has been mis sold.
  
My final decision
I will not therefore be asking Brightside Insurance Services Limited to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman