DRN-2651132
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the settlement paid by St Andrews Insurance Plc (St Andrews) on a 
property insurance claim, following a previous complaint to our service which was upheld.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in January 2021 explaining that I was 
intending to uphold Mr Ps complaint. Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
What happened
Mr P brought a previous complaint to our service about St Andrews decision to 
decline a claim he made for flood damage at a property he owns. 
Mr P had already completed the repairs to his property, due to the length of time his 
complaint with St Andrews had taken. He had also carried out some home 
improvements, which he agreed wouldnt be covered by St Andrews.
A provisional decision was issued, on the previous complaint, finding that St 
Andrews decision to decline Mr Ps claim was unfair. St Andrews and Mr P accepted 
this. St Andrews agreed to assess the invoices provided by Mr P and to settle the 
claim for the damage caused by the flood.
Mr P has since complained about the amount paid by St Andrews in settlement of 
his claim. He says St Andrews has omitted costs to investigate and prevent the 
ingress of ground water into the property by installing a French Drain. Mr P also 
complained that St Andrews refused to cover invoices owed to his brothers 
company and that St Andrews cancelled his policy with it when it shouldnt have.
St Andrews said that the costs of preventative measures arent covered by Mr Ps 
policy. So, it said it was reasonable not to include the costs for investigating and 
installing such measures. St Andrews also said the policy doesnt provide cover for a 
third party managing the claim. In terms of the decision to cancel Mr Ps policy, 
St Andrews accepted that this shouldnt have happened and paid him £225 
compensation.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ps complaint, but she didnt think it should be 
upheld. She felt that St Andrews had adhered to the settlement agreed during the 
previous complaint by paying for the damage related repairs. She said the 
investigations and works to install preventative measures arent covered by Mr Ps 
policy and would amount to betterment.
Our investigator also didnt think St Andrews decision not to cover the invoices due 
to Mr Ps brothers company was unfair. She said the policy only covered architect or 
surveyors fees with St Andrews prior approval, and that Mr Ps brother wasnt either. 
She also said the works on the invoice appeared to be the same as those carried out, 
and covered, on another invoice from a different company. Finally, she pointed out 
that Mr Ps brothers company was only incorporated after the date of the works Mr P 
was claiming for. So, she said it wouldnt be fair to ask St Andrews to reimburse 
these costs.
Mr P accepted our investigators assessment about the costs from his brothers 
company. But he maintains that St Andrews decision not to cover the installation of 
the French Drain is unfair. So, because no agreement has been reached the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
As I understand it, the issues with cancellation of the policy and the costs from Mr Ps 
brothers company are no longer in dispute. So, all that remains for me to decide is 
whether St Andrews decision not to cover the costs associated with the installation 
of the French Drain is in line with the terms and conditions of his policy  and 
whether it is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
St Andrews has highlighted a condition of Mr Ps policy, to support its decision not to 
cover these costs, which states:
We will pay the cost of rebuilding or repairing the part of your home which is 
damaged (using a suitable equivalent material wherever possible) but not 
more than the cost of completely rebuilding it in its original form.
 
St Andrews says it has acted in line with the policy terms by settling the costs 
associated with repairing the flood damage. It says preventative measures cannot be 
included as they were not in place before the incident, therefore they were not part of 
the damage caused by the flood and go above rebuilding the property in its original 
form.
Ive thought carefully about this argument and the circumstances of the complaint in 
general. I accept that on strict application of the terms of the policy, preventative 
measures arent something that would necessarily be covered. But as an 
ombudsman, Im required to make a determination on what would be fair and 
reasonable, taking all of the circumstances into account. This includes, but is not 
limited to, the terms of the policy.
Our service has long taken the approach that any repairs carried out in settlement of 
a claim should be effective and lasting. And that if some uninsured work is required in 
order to deliver an effective and lasting repair, that the insurer should carry it out (or 
cover the cost of doing so). So, in this case, Ive considered whether an effective and 
lasting repair would likely have been achieved without the installation of the French 
Drain  or some other preventative measure.
St Andrews own appointed expert has explained the cause of water ingress. He 
said:
There is no confusion over the cause of the damage:Rainwater percolates through the ground and comes in through the porous 
substructure brickwork into the shallow void beneath the suspended timber 
ground floor. Entirely typical 1920/30 construction.

This has surely been that way for many many (sic) years, perhaps since 
construction
Taking the above expert opinion into account, it seems likely to me that had Mr P 
simply carried out repairs to the damage caused by the flood, said repairs would not 
be effective and lasting because the flood, and subsequent damage, would likely 
reoccur and presumably lead to further claims. 
The reason I say the damage would likely reoccur is based, again, on the comments 
of St Andrews surveyor. He stated hed seen videos of water entering the property 
after normal, heavy rainfall. He also commented that there was inadequate 
ventilation and airflow in the subfloor void to dry this water. So, I think its reasonable 
to conclude that the property would likely have continued to flood during periods of 
prolonged wet weather  such as during the winter  and that said flooding would 
inevitably result in further damage. It follows that I dont think repairing the damage, 
in isolation, would create an effective and lasting repair.
In situations where a claim has met the policy criteria  as St Andrews has agreed it 
has here, following the previous complaint  I consider that in settling the claim St 
Andrews should cover the works necessary to deliver an effective and lasting repair. 
So, Im currently intending to direct St Andrews to cover the costs associated with 
the installation of the French Drain.
To be clear, the reason Im intending to require St Andrews to cover these costs is to 
ensure that our services approach is followed  to carry out a repair that is effective 
and lasting. Its not because I consider that such preventative measures are 
specifically covered by the policy.
In this case, I think it would be fair and reasonable for St Andrews to cover the costs 
associated with the installation of the French Drain. However, this should exclude 
any costs which might be payable to Mr Ps brothers company as it has already been 
accepted that the company didnt exist at the time the works were carried out.
I asked both sides to provide any further comments or evidence they wanted me to consider 
before I reached a final decision. 
Mr P said he accepted my provisional decision, in spirit. But he highlighted that he had also 
carried out some sloping to his lawn, in addition to installing the French Drain, so he felt both 
should be covered for the reasons I had given.
St Andrews didnt agree with my provisional decision for several reasons. In summary it 
said:
The void under Mr Ps suspended timber floor was never designed to be dry or 
watertight. Water and dampness were expected with measures such as airbricks and 
rudimentary damp proofing installed as countermeasures.
The amount of dampness under the floor will vary seasonally.When considering a lasting and effective solution, our intended goal must be to 
prevent an ongoing volume of water entering the void, beyond normal expectations, 
not to prevent any water at all from entering. 
It is not enough to suggest that the sub-floor has water in it, or might have water in it 
in the future, and thus that it should address this under the policy.
The characteristics of dampness and water in the subfloor are part of its original 
design, so it is not fair or reasonable for an entitlement to arise for a fully de-watered 
sub-floor in this case.
Comparisons ought to be drawn between the principals of lasting and effective repair 
and the building back better (BBB) scheme. Neither of these should place a 
responsibility on insurers to build back dry sub-floors in properties where they werent 
designed this way.
It has considerable unease with the provision of a French Drain across the garden of 
a terraced house as water arrives from land on three sides. So, it doesnt think this is 
likely an effective solution.
Our investigator shared St Andrews comments with Mr P. In summary, he said:
St Andrews seems to be focused on arguing the principles of insurance rather than 
the specific circumstances of his case. Its response shows a lack of understanding or 
awareness of actual conditions on site and includes incorrect statements.
He agrees the sub-floor wasnt designed to be dry. But his argument is that a flood 
happened, which caused significant damage, and the source was unable to be 
identified. Because the source cannot be determined there is a high likelihood that 
the flood will reoccur and so repairs with no preventative measures will not be 
effective or lasting.
As the suspended floor was designed to be wet at times, it follows that only 
exceptional circumstances (a flood) would have caused it to collapse.
Had St Andrews not cancelled his policy, he might accept the claim settlement 
without preventative measures as he could raise a further claim with St Andrews if 
the property flooded again. But St Andrews cancelled his policy when it shouldnt 
have so that it wouldnt be exposed to the risk of further flooding at his property. He 
believes this demonstrates that its intention all along was to avoid paying for a lasting 
and effective repair.
The French Drain is not at the back of the property but at the side alleyway of his end 
of terraced house  which is the identified entry point. A French Drain is a standard 
construction technique used to good effect in numerous areas susceptible to 
flooding. After being installed for three winters, it seems to have been successful.
St Andrews are attempting to muddy the waters by likening the circumstances of this 
claim to the BBB scheme. They only seem to be concerned with how a decision from 
our service might affect future claims, but they should be focused on the 
circumstances of his claim and the high likelihood of a repeat flood, had he not 
carried out the preventative measures.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The fact that Mr Ps property suffered damage due to a flood is no longer in dispute. Neither 
is the fact that the subfloor void is not designed to be completely watertight. What remains to 
be decided is whether St Andrews decision to only cover the claim related repairs, and not 
the preventative measures, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
Ive thought carefully about all the evidence and arguments put forward by both sides. 
Having done so, Im still of the view that Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why 
in more detail.
Firstly, Mr P has pointed out that he carried out some sloping to his lawn, in addition to 
installing the French Drain, and that he feels St Andrews should cover the cost of this. I 
should clarify here that when I referred to the costs associated with the installation of the 
French Drain, in my provisional decision, this was intended to include the lawn sloping costs 
as I interpreted these works to form part of one combined solution. So, to be clear, when I 
refer to the preventative measures and/or costs associated with the French Drain in this 
decision  that also includes the lawn sloping.
St Andrews position is that covering the cost of the preventative measures amounts to 
betterment  which isnt covered under Mr Ps contract of insurance. It says the subfloor void 
was always designed to be wet and dry at different times and therefore there should be no 
requirement under the policy to install measures to make it watertight. Instead it says that 
any measures to be considered, on the basis of an effective and lasting repair, should be 
focused on reducing exceptional levels of water only.
I accept that the void wasnt designed to be watertight, based on the comments of 
St Andrews expert. But I dont think that means that the void was designed to be regularly 
flooded either. In this particular case, St Andrews twice declined Mr Ps claim on the basis 
that there had been no insured event (flood). This was because it wasnt able to identify a 
single event which had resulted in the abnormal levels of water within the subfloor. Instead it 
seems that water would continually enter the void during periods of heavy rainfall, and fail to 
be dried effectively due to the poor ventilation and lack of airflow identified by St Andrews 
expert. So, in the particular circumstances of this complaint, I dont think any repairs or 
redecoration works could reasonably be considered as effective or lasting without some form 
of preventative measure.
When carrying out the repairs to his property, Mr P installed a French Drain and had his lawn 
sloped away from the property  both to redirect water away from the subfloor void. And 
while I appreciate St Andrews argument that there isnt a requirement under the policy to 
build back a dry subfloor when one didnt exist previously, I dont think these measures are 
necessarily akin to doing so. On the contrary, I think these were relatively low-cost solutions, 
likely to significantly increase the longevity and effectiveness of the repairs and which I think 
were proportionate to the value of the claim as a whole. 
Its, ultimately, too late now to say whether these specific measures were necessary, or 
whether a lasting and effective repair could have been achieved another way. But I dont 
think Mr P is at fault for this as, when he installed these measures, St Andrews had unfairly 
declined his claim and were maintaining that incorrect position.Had St Andrews accepted the claim from the outset, it would likely have been involved in 
the remedial works, or at least discussions about which elements would and wouldnt be 
covered. But it didnt, so Mr P was forced to carry out the repairs himself while disputing the 
incorrect claim decision. 
Mr P has argued that if St Andrews had been involved in the claim settlement, it would have 
been in its interest to cover the preventive measures to protect itself from further claim 
liability. But in actuality, it wasnt involved in settlement of the claim, and it later cancelled 
Mr Ps policy when it shouldnt have done, thereby unfairly removing any future risk to itself.
I think the above is important. If St Andrews hadnt unfairly cancelled Mr Ps policy, I might 
have more sympathy with its position. This is because Mr P would have had potential 
recourse, through his policy with St Andrews, should his property have suffered further 
damage due to flooding. But in the circumstances of this case, that would no longer be 
possible.
So, I accept that preventative measures are not specifically covered by Mr Ps policy and I 
accept that the subfloor was not designed to be fully watertight. But what I think is crucial, in 
this particular case, is that the property suffered damage, due to a flood, in 2017 and no 
single flood event was able to be identified as the cause. Instead it seems that water would 
enter the void after normal periods of heavy rainfall and that the countermeasures were 
unsuccessful in preventing this water from building up to flood levels and causing damage.  
So, without some form of preventative measure, I dont think its reasonable to conclude that 
the remaining repairs would, on the balance of probabilities, most likely be effective and 
lasting. And I think the measures Mr P carried out were proportionate to the overall claim 
value and were likely to significantly improve the effectiveness of the repairs. 
Also, had Mr P not have included these preventative measures when carrying out the 
repairs, and the property had suffered damage due to further flooding, he could not have 
asked St Andrews to cover his claim because it had already, unfairly, cancelled his policy. 
So, based on the particular circumstances of this claim, I think it would be fair and 
reasonable for St Andrews to cover Mr Ps costs for both the French Drain and lawn sloping.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I uphold Mr Ps complaint.
St Andrews Insurance Plc should cover the costs associated with installing the French 
Drain, including sloping the lawn, but excluding any costs which would be payable to Mr Ps 
brothers company.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman