DRN-4193511
The complaint
Mrs M is complaining that Aviva Insurance Limited has declined a claim she made on her 
commercial property insurance policy for damage to a shared wall. 
What happened
In February 2023 Mrs M contacted Aviva to say a wall she shared with two neighbours had 
become damaged in a storm and she said she wanted to claim for the damage on her 
commercial property insurance policy. Aviva declined the claim as it thought the damage 
was as a result of a gradual deterioration of the wall and it didnt think the storm was the 
primary cause of the damage. It believe the primary cause of the damage was that tree roots 
had over time caused damage to the foundations of the wall, resulting in the wall leaning 
towards Mrs Ms property. Mrs M didnt think this was fair as she said the insurers of her two 
neighbours had agreed to settle the claim.
Our investigator upheld this complaint as he didnt think Aviva had done enough to show the 
wall had failed due to a gradual deterioration. He thought the wall had been well maintained 
and didnt seem to be in a considerable disrepair.
Aviva highlighted that Mrs Ms neighbour had had a large silver birch tree removed from the 
garden. It set out that those types of trees were known to have large roots and it said it was 
aware that the tree before removal was extremely high. So it thinks this tree was likely to be 
the cause of the damage. It also provided photographs which it said showed the wall was not 
in a good condition and had evidence of poor previous repairs. It also highlighted that some 
sections of the wall were missing mortar.
The investigator still thought the storm was the primary cause of the damage, so he thought 
Aviva should settle the claim. Aviva didnt agree so the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
The terms of the insurance policy covers Mrs M for loss or damage arising from a storm.  
However, the terms of the policy also set out that it wont cover loss or damage that happens 
gradually  i.e. its down to wear and tear. Aviva believes the damage occurred because of 
gradual damage to the wall. In particular it says the wall has suffered damage arising from 
tree roots causing it to weaken over time.
In thinking about this, Ive asked myself three questions:
1. Were there storm conditions as defined under the terms of the insurance policy?
2. Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
There were wind speed of around 63mph at the time the damage occurred. So Im satisfied 
there was a storm and I dont think its unreasonable to conclude such windspeeds can 
damage a wall . So Im satisfied the answer to questions (1) and (2) is yes. This also isnt in 
dispute. The issue is whether the storm was the main cause of the damage, or is there 
another underlying reason that was the primary cause of the wall damage.
Both parties have provided a lot of information in support of their respective positions. I can 
also understand Mrs Ms upset that Aviva has declined her claim, but her two neighbours 
insurers have covered their respective claims. But this doesnt mean Avivas approach is 
unfair. That said, Ive found the statements provided by Mrs Ms neighbours and their 
respective claims handlers to be particularly persuasive.
I recognise that the inspection report Aviva has provided sets out that the inspector wall has 
said he could see evidence that a tree root has caused damage to the walls foundations. Im 
aware that there was a large tree in the vicinity of the wall, which has been removed, but this 
was removed around seven years ago. The investigator spoke with the tree surgeon who 
removed the tree who said he knew the property well. The surgeon confirmed it was possible 
the tree roots could damage the wall, but he said it wasnt possible to confirm either way.  
However, I am aware that Mrs Ms neighbours have had builders and surveyors inspect the 
wall. Crucially the surveyor has said the wall is in not too bad a condition considering the 
age, there is no vegetation growing through the wall and pointing. The pointing and bricks 
are in good conditions and the damage is consistent with the claim details. This is a report 
by a surveyor whereas, Avivas statement isnt provided by an as qualified expert. Critically, 
there arent any photographs or evidence of the root being the cause and it seems the report 
is based on the inspectors opinion. Taking everything into account, I havent seen enough 
for me to say Avivas position that the storm wasnt the primary cause of the damage was 
fair.
Ultimately, the insurance policy covers loss or damage arising from a storm unless Aviva can 
show otherwise. So its for Mrs M to show the wall has suffered loss or damage and that it 
occurred during a storm. If she does so, it then falls upon Aviva to show that an exclusion 
clause or breach of a policy condition applies. As I said, all parties accept the wall was 
damaged during a storm, so its for Aviva to show that the damage arose as a result of 
gradual damage. So, the question for me to ask is whether Aviva has given me enough to 
conclude that whether its most likely, that there was an underlying issue with the wall that 
caused the wall to become damaged in the storm. I dont think it think it has. 
Putting things right
So it follows that I think Avivas decision to decline the claim was unfair and I think it should 
do the following to put things right:
1. Settle the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the insurance policy;
2. If Mrs M has paid for any repairs to the wall, Aviva should pay 8% simple interest per 
year from when Mrs M paid it until she gets them back. If Aviva thinks that its required 
by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs M 
how much its taken off. It should also give her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for 
one, so she can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
3. Pay Mrs M £300 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience shes suffered from 
not having her claim settled and for the challenges shes faced in trying to get the matter 
resolved.My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Aviva Insurance Limited to settle the complaint in line with my instructions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman