DRN-4308171
The complaint
Mr W complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim he made on a legal 
indemnity insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W has owned a property since 2005 and held a policy which provided cover for various 
perils related to the leasehold and covenants related to the property.
In 2017, Aviva made a payment of £22,500 to Mr W for a claim he made because of a 
reduction in the value of the property due to issues related to ongoing and unresolved 
structural issues. A report confirming the reduction in value was proved by a surveyor, Mr B.
In July 2019, Mr W was involved in arbitration relating to the condition of the property. Aviva 
wasnt a party to these proceedings as they related to matters which werent covered by the 
policy.
Mr W contacted Aviva in November 2019 to say that as a result of those proceedings, further 
information had come to light and so he considered Mr B should be asked to revisit his 
findings and whether this new information meant that the valuation should be revised.
In February 2020, Aviva told Mr W it agreed Mr B should revisit his valuation. In September 
2020, a new surveyor, Mr A, was approached as due to ill health Mr B was unable to 
complete the requested review. Mr A said the reduction in value would be greater than had 
previously been estimated and on that basis Aviva offered £3,050 in settlement of the claim.
Mr W rejected this and after further correspondence with Aviva said in May 2021 that he 
considered Aviva should pay the remaining amount of the £50,000 indemnity limit of the 
policy. This would enable him to pay off the remaining mortgage, allowing him to surrender 
his lease and withdraw his defence and counter-claim to possession proceedings relating to 
the property.
Aviva agreed to this and made a full and final settlement offer to Mr W of £27,500, on the 
conditions that the lease be surrendered and the policy cover would cease. 
Mr W complained to Aviva, and then to our service. He essentially argues that the settlement 
of the remaining indemnity limit could have been made much sooner and hed incurred 
significant, uninsured legal costs, additional mortgage payments and been greatly distressed 
because of avoidable delays in obtaining the surveyors report and revised valuation and 
making the settlement offer. Hes also unhappy that Aviva attached conditions to the offer 
which he felt pressured to accept in order to be able to surrender the property before a 
deadline related to legal proceedings.
Our investigator hadnt upheld Mr Ws complaint and as he didnt agree, the complaint came 
to me to make a final decision.
After reviewing the information available to me, I considered that the main element of Mr Ws 
complaint, that hed incurred significant additional costs due to Avivas inaction and delay 
shouldnt be upheld. I did think there had been avoidable delays and Aviva should pay £100 
compensation to recognise this. I issued a provisional decision on that basis, giving both 
parties the opportunity to respond to this by 17 August 2023.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
Where an insurer has made an offer in full and final settlement of a claim, and this has been 
accepted, well rarely comment on the fairness of the offer itself. We can look at how the 
offer was reached and how it was communicated.
Im satisfied that Avivas offer to Mr W in full and final settlement was clear and not 
misleading. The offer detailed how the amount had been reached, that the £27,500 was the 
remaining amount of the £50,000 policy indemnity limit with £22,500 having already been 
paid, and that it was a full and final offer.
Im also satisfied that the conditions attached to the offer were fair. Aviva said the offer was 
contingent on Mr W surrendering the leasehold on the property and the policy cover ceasing. 
From what I can see, it was Mr W who initially suggested the settlement of the remaining 
indemnity amount to allow him to pay off the mortgage and surrender the leasehold, and so I 
think its unsurprising that Aviva made this a condition of the offer. It follows that if Mr W 
surrendered the leasehold, the policy cover would cease as he no longer had a leasehold 
which required the various aspects of cover in the policy. In addition, the indemnity limit of 
the policy had been exhausted, meaning no further payments would be possible so the 
ending of the policy was inevitable.
Mr W also considers that the full and final offer could, and should, have been made much 
sooner and that if that had happened hed have been able to surrender the leasehold of the 
property earlier and wouldnt have incurred significant expenses in defending legal action 
and going through mediation processes. He was also unhappy that the offer was made very 
close to a deadline related to the possession proceedings, which left him little time to 
consider whether to accept it.
Mr W notified Aviva of the possible need to revisit Mr Bs valuation in November 2019. In 
December 2020 Aviva sent an email to H with Mr Ws comments asking for the points hed 
raised to be looked into. H had previously dealt with Mr B at the time of the original claim. 
However, it wasnt Mr W chased this up with Aviva in February 2020 that he received any 
acknowledgement or update from Aviva. I also havent seen any evidence of Aviva 
requesting updates from H about the progress of their enquiries in light of Mr Ws comments.
Aviva agreed that Mr B should be asked to review his findings, and to that end asked H to 
draft a letter to Mr B. Its unclear why that wasnt agreed until February 2020. By the end of 
March 2020 H confirmed Mr B had been asked to consider reviewing his valuation of Mr Ws 
property and Mr B had said he would need access to the files from his original survey.
The obvious blockage at this point was that, due to the Covid-19 related lockdown in place in 
March 2020, Mr B was working at home with no access to his office files. Through to August 
2020 there was further correspondence involving Aviva, H and Mr W where the issue of Mr 
Bs fee was discussed. I can see that apparently contradicting information was provided by H 
to Mr W about whether Mr B had provided his quote, with it being suggested that this had 
been provided to Aviva for approval, but then later saying that the quote hadnt been 
received. Unfortunately, Mr H became unwell in September 2020 and so was unable to carry out the 
further work. Mr A was then appointed, and provided his valuation in January 2021. He said 
that the property was worth between £10,000 and £15,000 less than Mr B had estimated. 
Aviva took the view that a further settlement for the reduction in value was appropriate, and 
offered £3,050. This was because it said the mid-point of the additional reduction was 
£12,500 but Mr W had received a settlement of £9,450 from another insurer in respect of a 
separate policy.
Mr W disputed the valuation change and also Avivas settlement offer. H had further contact 
with Mr A in light of the points raised by Mr W. In May 2021 Mr A revised his opinion and 
said that because of the ongoing legal proceedings and condition, the property had no value. 
Mr W outlined his view that Aviva should pay the remaining indemnity amount which would 
allow him to pay off the mortgage and surrender the leasehold Aviva agreed with this, but 
only a matter of hours before Mr W had to make a decision regarding mediation and possible 
legal action.
My summary above isnt intended to set out every contact between Mr W, Aviva, H, Mr B 
and Mr A, or go into detail of the various issues, valuations and events relating to Mr Ws 
property. Ive given a summary of the key events and dates in order to explain my findings 
on this point. 
The first point I will deal with briefly is to acknowledge that Avivas offer was made shortly 
before the deadline Mr W had informed it of related to the possession proceedings. Without 
the offer, Mr W indicated hed have to continue with his defence of the proceedings which 
would potentially leave him liable for additional costs. 
The amount being offered, was in line with what Mr W was seeking, and in any case fully 
discharged Aviva of its obligations on the policy by paying the remaining indemnity amount. 
The simple fact was that Avivas offer was broadly in line with what Mr W had requested and 
wouldnt have been revised upwards as there were no funds remaining in the indemnity limit.
I think it has to be accepted there were delays in obtaining the review of the original 
valuation. I cant hold Aviva responsible for all of these however. I cant say that delays 
caused by the Covid-19 lockdowns, or Mr Bs ill health, which required the appointment and 
instruction of Mr A, were something Aviva could have prevented or mitigated.
However, it seems to me that there were avoidable delays during the course of Mr Ws 
claim, particularly between November 2019 and February 2020. Mr W had emailed Aviva to 
outline his position but this wasnt acknowledged by Aviva until he chased again in February 
2020. Aviva had taken action by sending Mr Ws comments to H and asking for this to be 
looked into. I havent seen any evidence of the actions taken by H in that period, or more 
significantly for my decision, evidence of Aviva chasing this up with H in order to progress 
matters and respond to Mr W.
While the jurisdiction of our service doesnt extend to cover the conduct of H, I do think that 
Avivas contact with H in order to progress Mr Ws claim was below the required standard 
and that this potentially caused further delays. After agreeing to ask Mr B to revisit the 
valuation, there was a further delay around agreeing Mr Bs fee, with conflicting information 
being received about whether Aviva had been provided with a quote for the work. I can see 
that Mr W was in contact with Aviva on this point but there appears to have been little 
chasing or contact with H to clarify and resolve this.
The impact of this delay was, however, fairly minor in my view. It seems that the main obstacle to Mr B completing his review was his lack of access to the files and then his ill 
health, neither of which I can attribute to any failure on Avivas part.
There is, however, an argument to be made that the initial delay Ive highlighted did impact 
on whether it was possible to obtain a report from Mr B. If Aviva or H had contacted Mr B 
shortly after Mr W contacted it in November 2020, it may have been possible for Mr B to 
complete his report before the Covid-19 lockdown in March 2020, or at least the files which 
were held at Mr Bs office would have been removed before the lockdown or not required in 
order to complete the report. If that had been the case, then Mr A wouldnt have been 
involved, provided Mr B had been able to complete his report and any follow up work before 
he fell ill in September 2021.
Im aware that while Mr A was appointed in September 2020, his report wasnt completed 
until January 2021. Ive considered whether this should be considered as indicative of how 
long it would have taken Mr B to provide his report if hed been appointed soon after Mr W 
contacted Aviva in November 2019. I dont think I can, for two reasons. The first is that Mr A 
was required to review the matter in full, rather than Mr Bs intended course of action which 
would have relied on a review of his initial findings and the new information. Im also aware 
that restrictions around social distancing and meeting existed in the period between 
September 2020 and January 2021 which would potentially have impacted on Mr As ability 
to complete his report. I note particularly that on visiting the property he was unable to view 
the interior on his first visit as the resident was isolating.
I have to consider that while it was possible Mr Bs report would have been completed 
without the need to refer to Mr A, I do need to acknowledge that this cant be stated 
definitively. However, even if Mr B had completed his report before September 2021 and his 
becoming unwell, without the involvement of Mr A, I dont think this would have resulted in 
Aviva making a full and final settlement for the remaining indemnity amounts at that time, or 
earlier than May 2021. For that reason, I dont need to make a finding of whether I think Mr 
Bs report would have been completed before September 2021, or when it would have been 
completed as it doesnt affect the outcome. Ill explain why this is the case.
At this point its important to acknowledge that there are a number of additional unknowns 
which it would be unwise to apply hindsight to seek to answer. The most significant is that 
while Mr A concluded that the valuation of the property had decreased by more than Mr B 
had originally concluded, I cant say what conclusion Mr B would have reached. He may 
have concluded his original valuation was correct. In order to reach further conclusions 
however, Ive had to assume hed have come to the same conclusion as Mr A.
The next step Aviva would have taken on receipt of a report from Mr B would have been the 
same as it did after receiving Mr As report  making a settlement offer to Mr W. That offer, if 
Mr B had been able to complete a report which concluded the same as Mr A, would have 
been for £3,050, the same amount as it originally offered in February 2021.
I think its fair to say that Mr W would have rejected that offer for the same reasons he did in 
February 2021. He said that the amount paid by the other insurer should be excluded from 
the settlement as that was intended to cover other costs, unrelated to the decrease in value 
of the property. He also disagreed with the methodology and reasoning behind Mr As 
conclusions.
The critical element is whether, following further correspondence, Aviva would have made a 
full and final settlement offer on the same terms it did in May 2021. I cant conclude it would 
have. It seems to me that the full and final settlement offer was made after Mr W indicated 
that this amount would allow him to surrender the leasehold and thereby prevent further 
claims. That seems to have followed other legal and mediation proceedings. I dont think I can say Mr W would have indicated his desire to surrender the leasehold if the report had 
been completed in early 2020. 
I understand that possession proceedings, which seem to be a significant factor in Mr Ws 
decision to surrender the leasehold started in March 2020, but Mr W didnt suggest 
surrendering the property, or having a settlement totalling the indemnity limit, until 2021. I 
can see that after Mr A provided his report, Mr W did say the other party in the possession 
proceedings had suggested he forfeit possession and ask his lender to write off the 
mortgage but Mr W didnt consider this to be a realistic proposal. He didnt at that point 
suggest the payment of the indemnity limit in order to pay off the mortgage and to then 
surrender the leasehold. I think this is a significant point in considering that an earlier report 
wouldnt have made a material difference in Avivas approach to the claim  as the decision 
to do this followed Mr Ws suggestion which wasnt made until May 2021.
Avivas said it took a business decision to make the full and final settlement. I can see that 
the offer followed further information from Mr A in May 2021 where he said the property 
effectively no market value, but this was linked by Mr A to the ongoing legal proceedings. I 
dont think that a report completed prior to March 2020 would have reached the same 
conclusion, as at that point the possession proceedings hadnt started. I cant say whether a 
report completed between the start of the possession proceedings and Mr Bs ill health 
would have concluded this as it would have relied on the nature and stage of the 
proceedings, Mr Bs findings and any other relevant factors. Im not qualified to make such a 
determination.
I dont think I can conclude that if the report had been prepared before September 2020, 
then Aviva could or should have made the full and final settlement offer to pay the remaining 
policy indemnity. If Mr B had reported back and Aviva made a settlement, there would have 
been funds remaining from the indemnity limit, and depending on what happened further 
claims around the value of the property could have been submitted. That may have resulted 
in settlements totalling the indemnity limit. However, the legal costs incurred by Mr W werent 
something covered by the policy and wouldnt have been in the event of further claims being 
made. Im not satisfied I can conclude that Mr W incurred additional costs due to Avivas 
handling of the claim. 
On balance, I dont think a full and final settlement offer would have been made by Aviva 
earlier even if Mr B had made a report. Mr W hadnt indicated his desire to be paid the 
remaining indemnity amount and surrender the leasehold before May 2021, so I have to take 
this as the earliest date that hed have suggested this. The suggestion that Mr W made 
additional mortgage payments due to Avivas delay isnt supported by my findings, as I dont 
think theres enough to indicate Aviva would have made a full and final settlement which 
would have allowed Mr B to surrender the property before May 2021.
While Im unable to conclude that additional costs Mr W incurred between March 2020 and 
May 2021 can be attributed to Aviva, I do think that the lack of communication or obvious 
progression of the claim beyond asking H to look into Mr Ws comments between November 
2019 and March 2020 should be recognised.
While Aviva had made H aware of Mr Ws comments, it didnt follow this up or tell Mr W what 
was happening. I can understand that hed have been frustrated about the lack of contact or 
action on Avivas part. I do note however that there was also minimal contact from Mr W in 
this period to chase Aviva so the distress caused to him by this delay would seem to be 
relatively minor. I therefore believe that Aviva should pay Mr W £100 compensation to 
recognise this.The responses to my provisional decision
Neither Mr W or Aviva responded to my provisional decision to indicate whether they agreed 
or disagreed with my opinion, or to request additional time to respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although neither party has responded to my provisional decision, and so therefore no 
additional points or evidence has been provided that I need to consider or address, I have 
reviewed my findings again. I remain satisfied with the conclusions I reached, for the same 
reasons I previously outlined and have repeated above.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold Mr Ws complaint in part. In order to put things right, Aviva 
Insurance Limited must pay £100 compensation to Mr W. Aviva Insurance Limited must pay 
this amount within 28 days of us telling it Mr W accepts our decision. If it does not, it must 
pay simple interest at a rate of 8% on this amount from that date to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman