DRN-3381882
The complaint
This is a complaint that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold Mr N payment 
protection insurance (PPI). The actual sale was by Portman Building Society, but this 
later merged with Nationwide. So Ill refer to Nationwide as the seller.
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out in 2006. It was to 
cover a mortgage which Mr N had with a lender other than Nationwide/Portman.
Our adjudicator said the complaint should not be upheld. Mr N disagreed with 
the adjudicators opinion and so the complaint was passed to me. I asked for 
more information from Mr N, and when I looked at this I took the view that the 
complaint should be upheld. So I wrote a provisional decision setting out my 
thinking:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on 
our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
My current view is that I should uphold this complaint.
When a financial business recommends an insurance policy, it is required to 
check that the policy is suitable for the customers particular circumstances 
and needs.
Nationwide has said that it didnt recommend this PPI policy to Mr N. But 
Mr N has supplied me with copies of a couple of documents that 
contradict this.
A quotation dated 23 November 2006 said:
After having established your demands and assessed your needs, we 
have itemised below our personal recommendations for your insurance 
cover. We have indicated reasons for our recommendation and 
identified any instances where you have declined that part of our 
recommendation. No account has been taken of any existing cover.
Accident. Sickness and Unemployment
We recommend this level of cover because you need to protect your 
lifestyle in case of your inability to meet your financial commitments as 
a result of accident, sickness or involuntary unemployment and you 
have requested this cover. You have accepted our recommendation.
In a letter of 29 November 2006, a building society financial planning 
manager wrote to Mr N referring to their recent meeting. She said that, 
alongside recommending sickness cover for Mr Ns partner, and 
recommending income protection and life cover, I would recommend an 
Accident, Sickness and Unemployment policy.
Based on these, my current view is that Nationwide recommended the PPI to Mr N.
However, because of Mr Ns unusual employment circumstances, I dont think 
the recommendation was suitable. Mr N has given me evidence that he was 
self-employed, through means of his own service company which had a 
contract with a national employment agency, which in turn placed him for 
assignments with a large corporation. He was paid a daily rate.
Mr N had worked under this service contract since May 2006, having 
previously not worked for six months whilst he took paternity leave.
The PPI policy had these terms:
6. UNEMPLOYMENT COVER EXCLUSIONS
You will not receive any monthly benefit for unemployment in 
the following circumstances:
(i) unemployment which you are notified of or which occurs within:
(a) 60 days of the start date in respect of new borrowers; or
(b) 120 days of the start date in respect of existing borrowers;
(ii) unemployment after a period of casual, temporary, or 
occasional work, unless you have taken such work as a temporary 
measure during a claim, see Section
13. (i), (ii) and (iii);
(iii) unemployment which is a normal or seasonal occurrence of your line of 
work;
(iv) unemployment which you knew of, or should reasonably have 
known of, on the
start date;
(v) a period of unemployment for which you hove received 
payment in lieu of notice
(please also see Section 5. (ii));
(vi) unemployment caused by or resulting from misconduct or any actions 
which
contributed to or led to your being dismissed;
(vii) unemployment caused by or resulting from your 
resignation, voluntary unemployment or voluntary redundancy;
(viii) unemployment after the end of:
(a) a fixed-term contract;
(b) a contract for a specific task; or
(c) a period of training or apprenticeship.However, if you have been on a fixed term contract or a 
contract for a specific task with the same employer for at 
least one year and your contract has been previously 
renewed, this exclusion will not apply.
If you have not been with the same employer for at least a 
year but your contract ended early, we will pay monthly 
benefit until:
(i) the dote the fixed-term contract, contract for 
a specific task, period of training or apprenticeship 
would have ended; or
(ii) we have made 12 monthly benefit payments;
My current view is that the terms of the PPI policy meant it would have been 
difficult for Mr N to successfully claim, especially within the first year or so of 
the policy. It is likely that, if Mr N found himself unemployed, it would be 
because his contract for an assignment or fixed term contract wasnt renewed; 
or alternatively the insurer could have regarded this as being the end of 
temporary work. Either way, he wouldnt have been covered.
When the PPI was sold to him in November 2006, he had only been in 
continuous work for at the most six months, because of his paternity break. 
So its unlikely hed have been saved by the provision in 6(viii) about working 
for the same employer for a year and having had a contract previously 
renewed.
The letter of recommendation didnt draw this potential limitation to Mr Ns 
attention. And, given that fact, I think it unlikely it would have been mentioned 
in the meeting hed had with Nationwide. He would still have been covered for 
the sickness benefits, but I think its unlikely Mr N would, overall, have thought 
this policy worth the cost.
My current view is that the PPI was mis-sold to Mr N.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Nationwide looked at the newly available evidence it said it agreed with 
my provisional decision. 
Im therefore confirming my provisional decision.
Putting things right
Nationwide Building Society should put Mr N in the position hed be in now if he 
hadnt taken out PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled 
already, and Nationwide Building Society should:
Pay Mr N the amount he paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it 
back. The rate of interest is 8% a year.If Mr N made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide Building 
Society can take off what he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this 
interest. Nationwide must give Mr N a certificate showing how much tax its 
taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Ns complaint and require Nationwide Building Society to pay redress as 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman