DRN-1474280
 
The complaint
Mr W says Valour Finance Limited, trading as Savvy.co.uk (Savvy), irresponsibly lent to 
him. Mr W says the lending was unaffordable for him, and he got into financial hardship 
which led to a cycle of debt.                            
What happened
This complaint is about two instalments loans Savvy provided to Mr W between December 
2014 and June 2015. Mr Ws borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 29/12/2014 23/03/2015 12 £600.00 £100.00
2 24/06/2015 05/02/2016 12 £500.00   £83.37
 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ws complaint and thought loan two shouldnt have been 
given as there was evidence that Mr W was having problems managing his money. 
Savvy disagreed with the adjudicator. It said it didnt have a copy of Mr Ls bank statements, 
he had repaid loan one early, the lending was affordable and when Mr L made it aware he 
was in financial difficulty it wrote off £166. 64 of interest on loan two. 
Savvys comments didnt alter our adjudicators opinion. As the complaint remains 
unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Savvy needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr W could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Savvy should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Savvy was required to establish 
whether Mr W could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Mr W didnt comment on the adjudicators opinion that loan one shouldnt be upheld. 
Because of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about this loan. So, I wont 
be making a decision about this lending. But the loan was part of the borrowing relationship 
Mr W had with Savvy. So, it is something I will take into account when considering the other 
loan he took. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint. After doing so, Ive decided to uphold 
the complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
Savvy has been able to give us a copy of a phone recording for Mr Ws application for loan 
two. During that call Savvys representative asked about any other outstanding debts. Mr W 
confirmed he was using other short-term credit providers and wanted to consolidate that 
lending. The representative also asked about a loan for £2,500 taken in April which Mr W 
said was for some emergency payments. Mr W confirmed that he had come to an 
arrangement on his credit card where there were some missed repayments because of 
unexpected childcare costs. 
All the above suggests that Mr W was having problems managing his money and his bank 
statement confirms he was using other short-term credit providers. I appreciate Mr W told 
Savvys representative that he was going to use his loan with Savvy to consolidate his other 
borrowing. But like the adjudicator I dont agree that this type of short-term high-cost credit 
should be used to consolidate current borrowing. So, I dont think Savvy should have agreed 
to lend Mr W loan two because of his declared financial difficulties. Savvy has told us that loan one was repaid before the agreed term and that the lending was 
affordable for Mr W. But by repaying a loan early can also be a sign that someone is juggling 
their finances in order to make ends meet. And Mr Ws borrowing from other short-term 
credit providers would indicate this was the case. I think the lending was potentially 
unsustainable for Mr W  which proved to be the case. 
So, like the adjudicator, Im also upholding the complaint about loan two and Savvy should 
put things right.
Putting things right  what Savvy needs to do
A. Savvy should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr W towards 
interest, fees and charges on loan two, including payments to a third party where 
application, but not including anything Savvy has already refunded.
 
B. Savvy should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
    Mr W which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr W 
originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
 
C. Savvy should pay Mr W the total of A plus B. 
 
D. Savvy should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ws credit file in 
relation to loan two. 
 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Savvy to take off tax from this interest. Savvy must give 
Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Ws complaint. Valour Finance 
Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2020.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman