DRN-4266277
The complaint
Miss B complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc wont reimburse a large number of debit card 
transactions which she says she didnt make or otherwise authorise. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In January 2022 Miss B contacted Barclays. She said shed recently returned home from a 
trip abroad and had received a new debit card that she hadnt requested. When speaking to 
the agent she then reported all the payments back to October the previous year as 
unauthorised. She said shed had her card with her abroad and couldnt have used it in the 
UK. 
Ultimately Barclays held Miss B liable for all the debit card transactions. They explained that 
online, contactless and chip and PIN transactions had all been disputed. But Miss B still had 
her card and there was no point of compromise for her PIN. They also said that certain 
payments had also had additional authentication through the mobile banking app associated 
with Miss Bs account. Further to this, one of the online merchants involved had evidenced 
that items ordered had been delivered to Miss Bs address. 
Miss B complained to Barclays and later came to our service. Initially one of our 
Investigators concluded that this wasnt a complaint we could consider as it had been 
referred to us too late. Barclays then gave their consent for us to consider the complaint 
despite the time limits. Our Investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. 
Miss B disagrees and has asked for an Ombudsman to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate this is an upsetting matter for Miss B, and Ive taken into consideration her 
personal circumstances when deciding this complaint. But my role requires that I remain 
impartial and make a decision based on all the available evidence. 
Miss Bs testimony hasnt always been consistent. She told Barclays that she had her debit 
card with her abroad. She then suggested to our Investigator that the card had remained in 
her house. And then, following our Investigator giving her merits view on the complaint, she 
again said that she might have had it with her. The result of this is that it makes it difficult for 
me to place a lot of weight on Miss Bs testimony as credible evidence because, at best, she 
is unsure as to whether she had her card with her or not at the relevant times. 
Against this, the evidence from Barclays is compelling. This shows that the card was present 
and the PIN was entered for many of the transactions. Other contactless payments also 
would have required the presence of the physical card. And whether Miss Bs testimony is 
that she had the card with her abroad or it was in her house (with Miss B confirming to us 
that she lived alone, no one else had access to her home and she hadnt suffered a break in 
whilst away), in either case I find Barclays evidence more persuasive. Even if there were an 
explanation as to how someone else had the card, there is no point of potential compromise 
for the PIN. The most recent undisputed use of which was days before the first alleged 
unauthorised payment, negating the likelihood of it having been observed. 
Beyond this, certain payments were authorised within the mobile banking app  there is no 
clear explanation as to how someone else could have done this. And with regard to the card 
not present transactions, the evidence Barclays gathered showed that items ordered were 
delivered to Miss Bs address. Something there is no obvious benefit to a third party doing. 
The pattern of spending doesnt match what is commonly seen in cases of unauthorised use. 
Generally, a fraudster will look to quickly deplete an account to maximise their benefit. But 
here, the alleged unauthorised use took place over several weeks and there were days 
when no activity took place. 
I can understand why Miss B questions the receipt of a new debit card. Barclays havent 
been able to explain exactly why this happened, but that sometimes their system will issue a 
new card. Ive considered this but it doesnt impact my thoughts on the crux of this complaint 
which is whether Barclays reached a fair decision with regard to the authorisation of the 
disputed payments. 
Miss B has said that a relative sent her a link for an online purchase prior to the disputed 
payments and she thinks it may be linked. Ive thought about this, but it doesnt change my 
mind as to the outcome of this complaint. Many of the payments required the physical card. 
And for the others, as Ive mentioned above, there is no obvious benefit for a third party to 
order items to be delivered to Miss Bs address, when they have no access to it.
Taking all the above into consideration, I dont think Barclays concluding that Miss B most 
likely authorised the payments she is disputing was unreasonable based on the evidence 
and information available to them. It follows that there isnt a reasonable basis upon which I 
can direct them to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman