DRN-2236264
The complaint
Mr K says MYJAR Limited irresponsibly lent to him. He wants a refund of the interest and 
charges he paid, with interest, and for any adverse information to be removed from his credit 
record.
What happened
This complaint is about one instalment loan that MYJAR provided to Mr K in December 
2016. Mr K borrowed £100 to be repaid in three monthly instalments, the highest amount 
being £53.05. Mr K didnt make any repayments and so the loan defaulted. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. Mr K disagreed and so the complaint was 
passed to me for a final decision. Mr K provided details of another complaint against a 
different lender for a loan taken before this one. That complaint was upheld by our service 
and Mr K thought the same checks would have found that his MYJAR loan was irresponsibly 
lent. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr K 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that its important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr K could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ks complaint.
MYJAR asked Mr K for information about his income and expenditure and it carried out 
credit checks. Mr K said his monthly income was £900. He said his monthly outgoings were 
£350. I cant see anything in the credit checks that MYJAR carried out that should have 
prompted further checks. As this was Mr Ks first loan from MYJAR and the repayments 
were relatively small and over a short period, I think these checks were proportionate and 
sufficient. 
Given the loan amount, what was apparent about Mr Ks circumstances at the time and his 
history with MYJAR, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate to ask him for the amount of 
information needed to show the lending was unsustainable. There wasnt anything in the 
information Mr K provided or the information MYJAR shouldve been aware of, which meant 
it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what Mr K was saying. 
So I cant say that MYJAR was wrong to have approved this loan. And I dont require 
MYJAR to pay Mr K any compensation or change his credit record. 
Mr K provided details of another loan taken before this loan from a different lender. His 
complaint had been upheld by our service due to irresponsible lending. Each complaint is 
considered on its individual circumstances. And the circumstances of this loan were quite 
different, and the checks required of the lender were more stringent. So I cant say that this 
is a reason to uphold his complaint against MYJAR.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman