DRN-3822017
The complaint
Mr A complains about how Acromas Insurance Company Limited (Acromas) has handled a 
second claim he made against his Parts and Garage cover. 
What happened
Mr A has a breakdown repair policy with Acromas. In early February 2022 Mr As car broke 
down and an engineer was sent to inspect his car. Mr As car was taken to a garage and    
he made a claim under his Parts and Garage cover for the repair. He said the garage 
diagnosed the fault and agreed the repairs with Acromas. The cost of the repair £364.16 was 
covered under the policy.
But later the same month Mr As car again broke down, an engineer inspected the car and it 
was again taken to a garage for repairs. Mr A said he made a second claim under his Parts 
and Garage cover. But Acromas didnt accept this as a new claim but treated it as a 
continuation of the same repair. This limited his cover to £500 in total for the two repairs. 
And despite the second repair costing £900 Acromas only paid the balance, £153.84  left 
from the claim hed made earlier in the month. Mr A complained to Acromas.
Acromas said they didnt treat the claims separately but made a claim adjustment as the 
fault was evident when Mr As car broke down at the beginning of February 2022. They said 
a specific fault code showed for both breakdowns and this should have been resolved when 
the first claim was made. If it had the policy limit of £500 would have been applied. They said 
they didnt reject Mr As second claim but made the adjustment to show what should have 
happened.
Mr A wasnt happy with Acromas response as he said the faults werent the same, one was 
a cylinder fault and the other a brake sensor fault and both showed different symptoms. He 
referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said Acromas had based their decision on the same fault code being 
present and developing at the time of the first repair. He didnt think  theyd acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in applying the policy limit as this should have been dealt with at the first 
repair.
Mr A didnt agree, he said it wasnt fair to only consider the error codes as the faults to his 
car were different. He asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
I can see why Mr A is upset as his car has broken down on two separate occasions, and he 
said for different reasons, a cylinder fault and brake sensors. Mr A said hes been financially 
impacted by Acromas considering the repairs as one claim. While I empathise with the 
position Mr A finds himself in, for me to say Acromas must do something different I must first 
be satisfied that theyve done something wrong. I cant see that they have here which is why 
I wont be asking them to do anything else.
Acromas in their response to Mr As complaint said there was evidence of the fault being 
present or developing at the time his car broke down in early February 2022. 
Ive considered the roadside assistance reports for both breakdowns. I can see for the first 
breakdown in early February 2022, the engineer identified fault codes for the injector 
valve(cylinder 1) and  a fault code for the brake control unit. The second breakdown 
report, later the same month also identified the error code for the brake control unit and 
said Advise to garage for further inspection 
So I think this supports Acromas saying the brake sensor fault was present and developing 
at the time of the first breakdown. I can understand Mr As frustration that the claim is being 
considered as one, as there were two distinctive faults. But only one of the faults was 
repaired in early February 2022.  
Ive considered Mr As Parts and Garage policy terms, it says:
Before any repairs are started you and the repairer must agree on what needs to be done 
and these repairs must then be authorised by the Parts and Garage Cover claim handler.
I can see that the repair to the injector valve cylinder was agreed and authorised. 
The policy says:
The insurer will to pay up to £535 per Paid Claim towards the costs of repair or replacement 
to insured parts, labour and VAT following a Breakdown which occurs during the Period of 
Insurance.
I can see that the excess for the policy is £35, so the repair limit would be £500. The injector 
valve cylinder repair cost £364.16. And this was authorised and covered under Mr As policy. 
From the first engineers report I think its clear that two faults were identified. The injector 
cylinder valve and the brake control unit. But only the injector cylinder valve was repaired. I 
havent seen any evidence to show the garage considered the other fault. But the fault code 
showed there was an issue with the cars brakes present in early February 2022. And when 
Mr As car broke down again later the same month the fault code was still present so I think 
it had continued to develop. 
The policy says:
..will not cover faults that you will have been made aware of as part of your regular 
maintenance (MOT, servicing etc.) or parts that have clearly been deteriorating for some 
time.
I think Mr A would have been aware of the brake control unit fault at the time of the first 
engineers report, and as it wasnt repaired it had continued to develop and deteriorate over 
the ensuing time. But I dont think it would have been fair to reject Mr As claim after the 
second breakdown because it was a known fault. I think as both faults had been found after the first breakdown, I think both should have been put right at that time and considered 
under Mr As policy terms. 
So, I dont think Acromas has acted unfairly or unreasonably in considering the repair for this 
fault as a claim adjustment rather than a new claim. Acromas has accepted that the fault 
was known at the time of the first repair and that it should have been repaired and included 
in the claim Mr A made in February 2022. And if it had been the cost of the repairs would 
have been covered up to the policy limit of £500. 
I can see to put things right Acromas have adjusted Mr As first claim to include the repair for 
the brake control unit. And as the policy limit is £500, theyve paid Mr A the remaining 
balance of £153.84, which I think is fair and reasonable.
I know Mr A will be disappointed by my decision, but I hope he understands my reasons. 
There were two distinct faults with his car, but these should have been repaired at the same 
time, after the first breakdown and considered under the same claim against his Parts and 
Garage cover.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman