DRN-3967962
Complaint
Mr C has complained that Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) 
irresponsibly lent to him.
Background
Everyday Loans provided Mr C with an initial loan for £1,250.00 in June 2015. This loan was 
due to be repaid over 24 monthly instalments of £117.67. This loan was settled early with 
some of the proceeds from loan 2 in June 2016. Loan 2 was for £2,000.00. This loan was 
due to be repaid over 23 monthly instalments of £210. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr C and Everyday Loans had told us. And she 
thought that Everyday Loans hadnt lent irresponsibly. So she didnt uphold Mr Cs 
complaint. Mr C disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Cs complaint.
Everyday Loans needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Everyday Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr C could afford to repay before providing these loans. Our website sets out what 
we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Everyday Loans says it agreed to Mr Cs applications after he provided details of his monthly 
income and expenditure. It says that on both occasions it cross-checked what was declared 
against information on a credit search it carried out on Mr C. The information Mr C provided 
about his income and expenditure showed that hed be able to make the repayments he was 
committing to. Everyday Loans says, in these circumstances it was reasonable to lend. On 
the other hand, Mr C says the loan was unaffordable.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr C and Everyday Loans have said. The first thing for me 
to say is that these were Mr Cs first loans with Everyday Loans. The information provided 
does suggest Mr C was asked to provide details of his income and expenditure and 
Everyday Loans didnt just rely on what it was told. The credit searches carried out showed 
that Mr C did previously have difficulties repaying credit. But these were historic and the debt 
Mr C had at the respective times wasnt excessive compared to his income. Crucially Mr Cs 
existing debts, at the time, appeared to be reasonably managed too.
I accept that Mr Cs actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the information Everyday Loans obtained. But the key here is 
that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a 
lender did something wrong. Given the circumstances here, and the lack of obvious 
inconsistencies, I dont think that reasonable and proportionate checks would have extended 
further. Id also add that Ive not been provided with anything that shows me the loans were 
clearly unaffordable either.
Finally, Ive also considered whether Everyday Loans ought reasonably to have realised that 
it was increasing Mr Cs indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful. 
But the amount borrowed for loan 2 wasnt much more than for loan 1. And Im mindful the 
credit checks carried out didnt suggest Mr Cs external indebtedness was increasing 
unsustainably either. Furthermore, Mr C was only going to end up borrowing from Everyday 
Loans for a total period of three years. So in these circumstances, Im satisfied that it isnt 
the case Everyday Loans ought reasonably to have realised it may have been increasing   
Mr Cs overall indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful.
As this is the case, I dont think that Everyday Loans did anything wrong when deciding to 
lend to Mr C - it carried out proportionate checks on each occasion and reasonably relied on 
what it found out which suggested the repayments were affordable. And loan 2 was provided 
in circumstances where Mr Cs indebtedness didnt appear to be increasing unsustainably.
So overall I dont think that Everyday Loans treated Mr C unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loans. And Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr C. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman