DRN-3672109
The complaint
Mrs M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct hasnt refunded her the 
money she lost as the result of a scam.
What happened
In late 2020, having recently moved to a new home, Mrs M transferred the sum of money 
shed thus freed up into her First Direct account. She was planning to keep this held in 
secure savings, including investing in premium bonds.
Not long after, Mrs M received a call from someone claiming to be calling from First Directs 
fraud team. Unfortunately, unknown to Mrs M at the time, this caller was a scammer 
impersonating the bank.
The caller told her accounts were at risk. Mrs M was instructed to make payments to move 
her money to what she was led to believe was a safe account. Mrs M believed this set up in 
her name to supposedly protect her funds, but in reality, it wasnt  and instead was under 
the control of the fraudster.
Mrs M says that at the time, she was panicked by what the caller was telling her, fearing that 
her savings were at risk.
The first payment she was told to make was direct to the supposed safe account, in the sum 
of £10,000.
The caller then told Mrs M shed need to send payments via an account she held with 
another bank. She transferred two more payments, each of £10,000, to an account she 
holds with another bank. She was then told to transfer the money from there to the new safe 
account which she did.
Lastly, the scammer told Mrs M to transfer £10,000 to her daughter, and then for her 
daughter to transfer this on to Mrs Ms supposed safe account. The caller told Mrs M that 
her daughter should move the money in four payments of £2,500 each.
The first of these payments was processed by her daughters building society. But the next 
payment requests were blocked by the building societys fraud prevention systems. 
At this point Mrs M had been on the call to the scammer for over two hours. After the call 
had ended, Mrs M started to realise something wasnt right and called First Direct to report it. 
Her daughter subsequently returned the remaining £7,500. But her daughters building 
society was unable to recover any of the £2,500 that had been moved on to the safe 
account.
Potentially relevant to these transactions is the Lending Standards Boards Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code (the LSBs CRM Code). This is a voluntary scheme First Direct 
has signed up to, designed to reimburse customers that have fallen victim to an Authorised 
Push Payment scam (APP scam). The starting position under the CRM Code is for a 
customer to be refunded. A firm might choose not to refund if it establishes that a customer 
failed to take sufficient care when making a payment.
Mrs Ms other bank is also a signatory of the CRM Code. It refunded Mrs M fully for the 
payments shed transferred onwards from that account, a total of £20,000. First Direct 
refunded the £10,000 Mrs M had transferred directly to the safe account, part of which was 
paid by the receiving bank. I understand both banks did so under the terms of the CRM 
Code. 
This left Mrs M out of pocket by the sum shed lost through the transfer made via her 
daughters account  £2,500.
First Direct declined to consider this remaining loss under the CRM Code. It said the CRM 
Code didnt apply because the money had initially gone to Mrs Ms daughter rather than 
direct to the safe account. It thought the liability for any shortfall should sit with Mrs Ms 
daughters building society.
Mrs M didnt think this was fair, and she asked this service to review the matter impartially.
I issued my provisional findings on the merits of Mrs Ms complaint on 11 August 2022. In my 
provisional findings, I explained why I intended to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. An extract of 
that decision is set out below and forms part of this final decision:
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im 
required to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance 
and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good 
industry practice at the time.
Under the relevant regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and 
conditions, banks have an obligation to execute an authorised payment instruction 
without undue delay. In consequence, the starting position is that liability for an 
authorised payment rests with the payer, even if they made that payment as the 
consequence of a fraud or scam.
But that isnt the end of the story. Where a customer made the payment as a 
consequence of the actions of a fraudster, I consider it may sometimes be fair and 
reasonable for a bank to reimburse its customer even though that customer authorised 
the payment.
In particular, First Direct is a signatory to the CRM Code, which provides additional 
protection to the victims of APP scams. However, First Direct argues that the CRM 
Code should not apply to the payment Mrs M sent to her daughter. It does not believe 
Mrs M is afforded the additional protection of the CRM Code and does not believe it is 
liable to reimburse her for the remaining loss.
In considering this, I have carefully reviewed the relevant material surrounding the 
scope of the CRM Code - in relation to this type of scam. In particular, that includes the 
wording of the CRM Code, as it stood at the time in question, and what the Lending 
Standards Board has said about the interpretation of that wording in its November 
2021 publication: Call for Input: Findings Report.
In that report, the LSB describes multi-generation APP scams as follows:These scams, sometimes referred to as friends and family scams, typically involve 
a customer being duped into increasing the number of transactions and/or payees 
involved in the scam (for example, being convinced to transfer funds to a family 
member who in turn is asked to further forward them, onto the scammers account). 
While the funds have been moved to a trusted third party, in that they are a friend or 
family member, the payment has left the control of the payee. This approach seeks 
to evade the detection and preventative measures of the Code []
The report goes on to say that the investigation of such multi-generation scams is 
captured within the scope of the CRM Code.
The payment disputed in the present complaint is one that Mrs M made to her 
daughter, having been deceived into believing she was acting on the legitimate 
instructions of her bank to secure her funds. I am satisfied that this payment meets the 
definition within the CRM Code of an APP scam  Mrs M transferred these funds to 
another person for what she believed were legitimate purposes, but which were in fact 
fraudulent. 
By contrast, the two payments Mrs M made to her own account held elsewhere, do not 
fall within the CRM Codes definition of an APP scam  that money was not transferred 
to another person.
I find the distinction here important. The remaining loss has been sustained by Mrs M, 
and originated in the payment journey between Mrs Ms First Direct account and her 
daughters account. I accept that the method used here by the scammer appears 
deliberately intended to evade First Directs fraud detection and protection systems, 
but that does not in itself mean that the CRM Code ought not to apply.
Mrs M has suffered a financial loss through an APP scam, and a type of APP scam 
that the LSB says is captured within the scope of the CRM Code.
First Direct argues that responsibility under the CRM Code should sit with the 
daughters building society and not with it. It directs Mrs M to take up the loss she has 
suffered with her daughters bank. I do not agree.
Being the party that has suffered a financial loss here, Mrs M reported the matter to 
First Direct. Receiving its customers report of the scam, and in its capacity as the 
victims bank, First Direct then has the principal responsibility for investigating and 
responding to the scam report (given this is the type of multi-generation scam caught 
within scope of the CRM Code). I consider that First Direct is also then responsible 
under the CRM Code for both the reimbursement decision and for reimbursement of 
the victim. 
Leading on from this the CRM Code states: Once a decision to reimburse has been 
made, the Firm of whom the APP scam victim is the Customer should administer the 
payment of the reimbursement to their Customer without delay. Reimbursement 
should not be delayed in any way by any question of the allocation of the cost of the 
reimbursement. 
First Direct also has responsibility under the CRM Code to liaise with the other firms 
involved (that is not something the CRM Code requires of Mrs M, as the victim and as 
First Directs own customer).In short, I am satisfied that the CRM Code applies here, and that First Direct has the 
responsibility under the CRM Code to respond and, where appropriate, to reimburse 
Mrs M. I consider that to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case.
On the basis that the CRM Code does apply to Mrs Ms transfer, I have therefore gone 
on to consider whether that means First Direct should have reimbursed Mrs M for the 
remaining loss.
The starting position under the CRM Code is that the victim of an APP scam should be 
reimbursed in all but a limited number of circumstances (exceptions to 
reimbursement). These exceptions include (so far as is relevant here) ignoring an 
effective warning by failing to take appropriate action in response, and, having made 
the payment without a reasonable basis for believing it was legitimate.
I dont consider First Direct has established that any of the CRM Codes exceptions to 
reimbursement can fairly be applied here. In particular:
- First Direct did not provide Mrs M with an Effective Warning while she was making 
this payment. It follows she did not ignore an Effective Warning here.
- By the time this payment was made, the scam call had lasted some considerable 
time and Mrs M has plausibly explained the impact it was having on her. She was 
under the belief that she was speaking with her bank. In the circumstances, 
I consider Mrs M had a reasonable basis for believing this was her bank. Id note in 
particular the scammers use of number spoofing and personal information, 
rendering the deception more convincing.
- In making the payment, Mrs M believed she was following her banks instructions 
to protect herself from fraud. Mrs M was the innocent party here, and not at fault in 
making the payment. I have not seen anything that would persuade me her bank 
has established that she made the payment without holding a reasonable basis for 
believing what she did at the time.
The CRM Code includes further exceptions to reimbursement, but I am satisfied these 
do not apply here. It follows that I do not find First Direct can fairly rely on an exception 
to reimbursement under the CRM Code.
I have considered whether it would be appropriate to add interest to the sum First 
Direct should now reimburse, and if so, at what rate that interest should apply. Having 
reviewed the evidence submitted by both sides, I believe Mrs M intended to use the 
money for low risk savings and would have done so but for the scam. I understand that 
when Mrs Ms daughter returned the residual £7,500, Mrs M paid this into a First Direct 
savings account. If that was indeed the case, then I consider it would be appropriate 
for First Direct to pay interest at the equivalent rate to the First Direct savings account 
on the £2,500 Mrs M was deprived of. This should apply for the period from when First 
Direct declined to reimburse her until the date of settlement.
I have also thought about the impact this matter has had on Mrs M, and while the 
primary causes of the distress and inconvenience she has suffered were the criminal 
actions of the scammers involved, I think the protracted nature of this matter has 
added to that. I find that First Direct could (and should) have reimbursed Mrs M at an 
earlier point. So, in all the circumstances I consider it fair and reasonable that First 
Direct should pay Mrs M a further £150 in recognition of the additional distress and 
inconvenience it caused.
Putting things rightFor the reasons set out by the investigator and above, I intend to find that Mrs M ought 
reasonably to have been fully refunded under the CRM Code. I therefore intend to 
direct HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct to pay Mrs M:
The amount of the remaining loss, being £2,500; plus,
interest at the rate of Mrs Ms First Direct savings account on that amount (less any 
tax properly deductible). This should be calculated from the date First Direct first 
declined to reimburse Mrs M until the date of settlement; and,
£150 compensation for distress or inconvenience.
I invited both sides to provide any further arguments or information by 26 August 2022, after 
which point, I said I would issue my final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs M responded to my provisional decision saying she accepted the proposed outcome.
While the deadline for responses has now elapsed, First Direct has not replied to my 
provisional conclusions.
In light of this, I see no reason to depart from the findings and the resolution I proposed in 
my provisional decision as quoted above, and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision and above, I find it fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances that Mrs M ought to have been fully refunded under the CRM Code. I 
therefore direct HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct to pay Mrs M:
 The amount of the remaining loss, being the sum of £2,500, within 28 days of 
receiving notification of Mrs Ms acceptance of my final decision; plus,
 Pay interest on that sum at the rate of Mrs Ms First Direct savings account on that 
amount (less any tax properly deductible) calculated from the date First Direct first 
declined to reimburse Mrs M until the date of settlement; and,
 Pay Mrs M £150 compensation for distress or inconvenience.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman