DRN-2240467
The complaint
Mr S complains that Sainsburys Bank plc (Sainsburys) charged interest on his credit card 
account while he had an interest free promotional offer in place.
What happened
Mr S opened a credit card account with Sainsburys to take advantage of an interest free 
promotional offer. Mr S made additional payments into his credit card account above the 
minimum payment required, in anticipation of transactions he had made on his card 
believing these additional payments would be used to contra the transactions he had made. 
Mr S discovered that he had been charged interest on the transactions he had made and so 
queried this with Sainsburys. Mr S says Sainsburys asked him to call back at which time 
they explained the interest charged was correct although he didnt fully understand why, and 
it was not in line with what he says he had been previously informed. 
Sainsburys says they charged interest because Mr S hadnt repaid in full the outstanding 
balance of his account, and any additional payments he had made in anticipation of 
transactions the same month, went towards the previous months outstanding balance. 
Sainsburys says this is clearly explained on both his bank statements and terms and 
conditions of his credit card account. 
Mr S wasnt happy with Sainsburys response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information and in part upheld Mr Ss complaint. 
She felt that while Sainsburys had acted in line within the terms and conditions of the credit 
card account, it was not totally clear and could be confusing for Mr S. The investigator 
suggested that Sainsburys should pay Mr S £100 in compensation as a result. 
Sainsburys werent happy with the investigators view as they felt they had done nothing 
wrong and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
I sent both sides a provisional decision, where I said:
Ive considered all of the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to a different outcome to the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
When looking at this complaint I have considered whether Sainsburys acted unfairly when 
applying interest to Mr Ss credit card account when he had an interest free promotional offer 
in place. 
Mr S says that he took out a credit card with Sainsburys to take advantage of an interest 
free promotional offer for both balance transfers and purchases and he  believed that when 
he made payments into his credit card account these payments would be used to repay the 
higher interest rate borrowing first.
I can see that Mr S took out a credit card account with Sainsburys in November 2018 that 
offered a three-month promotional interest free period on purchases and 30 months on 
balance transfers.
To explain, this meant that any purchases made by Mr S post February 2019 would not form 
part of that offer. That said, this is not the main point to Mr Ss complaint as he understood 
that if he made payments into his credit card account, any additional payments he made on 
top of the minimum payment would be used to reduce borrowing attracting the highest 
interest rate. 
I can understand Mr Ss point here and this is correct   -  but this would only be the case if he 
had repaid the total outstanding balance of previous purchases in full  this was detailed in 
his monthly statement under rates of interest section, as these attract interest at the 
standard rate because the promotional offer for purchases had expired.
This is explained in the terms and conditions under Sections 3.3/3.4 and specifically under 
section 3.5  where it explains:  
You won't be charged interest on purchases shown on your statement provided that you 
pay the total balance shown on that statement by the payment date (and have also paid the 
total balance on the previous statement by the payment date). When we do charge interest 
on a transaction, we do so from the date that the amount was first charged to your account.
What happened here is that Mr S made various sizeable purchases on his credit card and 
pre-empted his next credit card statements by making early payments to cover these. While I 
can understand that he felt that was the right thing to do, on those occasions where there 
was no outstanding balance for purchases on the previous months statement then these 
advance payments would be used to reduce any outstanding balance. This is because when 
Mr S made the extra payments into his credit card account above the minimum payment, he 
was in effect paying off the balance outstanding at that time, as he hadnt been sent his next 
months statement at that stage.
I have seen various credit card statements and these show that when there was an 
outstanding balance for purchases these were reduced by payments made by Mr S, 
although unless he repaid this balance in full any future purchases, he made on the credit 
card would attract interest as detailed in his credit card terms and conditions.  This is also 
explained in Mr Ss credit card statement under the summary box section :
You won't be charged interest on purchases shown on your statement provided that you 
pay the total balance shown on that statement, and your previous statement, on time. 
Otherwise, interest is charged on transactions from the date the item is debited to your 
account until the balance is paid in full.
It is worth mentioning that Mr S continued to benefit from the interest free promotional offer 
on  balance transfers and any purchases he made within the promotional offer period. Mr S 
has only been charged interest on subsequent purchases, when he has not repaid the 
outstanding balance of purchases detailed in his current and previous statements in full.  
I can see that the investigator felt this may be confusing for Mr S and awarded a 
compensation payment as a result, but I cant see that because Mr S may not have been 
clear on the terms and conditions of his credit card account, that Sainsburys can be held 
responsible for this or have made any mistakes here. Afterall, it is Mr Ss responsibility to 
check the terms and conditions of his credit card.
I can see no evidence to support Mr Ss view that Sainsburys told him he shouldnt have 
paid the interest he was charged, other than they would investigate the matter, which is what happened here.  Mr S says he didnt fully understand when Sainsburys explained the 
reason for the interest charges was because he made payments too early, but he was 
provided with a fuller explanation of this in the final response letter from Sainsburys. I am 
satisfied that this does explain the reason for the interest being charged.  
I can see that Sainsburys have offered Mr S £30 for the time it took for them to respond to 
Mr Ss complaint and this is what I would expect here. This is still available to Mr S if he 
wishes to accept the offer. 
While Mr S will be disappointed with my decision it follows, I dont feel Sainsburys need to 
make a compensation payment other than the £30 already offered to Mr S and I wont be 
asking anymore of them here.
Both Mr S and Sainsburys have responded but neither party had anything further to add to 
my provisional decision, so the case has been passed back to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I gave both Mr S and Sainsburys until 11 November 2020 to accept or reject my provisional 
decision, as neither party had anything further to add I see no need to change or add to this 
and so my final decision remains the same. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman