DRN-2221096
The complaint
Mr P complains that he was given poor advice by County Capital Wealth Management 
Limited trading as The Pension Review Service (CC) to transfer the benefits from his 
defined benefit (DB) scheme with British Steel (BSPS) to a personal pension. 
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation 
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, one 
of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund 
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when 
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31 
March 2017.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ps employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 22 
December 2017.
Mr P contacted another firm (WW) for advice in November 2017. They completed a fact find 
and risk profile with Mr P. Mr P says WW advised him to transfer to a personal 
pension.However, on 18 December 2017, they informed him they couldnt complete the 
transfer for him due to restrictions to their regulatory permissions. They explained that if he 
still wanted to transfer he had to make alternative arrangements. They referred Mr P to CC 
for advice.
CC completed their own fact find in early January 2018. This and the suitability report 
showed Mr P was 28, living with his partner and a young child in rented accommodation, he 
was in good health and was earning £32,500 per year. He had savings of around £1,300 and 
he was a member of his employers new money purchase pension with his contributions 
being 6% of his salary and employers contributions of 10%. His risk profile was recorded as 
balanced. A pension transfer questionnaire recorded that Mr P was considering a transfer so 
he could have control over his pension and access it earlier than in the DB scheme. He said 
he didnt know how much income or tax-free cash he would need in retirement. He said he 
would decide nearer the time.
On 20 January 2018, CC advised Mr P to transfer his BSPS benefits into a personal pension 
and invest his funds through a discretionary fund management firm (DFM). The same day all 
other necessary paperwork for the transfer was completed. The suitability report said the 
reasons for this recommendation were that Mr P wanted to access his pension flexibly at 
age 58, it would give him an element of control over how and where his money was 
invested, CCs cashflow analysis had shown his financial position would potentially improve 
and the new arrangement would provide greater death benefits for his child.
CC says they were only providing a bureau service for WW and it was WWs adviser who 
took Mr P through the cash flow analysis and reports. CC says WW played a key role in 
advising Mr P and continued a client relationship with him.
Mr P, through his representative, complained in 2019 about the suitability of the transfer 
advice. After CC rejected his complaint, Mr P referred his complaint to this service. He also 
made a separate complaint against WW. WW has since gone into liquidation and so this 
service cannot consider the complaint against them anymore.
An investigator thought the advice CC gave Mr P was unsuitable and asked them to 
compensate Mr P for the losses he incurred by transferring his DB pension.
CC disagreed so the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting assumption when advising on a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. CC should have only considered a transfer if they could clearly demonstrate that 
the transfer was in Mr Ps best interest (COBS 19.1.6). And having looked at all the evidence 
available, Im not satisfied it was. Ill explain why.
financial viability
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17 /9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this case.
The documents from the time of advice show that Mr P was looking to retire at age 58 if 
possible, so comparisons were done to age 65 and 58.
CC prepared a transfer analysis which showed that the average investment return required 
in the new pension to match the BSPS benefits at age 58 (critical yield) was quoted as 
5.83% per year if Mr Ps benefits in retirement were taken as a lump sum plus a reduced 
pension. The critical yield to match the benefits available in the PPF at age 58 taken in the 
same form was 4.86%.
Ive seen evidence from the DB scheme administrators that Mr P had opted to join BSPS2 
before the deadline of 22 December 2017. So I think CC should have done some 
comparisons to BSPS2, rather than the BSPS which would not exist anymore. 
The benefits from BSPS2 were assumed to be slightly less than BSPS and more than the 
PPF, so I think- using CCs figures -the critical yield to match the benefits in BSPS2 would 
have been somewhere between 4.86% and 5.83%.
The closest discount rate to this time which I'm able to refer to was published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017. It was 4.7% per year 
both for 29 to retirement. For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the 
time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per year. I've 
taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate.
Looking at the critical yields in the transfer analysis report , I think its possible Mr P could 
have more or less matched the benefits in the PPF and possibly even in BSPS2 if he was 
invested in line with a medium risk strategy as suggested. However, there was still a risk he 
wouldnt. And I think the chances he could actually improve on his benefits was unlikely.
For completion Id like to mention that Ive seen the estimated benefits for BSPS2 in the time 
to choose paperwork sent to Mr P and they were higher than the values CC used for the 
BSPS benefits comparison. This doesnt make sense. So I think the BSPS figures in the 
transfer analysis may also have been underestimated and if so critical yields would have 
been higher and an improvement on benefits in the new personal pension would have been 
even less likely.
Ive also considered CCs cash flow models which they say showed Mr P could have been 
significantly better off in the personal pension plan. They compared his existing situation with 
scenarios where his transfer value grew a) only in line with inflation, b) assuming returns of 
the recommended investment portfolio based on historic returns and c) a stress test where 
the transfer value fell by 14% in the first couple of years and then performed in line with 
historic returns of the asset allocation of the recommended portfolio.
I firstly note that in the model for Mr Ps existing financial position, CC failed to include the 
annual increases on Mr Ps DB benefits in payment. Also, as CC will know, past 
performance is no guarantee for future performance and so I consider the discount rates and 
the regulators standard projections to be more realistic in this regard in the long term rather 
than projecting historic returns forward, particularly over such a long period of time. CCs 
models also show that if returns were only in line with inflation or there was poor 
performance for a couple of years Mr Ps financial assets would actually be lower in the long- 
term than if he kept his DB pension.
Overall, Im satisfied that by transferring his pension Mr P was unlikely to improve his 
benefits. Instead there was a risk he would be worse off in retirement. So based on the 
above alone, a transfer wasnt in Mr Ps best interest.
Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There 
might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall 
lower or the same benefits.
concerns about financial stability of BSPS
Mr P approached CC as he was concerned about his BSPS pension. Lots of his colleagues 
at the time were transferring out of the scheme and he was worried his pension would end 
up in the PPF. Ive also considered that by the time Mr L was introduced to CC he had been 
advised by WW to transfer. So I think its very likely that Mr P came to CC leaning towards 
the decision to transfer. However, it was CCs obligation to give Mr P an objective picture 
and recommend what was in his best interest. Mr P, like many of his colleagues, was 
concerned about BSPS moving to the PPF. However, as the figures show, even is this 
happened, Mr P was still likely to be better off not transferring. I cant see that this was 
explained to him.
From what Ive seen CC didnt provide Mr P with an objective picture about the PPF and 
what this might mean for him specifically. And as I said above Mr P had elected to go into BSPS2, so this option should have been considered as well. If CC didnt have this 
information they should have asked. CC says the information provided by the trustees at the 
time showed that the PPF was a better choice than BSPS2 if someone wanted to retire early 
and tax-free cash was important to them. However, whilst Mr P surely liked the idea of 
retiring early, he was still many years away from retirement and both his retirement age and 
whether he wanted or needed a higher amount of tax-free cash from his DB scheme were 
completely uncertain. So I dont think the BSPS2 option (which he selected himself) should 
not have been excluded from CCs advice.
Overall, I think CC didnt do much to alleviate Mr Ps concerns and fears about the 
uncertainty around his pension scheme.
Flexibility and control
I appreciate that being so far away from retirement age Mr P likely wanted to keep the option 
open to take flexible benefits in retirement. However, Mr P had another pension with 
generous employer contributions and many years to build up further pension provisions. He 
could have accessed this pension (or other future ones) flexibly when he chose to retire. So 
in fact keeping the DB benefits would have given him a risk-free guaranteed income and he 
could still have flexible benefits through his other pension provision. He didnt need, in my 
view, to transfer his DB benefits for flexibility when he could have achieved this through his 
other pensions.
Mr P said in a questionnaire he wanted control over his pension and have the ability to 
choose his investments. Similarly to what I said in regards to flexibility, I think if Mr P was 
interested in being more actively involved in his pension provisions, he could have chosen 
his investments in his money purchase pension (which I believe he did) and any possible 
future personal pension plans. And more importantly, I dont think this preference should 
have reasonably outweighed the fact he would likely be better off financially if he didnt 
transfer.
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. Im sure that the idea of leaving a large 
sum to his partner and child in the event of his death sounded attractive.
However, CC should have put some perspective on this subject. Mr P had generous death in 
service cover if he died before retirement and the DB scheme would have paid dependants 
pensions. His family would have received the value of his money purchase pension too if he 
died. Mr P was also young and in good health, so I dont think he should have been overly 
concerned about death benefits. I cant see that any of this was explained to Mr P in a 
balanced way.
In any event, whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, the priority here 
was to advise Mr P about what was best for his own retirement provisions. A pension is 
primarily designed to provide income in retirement. So I dont think different death benefits 
justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr P.
Summary
Overall, Im satisfied that the advice given to Mr P was not suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk free and increasing income. By transferring he was risking obtaining lower 
retirement benefits and there were no other particular reasons which would justify a transfer 
and outweigh this. I dont think his options with regards to his DB scheme were properly explored.
I appreciate that at the time the advice was given there was a lot of uncertainty around the 
pension scheme and Ive fully taken into account that Mr P likely was keen to transfer out as 
he was worried about his pension and colleagues were telling him this was a good idea. 
However, it was the advisers responsibility to objectively weigh up the options for Mr P. He 
should have advised him what was best for his circumstances and explain what he was 
giving up in the DB scheme and that even if he moved to the PPF this was not as concerning 
as he thought. For the reasons given above I think this advice should have been not to 
transfer out.. On balance I think Mr P would have listened to the adviser and followed their 
advice if they provided proper and clear reasons why he was better off keeping his DB 
benefits.
WWs involvement
I understand CC say they only performed a bureau service for WW. CC said WW had 
already advised Mr P to transfer and they were still heavily involved in the advice process 
throughout.
I cant consider the complaint against WW as they have gone into liquidation. However, 
based on the information I have seen it seems indeed that WW had previously advised Mr P 
and continued to be involved. However, notwithstanding WWs involvement, CC had a duty 
to give Mr P suitable advice and without their advice a transfer couldnt have proceeded. CC 
is responsible for their own actions here.
If CC had given suitable advice, Mr P would have had a positive recommendation from WW 
as well as a recommendation not to transfer from CC. Its possible that WW might have 
continued to persuade Mr P to proceed with the transfer. However, given that WW had not 
been able to proceed with the advice due to issues with the regulator, I think on balance Mr 
P would have listened to CCs advice if their reasons why a transfer wasnt in his interest 
had been explained properly. So in my view CCs unsuitable advice ultimately led to Mr P 
transferring his DB benefits and so its fair and reasonable to hold them responsible for any 
losses this transfer caused Mr P. If they consider WW should also be held liable, CC is free 
to pursue them directly after having compensated Mr P in full.
Putting things right
My aim to is put Mr P, as closely as possible, into the position hed be in now but for CCs 
unsuitable advice. Mr P had already selected BSPS2, so I consider he would have moved 
there if CC had advised him not to transfer. The calculations should be done on this basis.
CC should undertake a redress calculation in line with the pension review guidance as 
updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for 
firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
The calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions at the date 
of the actual calculation.
CC may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ps 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ps SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation in respect of any future loss 
should if possible be paid into Mr Ps pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect 
of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension 
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr P as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could 
have been taken as tax free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Ps likely 
income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% 
overall from the future loss adequately reflects this.
In addition CC should pay Mr P £300 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has 
caused him.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr P within 90 days of the date 
CC receives notification of his acceptance of any final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of any 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of that 90 day period, that it 
takes CC to pay Mr P.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require County Capital Wealth 
Management Ltd to pay Mr P the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
County Capital Wealth Management Ltd to pay Mr P any interest on that amount in full, as 
set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require County 
Capital Wealth Management Ltd to pay Mr P any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
County Capital Wealth Management Ltd pays Mr P the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr P.
If Mr P accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on County Capital Wealth 
Management Ltd. My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr P 
can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr P may want to consider 
getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman