DRN-3280949
The complaint
S, a limited company, says that Verlingue Limited didnt take adequate steps to ensure it had 
appropriate insurance in place (meaning it wasnt covered when a claim was made against 
it). S is represented by its director, Mr A. 
What happened
S operates as a healthcare practice providing treatments. In 2009 following a 
recommendation from Verlingue, S took out an offices and surgeries policy. It renewed that 
policy in subsequent years. 
In August 2015 Verlingue sent out renewal documentation to S. Mr A contacted it to say that 
he was now the director of the business. Following discussion with him Verlingue emailed 
the insurer and said he is happy with the renewal invite and would like to proceed with a 
new account number to pay the direct debit. The policy renewed on that basis and S 
continued with it following that.   
In July 2021 S received a claim relating to treatment provided by one of its therapists earlier 
that year. It told Verlingue about the claim which referred it to the insurer of its policy. The 
insurer said the claim wasnt covered because although the policy covered public liability 
there was an exclusion for claims relating to treatments. 
S asked Verlingue to arrange cover that would cover future claims (medical malpractice 
cover) and complained no assessment was carried out when Mr A took over the business. 
As a result the policy it had in place didnt meet its needs. 
Verlingue said Mr A had confirmed he wanted to continue with the previous policy and the 
renewal documentation asked S to check that it still met its needs. Verlingue also said that 
as a healthcare professional Mr A should have been aware he needed to check whether he 
required insurance over and above that offered by his professional body. And he didnt ask 
for any additional cover to be put in place. 
Our investigator noted the documentation relating to the original sale was no longer 
available. But she thought it likely the cover offered at that time was based on the 
information S provided to Verlingue. And she didnt think it should have carried out a revised 
assessment of Ss demands and needs when Mr A took over as director because there was 
nothing to suggest those needs had changed. She didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr A didnt agree. In summary he said:
He questioned why Ss previous owner wouldnt have taken out malpractice cover if 
properly advised as the business was operating in the same way at that time. And he 
asked whether it was legal to destroy documents relating to the original sale given the 
ongoing customer relationship with S;
He argued Verlingue should in any case have carried out a revised assessment when he 
took over the policy (or at a subsequent renewal). If it had identified S didnt have 
malpractice cover he would have asked for this to be added;
He said after the claim was made Verlingue should have validated this before sending it 
to the insurer. He also said that it had given him inappropriate advice suggesting he 
should seek to recover money from the employee who carried out the treatment. And it 
hadnt provided him with quotes for cover going forward.
So I need to reach a final decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Did Verlingue make a suitable recommendation when the policy was first sold?
The relevant rules (the Insurance Code of Business Sourcebook - ICOBS) require that a 
firm must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice for any customer who is 
entitled to rely upon its judgment. 
In doing so it should establish the customer's demands and needs by using information 
readily available and accessible to the firm and by obtaining further relevant information from 
the customer, including details of existing insurance cover.
In this case its difficult to say whether Verlingue did what it should or not. The records 
relating to the sale have been destroyed. And while I understand Mr As concerns about this 
the rules dont set a specific timeframe for how long records should be kept. But in this case 
Verlingue retained them for ten years from the original sale which I dont think was 
unreasonable. 
I asked Mr A whether there was any further information he was able to provide either from 
records held by S or from the original director of the firm. However, he hasnt provided 
anything. I am in any case mindful of the fact the sale took place thirteen years ago and I 
think the passage of time will inevitably mean any recollections of what happened will have 
faded. 
Mr A says there would be no reason S wouldnt have taken out medical malpractice cover 
through Verlingue if properly advised. But Im not sure that is the case. Ive reviewed 
information about the cover offered by Mr As professional body (which would also have 
applied to the previous owner). I note the current insurance it offers will, in some 
circumstances, cover a small business automatically or do so for the payment of a 
discounted premium (depending on the size of the business). 
I appreciate that reflects the current position but if similar arrangements were in place in 
2009 that could explain why S didnt take out medical malpractice cover at that time. Even if 
S did require separate malpractice cover it could also have taken that out through a different 
insurer without Mr A being aware of this - I note Ss relationship with Verlingue started in 
2009 but the company itself was incorporated in September 2005. 
So it could already have made alternative arrangements for this and simply asked Verlingue 
to provide insurance that covered other risks. Taking all of that into account I dont think 
there are grounds on which I could safely conclude the policy Verlingue recommended in 
2009 was unsuitable for it. Should a further review have been carried out when Mr A took over the business
Mr A has argued strongly Verlingue should in any case have carried out a further review of 
Ss demands and needs when he took over the business in 2015 (or at a subsequent 
renewal). But in relation to renewals (rather than the initial sale) the rules at the time said: 
A firm must take reasonable steps to ensure a customer is given appropriate information 
about a policy in good time and in a comprehensible form so that the customer can make an 
informed decision about the arrangements proposed.
And we wouldnt generally expect a seller to go through the same process at each renewal 
as they would when the policy is first sold. Sellers normally invite renewal based on the 
information they currently hold about the policy holder including anything the policy holder 
has disclosed throughout the term of the policy. But its important the business checks this. 
So the renewal invitation should outline the key details the business is relying on when 
offering the policy to enable the customer to check if those are correct. 
In this case I can see that in advance of the renewal date Verlingue did provide policy 
documentation to S as well as a Statement of Fact. The covering letter asked S check the 
documentation to ensure the cover provided meets with your requirements. If there is 
anything you do not understand, or an amendment to the policy is necessary, please contact 
me immediately. It went on to say It is important that you read and understand all 
conditions, warranties and exclusions within the insurer's policy documentation. I think 
Verlingue has done what Id expect here. 
The position might be different if there was clear evidence to show there had been an 
obvious change in Ss demands and needs; for example a significant change in its business 
model. But I dont think that was the case. In his contact with Verlingue Mr A simply told it 
about a change in ownership. And that he was happy for the policy to continue on the same 
basis as before. So I dont think there was anything which should reasonably have prompted 
Verlingue to carry out a further assessment of Ss demands and needs. 
Other issues
Mr A says Verlingue should have validated his claim against the policy terms before sending 
it to the insurer. But Verlingue arent the claims handlers for this policy and the policy has its 
own claims helpline which is used for reporting claims. And it is for the insurer (or its agents) 
to decide whether a claim is covered by a policy or not. So I think Verlingue were right to 
send the claim to the insurer so that could be considered. 
Mr A also says that when he discussed the claim with Verlingue it wrongly advised him to 
ask his employee to cover the claim cost. I understand he recalls this being said during a 
telephone call. There isnt a note of that call but Ive reviewed an email sent after it by 
Verlingue which summarises the discussion. That doesnt make any reference to S 
recovering costs from the therapist. It does say that as it doesnt appear cover is in place for 
the claim S should act as a prudent uninsured and appoint its own solicitor to represent it. I 
dont think that was an unreasonable point for Verlingue to make. 
Finally Mr A has raised concerns about delays in providing him with quotes for medical 
malpractice cover going forward and problems with changing Ss address. However, these 
issues appear to have arisen after Verlingue issued its final response on the complaint Im 
considering. I can also see that it has more recently provided Mr A with information which 
explains its current position on this. If Mr A remains unhappy about what Verlingue has done 
in relation to these matters (and thinks that S has been impacted by that) I think thats 
something which should be considered as a part of a separate complaint.My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask S to accept or reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
James Park
Ombudsman