DRN-2532388
The complaint
Mr B complains that rejected his claim under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 in 
respect of a faulty television.
What happened
In May 2018 Mr B bought a television costing £4,499 which carried a five-year guarantee. In 
September 2019 it developed a fault. Mr B contacted the merchant and supplied photos and 
a video of the fault. It said the fault was caused by an external impact. it referred the matter 
to the manufacturer which came to the same conclusion. 
The television was sent to the manufacturer which confirmed its previous diagnosis. Mr B 
says that the men collecting the television didnt take sufficient care and may have caused 
damage. During this time Mr B also contacted the insurer which provided the guarantee only 
to discover his television wasnt covered.  
Mr B made a claim under section 75, but this was rejected. American Express as it didnt 
consider there was evidence to show the television was faulty at the point of sale. It asked 
Mr B to obtain an independent report in support of his claim, but he didnt wish to do so. He 
said that it was possible that any damage found now may have been caused by the 
transporting of the television to the manufacturer. 
Mr Bs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be 
upheld. She established that the guarantee for the television hadnt been registered due to 
an administration error, by the merchant. However, it had agreed to provide the extended 
cover on the same terms as the insurer. The policy did not cover external damage. She 
considered the failure to register the guarantee had no impact on the situation given the 
merchant had agreed to provide the same level of cover.
She said that if Mr B could establish there was a manufacturing fault with the television then 
his claim may be successful. Mr B submitted photographs and disputed the claim that the 
television had suffered impact damage. Our investigator suggested an independent report 
may be the best way to resolve the matter. American Express said it would be happy to 
consider one supplied by Mr B. He said that the television hadnt been returned. He had 
moved to a new house in the interim and courier had refused to return it. He also didnt wish 
to spend more money on the issue.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
There is no dispute that the debtor-creditor-supplier chain is intact so I have to consider if 
there is either a breach of contract or misrepresentation.
I will address the issue of the guarantee. I am satisfied the television was sold with a five-
year extended warranty, but this wasnt registered by the merchant. However, the merchant 
agreed that it would honour the warranty itself and so I dont believe Mr B has suffered any 
loss as a result. 
There is a dispute as to the cause of the damage to the television. It is accepted by all 
parties that the television is broken. Both the merchant and the manufacturer have reached 
the conclusion that it suffered some impact. The former did so by examining photographs 
provided by Mr B. The manufacturer agreed and subsequently it examined the set and 
reached the same conclusion. I take Mr Bs point that both the merchant and the 
manufacturer may have a degree of self interest in their deliberations. However, both have 
reached the same conclusion independently.
I can understand it is difficult to prove a negative i.e. that the television hadnt suffered an 
impact which was the cause of the fault but given Mr B is seeking some £5,000 from 
American Express it is only reasonable that he demonstrate that his claim is sufficiently 
robust.
American Express did suggest he supply an independent report and while I can see why he 
chose not to do so, it does make it difficult to reach the conclusion that it should meet his 
claim. Quite simply I cannot say that American Express was wrong to reject Mr Bs claim 
with the evidence available to it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman