DRN-2565527
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy with Covea Insurance plcs decision not to dispute liability for an 
accident, under their motor insurance policy. In addition to this, Mr and Mrs R have 
explained they experienced delays in the progress of their claim. 
What happened
Covea contacted Mr and Mrs R in October 2018, after it was notified that Mr and Mrs Rs car 
had been involved in an accident with a third-party vehicle. A third party said Mr and Mrs Rs 
car had collided with theirs and caused damage to it. 
Given this, Covea contacted Mr and Mrs R in relation to the matter. They explained to Covea 
that Mrs R had been in a supermarket car park at the time of the incident, and the third party 
had told Mrs R she had hit their car and caused damage to it. Mrs R noted she hadnt felt or 
heard any contact with another vehicle. So, she felt the damage to the third-party car wasnt 
caused by her car. Mrs R said at the time of the incident she did however notice some 
damage to her car as well  but this later appeared to be mud  as it washed away in the 
rain.
Covea appointed an engineer to look at Mr and Mrs Rs car. It completed its report in early 
December 2018, and sent it to Covea. In this report, the engineer said there was some 
damage to the front of Mr and Mrs Rs car and noted what it would cost to get this repaired. 
In addition to receiving the above report, Covea considered a report from the engineer that 
repaired some damage to the third-party car. 
In June 2019, around seven months after the incident was said to have occurred, Covea 
wrote to Mr and Mrs R, and said that the third party was looking to issue court proceedings 
on the matter. Covea said that it hadnt been able to agree who was at fault with the third 
party and based on the information it had, it believed it was liable for the damage to the third-
party car. So, it said it would be bringing the matter to a close, and that Mr and Mrs Rs no 
claims bonus would be affected going forward.
Covea also said it wanted to reassure Mr and Mrs R that it hadnt formally admitted liability 
or fault and therefore its decision to settle the claim didnt stop Mr and Mrs R pursuing legal 
routes. The matter was therefore closed with Covea.
However, in August 2019 Mr and Mrs R wrote to Covea. They said their new insurer had 
contacted them and highlighted that they had a fault claim noted against them, and therefore 
said Mr and Mrs Rs premium would be higher than originally thought. Mr and Mrs R said 
they hadnt been informed the claim was logged as a fault claim, and they disputed that this 
was fair.
Covea considered Mr and Mrs Rs concerns. It said it was satisfied it had made the correct 
decision regarding settling the claim with the third party. But, it did note it could have handled 
the matter more professionally, by keeping Mr and Mrs R more updated than it had.
Because Mr and Mrs R remained unhappy, they referred their complaint to this service for an 
independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and thought Covea should pay Mr and Mrs R £50 
for the fact they werent updated. She said that Covea hadnt let Mr and Mrs R know the 
outcome of the claim until June 2019, when they could have been informed of this sooner. 
Our investigator did however think Covea had acted reasonably in its decision to settle the 
third-party claim. And so, she didnt ask it to do anything more in this respect.
Mr and Mrs R disagreed. They maintained that the way the claim had been recorded was 
unfair. Covea also disagreed with our investigators thoughts. It said provided Mr and Mrs R 
with an update on their claim in June 2019, when it had something to tell them. And it wasnt 
Coveas process to update policyholders until it had a decision on settling the claim.
Because both parties remained unhappy, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part, and require Covea to pay 
Mr and Mrs R compensation of £50. Ive explained the reasoning for my decision below.
Claim liability decision
Its important to note it isnt this services role to decide who is liable for a car accident. That 
is the role of the courts. Instead, this service can consider the actions of the insurer, and 
decide whether it acted fairly and reasonably in choosing to settle the claim, based on the 
information it had.
So, that is what I have considered in this case. Covea was provided with a report by a third-
party engineer, who provided photos of the damage to the third-party car, and evidence 
about what was needed to fix the damage to it. It was also provided with a report by the 
independent engineer it appointed to look at Mr and Mrs Rs car. And, although 
Mr and Mrs R said the engineer told them they were in the clear, the report does note 
damage to the car, and the engineer also provided photos of the damage, to evidence this.
Covea reviewed both of these reports, and on seeing the damage to both cars, as well as 
both parties versions of events, it decided the best thing to do was settle the claim. Given 
that Covea considered the evidence available, including the viewpoint of two engineers and 
saw evidence of the damage, I think it took a reasonable approach to decide on settling the 
claim, and avoid going to court  which would have been more costly. Mr and Mrs Rs policy 
does allow Covea to take over claims reported to it, and therefore make a decision on how to 
deal with it. So, I also think it acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
I understand the engineer that inspected Mr and Mrs R car said Mrs R admitted light 
contact with the third-party vehicle. And this is detailed in the engineers report. 
Mr and Mrs R dispute this was said. And I understand their strength of feeling on this point. 
But, either way, I dont think what happened in this respect changes the outcome of this 
complaint. As above, Im satisfied Covea came to a reasonable decision to settle the third-
party loss, based on the information it did.
This does mean a fault claim would have been logged against Mr and Mrs R in relation to 
the incident. I should explain that despite the terminology, a claim being logged as fault doesnt necessarily mean the person the fault claim is logged against, is to blame for an 
accident. Rather, it means that the insurer has needed to settle a claim and hasnt been able 
to recover the costs it has incurred from elsewhere.
Covea has confirmed it accepted liability on a without prejudice basis  and so if 
Mr and Mrs R want to take the matter to a court they can do. It just chose not to defend the 
claim given the evidence it had. And I dont think this was an unfair approach to take.
Given the above, I dont require Covea to alter its decision in respect of the claim, and 
because noting the claim as a fault one (no costs recovered) is accurate, Im satisfied it 
doesnt need to act to get this information changed either.
Delays in the claim 
Mr and Mrs R have said they didnt know the third parties claim had been accepted, and 
was logged as a fault claim, until August 2019, when their new insurer contacted them about 
the claim. 
Ive carefully considered this point. And, I think Mr and Mrs R were told liability had been 
accepted on the claim in June 2019. The letter sent to Mr and Mrs R in June 2019 did 
explain liability was being accepted. So, I think Mr and Mrs R were aware of the outcome of 
the claim from that point. And that they would need to let a new insurer know of this.
But I do agree with our investigator that there was a delay in updating Mr and Mrs R about 
the claim. I can see Covea did accept it could have provided better updates in its response 
to Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. So, it has acknowledged this at some point too.
And Im aware Covea didnt provide Mr and Mrs R with an update on their claim between 
December 2018 and June 2019 when it sent the above letter. I appreciate Covea has said it 
didnt have anything to update Mr and Mrs R on. And so, it didnt contact them, as per its 
process.
However, Mr and Mrs R were left waiting for around five months to understand what was 
happening with the matter. And it seems to me it would have been reasonable to inform 
Mr and Mrs R of what was happening, and what stage in the process the claim was, before 
June 2019 when it came to a conclusion. 
Putting things right
In light of the above, Im satisfied it would be fair and reasonable for Covea to pay 
Mr and Mrs R £50 compensation. I think this fairly recognises the upset the delay in 
providing updates to them would have caused. 
My final decision
As above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Covea Insurance 
plc to pay Mr and Mrs R £50 compensation. I dont require it to do anything more than this.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman