DRN-2045521
The complaint
Mr E and Mrs G complain, as executors of the estate of the late Mrs E, that The Prudential 
Assurance Company Limited failed to provide Mrs E with sufficient information about the 
annuities she should could purchase when she retired in 1997. In particular they complain 
that Prudential didnt tell Mrs E that she might be able to receive an enhanced annuity from 
another provider due to issues with her health.
What happened
Mrs E was a member of an occupational pension scheme. She made additional voluntary 
contributions (AVCs) to enhance her pension benefits. These AVCs were paid into a scheme 
that was administered by Prudential. The benefits arising from the AVCs needed to be taken 
as the same time as the occupational scheme pension was put into payment.
In 1997 Mrs Es occupational pension scheme told Prudential that it had agreed to her 
retiring early. Prudential doesnt have any records to indicate that it was advised of the 
reason the early retirement had been granted. In October 1997 Prudential sent Mrs E a 
retirement options pack. As part of that pack it explained that she could either take an 
annuity from Prudential, and the value of that annuity, or that she could transfer her pension 
savings to an alternative provider and take an annuity from that firm instead.
Mrs E sadly died in 2019. Around that time Mr E and Mrs G had become aware that the 
regulator had asked Prudential to review some of the annuities it had sold to check whether 
the advice and information it had given to its policyholders was fair. Mr E asked Prudential 
whether Mrs Es pension was included in the review.
Prudential explained that Mrs Es pension was taken in 1997, whereas the review only 
looked at pensions taken since 2008. It also noted that it hadnt provided Mrs E with any 
advice about the pension benefits due to her  it had only provided the information it was 
required to at the time. It also confirmed it hadnt had any telephone contact with Mrs E 
before she took her benefits. So it didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
The complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She thought that what 
Prudential had done at the time the pension was taken was in line with its regulatory 
responsibilities. She noted that Prudential didnt offer enhanced annuities at that time, and 
that there were only a very limited number of providers that did. She didnt therefore think 
that Prudential had done anything wrong.
Mr E and Mrs G didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been 
resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last 
stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint I have taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules 
and good industry practice at the time. I have carefully considered the submissions that have 
been made by Mr E and Mrs G and by Prudential. Where the evidence is unclear, or there 
are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
The events that form the basis for this complaint took place a number of years ago. And 
sadly Mrs E is no longer able to tell us what happened. So, like Mr E and Mrs G, I am largely 
reliant on the paperwork that Prudential has been able to give to us, and my understanding 
of what was expected of businesses at that time.
As our investigator has explained, there were very few businesses at that time that were 
offering enhanced annuities in relation to a consumers medical history or prognosis. 
Prudential wasnt a business that offered enhanced terms in 1997. 
And I havent seen anything that would make me think Prudential was aware that Mrs E had 
suffered from health problems in the past. It was aware that Mrs E had been allowed to retire 
around a year earlier than would normally be permissible under her occupational schemes 
rules. But I dont think it would be reasonable to expect Prudential to conclude that was as a 
result of issues with her health. I dont know why Mrs E was allowed to retire early, and there 
are many reasons, other than ill health, why an employer might offer those terms to an 
employee.
I think that the letter Prudential sent to Mrs E advising her of her retirement options went 
further than the regulations at the time required it to. The letter not only set out the annuity 
that Prudential was willing to offer Mrs E, but it also made her aware that she could use her 
pension savings to buy an annuity from another insurance company. My understanding is 
that Prudential didnt need to include that information in its letters until early in 2002. As part 
of the information Prudential suggested that Mrs E might want to take some independent 
financial advice if she were interest in utilising this option.
I think it is also right to consider that it is far from clear whether Mrs E would have received a 
higher annuity from another provider. She would have needed to give that provider details of 
her health and future prognosis. And then that provider would have made an assessment as 
to the degree her medical condition impaired her life expectancy. I can see from the details 
that weve been given about this complaint Mrs E continued to take her pension for more 
than 20 years after her retirement.
Mr E and Mrs G have said that they think Prudential might have placed undue pressure on 
Mrs E with the time it gave her to respond to its annuity offer. So Ive looked carefully at what 
Prudential sent to Mrs E.
The offer that Prudential was making to Mrs E was based on its estimation of the value of 
her pension savings at a given date. Obviously, in line with the markets, that value could rise 
and fall on a daily basis. So to be fair to both parties Prudential needed to apply a relatively 
tight time limit to Mrs Es acceptance of its offer to limit the fluctuation that Mrs E might see 
when her pension was finally put into payment. And I dont agree with Mr Es suggestion that 
this might have led Mrs E to consider it as something of a take it or leave it offer. I think the 
offer that was made to Mrs E made it clear that should any of the assumptions change 
Prudential could supply a revised quotation. I think that might have suggested to Mrs E that 
Prudential was happy to allow her to take whatever time she needed to make her decision.I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr E and Mrs G. But I cannot conclude 
that Prudential did anything wrong when it sold the annuity to Mrs E in 1997. It follows that 
I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
The Prudential Assurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs G, 
on behalf of the estate of Mrs E, to accept or reject my decision before 4 September 2020.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman