DRN-3812750
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that National Westminster Bank Plc would not allow them to extend
the term of their residential mortgage. They say theyve been discriminated against because
of their age.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K took out a flexible Offset mortgage with NatWest in 2012. They had a
borrowing facility in place for around £600,000, repayable on an interest only basis, over a
term of 10 years. In September 2022 the mortgage term came to an end.
In 2021 Mr and Mrs K asked NatWest to extend the term of the mortgage for five years.
Around this time Mr and Mrs K only had around £869 outstanding on their mortgage. They
wanted the Offset facility extended so they had the option of drawing down further funds in
the future if they chose to, to buy another property.
NatWest declined their request. It explained its policy was to lend only up to age 70. 
Mr and Mrs K would both be 70 when the mortgage term ended.
Mr and Mrs K complained. They were unhappy that NatWest declined their request to
extend the term of the mortgage on the grounds of age. They say that in the absence of any
evidence to support the reason the policy applies, this is a form of age discrimination.
NatWest responded to the complaint. The complaint wasnt upheld, but NatWest did accept
that Mr and Mrs K werent given a proper explanation as to why the age limit policy applies.
NatWest said that in line with its end of term policy it could agree to extend the term until the
age of 80 on capital and interest repayment terms to allow more time for the repayment of
the mortgage. But the ability to borrow money would be removed. So, NatWest did not agree
to extend Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage on the terms they required.
Unhappy with NatWests response Mr and Mrs K brought their complaint to our service. An
investigator looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint. She thought NatWest had
acted reasonably. Mr and Mrs K disagreed. This matter was then passed to me for a 
decision. I issued a provisional decision and an extract of my provisional findings is below.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator explained, its not our role to say whether a business has acted
unlawfully or not  that is a matter for the Courts. Our role is to decide whats fair and
reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. In order to decide that, we need to take a 
number of things into account, including the relevant laws and what we consider to be good 
industry practice at the time. So, although it would be for the Courts to say whether or not 
NatWest breached the Equality Act 2010, Im required to take the Equality Act 2010 into 
account, if its relevant, amongst other things when deciding whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of the complaint.
I understand why, in these circumstances, Mr and Mrs K feel theyve been discriminated 
against due to their age. Theyve been told on several occasions that their mortgage term 
could not be extended beyond 70 due to bank policy. They dont feel NatWest has taken 
their individual circumstances into account, including the fact that they say they have 
sufficient income and assets to repay the mortgage at the end of the required extended term.
Mr and Mrs K quite rightly point out that in line with the Equality Act 2010, any risk
assessment involving age must be based on relevant information from a source its
reasonable to rely on. Mr and Mrs K say theyve asked NatWest for this evidence, but its not 
been provided. I can clarify that such data is likely to be made up of commercially sensitive 
information that would not usually be shared directly with the public. 
If I thought necessary, this is something I would expect NatWest to provide as part of the 
complaint and something Id usually consider, if I felt it was relevant when considering the 
facts of the case. In Mr and Mrs Ks case Im not persuaded it is, for reasons Ill explain. And 
had NatWest handled things better from the outset, this would have likely been made clear 
sooner.
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think NatWest has acted unfairly when declining the term 
extension. Ill explain why.
The starting point here is that when Mr and Mrs K took their mortgage out, they agreed to 
repay the outstanding capital at the end of the term in 2022. Those terms were made clear in 
their mortgage offer. So, its not unreasonable for NatWest to expect the loan to be repaid as 
agreed.
NatWest is under no obligation to automatically agree a term extension in any
circumstances, regardless of the customers age. That said, it must give fair and reasonable 
consideration to a request to extend the term.
When a borrower is unable to repay their interest only mortgage at the end of the term, the 
lender is expected to treat the customer fairly and give fair and reasonable consideration for 
any requests made by the borrower to help them. Some possible options include term 
extensions, converting to a repayment mortgage or allowing overpayments. When an 
arrangement is agreed, the customer would typically not be allowed to borrow further funds. 
Any arrangement would purely be agreed, to allow more time to repay the capital 
outstanding.
But in Mr and Mrs Ks case they had no issue repaying their remaining capital balance of 
around £800. So, the usual considerations NatWest would normally be expected to consider 
for customers experiencing financial difficulty, do not apply here.
What Mr and Mrs K want is essentially a new contract with a new borrowing facility. In these 
circumstances its reasonable for NatWest to require Mr and Mrs K to submit a new 
mortgage application which would be considered in line with its usual lending criteria.
If Mr and Mrs K choose to apply for a new mortgage with NatWest, Id expect it to give that 
application fair consideration. And if the reason for declining that application were to be 
because of Mr and Mrs Ks age, its at that point that Id expect NatWest to be able to 
demonstrate that it based any risk assessment on relevant information from a source on 
which its reasonable to rely on. And even if NatWest didnt carry out a proper risk 
assessment, it may still be able to justify its actions by showing that its a proportionate 
means of achieving a legitimate aim.I understand Mr and Mrs K feel that these are relevant considerations now. But for reasons 
Ive explained, had age not been a factor here, NatWests decision not to extend the term in 
the circumstances would likely be the same, on the basis that the current mortgage could be 
repaid within the intended term. So, I dont find that there has been any detriment in the 
decision outcome.
Whilst that might be the case, I do find that NatWest hasnt entirely handled the situation 
properly and it led Mr and Mrs K to believe the sole reason for declined term extension 
request was due to age. NatWest has accepted that it could have given Mr and Mrs K a 
better explanation from the outset. As a result of this not happening NatWest has left Mr and 
Mrs K feeling that theyve been discriminated against, which understandably has caused 
them a degree of distress. I can also see theyve been inconvenienced by having to make 
several attempts to seek justification from NatWest. In these circumstances I think its fair 
and reasonable that NatWest pay Mr and Mrs K compensation to acknowledge the impact its 
action has had.
I think its reasonable that NatWest pay Mr and Mrs K £300 by way of an apology to
acknowledge the levels of frustration and annoyance caused by not providing a proper 
explanation to them. I dont see it necessary to increase the compensation award above this 
amount, as Mr and Mrs K werent relying on any further borrowing imminently, so NatWests 
actions hasnt caused any lasting detriment in terms of delaying access to funds that Mr and 
Mrs K were presently relying on.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint and direct 
National Westminster Bank Plc to pay Mr and Mrs K £300 compensation for the reasons Ive 
set out above. National Westminster Bank Plc should also allow Mr and Mrs K to apply for a 
new mortgage if they choose to do so, giving fair consideration to the application and provide 
adequate justification for the lending decision reached.
Mr and Mrs K responded to my provision decision. In addition to providing some general 
information about their circumstances, they raised points that warranted further 
consideration. As summarised as below:
Mr and Mrs K said they did ask NatWest for a new mortgage as an alternative to an 
extension of the existing mortgage, but they were told they could not be considered 
for a new mortgage due to their age;
They were relying on additional funds imminently. Around Mid-2022 they tried to 
draw down £600,000 on their existing mortgage, but were told by NatWest that it 
would not allow further borrowing in the final year of the mortgage; and
NatWest does offer domestic mortgages to applicants up to the age of 75 if applied 
for through a broker, which is unfair and makes the decision not to lend to them even 
more discriminatory.
Through further communication with the parties, in response to the points raised by Mr and 
Mrs K, I explained the following:
There are still some uncertainties about how the conversation about a new 
mortgage application went. In the interest of bringing this complaint to a resolution 
soon, I wont be asking NatWest to provide copies of recordings for the calls Mr K 
has referred to. Instead, I take Mr Ks word and will consider all possible scenarios  that being whether Mr and Mrs K were fairly declined both a term extension of their 
existing mortgage and a new mortgage as an alternative
In deciding whether they were treated fairly, I need to take into account what the law 
says about this. 
The relevant section of the Equality Act 2010, as far as age discrimination is 
concerned, came into force in 2012. Before that, discrimination on grounds of age 
was not unlawful. Once the Act came into force, age discrimination was made 
unlawful. This means that service providers cant refuse to provide a service, provide 
it on different terms, or treat customers differently because of age.
However, theres an exception for providers of financial services. In some 
circumstances financial services providers are allowed to make decisions based on 
age.
As part of the relevant decision making, if the financial services provider has relied on 
a risk assessment as part of the process, it can only rely on the exemption if it can 
show that it was carried out using relevant information from reliable sources. In other 
words, the assessment must be done robustly. If it wasnt, the business cant rely on 
the exemption. But even if doesnt, or cant, rely on the exemption, a business will 
only be discriminating if its actions werent a proportionate means of achieving a 
legitimate aim.
If theres no risk assessment, a business can rely on the exemption and make 
decisions based on age.
With that in mind, I asked NatWest to explain to me how its age policy for residential 
mortgage lending came to be set. It has provided evidence that shows that the 
relevant policy was set in 1996. The policy has recently been reviewed in late 2022.
As the relevant policy was set before the Equality Act came into force, the specific 
requirements for carrying out risk assessments didnt apply. And NatWest has said 
that it has no evidence that the policy has been reviewed until 2022  after the 
lending decision complained of. So, taking into account the law, I dont think 
NatWests maximum age policy is unfair.
Nor do I think the application of the policy to Mr and Mrs K was unfair. Mr and Mrs K 
have said that upon enquiry, they were told almost immediately that they werent 
eligible for a new mortgage because their age exceeded the policy limit. Because the 
decision appears to have been made simply because of the policy - this isnt 
inherently unfair. There is no evidence to suggest Mr and Mrs K submitted a full 
mortgage application and as such, I dont think that NatWest carried out a risk 
assessment when responding to their enquiry. So, it can rely on the exemption in the 
Equality Act, and use age as a factor in its decision making  the decision being to 
apply the policy to Mr and Mrs K. And so, I dont think that applying the policy to Mr 
and Mrs K was unfair either.
Whilst I dont find that Mr and Mrs Ks enquiry for a new mortgage in 2021 was 
unfairly declined on the grounds of age, I do think they should have been given better 
information when enquiring about a term extension. I have explained my findings in 
full in relation to this in my provisional decision and why I intend to award £300 
compensation to Mr and Mrs K.Its not uncommon practice or unreasonable for a lender to refuse further borrowing 
the circumstances. Mr and Mrs Ks Offset mortgage terms and conditions state the 
following:
If your Offset Flexible Mortgage is partial capital repayment or interest only, you will 
pay to us the amount necessary to reduce all borrowing on your account with interest 
and charges to zero on or before the end of the term
As Mr and Mrs Ks interest only mortgage term was ending in September 2022, I 
dont think it was unreasonable for NatWest to decline lending in excess of £600,000 
to be repaid in three months.
NatWest responded to my direction that it should fairly consider an application for a 
new mortgage, should Mr and Mrs K choose to submit one. It says it would consider 
a direct mortgage application from Mr and Mrs K on capital and interest repayment 
terms to the age of 75. And it was willing to arrange for a mortgage advisor to contact 
them regarding this. As such I dont find that NatWest is treating them differently to 
introduced customers or acting in a discriminatory way.
Both parties responded. NatWest accepted my provisional findings to date. Mr and Mrs K 
didnt. They felt my rationale was contradictory and they asked for a clear explanation
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also given careful consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my 
decision, including those in response to the provisional decision.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as set out in my provisional findings to 
date and for the same reasons. For clarity I can assure Mr and Mrs K that Ive carefully 
considered the provisions of the Equality Act 2010 when considering the circumstances of 
this case.
Im satisfied Ive given a clear explanation of how the law applies, and why in the 
circumstances of this case, NatWest can rely on the exemption for providers of financial 
services - as set out in the act. 
In some (but not all) circumstances financial services providers are allowed to make 
decisions based on age. For reasons Ive explained, I dont find that Mr and Mrs Ks 
enquiry for a new mortgage in 2021 was unfairly declined on the grounds of age. 
Putting things right
National Westminster Bank Plc ought to pay Mr and Mrs K £300 compensation for the 
reasons Ive set out above. National Westminster Bank Plc should also allow Mr and Mrs K 
to apply for a new mortgage if they choose to do so, giving fair consideration to the 
application and provide adequate justification for the lending decision reached.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct National Westminster Bank Plc to 
put things right as set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman