DRN-3409921
The complaint
Mr M complains that hes lost over £104,000 from his SIPP. He believes that Embark 
Services Limited trading as Hornbuckle (Embark) failed to act in his best interests, didnt fulfil 
its obligations and didnt conduct enough due diligence in respect of his adviser or the 
investments subsequently made. 
What happened
Mr M was advised to transfer his defined benefit Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) to a 
Self-Invested Pension Plan (SIPP) with Embark by Acuma Wealth Management (Acuma). 
The Embark application form was signed by Mr M on 18 March 2008. It confirmed that he 
would be going into income drawdown, taking tax-free cash and pension payments  with 
figures to be confirmed. 
Acuma Wealth Management is listed as the adviser in respect of the SIPP on the form and 
Mr M confirmed that hed received face-to-face advice from it in respect of this transaction. 
No initial or renewal commission was payable to Acuma for its advice. Acuma was also 
appointed as investment manager of the SIPP. 
On 9 March 2009, Acuma wrote to Embark confirming submission of the final paperwork, 
proof of address for Mr M, and asking that it chase the transfer regularly once in process 
because the consumer needed the Tax-Free Cash (TFC) for a property purchase. 
The application form for the Friends Provident International (FPI) bond was processed 
around June 2009. A number of investments were subsequently made via the bond. 
Dealing instructions were made to FPI in August 2011. 
Mr M says that he was low-medium investor, but hes found out that his funds went into high-
risk funds. A number of the funds he invested in collapsed and now have no value, in 
particular: 
LM 24 month
LM 36 month 
Premier New Earth 
Mansions Student Accommodation 
In 2014, Mr M appointed a new adviser (Abacus Financial Consultants, also Dubai based) 
and sought to transfer away from Embark. By that point Embark had decided not to deal with 
international advisers who dont have pension permissions in the UK. 
On 27 May 2014, Mr M signed a transfer request form, to move the pension funds held with 
Embark to a Brooklands SIPP. The reason given for transferring was that he wasnt happy 
with the fees and that Embark refused to deal with offshore IFAs. 
Embarks relationship with Acuma
Embark has provided us with an introducer agreement dated 1 February 2008 between it 
and Acuma. 
The agreement confirmed it wasnt exclusive. Under the agreement Embark was, at its 
absolute discretion, entitled to refuse an introduction for any reason. 
Acuma was obliged, amongst other things, to:
Obtain and maintain all authorisations, licences, permits, registrations and 
notifications that it requires for the purposes of its business. 
Comply fully with all laws, rules, regulations, directions and codes of guidance and 
codes of practice which apply to its business from time to time. 
Notify Embark immediately if it becomes subject to an action or investigation by a 
regulatory body and/or if any necessary authorisation, licence, permit, registration or 
notification is withdrawn, suspended, cancelled or varied or if any circumstances 
arise which may result in such withdrawal, suspension, cancellation or variation. 
Embark also provided a copy of Acumas professional license, which had been issued in 
1999 by the government of Dubais department of economic development. And, its licence 
to Conduct Banking, Financial and Investment Consultations in the United Arab Emirates, 
issued by the central bank of the United Arab Emirates.  
We asked Embark for details of the overall business it received via referrals from Acuma. It 
confirmed that it received 77 introductions over the course of three years. The introductions 
were relatively evenly spread out over the time the relationship continued. The majority of 
the pensions went into overseas bonds provided by a couple of providers, including FPI. 
Background to the complaint
A number of the investments made via Mr Ms SIPP lapsed without value. Mr M says hes 
lost over £104,000 from the value of his pension. Mr M says that he was low-medium 
investor, but hes found out that his funds went into high-risk funds. The investments that lost 
their value were: 
LM 24 month
LM 36 month 
Premier New Earth 
Mansions Student Accommodation 
Mr M complained to Embark in February 2018. On 7 March 2018, Embark issued its final 
response letter, it concluded that his complaint had been brought too late on the basis that it 
had been more than six years since the event complained about and more than three years 
since Mr M ought to have known that he had cause for complaint. Embark first clarified its 
role in the transaction and that it wasnt responsible for the suitability of the SIPP or 
investment decisions made. Then explained that the SIPP was established in March 2009 
and by 2014 there had been a significant shift in the value of the investments, which ought to 
have alerted Mr M to his cause for complaint. 
Embark objected to us considering the complaint on the same basis as set out above. One 
our investigators initially agreed that the complaint had been brought out of time. Mr M 
disagreed and requested that the complaint be escalated on the basis that he wasnt an 
experienced investor and didnt track or understand financial markets. He didnt receive 
regular statements or updates from either the provider or the adviser. He did raise this in 
2014 and received a visit from an adviser and was told about the collapse of the L&M fund, he wasnt offered any advice at the point. The options to sell, switch or manage werent 
things he was aware of as a first-time investor. 
 
One of our investigators reviewed our jurisdiction to consider Mr Ms complaint in light of the 
objection Embark raised. The investigator agreed with Embark and concluded that the 
complaint had been brought too late. Mr M disagreed and the complaint was escalated to 
one of our ombudsmen. The ombudsman found that Mr Ms complaint was one we could 
consider, because the evidence didnt support him reasonably being aware that Embark may 
have failed in its obligations when setting up his SIPP. 
So, the case was passed back to the investigator for investigation. Ultimately, the 
investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In summary, he concluded that: 
Mr M was resident in Dubai and Acuma was a financial advisory firm operating out of 
Dubai, regulated by the Central Bank of the United Arab Emirates.
So, although the pension transfer took place in the UK, there was no requirement for 
Acuma to be authorised to give pension advice by the UK regulator. And, theres no 
reason Embark shouldve found it unusual for a consumer based in Dubai to seek 
advice from an adviser based in Dubai. 
Embark couldnt confirm the due diligence undertaken in respect of Acuma, which 
wasnt unreasonable seeing as its relationship with it had ended more than 10 years 
prior, around 2010. 
The levels of business brought/referred by Acuma over the three years dont appear 
to have been concerning. 
The due diligence checks Embark conducted on another overseas introducer were 
detailed in a published decision we issued (DRN7916209). And, whilst we dont know 
if the same checks were undertaken in respect of Acuma, we havent seen any 
evidence these checks wouldve led Embark to decline to accept introductions from 
it. 
Embark shouldve carried out independent due diligence on all the investments to be 
held in Mr Ms SIPP, it doesnt appear to have done this. Indeed, it maintains that it 
only had to ensure the investments could legitimately be held in the SIPP and were 
not a scam. 
But, in any case, there werent sufficient grounds to believe that carrying out checks 
at the relevant time wouldve revealed reasons to refuse to accept these investments. 
The main investment wrapper was a Friends Provident International bond. FPI is 
generally considered to be a large and reputable investment manager and was (and 
is) a UK authorised business  so there was no reason for Embark to have been 
concerned about accepting the bond structure. 
Embark could also take comfort from the involvement of FPI, in that all of the 
investments held within the bond were permitted by it. 
Limited evidence has been provided in respect of the investments complained about 
but, from what we do know, theres nothing to suggest that there were underlying 
problems with the nature of the investments that wouldve been uncovered at the 
time has Embark made further enquiries. They also werent part of a fraud or a scam.
Mr M disagreed with the investigators findings. He remained of the view that Embark had 
failed to act with due care and diligence in its dealings with him. In particular, in relation to 
the nature of the investments made despite him being a low to medium risk investor. 
I sent Mr M and Embark my provisional decision explaining why I didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. Embark accepted my decision. Mr M disagreed and made further 
comments. Briefly, he said:He made it clear to Acuma that he was a low to moderate risk investor and that he 
wanted an investment that was capital protected. 
The investments made were supposed to be low risk and capital protected.
He didnt know that the adviser received substantial commission for making the 
introduction. 
At no time did Embark or Acuma apply any due diligence in this case. 
He wasnt provided with regular statements by Embark or Acuma, he had to 
proactively ask for updates, so he didnt know how his investments were performing. 
When he raised this, Embark just said it was an administrative error. 
Because Mr M disagreed, the case has been passed back to me for review. Ive carefully 
considered everything Mr Ms said and reconsidered all of the available evidence. Having 
done so, my findings remain as set out in my provisional decisions. Ive largely re-iterated 
these below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, I need to take account 
of relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. This goes wider than the rules and guidance that come under the remit of the FCA. 
Ultimately, Im required to make a decision that I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),
I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Its my role to fairly and reasonably decide if the business has done anything wrong in
respect of the individual circumstances of the complaint made and  if I find that the
business has done something wrong  award compensation for any material loss or distress
and inconvenience suffered by the complainant as a result of this.
The parties to this complaint have provided detailed submissions to support their position 
and Im grateful to them for doing so. Ive considered these submissions in their entirety. 
However, I trust that they wont take the fact that my decision focuses on what I consider to 
be the central issues as a discourtesy. The purpose of this decision is not to address every 
point raised in detail, but to set out my findings and reasons for reaching them.
Relevant considerations
Ive carefully taken account of the relevant considerations to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
At the time Mr Ms application form was accepted by Embark the regulator was the Financial 
Services Authority (FSA). Later, the regulator became the FCA. For ease of reference, 
outwith quotations, Ive referred to the FCA throughout. 
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance. The Principles 
for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 1.1.2G). Principles 2, 3 
and 6 provide:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due 
skill, care and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly.
Ive carefully considered the relevant law and what this says about the application of the 
FCAs Principles. In R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority [2011] 
EWHC 999 (Admin) (BBA) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the 
specific rules are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The 
Specific rules do not supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are 
but specific applications of them to the particular requirement they cover. The general 
notion that the specific rules can exhaust the application of the Principles is 
inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to augment specific 
rules. 
And at paragraph 77 of BBA Ouseley J said:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman 
to reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what 
would be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had 
been produced by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory 
duty without having regard to the sort of high level Principles which find expression in 
the Principles, whoever formulated them. They are of the essence of what is fair and 
reasonable, subject to the argument about their relationship to specific rules.
In R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] 
EWHC 2878) (BBSAL), Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim challenging the 
decision of an ombudsman who had upheld a consumers complaint against it. The 
ombudsman considered the FCA Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time. 
He concluded that it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke to have undertaken due 
diligence in respect of the investment before allowing it into the SIPP wrapper, and that if it 
had done so, it wouldve refused to accept the investment. The ombudsman found Berkeley 
Burke had therefore not complied with its regulatory obligations and had not treated its client 
fairly. 
Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of BBA including paragraph 162 set out above, 
said (at paragraph 104 of BBSAL):
These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA 
correctly submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles is not merely to 
cater for new or unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA shows that they 
are, and indeed were always intended to be, of general application. The aim of the 
Principles-based regulation described by Ouseley J. was precisely not to attempt to 
formulate a code covering all possible circumstances, but instead to impose general 
duties such as those set out in Principles 2 and 6. The BBSAL judgment also considers section 228 of FSMA and the approach an 
ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint. The judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL 
upheld the lawfulness of the approach taken by the ombudsman in that complaint, which Ive 
described above, and included the Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time 
as relevant considerations that were required to be taken into account. 
As outlined above, Ouseley J in the BBA case held that it would be a breach of statutory 
duty if I were to reach a view on a complaint without taking the Principles into account in 
deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. And, Jacobs J 
adopted a similar approach to the application of the Principles in BBSAL. Im therefore 
satisfied that the Principles are a relevant consideration that I must take into account when 
deciding this complaint. 
On 18 May 2020, the High Court handed down its judgment in the case of Adams v Options 
SIPP [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch). Mr Adams subsequently appealed the decision of the High 
Court and, on 1 April 2021, the Court of Appeal handed down its judgment in Adams v 
Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474. Ive taken account of both these 
judgments when making this decision on Mr Ms case. 
I note that the Principles for Businesses didnt form part of Mr Adams pleadings in his initial 
case against Options SIPP. And, HHJ Dight didnt consider the application of the Principles 
to SIPP operators in his judgment. The Court of Appeal also gave no consideration to the 
application of the Principles to SIPP operators. So, neither of the judgments say anything 
about how the Principles apply to an ombudsmans consideration of a complaint. But, to be 
clear, I dont say this means Adams isnt a relevant consideration at all. As noted above, Ive 
taken account of both judgments when making this decision on Mr Ms case.
I acknowledge that COBS 2.1.1R (A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client) overlaps with certain Principles, and that this 
rule was considered by HHJ Dight in the High Court case. Mr Adams pleaded that Options 
SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 2.1.1R, a breach of which, he argued, was 
actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of FSMA (the COBS claim). HHJ Dight rejected this 
claim and found that Options SIPP had complied with the best interests rule on the facts of 
Mr Adams case.
The Court of Appeal rejected Mr Adams appeal against HHJ Dights dismissal of the COBS 
claim on the basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was radically different 
to that found in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr Adams appeal didnt 
so much represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight had dismissed the COBS 
claim, but rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new case.  
I note that in Adams v Options SIPP, HHJ Dight found that the factual context of a case 
would inform the extent of the duty imposed by COBS 2.1.1R. HHJ Dight said at paragraph 
148: 
In my judgment in order to identify the extent of the duty imposed by Rule 2.1.1 one
has to identify the relevant factual context, because it is apparent from the 
submissions of each of the parties that the context has an impact on the 
ascertainment of the extent of the duty. The key fact, perhaps composite fact, in the 
context is the agreement into which the parties entered, which defined their roles and 
functions in the transaction.
I note that there are significant differences between the breaches of COBS 2.1.1R alleged by 
Mr Adams and the issues in Mr Ms complaint. The breaches were summarised in paragraph 120 of the Court of Appeal judgment. In particular, as HHJ Dight noted, he wasnt asked to 
consider the question of due diligence before Options SIPP agreed to accept the store pods 
investment into its SIPP. The facts of the case were also different. And I need to construe 
the duties Embark owed to Mr M under COBS 2.1.1R in light of the specific facts of Mr Ms 
case. 
So, Ive considered COBS 2.1.1R  alongside the remainder of the relevant considerations, 
and within the factual context of Mr Ms case, including Embarks role in the transaction.  
However, I think its important to emphasise that I must determine this complaint by 
reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
And, in doing that, as above, Im required to take into account relevant considerations which 
include: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. This is a clear and relevant point of difference between this complaint and the 
judgments in Adams v Options SIPP. That was a legal claim which was defined by the 
formal pleadings in Mr Adams statement of case.  
I also want to emphasise here that I dont say that Embark was under any obligation to 
advise Mr M on the SIPP and/or the underlying investments. 
Overall, I am satisfied that COBS 2.1.1R is a relevant consideration  but that it needs to be 
considered alongside the remainder of the relevant considerations, and within the factual 
context of Mr Ms case.
The regulatory publications
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) has issued a number of publications which remind 
SIPP operators of their obligations and which set out how they might achieve the outcomes 
envisaged by the Principles, namely:
The 2009 and 2012 thematic review reports.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
The 2009 Thematic Review Report
The 2009 report included the following statement:
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, 
are bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due 
regard to the interests of its clients and treat them fairly) insofar as they are obliged 
to ensure the fair treatment of their customers. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a member 
of a pension scheme is a client for COBS purposes, and Customer in terms of 
Principle 6 includes clients.
It is the responsibility of SIPP operators to continuously analyse the individual risks to 
themselves and their clients, with reference to the six TCF consumer outcomes.

We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP 
advice given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP operators cannot absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would expect 
them to have procedures and controls, and to be gathering and analysing 
management information, enabling them to identify possible instances of financial 
crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable SIPPs. Such instances could then 
be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by contacting the members to 
confirm the position, or by contacting the firm giving advice and asking for 
clarification. Moreover, while they are not responsible for the advice, there is a 
reputational risk to SIPP operators that facilitate SIPPs that are unsuitable or 
detrimental to clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and 
inadequate to the extent that they had not identified obvious potential instances of 
poor advice and/or potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and 
circumstances of individual cases, we may take enforcement action against SIPP 
operators who do not safeguard their customers interests in this respect, with 
reference to Principle 3 of the Principles for Business (a firm must take reasonable 
care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems).
The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken 
from examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions we have made to 
firms:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that advise 
clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice they are providing to the firms clients, and that 
they do not appear on the FSA website listing warning notices.
Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, and clarifying 
respective responsibilities, with intermediaries introducing SIPP business.
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP 
investment) and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that give 
advice and introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable SIPPs can 
be identified.
Being able to identify anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large 
transactions or more esoteric investments such as unquoted shares, together 
with the intermediary that introduced the business. This would enable the firm to 
seek appropriate clarification, e.g. from the client or their adviser, if it is 
concerned about the suitability of what was recommended.
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by the intermediary 
giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible for advice, having this 
information would enhance the firms understanding of its clients, making the 
facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed 
disclaimers taking responsibility for their investment decisions, and gathering and 
analysing data regarding the aggregate volume of such business.
Identifying instances of clients waiving their cancellation rights, and the reasons 
for this.The later publications 
In the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance, the FCA states:
This guide, originally published in September 2009, has been updated to give firms 
further guidance to help meet the regulatory requirements. These are not new or 
amended requirements, but a reminder of regulatory responsibilities that became a 
requirement in April 2007.
All firms, regardless of whether they do or do not provide advice must meet Principle 
6 and treat customers fairly. COBS 3.2.3(2) is clear that a member of a pension 
scheme is a client for SIPP operators and so is a customer under Principle 6. It is a 
SIPP operators responsibility to assess its business with reference to our six TCF 
consumer outcomes.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance also set out the following:
Relationships between firms that advise and introduce prospective members 
and SIPP operators 
Examples of good practice we observed during our work with SIPP operators include 
the following: 
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that: introducers that 
advise clients are authorised and regulated by the FCA; that they have the 
appropriate permissions to give the advice they are providing; neither the firm, 
nor its approved persons are on the list of prohibited individuals or cancelled 
firms and have a clear disciplinary history; and that the firm does not appear 
on the FCA website listings for un-authorised business warnings. 
Having terms of business agreements that govern relationships and clarify the 
responsibilities of those introducers providing SIPP business to a firm. 
Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of 
the firm, what their business objectives are, the types of clients they deal with, 
the levels of business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types of 
investments they recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. 
Being satisfied that they are appropriate to deal with. 
Being able to identify irregular investments, often indicated by unusually small 
or large transactions; or higher risk investments such as unquoted shares 
which may be illiquid. This would enable the firm to seek appropriate 
clarification, for example from the prospective member or their adviser, if it 
has any concerns. 
Identifying instances when prospective members waive their cancellation 
rights and the reasons for this. 
Although the members advisers are responsible for the SIPP investment advice 
given, as a SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility for the quality of the SIPP 
business it administers. Examples of good practice we have identified include: conducting independent verification checks on members to ensure the information 
they are being supplied with, or that they are providing the firm with, is authentic and 
meets the firms procedures and are not being used to launder money 
having clear terms of business agreements in place which govern relationships and 
clarify responsibilities for relationships with other professional bodies such as 
solicitors and accountants, and 
using non-regulated introducer checklists which demonstrate the SIPP operators 
have considered the additional risks involved in accepting business from non-
regulated introducers.
In relation to due diligence the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance said:
Due diligence 
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses requires all firms to conduct their 
business with due skill, care and diligence. All firms should ensure that they conduct 
and retain appropriate and sufficient due diligence (for example, checking and 
monitoring introducers as well as assessing that investments are appropriate for 
personal pension schemes) to help them justify their business decisions. In doing this 
SIPP operators should consider: 
ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted by HMRC, 
or where a tax charge is incurred, that charge is identifiable, HMRC is informed 
and the tax charge paid 
periodically reviewing the due diligence the firm undertakes in respect of the 
introducers that use their scheme and, where appropriate enhancing the 
processes that are in place in order to identify and mitigate any risks to the 
members and the scheme 
having checks which may include, but are not limited to: 
oensuring that introducers have the appropriate permissions, qualifications 
and skills to introduce different types of business to the firm, and 
oundertaking additional checks such as viewing Companies House 
records, identifying connected parties and visiting introducers 
ensuring all third-party due diligence that the firm uses or relies on has been 
independently produced and verified 
good practices we have identified in firms include having a set of benchmarks, or 
minimum standards, with the purpose of setting the minimum standard the firm is 
prepared to accept to either deal with introducers or accept investments, and 
ensuring these benchmarks clearly identify those instances that would lead a firm 
to decline the proposed business, or to undertake further investigations such as 
instances of potential pension liberation, investments that may breach HMRC tax-
relievable investments and non-standard investments that have not been 
approved by the firm
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter provides a further reminder that the Principles apply and an 
indication of the FCAs expectations about the kinds of practical steps a SIPP operator might 
reasonably take to achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles.The Dear CEO letter also sets out how a SIPP operator might meet its obligations in 
relation to investment due diligence. It says those obligations could be met by:
correctly establishing and understanding the nature of an investment
ensuring that an investment is genuine and not a scam, or linked to fraudulent 
activity, money-laundering or pensions liberation
ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is 
through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are correctly 
drawn-up and legally enforceable)
ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at point of purchase 
and subsequently, and
ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous investors have 
received income if expected, or that any investment providers are credit worthy etc.)
Although Ive referred to selected parts of the publications, to illustrate their relevance, Ive 
considered them in their entirety. 
I acknowledge that the 2009 and 2012 reports and the Dear CEO letter arent formal 
guidance (whereas the 2013 finalised guidance is). However, the fact that the reports and 
Dear CEO letter didnt constitute formal guidance doesnt mean their importance should be 
underestimated. They provide a reminder that the Principles for Businesses apply and are 
an indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure its treating its 
customers fairly and produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that respect, the 
publications which set out the regulators expectations of what SIPP operators should be 
doing also go some way to indicate what I consider amounts to good industry practice, and 
Im, therefore, satisfied its appropriate to take them into account.
Its relevant that when deciding what amounted to good industry practice in the BBSAL case, 
the ombudsman found that the regulators reports, guidance and letter go a long way to 
clarify what should be regarded as good practice and what should not. And the judge in 
BBSAL endorsed the lawfulness of the approach taken by the ombudsman. 
Like the ombudsman in the BBSAL case, I dont think the fact that some of the publications 
post-date the events that took place in relation to Mr Ms complaint, mean that the examples 
of good practice they provide werent good practice at the time of the relevant events. 
Although the later publications were published after the events subject to this complaint, the 
Principles that underpin them existed throughout, as did the obligation to act in accordance 
with the Principles. 
Its also clear from the text of the 2009 and 2012 reports (and the Dear CEO letter in 2014) 
that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have incorporated the recommended good 
practices into the conduct of their business already. So, whilst the regulators comments 
suggest some industry participants understanding of how the good practice standards 
shaped what was expected of SIPP operators changed over time, its clear the standards 
themselves hadnt changed.
That doesnt mean that in considering whats fair and reasonable, Ill only consider Embarks 
actions with these documents in mind. The reports, Dear CEO letter and guidance gave non-
exhaustive examples of good practice. They didnt say the suggestions given were the limit of what a SIPP operator should do. As the annex to the Dear CEO letter notes, what should 
be done to meet regulatory obligations will depend on the circumstances. 
In determining this complaint, I need to consider whether, in accepting Mr Ms SIPP 
application and subsequent investment instructions from Acuma, Embark complied with its 
regulatory obligations to act with due skill, care and diligence, to take reasonable care to 
organise its business affairs responsibly and effectively, to pay due regard to the interests of 
its customers, to treat them fairly, and to act honestly, fairly and professionally. And, in doing 
that, Im looking to the Principles and the publications listed above to provide an indication of 
what Embark couldve done to comply with its regulatory obligations and duties.
In this case, the business Embark was conducting was its operation of SIPPs. Im satisfied 
that meeting its regulatory obligations when conducting this business would include deciding 
whether to accept or reject particular investments and/or referrals of business. The 
regulators reports and guidance provided some examples of good practice observed by the 
FSA and, later, FCA during its work with SIPP operators. This included confirming, both 
initially and on an ongoing basis, that introducers that advise clients have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice theyre providing and undertaking sufficient due diligence on 
any investments it was accepting into the SIPP.
Did Embark act fairly and reasonably by accepting Mr Ms introduction by Acuma?
Mr Ms business was introduced to Embark by Acuma in 2008 and the subsequent 
investments, which are the subject of Mr Ms complaint, were made over the next few years. 
Over the relevant period in time, there was nothing to prohibit Embark from accepting 
business from advisers outside of the UK. So, subject to it undertaking sufficient due 
diligence in respect of any advisers it accepted business from, it was at its commercial 
discretion whether or not to accept such business. 
Embark doesnt now have details of the due diligence it undertook in relation to Acuma. I 
think this is understandable given the amount of time thats lapsed since their relationship 
with it ended. So, I dont have evidence that it did undertake due diligence in line with its 
responsibilities. 
Its clear that it did undertake some due diligence; for example, it obtained copies of Acumas 
licences provided by the relevant authorities in the country it was operating, as described in 
the background to this complaint. So, I think Embark did take some steps to assure itself that 
Acuma had the requisite permissions in the country the advice was being given. 
Embark had an agreement in place with Acuma, which is one of the examples the FCA has 
listed as good practice. 
I asked Embark for details of the overall business it accepted from Acuma to see if there was 
anything about the volume or nature of that business that ought to have been concerning to 
Embark. During the course of the three years, Acuma made 77 introductions to Embark and 
these introductions were spread relatively evenly throughout that time period. Ive also not 
seen anything that ought to have been a red flag, so to speak, in terms of the nature of the 
business it introduced to Embark. 
In some instances, the involvement of an overseas adviser may be viewed as unusual. 
However, in this instance the client was based in the same country. So, I dont think Mr M 
seeking advice from an adviser in that country was concerning in and of itself. 
Overall, Im not persuaded that it was unfair or unreasonable for Embark to accept Mr Ms 
referral from Acuma. Did Embark treat Mr M fairly by facilitating the SIPP investments? 
Embark has said that its due diligence duty in respect of the investments made by Mr M was 
limited to ensuring that they could legitimately be held in the SIPP and not a scam  and so it 
focused on these issues. But that is only partially in line with the regulations and what I think 
was good industry practice at the time. As Ive made clear above, SIPP operators have a 
responsibility for the quality of the SIPP business that they administer. SIPP operators 
should undertake enquiries about the nature or quality of an investment proposed before 
determining whether to accept or decline it into its SIPP. 
Theres no evidence that Embark made any independent enquiries of any of the investments 
made by Mr M in the SIPP. But, despite this, I dont think in the circumstances of this 
complaint, it would be fair and reasonable for me to conclude that it treated Mr M unfairly 
and facilitated investments that it otherwise shouldnt have done. 
The main investment wrapper was a bond with FPI. As Ive said above, FPI is considered a 
large and reputable investment manager. It was a UK regulated business at the time of the 
transfer of Mr Ms pension to Embark, set up of the bond and subsequent investments. So, I 
dont think there was any reason for Embark to have been concerned about accepting the 
bond structure that Mr M was using.
Similarly, I think Embark could take comfort from the involvement of FPI in the investment 
management process. All the investments held within the bond had to be ones which were 
permitted by FPI. 
Mr M is unhappy about the investments in LM, International Mansion Student 
Accommodation and Premier New Earth. He says these were high risk UCIS funds and his 
investments in them shouldnt have been facilitated by Embark, particularly in light of his 
investment experience and attitude to risk. 
Whilst the FCA did indeed prohibit the promotion of UCIS for retail investors  the ban came 
into effect on 1 January 2014. The investments that Mr M complains about all took place 
before this time.
And, in any event, its important to make a distinction between the promotion/advice in 
respect of investments such as UCIS and Embarks role in this transaction. Embark didnt 
promote or advise Mr M about any of the investments in the bond and its role wasnt to 
ensure that the investments were suitable for him or in line with his objectives/attitude to risk 
or experience.
Nevertheless, as Ive said above, Embark ought to have carried out due diligence on all the 
proposed investments.
I havent been presented with a lot of evidence about these investments. Ive reviewed all of 
the information that Ive been able to obtain and  taking everything into account  Ive not 
seen enough to conclude that Embark shouldnt have accepted any of the investments Mr M 
made at the time he made them. Each of these investments ran into trouble but I cant 
consider whether or not Embark ought to have accepted the investments in question with the 
benefit of hindsight. I can only consider what information wouldve been available to Embark 
at the time had it conducted sufficient due diligence. 
For example, it appears Mansion Student Accommodation ran into problems in 2013 
because of liquidity and market conditions, in particular, it not being able to meet redemption 
requests. Premier New Earths business plan and expansion didnt go to plan for a number of reasons, including issues with some of their plants. The LM investments were the subject 
of regulatory action sometime after Mr Ms investment. However, theres no evidence to 
suggest that there were underlying problems with the nature of the investments and how 
they were being run that Embark wouldve uncovered with further enquiries at the time Mr M 
invested. 
So, although Mr Ms fund included some higher risk investments, Im not persuaded that any 
due diligence conducted by Embark wouldve given it cause to decline to accept them into 
his SIPP at the relevant times.
Mr Ms complaint and submissions in response to my provisional decision  and reasons for 
thinking it should be upheld  focus, in part, on the fact that Embark shouldnt have accepted 
high risk investments into his pension on the basis that he was an inexperienced investor, a 
retail client and didnt have the appetite for risk for making such investments. I understand 
Mr Ms concerns, but it was the responsibility of the party giving advice to assess the 
suitability of the investments not Embark. 
Ive taken into account what Mr Ms said about issues with receiving statements from 
Embark but this doesnt impact my findings in relation to the above. 
I hope Mr M understands that the outcome Ive reached in this case isnt a reflection of my 
view of the seriousness of whats happened in respect of his pension. Its clear Mr Ms lost a 
substantial portion of his pension and this will have no doubt been a source of significant 
distress and have impacted on his retirement plans  but, Ive not seen enough to conclude 
that this loss was as a result of a failing on Embarks part. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Nicola Curnow
Ombudsman