DRN-4421768
The complaint
Mr G complains FirstRand Bank Limited trading as Motonovo Finance (Motonovo) 
irresponsibly entered into a hire purchase agreement because he feels it didnt carry out 
reasonable or proportionate checks to ensure the agreement was affordable.
 
What happened
Mr G entered into a hire purchase agreement with Motonovo in April 2018 for a used car. 
The cash price of the car was £17,298 and Mr G paid a deposit of £750. The total amount 
payable was £21,827.20. Mr G was to pay 59 monthly repayments of £349.22 and 1 monthly 
repayment of £473.22. There was also an option to purchase fee of £10. 
Mr G complained to Motonovo on 6 October 2021. He said it should have been clear he 
wouldnt be able to afford the agreement. He said this adversely affected his ability to pay 
other credit which meant he fell into severe financial difficulties. 
Motonovo responded to the complaint in November 2021. In its final response to Mr G, it 
said the checks it carried out at the point of sale demonstrated affordability of the agreement. 
It also asked Mr G to provide bank statements and credit file information to consider Mr Gs 
financial position at the time of the agreement. It felt this information showed Mr G had 
sufficient disposable income at the time. 
Mr G, unhappy with Motonovos response, contacted our service and asked us to 
investigate. Motonovo consented to our service considering this complaint. Our Investigator 
issued a view explaining that Motonovos checks had not been proportionate and it should 
have done more to understand Mr Gs specific financial circumstances at the time including 
his expenditure. Our Investigator said that had proportionate checks been carried out they 
would have shown the agreement was not affordable for Mr G. 
In order to put things right, our Investigator said Motonovo should collect the car and end the 
agreement and return Mr Gs deposit plus 8% simple interest. Additionally, our Investigator 
felt £12,800 would be a reasonable amount to recognise the use Mr G had of the car. So, he 
asked Motonovo to deduct the amount Mr G had already paid from the fair usage and 
arrange an affordable repayment plan for the arrears. 
Motonovo raised some queries about how our Investigator had calculated Mr Gs disposable 
income and it was provided with further information about Mr Gs expenses. Following this, it 
confirmed it accepted our Investigators view and offered to settle the agreement without 
anything further to pay providing Mr G returned the car and it could keep the money Mr G 
had already paid under the agreement (including the deposit). 
Mr G agreed something had gone wrong but didnt accept our Investigators 
recommendation on how things should be put right. He was concerned he would still owe 
Motonovo as a result of the fair usage amount. The offer from Motonovo was also put to him 
but he didnt accept it. 
In summary, Mr G strongly felt he should be able to keep the car and said:
He made a big effort to keep up with the payments for 20 months including a care 
protection plan he had also been sold. He felt considerable pressure because of the 
repayments and feels he would not be in financial difficulties now were it not for the 
agreement. He now has three County Court Judgments (CCJ) that he cant afford to 
pay and two of them with an arrangement to pay of £1 per month.
He felt Motonovo took too long to end the agreement when he told them of his 
financial difficulties and only offered a brief deferment period. 
He feels as a result of the distress caused to him, he should be able to keep the car. 
He also outlined his personal circumstances to demonstrate how much he needs it. 
Therefore, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Motonovo and Mr G have accepted the Investigators view that the checks werent 
proportionate or reasonable and had such checks been carried out its likely they would have 
shown the agreement wasnt affordable. As both parties are in agreement, I wont go into 
detail about the reasons for my conclusions as they are broadly in line with our 
Investigators. This will allow me to focus on what is still in dispute - how things should be put 
right. 
In summary and having reviewed the file, I would agree the evidence doesnt show 
proportionate and reasonable checks were carried out and more should have been done to 
verify and understand Mr Gs specific income and expenditure at the time of the agreement. 
This is with the term of the agreement and monthly repayments in mind. 
Moreover, Ive considered the evidence I have about Mr Gs income and committed 
expenditure and agree it seems he didnt have sufficient disposable income to sustainably 
repay the agreement. Therefore, had reasonable and proportionate checks been carried out 
at the time, its likely to have shown the agreement wasnt affordable for Mr G. 
Putting things right
Our Investigator set out in their view how Motonovo should put things right. Im satisfied this 
is in line with our usual approach. The fair usage figure reflected Mr Gs overall use of the 
car, the costs he would have had to stay mobile without the car and the amount of interest 
charged on the agreement. Our Investigator felt £12,800 would be appropriate in this 
circumstance. Motonovo were asked to deduct the repayments from the fair usage which 
would leave Mr G owing further money to Motonovo. 
Since our Investigators view, there has been correspondence with both parties about the 
resolution of this complaint. Motonovo have confirmed it would be willing to resolve the 
complaint on the following basis: 
Mr G returns the vehicle and Motonovo retains the money already paid which totals 
£8,646.34. This sum includes the repayments made by Mr G and the deposit (£750).
The agreement would then be settled with nothing further to pay; and
Motonovo would then remove adverse credit information relating to the agreement from Mr Gs credit file. 
Both parties have had the opportunity to comment on this. However, Mr G felt he should be 
able to keep the vehicle. He also outlined his current circumstances. I want to assure him 
Ive carefully considered these. I wont repeat the circumstances in detail here as they are 
personal to him. He has also explained the long-term effects making repayments under the 
plan has caused him and the distress hes experienced. This included the impact of 
Motonovo not ending the agreement sooner.
 
I want to explain that I do appreciate the impact this has had on him, but it doesnt lead me 
to conclude it would be right for Mr G to keep the vehicle. I say this because the initial cash 
price of the car was £17,298. Mr G could not afford the repayments under the agreement 
and has only paid £8,646.34 (including the deposit) which is significantly less than the cash 
price of the vehicle. Im also satisfied that the car was not affordable, and it would not be fair 
to allow him to keep a car that he could not afford. I can also see from the information 
provided about the mileage that Mr G has made significant use of the car and over the 
average yearly mileage expected. In these circumstances, it wouldnt be fair to say Mr G 
should be allowed to keep the car.   
Id also note the Investigator felt the deposit should be returned to Mr G and again this is in 
line with our usual approach. However, Im mindful the Investigators recommendation also 
asked Mr G to contribute towards fair usage. In light of this, I think Motonovos offer which 
includes retaining the deposit is fair in the circumstances. This is because of Mr Gs overall 
usage of the vehicle, the amount hes paid towards the agreement and because Motonovo 
are willing to resolve things with nothing further to pay providing it can collect the car.  
Whilst I appreciate the distress caused to Mr G and the worry regarding the repayments, Im 
satisfied Motonovos offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
Therefore, FirstRand Bank Limited trading as Motonovo Finance should put things right in 
the following way: 
Motonovo collects the vehicle at no cost to Mr G, and retains the money already paid 
which totals £8,646.34. This sum includes the repayments made by Mr G and the 
deposit (£750).  
The agreement would then be settled with nothing further to pay; and
Motonovo would remove adverse credit information relating to the agreement from 
Mr Gs credit file. 
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint and FirstRand Bank Limited trading as Motonovo Finance 
should put things right in the way outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman