DRN-2919505
The complaint
Mr L has complained about the valuation of his buy-to-let (BTL) property which is mortgaged 
to Castle Trust Capital Plc (CTC). Mr L is unhappy at the discrepancy between two 
valuations - one carried out in 2017 and another carried out in 2019.
To settle the complaint, Mr L would like to be released from his loan agreement with CTC.
What happened
In April 2017 Mr L took out a BTL loan with CTC, secured on a one-bedroomed flat located 
over commercial premises on a main A-road. A valuation carried out for CTC by an 
independent surveyor valued the property at £360,000. CTC considered the property to be 
adequate security for the loan of £109,000 which Mr L had applied for. 
The loan was repayable at the end of April 2019. It has not been repaid and CTC has 
extended the repayment date pending the conclusion of this complaint.
In 2019 Mr L wanted to refinance his loan with CTC. A valuation was carried out by an 
independent surveyor on behalf of CTC. This time the valuation was substantially lower at 
£225,000  although the surveyor also commented that he didnt think the property provided 
acceptable security to meet CTCs criteria. As a result, CTC declined to offer any further 
facility to Mr L and asked him to repay his borrowing. 
Mr L disputed CTCs valuation and complained. He said that either the 2017 or the 2019 
valuations were inaccurate, given the discrepancy in the figures. The firm which had carried 
out the 2019 valuation re-inspected the property (using a different surveyor), but wasnt 
minded to change its opinion that the market value was £225,000.
Mr L complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service where an investigator looked at what 
had happened, but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. The investigator explained 
that all CTC was required to do was to ensure that it appointed a suitably-qualified 
professional to carry out the valuations. She was satisfied that the surveyors were all 
Members of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) and, as such, CTC was 
entitled to rely on their professional opinions. 
Mr L disagreed. He provided his own reports which Mr L says support his contention that the 
property had been under-valued by CTCs surveyors. Mr L also queried who decided 
whether or not a loan was fit for purpose. He wanted to know what the actual procedures 
were required to approve a loan. 
Because the matter hasnt been resolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr L believes CTC has treated him unfairly. His very detailed submissions 
highlight all the issues hes unhappy about. But this complaint is simpler than its been 
presented: the issue is about the exercise by CTC of its commercial judgment when deciding 
whether or not to offer a loan facility to Mr L. 
Where a complaint is about the exercise by a lender of its commercial judgment my role is to 
decide whether that judgement has been exercised fairly and reasonably; it isnt to substitute 
my own judgement for that of CTC. In other words, I have to decide if CTC took into account 
all relevant factors and gave proper consideration to them before reaching its decision. It is 
only if I thought no lender could reasonably have made the decisions CTC made in this case 
that there would be any basis for intervention on my part.
I will begin by explaining that, as a BTL borrower, Mr L cannot place any reliance on CTCs 
valuations of the property. This is the legal position, endorsed by the Court of Appeal in the 
case of Scullion v Bank of Scotland plc (t/a Colleys) [2011] EWCA Civ 693. The valuations 
are carried out for CTCs purposes only and no duty of care is owed to Mr L in relation to the 
content of the valuations.
CTCs only duty is to ensure that a valuation is carried out by a suitably-qualified person. 
Because the surveyors in this case are all RICS-qualified, Im satisfied that CTC has fulfilled 
its duty in appointing properly-qualified persons to value the property.
The surveyors arent covered by the Financial Ombudsman Service, and so I cant comment 
on whether or not their reports are accurate or note. But I can look at whether or not it was 
reasonable for CTC to rely on the surveyors opinions, particularly after Mr L challenged the 
2019 valuation.
Ive looked at the two valuation reports from 2017 and 2019, the reinspection report in 2019, 
the surveyors comments to CTC, and the two reports provided by Mr L from May 2021. 
The 2017 valuation report said there was a reasonable demand for this type of property. The 
2019 valuation report noted that there was inadequate demand for this type of property from 
either investors or owner-occupiers. As a result, it didnt meet CTCs criteria for acceptable 
security, according to the surveyor, but as hed been asked to provide a market value, he did 
so, saying the property was worth £225,000.
The 2019 reinspection expanded on the 2019 valuation and explained that there had been a 
downturn in demand for this type of property in the last two years. The surveyors also 
commented, separately in an email to CTC, that there had been a crude attempt to divide 
the living room in an attempt to create a second bedroom in this one-bedroomed flat, but that 
there were exposed timbers and missing plasterboard. The surveyors also commented on 
the poor decorative state of the property. As a result, the surveyors were satisfied that the 
figure of £225,000 was an accurate reflection of the propertys value.
Ive taken note of the two reports provided by Mr L from May 2021. These are desktop 
valuations only, giving two valuations of £254,000 and £290,000. Because the surveyor 
wasnt able to inspect the property, I attach limited weight to his valuations. 
Im satisfied that, when challenged by CTC on the 2019 valuation, its independent surveyors 
were able to justify their position. In the circumstances, Im satisfied that CTC was entitled to 
rely on the surveyors professional opinions when declining to offer further facilities to Mr L.
Mr L has also queried CTCs procedures to approve a loan. CTC is entitled to set its own lending criteria. Decisions that CTC makes in respect of what 
those criteria are, its attitude to risk involved in this particular lending assessment, and 
whether it should lend and if so, on what terms are clearly discretionary matters for CTCs 
own commercial judgement that I would not interfere with. Additionally in deciding whether to 
lend to Mr L, CTC is entitled to take account of its own interests when making such 
decisions. It is not obliged to take account only of the interests of the borrower.
As part of its lending decision, CTC is entitled to decide what property it considers adequate 
security for a commercial loan of this type, taking into account such things as the property 
type, location, demand and rental market. Those criteria can change as market conditions 
change. This is a matter for CTCs own judgment and appetite for commercial risk. 
I appreciate it is disappointing for Mr L that CTC hasnt been able to offer him further 
funding. However, after careful consideration of everything the parties have said, Im 
satisfied CTC reached its decision fairly and reasonably. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman