DRN-3031106
complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 
2002. Mrs T says the PPI was mis-sold. AXA France IARD (AXA) accepts responsibility for 
the sale so, to keep things simple, Ill refer below to AXA rather than to any other business. 
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which include Mrs Ts 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here. As 
well as at least six months full sick pay, Mrs T had an insurance policy, attached to her 
mortgage, that wouldve provided some accident, sickness and redundancy benefits. She 
was also entitled to redundancy pay and has told us she had at least eight years service. 
Shes told us she was earning £18,000 at the time.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mrs Ts representatives disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or additional points but repeated complaint 
points and arguments theyd previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ts. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Ts complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
Mrs T says the PPI was just included with her card. But her card application form had a 
separate section for the PPI, with a space for her to sign if she wanted the cover. Mrs T 
signed this space, separately from signing for the card itself, and nothing on the form 
said she had to take PPI or had to sign the space for it if she didnt want it. I think it likely 
she wouldve known she shouldnt sign the space for the cover if she didnt want it. 
Taking everything into account, I think it more likely AXA made it clear Mrs T didnt have 
to take the PPI and she chose to take it. 
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs T - so it didnt have to check the PPI was right or 
suitable for her. But it did have to give her enough clear and timely information so she 
could decide for herself if it was right for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found she chose to take it, and I dont think she wouldve taken 
it without at least a broad understanding of what it covered - so it looks to me like she 
wanted this type of cover. It wasnt fundamentally wrong for her. For example, she wasnt 
affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover, like exclusions related to 
pre-existing health issues or temporary employment - Mrs T was in good health and 
nothing about her job or employment wouldve made it hard for her to claim. Also, taking 
into account all I have about her pay, benefits and other cover, on balance I think it likely 
the policy benefit couldve still been useful to her despite her existing cover.
So it seems to me that the PPI wouldve been useful to Mrs T if something went wrong in 
the circumstances it covered. Also, although it didnt tell the whole story, the application 
form said cover cost 1p for every pound on you monthly balance  so I think Mrs T was 
likely given an idea of the approximate cost when she took the policy. 
Overall, I dont think the cover was too dissimilar to what its likely Mrs T thought she was 
buying from the information its likely she was given  and, with this and all Ive said 
above in mind, I dont think she wouldve declined the cover had AXA done more.
While the policy contained limitations or exclusions on claims relating to back and mental 
health conditions, in light of Mrs Ts circumstances at the time of sale, and despite its 
limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong for her  and I think 
she wouldve still thought she had some good reasons to take it..
Overall, I consider Mrs T wouldve still taken the PPI. It was sufficiently close to what its 
likely she thought she was getting and, given her circumstances, I think it couldve provided 
a useful benefit at what couldve been a difficult time if shed lost her job or become too sick 
to work. And, in those circumstances, I think she wouldve taken the policy in any event.
Mrs Ts representatives have raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which they say apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service isnt correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; that these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and that the duty of utmost good faith meant AXA should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact on the chances of 
making a claim.
Mrs Ts representatives havent said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Ts individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Ts particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint. 
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. This means AXA doesnt 
have to do anything to put things right.
my final decisionOverall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs T to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 December 2021. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman