DRN-2846857
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain, through a representative, about their income protection and savings 
policy they have which is administered by Cirencester Friendly Society Limited (CFS).
What happened
In 1987, Mr and Mrs C received advice from an independent financial advisor (IFA) to take 
out a CFS Membership each which provided them with income protection and tax-free 
savings. The policy they each took provides them with an income of £60 per week and had a 
premium of £16 per month for Mr C and £17 per month for Mrs C. The premiums bought 100 
shares each and this provided for the level of income protection, as well as potential 
dividends which would be invested. The investment element would continue to grow 
throughout the life of the policy. Their policy documents provided a potential growth 
illustration of the investment element.
Mr and Mrs C have recently complained about the policy, driven by the recent surrender 
values they had been quoted. Their representative raised a number of complaint issues 
against CFS. These are as follows:
- The policies have been in place for 32 years and will only pay a fraction of what Mr 
and Mrs C were promised
- CFS hasnt disclosed its relationship with Mr and Mrs Cs IFA and how much is taken 
from their investment to pay the IFA
- CFS hasnt communicated with Mr and Mrs C in a way that was clear, fair and not 
misleading over the last 32 years.
- CFS failed to alert Mr and Mrs C to the poor performance of their policies and that 
they wouldnt reach the target savings amount
- CFS failed to notify Mr and Mrs C of their options to increase their premiums
- Mr and Mrs C have been unable to meet their goal of paying off their mortgage
I sent out my provisional decision on this complaint on 7 April 2021. I explained that I didnt 
intend to uphold the complaint. An extract of this decision is as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Cs representative has made a number of detailed points and submissions. Id
like to reassure Mr and Mrs C that Ive considered every point made in this case. I can see
that our investigator addressed the crux of the issue, but I dont think there is a clear
understanding from Mr and Mrs C about how the policy worked. Because I plan to address
their complaint in more detail, Im issuing a provisional decision  to allow both parties to
make any final submissions before I issue a final decision.
Having considered everything, Im not intending to uphold this complaint. But Id like to
explain why by firstly explaining how this policy works and then addressing the main
complaint points made by Mr and Mrs C.
How this policy works
Throughout Mr and Mrs Cs communications with CFS about their complaint, CFS has
referred to their policy being a Holloway style policy. Mr and Mrs C say this wasnt
something that was suggested before. What CFS is referring to, is the way the policy works.
Its important to note here that this policy doesnt work in the same way a whole-of-life policy
works, or an endowment savings plan. Rather, it is a type of policy that is offered by Friendly
Societies where each customer is a member, owning shares. Ill explain how this works for
Mr and Mrs Cs policies.
By taking out a policy, Mr and Mrs C were each purchasing 100 shares in CFS (making them
members of the society). These 100 shares guaranteed a weekly payment of £60 if they
needed to claim for income protection  where they couldnt work due to an illness for
example. All members contributions  in this case £16 per month for Mr C and £17 per
month for Mrs C  are pooled together and deductions are made for charges, claims being
paid to members and to ensure a reserve to meet any potential claims arising in the future
(based on information from CFSs actuary). Anything that is then left over each year after
these deductions may then be distributed as interest, bonus or dividends to each member.
CFS has confirmed that originally it was dividends and interest but this later switched to
bonuses  Ive been assured theres no difference except in name only. The amount of the
bonus each year is determined by CFSs committee and it will depend on the shareholding
of the member as to how much is awarded.
This means the premium isnt split. I know that this is something that Mr and Mrs C were
complaining about  as they werent aware how much of their premiums went to the
investment element, and therefore what their savings projections were based upon. The
answer to this is that their premium pays for their shares which guarantees them the income
protection. And I can see that any savings element is solely made up from the bonuses
awarded each year. These bonuses will depend on many factors including the cost of claims
that year and to ensure there is a reserve for potential claims based on actuarial information.
As these policies were sold to Mr and Mrs C through an IFA, it was the IFAs responsibility to
ensure it fit their needs and was explained to them. Ill now turn to the specific complaint
points made by Mr and Mrs Cs representative.
The policies will only pay a fraction of what Mr and Mrs C were promised
The performance of Mr and Mrs Cs savings part of the policy appears to be the driver of this
complaint. Mr and Mrs C have referenced their original policy document which had
projections showing what they would achieve if the yearly dividend was £180 and it
continued to generate a 10% return. This showed that at the age of 65, Mr C could have a
savings amount of over £129,000 and Mrs C of over £53,000. I can see both their policy
documents showed that if they kept their policies until age 65 they wouldve paid in £10,416
and £9,264 respectively.
I need to emphasize at this point that no-where in their policy documents does it state that
this savings amount is guaranteed. The only guarantee is the weekly payment if they made a
claim for income protection. The policy says:
Assuming the Societys current practice Is maintained, you would be credited with an
annual dividend in a full year of £180. If dividends continue to be invested to produce the
current tax free return of 10% your savings would grow as follows
I understand that Mr and Mrs C felt that they would always have this level of dividend andreturn (now referred to as bonuses) but I dont think that theres anything to suggest this
would always be the case. In 1987, a growth rate of 10% wasnt unusual, and it was quoted
in line with standard industry practice at the time. But its clear from Mr and Mrs Cs
statements they received each year that the bonus rate changed each year. I cant see
anything to suggest that CFS was contractually bound to give Mr and Mrs C £180 of
dividends each year.
CFS hasnt been able to provide the terms and conditions from the time, which isnt
surprising given these policies were sold some 34 years ago. But it has given me a copy of
more recent terms, and a schedule to show changes since Mr and Mrs C took out their
policy. What this shows me is that there were no significant changes in Mr and Mrs Cs
contract that would have affected how the savings aspect of the plan works. And so I think
its likely that the following statements, taken from the terms I do have on the policy, were
similar at the time Mr and Mrs C took out their policies. These terms say:
The amount of the tax-free cash sum payable at the maturity of your contract is not
guaranteed, it depends upon the performance of the Society; and
Your personal illustration is only a guide and investment growth may be smaller than the
rates used in your personal illustration and could result in a smaller lump sum at the maturity
of the contract than shown.
I have no reason to believe that Mr and Mrs C were guaranteed either the level of bonuses
or the rate of return that the illustration provided to them. So, I dont agree that this was
promised to them by CFS.
Its clear that the maturity value is lower than the illustration, but this is in line with the
general economic climate that has been seen over the last thirty years. I can also see that
the annual statements provided to Mr and Mrs C have always demonstrated the value of the
bonuses added each year as well as the overall value of their savings element. So, I think
CFS kept them aware of how their savings were building over this time. And I cant see that
CFS has done anything wrong in relation to how much Mr and Mrs Cs policy is now worth.
CFSs relationship with Mr and Mrs Cs IFA
I understand the main reason Mr and Mrs C have raised this point is that they are worried
part of their premium is taken and given to their IFA, and this hasnt been disclosed to them.
As Ive explained above, their premiums are pooled with other members and guarantees
them their income protection. That money is then used to pay claims, charges and a reserve
and then bonuses are awarded to each member based on their shareholding. Ive not seen
anything to suggest their premium is reduced each month to pay for IFA commission.
In any event, the relationship here was between the IFA and Mr and Mrs C. It was up to the
IFA to explain what commission, if any, they were making at the time the policy was sold.
CFS hasnt communicated with Mr and Mrs C over the years in a clear, fair and not
misleading way
Mr and Mrs C have specifically mentioned here that they believe CFS havent complied with
their regulatory duties. Their representative gives examples of the way the annual
statements were presented and wording used in their policy documents to show this was the
case.
CFS has a regulatory duty to provide information that is clear, fair and not misleading. When
looking at the policy document that Mr and Mrs C both received I can see why they thoughtthey may always get a dividend of £180. This is because the wording says they would be
credited with this. But Im conscious that the wording also says its assuming the Societys
current practice is maintained. I can also see the only time the word guarantee is
mentioned is in relation to the weekly income benefit, which is correct. Ive also taken into
account the information that Mr and Mrs C received following this. Its not in dispute that they
have received annual statements from the inception of their policies. I can see that in 1990
their dividend was lower than £180 and it continued changing each year. So, whilst its
possible that Mr and Mrs C felt at the start they may always get an annual dividend of £180, I
think it was made clear from the statements following this that this wasnt the case.
Im also mindful at this point that it was the responsibility of Mr and Mrs Cs IFA to have
pointed out how the policy worked, and that the savings illustration wasnt guaranteed. Ive
also concluded that I think its likely based on the evidence Ive seen that the original terms
of the policy reflect the terms we have on file. These make it clear that the illustration, and
the amount awarded to the savings pot isnt guaranteed. Taking all of this together, I think
CFS has provided information about the policy that was clear, fair and not misleading.
Ill now turn to Mr and Mrs Cs complaint about the annual statements. They have explained
that these were clear until a system change in 2007 meant the statements were presented
differently. Ive looked at the statements. I can see that the information contained details of a
bonus rather than dividend and interest. CFS has confirmed to me that this was a change
in wording only and I dont think it affected the way the policy ran. I can see that the
statement still contained the value of the contract at the start of the year, the value of
bonuses added in the year, the withdrawals and the value of the contract at the end of the
year. This is, essentially, the same information as set out previously and I think Mr and Mrs
C were provided with the key information about their policies.
I do note that these statements were contained on the reverse of the letter that was sent
each year. The first side of the letter related to the AGM for that year. But given that one side
was about the AGM and the other was the statement I dont think that this means CFS was
failing in its regulatory duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading.
The letter sent contained all the information Mr and Mrs C were previously receiving and the
statement was highlighted on page two in bold capital letters.
Ive also noted that Mr and Mrs Cs representative doesnt think that using industry standard
figures for illustrations is good enough. Specifically, he draws attention to a reprojection of
Mr and Mrs Cs possible savings lump sum when they had enquired about increasing the
number of shares they had, therefore increasing their cover, as well as a reprojection
generated in 2019.
I can see that the document sent to Mr and Mrs C in 1994  when they looked into
increasing their cover - contains projections if the growth was at 5% and 10%. This was in
1994 and I can see that the illustration figures were in line with the regulatory standards at
the time. I can also see that the illustration mentioned that what will actually be paid depends
on a number of factors and doesnt contain any guarantees. I cant see anything to suggest
that CFS shouldve done more here.
In 2019, CFS sent Mr and Mrs C a statement to show their current shareholding. Again, this
projection showed what the saving element may be worth at age 65 using the growth rate of
1%, 3% and 5% - which were the regulatory standards to use at the time. I can also see that
it explicitly states the figures arent guaranteed. I cant see that it would be reasonable for
CFS to have done more in these circumstances. Their illustrations follow the regulatory
standards at the time and dont indicate that Mr and Mrs C are guaranteed a specific lump
sum. It follows that I dont agree that CFS hasnt been clear, fair and not misleading in its
communications with Mr and Mrs C.CFS failed to alert Mr and Mrs C to the poor performance of their funds and that they
wouldnt reach the target investment amount
Mr and Mrs C say that CFS failed to proactively contact them about their illustrations, and
how their savings werent performing in line with the illustration given at the start. They also
complain that they were only given a new illustration when requested. But I dont think CFS
had a duty to provide Mr and Mrs C with more than they had done each year.
I can see CFS sent annual statements, this told Mr and Mrs C what the value of their savings
part of the policies was each year. So, I cant agree that they werent contacted about the
performance. CFS also didnt have an advisory contract with Mr and Mrs C, so I wouldnt
have expected it to review the plans and give Mr and Mrs C information about how it met
their needs or target. This wasnt a policy that was designed to be reviewed. Rather it was a
policy that would pay out a fixed amount for an income protection claim with a feature that
meant a savings lump sum built up. As CFS kept Mr and Mrs C up to date with the value of
this lump sum every year, I dont find it needed to do anything more. This wasnt a policy that
was taken out or designed to provide a lump sum for a specific need, for example a
mortgage endowment policy, so I dont think there was a duty on CFS to have contacted Mr
and Mrs C to offer suggestions on how to boost the savings element. This policy was for
income protection and it continued to provide that benefit.
CFS failed to notify Mr and Mrs C of their options to increase premiums
I understand there was an option for Mr and Mrs C to increase their premiums  which
wouldve meant they would hold more shares and receive a higher bonus as well as a higher
income protection benefit. Mr and Mrs C say that CFS failed to notify them that they could
increase their premiums but I dont think that was the case. I can see in 1994 that Mr and
Mrs C asked for an illustration based on an increased premium amount. They chose not to
go ahead with this, but I think this demonstrates they were aware this was an option
available to them.
Mr and Mrs C have been unable to meet their goal of paying off their mortgage
Mr and Mrs C have said throughout this complaint that they wanted to use the savings from
this policy to pay off a mortgage. But I cant see that this was taken out for that reason
because they didnt have a mortgage until 2014. So, whilst in later years this may have been
a goal, I wouldve expected them to have received independent financial advice on this if
they were considering using the savings part of this policy as a repayment vehicle. This
policy was designed and described as an income protection policy with tax free savings. And
whilst the earlier illustrations showed a potential for large returns, the annual statements
made it clear how much the policies were worth throughout. And at the beginning of 2014 
the year they took out their mortgage - I can see Mrs Cs statements showed the value of the
savings was £6,682. So, I dont think it was likely that Mr and Mrs C were relying on this
policy to pay off their mortgage.
Mrs Cs policy has a lower maturity value
Mr and Mrs Cs representative has said that the original maturity projections for Mrs C were
far lower than for Mr C. He acknowledges that she turns 60 seven years before Mr C but that
it doesnt look right. Ive looked at the original illustration  which Ive already explained
wasnt guaranteed but was based on assumptions of yearly dividend and 10% annual
growth. Because of these assumptions, Mr Cs illustrated value at age 60 and 65 would be
larger. The funds he had would be invested for an additional seven years and the assumed
interest at 10% would be applied to larger sums during that time (for the purposes of theillustration). So, I dont have any reason to believe the initial illustrations were wrong at the
time. However, Ive already explained why these were not guaranteed. The seven-year
difference also explains why Mr and Mrs Cs current maturity values are different  because
these policies mature when they reach age 65, rather than after a set number of years. So,
Mr C would always be holding his policy  and earning additional bonuses  for longer than
Mrs C.
Summary
To summarise, I dont think CFS has done anything wrong in this complaint. I understand
that Mr and Mrs C are now unhappy at the amount the savings element of their policies are
worth, but I think CFS kept them up to date with how it was performing. Its also important to
note that these policies are income protection policies  guaranteeing a set income if Mr and
Mrs C needed to claim. The savings element is made up of bonuses awarded by CFS each
year based on Mr and Mrs Cs shareholding. Ive not seen any evidence to suggest that CFS
hasnt complied with the regulatory standards over the last 32 years in relation to these
policies.
Response to provisional decision
CFS didnt add anything further to my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs C, through their 
representative, disagreed. They explained that there was additional evidence to submit, a 
correction of inaccuracy in the provisional decision and issues that hadnt been dealt with. 
For the avoidance of doubt, Ill list the points Mr and Mrs C made:
- New Evidence  Mr and Mrs C have since found a letter from CFS dated 21 
September 1987 which refers to the terms of the policy. This is new evidence and 
without the original terms from this time this service doesnt have enough to 
determine the complaint.
- Correction of inaccuracy  The provisional decision refers to a time when Mr C 
looked into increasing his cover in 1994 and relies on documentation from that time. 
However Mr and Mrs C have since remembered the increase was for their sons 
policy rather than Mr Cs.
- Missing CFS documentation  CFS hasnt provided the original policy terms from 
1987 and the decision has been made without this. The only way to make a 
determination would be to have the documentation from 1987.
- Issue 1: Did CFS communicate with Mr & Mrs C throughout the last 34 years in a 
manner that was clear, fair and not misleading?
- Issue 2: Did CFS make clear the split in payments it received that it was allocating to 
its Holloway income protection product on the one hand, and its tax-free savings plan 
on the other hand? Was this payment split made clear to Mr & Mrs C at the inception 
of the plan in 1987? Was the payment split made clear to them by CFS during the 
lifetime of the plan? Did CFS tell Mr & Mrs C of the payment split at each quadrennial 
point when Mr & Mrs Cs payments to CFS increased?
- Issue 3: Based on the premium split that applied in 1987, could the savings plan 
element (even at the then 10% annual investment increase projection) have ever 
grown to the maturity figures projected for Mr & Mrs C?
- Issue 4: Did the premium split between the income protection product element and 
the savings plan element remain constant from 1987 to 2021? Did the percentage of 
Mr & Mrs Cs regular monthly payment to CFS that was applied to the savings plan 
element go up or down at any point from 1987 to 2021? When did this happen? What 
were the changes in the percentages?- Issue 5: What tollgate reviews should CFS have undertaken into the performance of 
Mr & Mrs Cs investment against the initial projection CFS provided in 1987? How 
often should these tollgate reviews have taken place? Should these tollgate reviews 
have taken place quadrennially when Mr & Mrs C were required to increase their 
monthly payment amount every 4 years? What should CFS have communicated to 
Mr & Mrs C about the underperformance of their savings plans?
- Issue 6: How should CFS have communicated to Mr & Mrs C (in a manner that was 
clear, fair and not misleading) that the 10% annual investment return rate on their 
savings plan used in 1987 was no longer valid? How often should CFS have done 
this? What is the percentage rate of return that CFS has actually achieved on its 
members savings in the last 1, 5, 10 and 15 years?
- Issue 7: Taken together was what CFS sent to Mr & Mrs C over the last 34 years 
sufficient to dispel the (now misleading) 10% annual return projection and maturity 
figures that were provided by CFS in 1987 to induce them to buy the CFS product?
- Issue 8: What duty did CFS owe to Mr & Mrs C to voluntarily provide them with 
maturity projections? How often should CFS have sent these maturity projections? If 
CFS had regularly sent maturity projections to Mr & Mrs C, what action would Mr & 
Mrs C have taken?
- Issue 9: Has CFS done what it said in its 1987 CFS Friendly Society Membership 
combining Sickness & Accident Income with Tax Free Savings where it promised 
that Mr & Mrs Cs accounts with CFS would be credited with a substantial dividend 
each year? What is the amount that this has fallen short by?
- Issue 10: What is the appropriate amount of redress that is due to Mr & Mrs C for 
CFSs failings? Is the amount of redress owed to each of them the same or not?
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all of Mr and Mrs Cs points carefully, having done this Im not persuaded to 
change my decision. I dont uphold this complaint for the same reasons set out in my 
provisional decision, an extract of which is above and forms part of this decision.
Whilst I will briefly address the points Mr and Mrs C have made to explain why these havent 
changed my decision, I wont be going into a detailed response to each separate issue. This 
is because my provisional decision already sets out why I dont believe CFS has done 
anything wrong and Ive not been provided anything which has persuaded me to depart from 
that decision. Many of the issues listed relate to similar things so Ive grouped some of these 
issues together below.
New evidence
Mr and Mrs C have provided me with a letter dated 21 September 1987 and say this is new 
evidence to be looked at. This letter had already been provided by Mr and Mrs C in their 
representatives original submission for their complaint. This isnt new evidence and was 
considered prior to reaching my provisional decision.
Correction of inaccuracy
Mr and Mrs C say that a 1994 letter with projections relating to a potential increase in cover 
didnt relate to them and was for their son. However, I can see the documentation refers to Mr C and his policy number and full name. So, Im not persuaded this was inaccurate. Its 
clear the letter related to Mr Cs cover and his request for a projection to potentially increase 
it.
Missing CFS documentation
Throughout Mr and Mrs Cs response to the provisional decision they have referred to the 
missing original terms from 1987. Their representative has explained that this complaint 
cannot be determined without this information. I explained in my provisional decision that 
CFS hasnt been able to provide a copy, which isnt surprising given it was some 34 years 
ago that the terms were provided. I also explained that I was persuaded by evidence 
submitted of amendments that the policy was likely to have similar conditions to those CFS 
were able to provide. We sometimes deal with cases where we havent got all the evidence 
from the time of sale, in those cases I must reach a decision based on the evidence I do 
have. This was explained in the provisional decision (extract above) and my decision has 
been based on the evidence that has been provided. I dont agree with Mr and Mrs Cs 
representative that the absence of these terms suggest that I should uphold this complaint. 
And Ive explained why I havent upheld this complaint in my provisional decision. 
Issues 1, 5, 6, 7 and 8
These issues are all in relation to whether CFS provided information that was clear, fair and 
not misleading. I directly addressed this in my provisional decision and the relevant part is 
above.
In terms of when CFS should have reviewed Mr and Mrs Cs policy, I explained this isnt a 
reviewable policy. It doesnt work in the same way as a reviewable whole of life policy, and 
there wasnt a duty on CFS to review it in that way. I can see that CFS sent statements to Mr 
and Mrs C which detailed how much the savings element of their plans was worth. As 
explained in my provisional decision, this was sufficient. Mr and Mrs C believe that they were 
promised a 10% return but I explained that the return projections were based on the industry 
standard projections at the time. These changed over the years and Mr and Mrs C were 
even given different rates of projections in 1994 when Mr C looked into increasing his cover. 
I dont consider that CFS using industry standard projections in 1987 was misleading, and I 
think that it has communicated with Mr and Mrs C in a clear and fair way over the duration of 
their policies. Im satisfied Mr and Mrs C were kept up to date annually with the value of their 
savings lump sum including how much had been added each year. I dont believe CFS 
needed to do anything more.
Issues 2 and 4
These issues relate to the premium split  namely Mr and Mrs C want to know how much 
of their premium pays for their income protection and how much is invested in savings. I 
explained in my provisional decision how this policy worked. It doesnt work like a unit-linked 
savings plan and there isnt a premium split. Mr and Mrs Cs premium guarantees them a 
level of income protection for the life of the policy. These purchase shares in CFS  they 
then receive dividends from their shareholding which are announced each year. It is these 
dividends (now referred to as bonuses) which accumulate to provide the savings element. 
More detail on how this policy works is in my provisional decision, the relevant extract of 
which is above.
Issues 3 and 9
These issues relate to the original projections Mr and Mrs C were given in 1987. I explained 
in my provisional decision that the projections used in 1987 were the industry standard, so Id expect to see these on CFSs documentation. I can see that each year CFS has awarded 
a dividend/bonus to Mr and Mrs C which is how the policy works. I can also see it has 
provided the income protection that the policy said it would. 
Mr and Mrs C have asked whether, based on the premium split, the savings element could 
have ever reached the projection. Ive explained there is no premium split  but Im satisfied 
the projection given at the time was based on the dividends being awarded at the time 
growing at a level that was the industry standard for illustrations at the time. Illustrations and 
projections arent guaranteed, and there was nothing to suggest that Mr and Mrs C were 
guaranteed that growth when they took out the policy with CFS. Mr and Mrs C were sold this 
policy by an IFA, and it wouldve been up to their IFA to ensure the policy was suitable for 
their needs. Ive not seen anything from CFS to suggest that it did anything wrong in 
providing the illustrations it did at the outset.
Issue 10
Mr and Mrs Cs representative asked what the appropriate amount of redress would be for 
this complaint. As this complaint hasnt been upheld, Im not asking CFS to pay any redress 
to Mr and Mrs C.
Based on all the evidence submitted for this complaint, my decision remains the same as set 
out in my provisional decision, an extract of which is above, for the same reasons. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman