DRN-2734755
The complaint
Mr A has complained about the way Advantage Insurance Company Limited dealt with his 
claim under his motor policy when his catalytic convertor was stolen. 
What happened
Mr A told Advantage on 15 November 2019 that the catalytic convertor on his car had been 
stolen. He also said there was damage to his wing mirror and bodywork. Advantage didnt 
think this was connected to the theft of his catalytic convertor so it said it wouldnt be 
covered under this claim. Mr A was unhappy about that. He was also unhappy he had to pay 
his excess and that the claim would be marked as a fault claim.
Advantage took his car to an approved repairer for repair. And gave Mr A the use of a 
courtesy car as detailed under his policy. Mr A was unhappy that the courtesy car was so 
small and that initially it wasnt an automatic. Advantage said he was only entitled to a class 
A car under his policy, but it did ensure the car was automatic.
There was a significant delay in repairing Mr As car due to the fact that manufacturer had 
delays in providing the part. Mr A was unhappy about that. Advantage said it could repair his 
car with a second-hand part, but Mr A didnt want that. In the end Advantage did repair his 
car with a second-hand part. And it agreed to pay Mr A £50 compensation.
Given issues with the courtesy car and given Mr A had bought his car under finance, 
Advantage returned that car to the finance company, who paid the excess, when it was 
eventually repaired.
Mr A raised complaints about the following:
Standard and smallness of the courtesy car
Being requested to pay the excess when the theft wasnt his fault
The refusal to repair the damage to the wing mirror and bodywork
Having to pay his premium when driving a courtesy car
Advantage returning his car to the finance provider
The delay in repairing his car.
Advantage didnt think it had done anything wrong. So, Mr A brought his complaint to us. 
The investigator didnt think Advantage had done anything wrong either. Mr A disagreed so 
his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
First, the part of Mr As complaint concerning his finance company taking back his car after it 
was repaired has already been decided by a different ombudsman in this service. Therefore, 
as Im not permitted to interfere with that under our rules, I wont be considering anything to 
do with this issue in this decision. 
My role and indeed the role of this service is to assess given the terms and conditions of Mr 
As policy whether Advantage did anything wrong. I have no remit to decide whether any of 
its policy terms are reasonable or fair, merely my remit is to ensure Advantage relied on the 
terms reasonable in dealing with Mr As claim. And I think it did.
Courtesy Car
Throughout Mr As policy, it explains that the courtesy car the policyholder is entitled to is 
limited to a group A car of the size of a Ford Ka. Therefore, Advantage did nothing wrong 
with the provision of this size type of car to Mr A. I can see initially it provided a manual car 
but then changed it to an automatic, which I consider reasonable. 
Excess payment and fault claim
Mr A agreed when he bought the policy that he would pay a compulsory excess of £195 plus 
a voluntary excess of £500 in the event of a claim. This was detailed on his schedule. 
Again, throughout Mr As policy it explains when the excess is payable. Under the 
explanation given about using Advantages Nominated Repairer service it says the following:
All you need to do is pay your agreed Excess to the repairer before the Car is 
delivered back to you. Your compulsory and voluntary Excesses are based on you 
using your Insurer's Nominated Repairer.
It also highlights its explanation of excess in a green box explaining the following:
Whats an Excess?
An Excess is the amount you have to pay towards the first part of any claim you
make. You agree the amount of each Excess when you buy the Policy.
Details are shown on your schedule of insurance.
Further in the definitions section it says the following:
The part of the claim that you, as the Vehicle Policyholder, must pay, even if the 
damage or loss isnt your fault. [My emphasis].
 A compulsory Excess is the amount youll have to pay towards each claim. Its set 
by your Insurer.
 A voluntary Excess is an amount youve agreed to pay if you make a claim, on top 
of the compulsory Excess. Increasing the amount of voluntary Excess may reduce 
the cost of your insurance. Voluntary doesnt mean you can choose whether
to pay or not.
So, as it explains, an excess is always payable even if the incident causing the damage 
wasnt the policyholders fault. This is because the excess under any motor policy including 
this one, is whats called an uninsured loss which it means its not covered under the policy. 
The only way one can get the excess refunded is if the person causing the damage is known 
and their insurer agrees to refund it. In Mr As case since the identity of the thief who stole 
his catalytic converter is not known, Mr A was always going to have to pay the excess. 
In any event, I understand his finance company paid the excess when it took the car back 
from Advantage, so Mr A didnt pay it.Insurers define claims as fault and non-fault depending on whether they can be 
reimbursed by the person who caused the accident or damage claimed. If theyre successful, 
the claim is registered as a non-fault incident on the policyholders insurance record and if 
they are not successful its registered as a fault incident on the policyholders insurance 
record. In Mr As case since the identity of the thief was never identified, this claim would 
always be a fault claim on his insurance record since Advantage would never be able to get 
the thief to reimburse its outlay in repairing the car. This is standard industry practice, so I 
dont think its unfair or unreasonable. 
Wing mirror and bodywork damage
Advantage said there was nothing to indicate this was related to the theft of the catalytic 
convertor. And I agree, given the car was parked when the catalytic convertor was stolen 
therefore its unlikely the mirror would have cracked or indeed the bodywork would have 
been dented. Advantage delayed in telling this to Mr A but considering the rest of the events 
with the car, I dont consider this impacted Mr A.
 
Having to pay his premium whilst his car was being repaired and he had the use of a 
courtesy car.
The premium is payable in full once Mr A agreed to buy his policy. Insurers solely on a 
discretionary basis permit the payment of the premium by instalments. This means the 
finance company who lent the money to Mr A to pay his premium by instalments actually 
paid Advantage the full premium at the start. 
On this basis consequently Mr As duty to pay the instalments is down to his agreement with 
the finance company in real terms and has little to do with Advantage. 
Delays in the repair of the car
Its very clear from Advantages file that the delays in repairing were down the fact that the 
catalytic convertor availability from the manufacturer had delays. This was outside the 
control of Advantage or its repairers. 
Advantage did offer to repair the car with a second-hand part which Mr A refused. That 
meant of course that the repair was delayed further. As Mr A still had the courtesy car, I 
consider Advantage fulfilled its duty to keep him mobile.
 
Eventually Advantage did authorise the repair with a second-hand part which I also consider 
reasonable given the delays with the manufacturer providing the part.
Advantage offered Mr A £50 for this but considering the delay was nothing to do with 
Advantage, I consider this generous. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman