DRN-3152965
The complaint
Miss S complains about National Westminster Bank Plc (NWB) and their failure to provide 
her with an activation code that allowed her to access her online banking while she was 
abroad.
What happened
Miss S held a current account with NWB. In November 2020, Miss S tried to access this 
account via her mobile banking app whilst she was abroad as she needed to make a 
payment to her university. But she was unable to do so as she needed an activation code 
which had been sent to her registered mobile, which was still in the UK. And Miss S said 
been unable to make the payment through telephone, as the transaction needed a One Time 
Passcode (OTP) which had also been sent to her registered mobile in the UK.
So, Miss S called NWB to discuss this and it was agreed an activation code would be sent to 
her registered UK address. But Miss S says she didnt receive the letter with this code. And 
when Miss S called NWB to chase where it was, she says she received conflicting 
information from the advisors. So, she raised a complaint.
Miss S was unhappy that shed been left unable to access her mobile banking as no 
activation code had been received. And she was unhappy with the number of calls shed 
made chasing this, with conflicting information being given each time. Miss S explained she 
need access to her account to pay for her university fees and had needed to travel to a bank 
near her in Romania to withdraw cash to ensure this was paid. So, she wanted to be 
compensated for the upset and inconvenience this caused.
NWB responded and upheld the account. They thought they had acted fairly when sending 
Miss S an activation code to her UK address as this was the only alternative method to 
receiving a text. And they were satisfied this code had been sent so didnt think they were 
responsible for any issues with its delivery. They recognised Miss S updated her address 
with them after this code was sent but acknowledged Miss S said she had friends still at the 
previous address who would have provided the code to her. And they explained the OTP 
had been sent to her mobile correctly, in line with their process.
But NWB did recognise the service Miss S received when shed called them to chase the 
location of the code fell below the standards theyd expect. So, they offered Miss S £150 to 
recognise any upset she was caused and explained a new activation code would be sent to 
her new address. Miss S remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They explained they couldnt hold 
NWB responsible for the first letter not being received, as they were satisfied it was sent. 
And they thought the £150 they offered was reasonable to recognise the upset Miss S had 
been caused when she chased them for updates on where that letter was.
But they noted NWB stated they had arranged for another activation code to be sent by letter 
in their complaint response. And instead, it had been sent by mobile when they were aware 
Miss S wouldnt be able to receive this. And they didnt think this was fair. So, they thought 
NWB should pay Miss S another £100 to recognise the further inconvenience this caused 
Miss S.
Miss S didnt agree. She explained shed been unable to pay her university fees as she was 
unable to access her account. As a result, Miss S believed shed lost the opportunity to study 
in the UK and had been unable to study for a year overall. So, Miss S wanted the 
compensation NWB offered to be significantly increased and for her first instalment of her 
fees, which she had been able to pay, to be refunded. As Miss S didnt agree, the complaint 
has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Miss S. From what I can 
ascertain from the evidence and comments available to me, it seems Miss S was abroad for 
a period of time due to the COVID-19 pandemic and the restrictions that were imposed. And 
I appreciate how stressful that wouldve been in itself. So, I can understand how this 
wouldve been made worse by Miss S inability to use her mobile banking app and the 
difficulties she faced in accessing this, due to her UK registered mobile not being with her at 
the time.
And I recognise Miss S says her NWB account had the funds needs to pay her university 
fees. And to do this, she needed access to her online banking to do so. Miss S says she 
never received this and so, she was unable to pay her university fees meaning she lost her 
chance to study in the UK altogether, and study at all for a year. I can understand how 
upsetting this would be for Miss S.
But for me to say NWB should compensate Miss S for the losses of studying in the UK and 
at all for a year, Id need to be satisfied that it was NWBs error that was the sole cause for 
these. And having considered this, I dont think thats the case. And Ill explain why.
First, Ive thought about whether NWB did anything wrong when the first activation code was 
requested in November 2020. Miss S has confirmed she didnt have her UK registered 
mobile phone available. So, an activation code wasnt an option. NWB have confirmed an 
activation code to access online banking can be sent one of two ways, by text or by post. As 
a text wasnt an option, I think NWB acted fairly by sending the activation code by post.
And I can see this code was sent by this method on 24 November 2020, to the most recent 
address Miss S had provided them with. Although I recognise Miss S updated her address 
shortly afterwards, I dont think NWB wouldve known this needed to be updated when they 
posted the activation code. And even so, Miss S confirmed to NWB that she still knew 
residents of that address who could pass the code onto her, so I dont think this makes a 
material difference to my decision.
Miss S says this code wasnt received. And as NWB dont dispute Miss S chased them for 
the whereabouts of the code, I think its reasonable for me to assume it wasnt. But crucially, 
I dont think this is the fault of NWB. I can see NWB sent the code to the address listed, and thats all Id expect NWB to do as that is all thats within their control. Any issues with the 
delivery of the code would be the responsibility of the postal service and itd be unfair for me 
to say NWB acted unfairly because of this. 
But NWB dont dispute Miss S was given conflicting information when she called them to 
chase the whereabouts of the code. As its not in dispute, I dont intend to discuss the error 
itself any further. NWB offered Miss S £150 to recognise the upset this caused, and Ive 
considered this offer later in the decision.
Ive seen that, as part of their response to Miss S complaint, NWB explained a new 
activation code would be sent to the new address she provided. But Ive seen system notes 
which show this code was sent by text, rather than by letter. And at this point, I think NWB 
shouldve been reasonably aware Miss S was unable to access any codes by text. So, I 
think this prolonged the length of time Miss S was without access to her online banking and I 
think this shows NWB acting unfairly. So, Ive then thought about what I think NWB should 
do to put things right, while considering any offers theyve already made.
Putting things right
Im aware Miss S believes NWBs error has caused her to lose the chance of studying in the 
UK as well as being unable to study for a year as she didnt have the funds available to pay 
her university fees. So, she wants to be compensated for this, plus received a refund of the 
instalment she was able to pay. But as I explained earlier in my decision, for me to say NWB 
should do this, Id need to be satisfied they made an error which was the sole reason Miss S 
couldnt attend university. And I dont think thats the case.
As Ive already explained, I think NWB sent the first activation code fairly. But I agree they 
didnt send a second one as Id have expected them to. But even so, I dont think this 
stopped Miss S access to the funds in her account. Miss S has already confirmed she was 
able to withdraw cash from this account and transfer it onto another account she held in the 
country she was located, which she could then make payments from. So, although I 
recognise the inconvenience this wouldve caused Miss S as she says she had withdrawal 
limits, I dont think this means Miss S had no way of paying the university fees. And this is 
supported by the fact Miss S was able to pay an instalment, even though she says this was 
completed late.
Im also aware Miss S says she tried to make payments via phone, but needed an OTP sent 
to her UK registered mobile to complete these transactions. Im satisfied if an OTP was 
needed, then NWB acted fairly and in line with their processes by sending it to Miss S 
registered phone. But from my understanding, OTPs are only required for online purchases 
and not phone transactions. So, I do think Miss S shouldve been able to make payments in 
this way and even if she wasnt, I dont think this was because of anything NWB did wrong. 
For these reasons, Im unable to say NWB are responsible for Miss S situation regarding 
her studies, as she did have access to her funds albeit not in the way she wished. So, Ive 
considered this when deciding what I think NWB should do.
NWB have offered Miss S £150 to recognise the upset and inconvenience she wouldve felt 
following the conflicting information she received when chasing her activation code. I think 
this offer is a fair one, and in line with what I wouldve directed had it not already been made 
for this aspect of the complaint. So, I dont think NWB need to do anything more in regard to 
this.
But I do think NWB failed to re-issue the activation code to Miss S new registered UK 
address in October 2020 as they said they would do. And I think this delayed Miss S ability 
to access her online banking. And I think this wouldve been frustrating an inconvenient. But I also need to consider the fact from the date of NWBs response, I cant see evidence that 
shows Miss S contacted NWB again to query why the second code hadnt been received. 
While I appreciate Miss S may have not wanted to do so, I recognise Miss S believes her 
lack of online banking had a significant on her life due to its impact on her studies, so I 
wouldve expected her to do so. Considering all of this, I think the additional £100 our 
investigator recommended is a fair one, and in line with what I wouldve directed had it not 
already been put forward. So, I think NWB should pay Miss S a further £100 to recognise 
their error when issuing the second activation code.
I understand this isnt the outcome Miss S was hoping for. And I want to reassure her Ive 
carefully considered the points shes raised about her education and the impact this issue 
has had on that. But as Ive explained, I dont think NWBs failures were the sole reason for 
Miss S being unable to complete her studies as she intended, and I hope this decision 
provides some form of closure to Miss S.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Miss S complaint about National Westminster 
Bank Plc and I direct them to take the following action:
Pay Miss S an additional £100 to recognise the inconvenience and upset she 
wouldve felt when they failed to issue her second activation code as theyd stated 
they would.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman