DRN-3885868
The complaint
Mr H, on behalf of M, is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc will not refund all of 
money he lost as the result of an authorised push payment (APP) scam. 
What happened
Both parties are familiar with the details of the scam so I will provide only a summary here. 
Mr H made 11 international money transfers between 12 April 2022 and 16 May 2022 
totalling £146,738.54. He believed he was sending money to purchase machines and parts, 
on receipt of invoices, that would be shipped to a company he had worked with for two 
years. This was to allow both companies to benefit from a business opportunity. He thought 
the CEO of the second company had emailed him with this opportunity. When he later 
contacted the CEO it became clear he had been the victim of an email intercept scam. He 
reported this to NatWest on 1 June 2022.
Mr H says NatWest failed to protect him and must refund all monies he has lost. He is 
unhappy it did not carry out further checks and says its recovery attempts were not 
satisfactory.
Our investigator did not uphold Ms complaint. She said the payments were not out of 
character for Ms account, and even if NatWest had intervened at some point she did not 
think the scam would have unravelled. She felt NatWest had done as much as it ought to try 
to recover the funds.
Unhappy with this assessment Mr H asked for an ombudsmans review. He said he still had 
not seen NatWest asked the right questions of the recipient bank or that it had contacted the 
beneficiary as he had requested, or that this service had listened to all the calls he had with 
NatWest. He also said there were no overseas transactions for anything like this fraud from 
M's account and requested the dates and values of the payments of similar amounts that 
the investigator had referenced.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mr Hs complaint. I will explain why but I first want to 
clarify this services approach to gathering evidence. Under the rules we must follow DISP 
3.5.8 sets out that the ombudsman service can determine what evidence is required to reach 
a fair and reasonable decision. In this case the investigator decided it was not necessary to 
listen to all calls between the parties, nor did she need the transcripts of the messages sent 
to the recipient bank as the banks fraud notes provided an adequate summary, including the 
email response to the request for funds to be returned. I find these decisions to be 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  
Theres no dispute that Mr H made and authorised the payments. Mr H knew who he was
paying, and the reason why. At the stage he was making these payments, he believed
he was purchasing machines and parts that would allow him to participate in a business 
opportunity with a known, legitimate contact. I dont dispute Mr H was scammed and he 
wasnt making payments for the reason he thought he was, but I remain satisfied the 
transactions were authorised under the Payment Services Regulations 2017.
Its also accepted that NatWest has an obligation to follow Mr Hs instructions. So in the
first instance Mr H is presumed liable for his loss. But there are other factors that must be
considered.
To reach my decision I have taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance,
relevant codes of practice and what was good industry practice at the time. To note, as the
payments were international the principles of the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) 
code do not apply in this case.
This means I think that NatWest should have:
been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism.
had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years,
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average
customer.
in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, taken
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the
possibility of financial harm.
In this case I dont think NatWest ought to be held liable for the transactions. Ill explain why.
I dont think the transactions were out of character for Ms account. Payments of this value  
and higher  were not uncommon. Mr H asked for details of which transactions the 
investigator was referring to, but from my review of Ms account history I can see there were 
a number of similar value payments, not just one or two specific ones, and Mr H will be able 
to see that on the account statements for M. Indeed there was a previous payment with the 
CEOs company name used as the reference. The payments did not drain the account and 
were not made in quick succession.  
I accept they were international, but I dont think in the round this factor alone ought to have 
led NatWest to suspect Mr H may be at risk of financial harm. And there is a balance to be 
struck between identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent and minimising 
disruption to legitimate payments. So I cannot fairly conclude that NatWest ought to have 
intervened in any of the transactions.
And as that is my finding I do not need to reach a conclusion on whether any warning would 
have changed the outcome. NatWest has evidenced that it presented a scam warning to Mr 
H as part of the online payment process, specifically referencing email intercept scams, but 
this did not stop him from making the payments.
I have then considered if NatWest did what we would expect to recover the funds after Mr H 
reported the scam. As the payments were international the banks obligations are different to 
UK-to-UK transactions.
Mr H reported the scam on 1 June 2022 and on that same date NatWest contacted the 
beneficiary bank to try to recover the money. It was told the accountholder had said the goods had been shipped as planned and there was no refund owing. Mr H is dissatisfied that 
NatWest has not evidenced it followed his requests to ask the supplier for shipping 
documentation, but I think at that stage the nature of the dispute changes and such actions 
would be beyond the banks remit. It would become a civil matter for Mr H to pursue with the 
supplier. 
I can see NatWest did not simply accept the initial response from the overseas bank, it went 
back to the specific branch involved to explain the funds received were the proceeds of fraud 
and should be returned. It followed this request up three times but unfortunately received no 
reply. Overall, I find NatWest did what we would expect when trying to recover monies from 
an overseas bank.
 
This means I am not instructing NatWest to refund any money to M. This is a difficult
decision to make, Im sorry M lost a considerable amount of money which was very
distressing for Mr H. I can understand why he would like M to be compensated for the loss. 
And I accept Mr H has fallen victim to a sophisticated scam. But I can only consider whether 
the bank, which had no involvement in the scam itself, should be held responsible for what 
happened. For the reasons set out above I do not find NatWest can be held liable in the 
circumstances of this case.
 
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H on behalf of 
M to accept or reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman