DRN-3494478
The complaint
Mr C complains about a declined application for a credit card with John Lewis Financial 
Services Limited (John Lewis). 
What happened
In January 2020 Mr C applied for a credit card with John Lewis. The application was 
declined, so Mr C raised a complaint.
John Lewis looked into the complaint, but it wasnt upheld. John Lewis said that Mr Cs 
application had been declined as he had a large amount of available credit elsewhere. It 
went on to say that although he wasnt using all the credit, it had concerns he could do in the 
future. John Lewis recommended reducing some of his other limits, then replying in three 
months.  
Mr C said he had always paid his credit cards on time and had never missed a payment. As 
he remained unhappy, he brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. Our investigator said that the 
application was fairly declined. He said John Lewis have a responsible lending policy it 
needs to follow, and it had done so in Mr Cs case.
Mr C didnt agree with the investigators view, so the complaints been passed to me for a 
final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr C feels very strongly about this complaint and Id like to assure him Ive 
considered the information from all parties involved very carefully when issuing my decision. 
Having done so Ive come to the same outcome as the investigator. Ill explain why. 
Although John Lewis no longer has a copy of the credit check it performed on Mr C, it does 
still have notes from the underwriter at the time regarding the reason for the declined 
application. I can see the underwriter found Mr C to have a large amount of available credit 
elsewhere.
Although I understand Mr Cs point that he has never missed a credit payment and wasnt 
using all that credit, John Lewis still had concerns over the possibility of the credit being 
used in the future. Credit providers also often have concerns that someone with a large 
amount of available credit could be at a higher risk of being a victim of fraud and scams. 
Mr C hasnt denied he had a large amount of available credit elsewhere, so I find it more 
likely that not that this was the case. 
Having considered the reason John Lewis has given for the decline, I dont find it has acted 
unfairly. Im satisfied that an excess amount of credit could be seen to be a risk to John 
Lewis. Although the credit wasnt all being used at the time of application, John Lewis also 
has a duty to assess what could happen in the future if it were to grant a new credit card. 
In these circumstances Im satisfied that John Lewis was reasonably entitled to reject Mr Cs 
application when it considered its risk assessment. I also think that John Lewis has 
explained to Mr C why it rejected his application. 
Overall, Im satisfied that John Lewis is entitled to decide with whom it enters a business 
relationship. I appreciate Mr C has said that his credit record is good, and hes never missed 
a payment, and I completely take these comments on board. But John Lewis must act as a 
responsible lender and in doing so it needs to consider more than just these points.
It follows that I dont think John Lewis acted unfairly or made a mistake. Although it appears 
Mr C may not want the credit card now due to the passage of time thats passed, I cant 
order it to open the account for Mr C.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman