DRN-4462157
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that AWP P&C SA (AWP) hasnt settled their claim fairly. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M have a travel insurance policy through a packaged bank account, underwritten 
by AWP P&C SA. Whilst abroad, their passports were stolen and so they had to arrange for 
replacements. 
They made a claim to AWP which was accepted and a settlement amount was paid. But Mr 
M complained and said that his full costs and expenses werent reimbursed. AWP replied 
and explained it had paid for what was covered under the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs M referred their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. 
Or investigator looked into the complaint and found the claim had been settled fairly and in 
line with the policy terms and conditions. 
Mr M disagreed and in summary, said they should get all their additional costs back. And so 
the case has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy terms confirm what is covered under the loss of documents section as: 
Your reasonable travel and accommodation expenses in obtaining replacements of 
the above documents (passport, driving licence and visa or travel tickets) whilst on 
your trip.
Mr and Mrs M claimed for costs including taxi fares and flights to get home but under 
the terms of the section outlined above, these costs arent covered. Specially, travel 
costs whilst on the trip to obtain replacements are covered and these were paid by 
AWP. As flights home in this scenario arent covered under the policy terms, I dont 
think AWP acted unfairly. An insurer is entitled to decide the level of risk it is 
prepared to take and pay for, and the terms and conditions form a contract between 
Mr M and AWP. So he is only covered for what is outlined in the policy terms, and 
not all costs and expenses, as suggested. 
 In this decision, I have considered the points raised by Mr M in his complaint to AWP 
and not any new issues.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman