DRN-3447735
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as B, has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited (RSA) unfairly turned down its business interruption insurance claim after it was 
forced to close due to Covid-19. 
Mr T, a director of B, has brought the complaint on Bs behalf. 
What happened
B held a business interruption insurance policy with RSA. B claimed on its policy after it had 
to close as a result of the Governments response to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
RSA said the policy did not cover Bs claim. It said the policy provided cover for loss due to 
closure or restrictions of Bs premises only if the notifiable human disease manifested itself 
at the premises. RSA thought that Bs business had been impacted by the Governments 
imposed restrictions, rather than because someone at its premises had Covid-19 and turned 
down its claim. 
Mr T is very unhappy about this and that he had not been able to contact RSA about his 
claim. 
RSA also reviewed the claim after receiving the Supreme Courts judgement on the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) Business Interruption Insurance test case and in response to 
evidence Mr T provided about a guest staying at the premises in March 2020 having a 
symptom of Covid-19. RSA said the evidence didnt establish a manifestation of Covid-19 at 
the premises and the test case did not therefore impact the outcome of the claim under Bs 
policy wording. RSA acknowledged that B had been unable to get through to speak to a 
representative about the claim but says it had already made its decision on the claim in 
writing and set out its position clearly. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter, He did not consider it should be upheld, as 
he was satisfied RSA was entitled to refuse the claim for the reasons it had. 
Mr T didnt accept the Investigators assessment. He has made a number of submissions, in 
response to the Investigator and in the initial complaint. Ive considered them all but have 
summarised the main points below: 
Several parts of the Supreme Courts judgement in the test case, and the FCAs 
resulting guidance, support the claim. In particular about the meaning of 
manifestation. The court said that to prove a manifestation, it is only required to 
prove there were symptoms of Covid-19 displayed, not that there was Covid-19.
His guest had a temperature, which is a symptom of Covid-19, proven by 
contemporaneous phone messages. Her unqualified self-diagnosis that it was due to 
dehydration, in order to stop people worrying, is irrelevant. 
RSA has not provided any counterevidence to prove that the symptoms of
COVID 19 did not exist. 
The relevant term in the policy says it covers closure or restrictions placed on the 
premises as a result of manifestation of a disease. As there is no and/or between 
the words closure and restrictions, Mr T says it doesnt need to be read together and 
means that it will cover either closure of or restrictions of the business without any 
link to a notifiable disease. 
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Bs business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why. 
Business policies provide protection for some of the common things which might happen to a 
business. No policy will cover every eventuality however and each policy may provide 
different cover. 
Bs policy provides cover for various losses, including those arising out of business 
interruption caused by various events. I have considered the entire policy carefully to see if 
RSA has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when 
declining Bs claim. 
The main part of cover I think might be relevant to this claim is an extension to the business 
interruption section of cover that covers loss as a result of: 
A) closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice or with the approval 
of the Medical Officer of Health of the Public Authority as a result of a notifiable 
human disease manifesting itself at the Premises.
I do not agree that this should be read as meaning that it covers closure for any reason, or 
restrictions that arent related to disease. In my opinion the term is sufficiently clear that the 
closure or restrictions would each need to be the result of public authority response to a 
notifiable human disease manifesting itself at the premises. 
Covid-19 is a notifiable disease. So, for this extension to provide cover for Bs claim, the 
closure or restrictions placed on the premises would need to be as a result of a case of 
Covid-19 manifesting itself at the premises. For a case to have manifested, I think someone 
would either need to have been diagnosed with Covid-19 or have displayed symptoms at the 
premises which, on the balance of probabilities, were Covid-19
The FCA test case did not consider policies with clauses requiring the disease to be at the 
premises, only ones where the disease is required to occur within a specified radius of the 
premises. The Supreme Court provided some clarity on how a policyholder might establish 
that Covid-19 had manifested itself within the required radius as required by those policies 
and provided some guidance. Our approach on what the term manifestation means is in line 
with what was said in the Supreme Courts judgment. 
As Mr T says, widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic. Also, 
the Government advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying 
symptoms of Covid-19, save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able 
to produce a positive test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to 
demonstrate a case on the premises would, in my view, be unfair. We consider that it is necessary to take a pragmatic approach, and to consider whether 
evidence (other than a positive test result) can be provided that supports, on balance, that 
Covid-19 manifested at the insured premises. As with any insurance claim, the burden of 
proof initially rests with the policyholder to demonstrate that they have suffered a loss which 
their policy covers. 
Mr T has provided contemporaneous messages which show his guest said she felt hot; she 
specifies that she felt hot in the face but not on her back. In later messages she said she had 
not drunk any water for two days and thought this was why she was hot in the face. There is 
no mention of any other symptoms. 
Mr T says this shows the guest had a high temperature, which is one of the recognised 
symptoms of Covid-19, which means that he has established a manifestation of Covid-19 
and the claim should be paid. He says it is only required that the individual has displayed 
symptoms of the disease. 
I do not agree with this. I have considered the Supreme Court judgement and the FCA 
guidance. In my opinion it still has to be established that the symptoms displayed are more 
likely than not Covid-19, rather than any other illness. There is nothing I can see in the 
relevant judgement to suggest otherwise. 
While a fever is one of the possible symptoms of Covid-19, it is also a symptom of a number 
of other illnesses. And there is no other evidence, as far as I am aware, to support that the 
guests symptom was a manifestation of Covid-19, as opposed to the effects of dehydration 
or some other illness. 
I do not think therefore that there is enough evidence to reasonably conclude that there was 
a manifestation of Covid-19 at Bs premises.
Mr T has also suggested that it is for RSA to provide counterevidence, in order to refuse the 
claim. The FCA guidance Mr T has referred to in support of this related to the policies 
considered, or similar to ones considered, as part of the test case. As mentioned above, Bs 
policy has a different wording. But in any event, and in line with general insurance principles, 
the guidance only applied to situations where the policyholder had already on the face of it, 
discharged their burden of proof by establishing a case of Covid-19 within the required area. 
I do not think Mr T has done so here and so do not agree that the refusal of the claim by 
RSA breaches this guidance. 
Having considered all the evidence, I dont think the extension provides cover in the 
circumstances of Bs claim and RSA was fairly entitled to turn down the claim. I appreciate 
this isnt the outcome Mr T was hoping for. But, having considered the matter very carefully, I 
dont think I can fairly require RSA to pay Bs claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman