DRN-3440895
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) recorded a default on his credit file. He 
thinks this was unfair as he had attempted to make the required payment in time.
What happened
Mr G held a bank account with HSBC. On 2 March HSBC sent Mr G a final demand letter 
giving him until 20 March to settle his account. As the account wasnt settled by this time it 
was closed on 27 March with an outstanding debit balance of around £286.96 and a default 
was recorded on his credit file.
Mr G attempted to pay the balance on 6 May but the payment was reversed. The debt was 
repaid in June 2020 and Mr Gs credit file was updated to reflect this. 
Mr G complained to HSBC that about the default showing on his credit report.  HSBC said 
that no error had been made and it followed the correct procedures. It says even if the 
payment had gone through in May this was still after the deadline and the information 
reported on his credit file wouldve been the same. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Gs concerns and reached the conclusion that HSBC 
hadnt done anything wrong and had treated Mr G fairly and so didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld. 
Mr G disagreed he says its unfair a default was recorded on his credit file when he had 
attempted to make payment. So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
My role is to look at the problems Mr G has experienced and see if HSBC has done anything 
wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr G back in the position he wouldve been 
in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest compensation that I think is fair 
and reasonable.
Mr Gs main complaint point is that it was unfair HSBC registered a default on his credit file. 
So the question I have to ask is whether HSBC did anything wrong in closing Mr Gs
account or in the processes it followed when doing this - in particular, closing his account 
and registering a default when he didnt pay back the outstanding balance of his overdraft in 
the required time.
Im in agreement with our adjudicator here, in that I dont think that HSBC acted unfairly 
when it closed Mr Gs account and registered a default. As prior to this happening I can see 
that HSBC sent a final demand notice requesting payment by the 20 March 2020. As no 
payment was received the account was closed and a default registered on 27 March 2020. 
Mr G says he attempted to make payment in May 2020 but it was reversed by his bank. 
But this payment was made after the due date and the reversal of the payment was due to 
Mr Gs account being inhibited and not through any error of HSBCs so I cant say it did 
anything wrong here. 
So Im satisfied HSBC was entitled to close Mr Gs account as it gave Mr G the required 
notice and Mr G didnt make the payment in time. And I dont think HSBC did anything wrong 
in recording a default on Mr Gs credit file  HSBC has a duty to make sure the information it 
reports on its customers affairs to the credit reference agencies it subscribes to is factually 
accurate and this is an accurate reflection about what happened. 
Ive noted Mr Gs concerns that this is affecting his ability to borrow money. He might be 
interested to know that he can place a Notice of Correction on his credit records. The 
purpose of such a notice is to allow someone the opportunity to add any explanatory 
circumstances that they would like prospective lenders to take into consideration when 
making lending decisions. If he wishes to do this, he should contact the credit reference 
agencies directly.
So overall and having considered everything I dont think HSBC treated Mr G unfairly or 
unreasonably which means that Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman