Complaint
Mrs B, who is represented by a third party, says Canada Square Operations Limited 
(CSOL), then trading as Egg, mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 
May 2001.
She says she didnt want or need the policy and it was added to her credit card account 
without her knowledge.
Background
Mrs B applied for the card and the policy by way of an online application. The policy included 
cover for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding her case.
I have decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs B and CSOL agree that she bought the policy over the internet at the same time as she 
was applying for a credit card. Given that she took the policy out by way of an online 
application, it looks like CSOL didnt make a recommendation that she should buy the PPI. 
But even though CSOL didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs B, it still needed to provide 
information that was clear, fair and not misleading so that she could decide whether to buy 
the PPI.
I dont have a copy of Mrs Bs actual online application as CSOL hasnt been able to trace a 
copy, but Ive seen a sample. The internet process Mrs B completed would broadly describe 
the purpose and benefits of the cover. She could also click through to another page to see 
the full policy details. Mrs B was given the option of selecting a box saying Yes to the 
cover. There was also the option to say No. So I think Mrs B ought to have that known she 
didnt have to take the policy. But she went ahead and chose to buy it.
DRN-1579707Mrs B said she thought she didnt have a choice about buying the policy and so it was 
automatically added to her credit card account. But having seen the sample screenshots and 
from what I already know about CSOLs internet sales process, I think Mrs B ought to have 
been aware she had a choice between taking the PPI and not doing so.
I think Mrs B was eligible to have the PPI policy when she applied for it. Mrs B told us she 
would receive from her employer sick pay of at least six months full pay followed by six 
months at half pay if she couldnt work. She also says she had some savings she could use 
and could rely on her family members to help. But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to 
her savings and sick pay, for up to twelve months. So I think the policy wouldve still been 
useful to her, paying her a monthly benefit to help her if she couldnt work, or lost her job. 
And she wouldnt have to rely on family members, whose circumstances could easily change 
and affect their ability to help out. And she also wouldnt have to draw on other sources of 
income which were already intended to help cover her regular outgoings. 
Ive also seen a sample of the welcome letter that CSOL would have sent Mrs B after she 
bought the policy. I can see that the letter set out the cost and main benefits of the policy 
and enclosed the policy terms. It didnt explain that the premium would be added to Mrs Bs 
credit card balance and could attract interest, or that she would need to continue paying the 
premium if she made a successful claim. I cant be sure Mrs B received the letter, or that she 
read it if she did.
The cost of the policy was 69p per £100 of outstanding credit card balance per month. This 
provided a benefit of 10% of the card balance being paid off in the event of a successful 
claim. I think the cost was reasonable. And although Ive set out above examples of better 
information that CSOL could have given Mrs B, I think on balance that Mrs B would have 
bought the policy anyway even if better information had been provided.
Having thought about all of this, I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Mrs Bs complaint against Canada Square 
Operations Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30July2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman