DRN-3358142
The complaint
Miss C complains HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly added her details to a fraud database.
What happened
Miss C saw an advert for a way to make money quick. Miss C contacted someone on social 
media and was told shed be sending money from her account to crypto-currency trading 
sites.
Miss C says she was assured this was legal. Miss C had several large payments credited to 
her account and she forwarded this money to a crypto-currency trading site.
HSBC then received messages from the sending banks to say the payments were 
fraudulent. HSBC spoke to Miss C, she explained shed been expecting the payments and 
had been told to move the money on. Miss C said she knew the person sending the money.
HSBC wasnt satisfied with this answer, so it closed Miss Cs account and loaded her details 
to a fraud database.
Miss C tried to contact the person shed been dealing with on social media, but they blocked 
her. Miss C then found she couldnt open a new account.
Miss C went direct to the fraud database company and found out her details had been 
added. Miss C then complained to HSBC.
Miss C explained shed been nave and struggling financially and felt shed been taken 
advantage of by scammers. Miss C asked HSBC to remove her details from the fraud 
database so she could get a new account.
HSBC responded to say it didnt feel it had done anything wrong. Miss C had received 
fraudulent payments into her account so it wouldnt be removing her details.
Unhappy with this answer, Miss C brought her complaint to this service. An investigator 
looked into things and felt Miss Cs complaint should be upheld.
The investigator thought Miss C hadnt been complicit in the fraud. Because of this, Miss C 
should be considered a money mule. The fraud databases rules say money mules shouldnt 
have their details added. The investigator thought HSBC should remove Miss Cs details.
HSBC said it had enough evidence to say Miss C wasnt a victim, so it wouldnt be removing 
her details from the database. HSBC asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, or in dispute, I can decide things on the balance of 
probabilities. I need to look at what I think is more likely in the circumstances.
Theres no dispute fraudulent payments were made to Miss Cs account. And theres no 
dispute Miss C forwarded these payments to a crypto-currency trading site.
But this alone isnt enough to load Miss Cs details to a fraud database. HSBC has to have 
evidence Miss C was aware the payments were, or were likely to be, illegitimate.
Miss C explained to the investigator she thought what she was doing was a legal way to 
make money. Miss C also said shed asked the person she contacted on social media if this 
was legal and theyd said it was.
I wouldnt necessarily expect someone looking to make fraudulent payments through an 
account to tell Miss C this. But, in the circumstances of Miss Cs complaint, I also wouldnt 
necessarily expect Miss C to push further.
Miss C was quite young at the time this happened and experiencing some financial 
difficulties. Miss C saw a way to make quick money in what appeared to be a legal way, and 
this could be a solution to the problems she was having at the time.
I think Miss C was in quite a vulnerable place. And, because of that, she possibly didnt ask 
as many questions as she wishes, in hindsight, she had. But not asking questions is very 
different from knowing the payments were illegitimate.
I dont believe Miss C knew, or should have known, these payments were illegitimate. And I 
dont believe Miss C was complicit in the fraudulent activity.
Miss C doesnt have any of the messages she exchanged with the person she met on social 
media. Miss C has explained shes since been blocked by this person. My understanding is 
once youve been blocked its not possible to see previous messages.
So although Miss C doesnt have any proof of the messages, Im persuaded by her 
testimony. I believe Miss C is an innocent victim of this scam and should be considered a 
money mule.
And I think Miss C has been consistent in what she told HSBC and this service. I realise 
HSBC doesnt believe Miss C has been consistent, but I do. 
HSBC has said Miss C was inconsistent because she said she knew the person sending the 
money. I think Miss C did know this person, theyd exchanged messages on social media. 
This might not be the same as personally knowing someone, but I dont think Miss C was 
wrong to say she knew the person sending the money.
And, in any event, an inconsistent story alone isnt enough to load Miss C to a fraud 
database.
Putting things right
Because I dont think Miss C was complicit in this fraud, I dont think its fair for HSBC to 
continue to keep her details on the fraud database.My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should remove Miss Cs 
details from any fraud databases its loaded her to.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 April 2022. 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman