DRN-4064232
The complaint
Mrs Ms complaint is about a claim she made on her Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited 
(RSA) legal expenses insurance policy for cover to defend various claims for costs.
All references to RSA include their claims handlers.
Mrs M is represented by her husband in this complaint but for ease of reading I shall refer to 
all submissions on her behalf as being her own. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and set out in detail in our 
investigators recent view dated March 2023, so I wont repeat them again here. The facts 
are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
Because Mrs M doesnt agree with the investigators view, the matter has been passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator in his view dated 
March 2023 for these reasons:
The claims for costs, which subsequently turned into costs orders that Mrs M wanted 
cover for, stem from litigation spanning back to 2005.
RSA covered the costs of those proceedings, which failed, by funding a panel firm up to 
the indemnity limit to represent Mrs M. The limit was exhausted some considerable time 
before the claims for costs were concluded.
Claims for costs on a standalone basis are not covered by the policy. The claim that was 
covered by the policy was for legal expenses for The cost of your taking legal 
proceedings against another person or organisation as a result of:
a a person or organisation interfering with your legal rights relating to your home,
(you must be legally entitled to live in the home) up to the indemnity limit shown on Mrs 
Ms schedule in total for any one claim. Any one claim is defined as All legal 
proceedings, including appeals, arising from or relating to the same original cause or 
event.
 
The issue for me to decide is whether the claim Mrs M has made for help to deal with the 
various cost proceedings, arises from the same original cause or event as the 
proceedings she was covered for by RSA for in 2005. Im satisfied that they do. The 
claims for costs directly follow from that litigation- albeit over a long period of time. And 
they relate to the same underlying event which concerned Mrs Ms late Fathers estate. 
Mrs M has accepted that one of the claims that was struck out and for which costs 
followed, was the same as the underlying claim RSA had covered. In addition, she 
seems to accept that the costs orders are all related to the original litigation.
Because the claims for costs followed the original litigation, Im satisfied that RSA dont 
need to do anything further. Mrs Ms indemnity limit has been exhausted so there is no 
further cover available to her in respect of it.
When making these findings, Im mindful that Mrs M has discharged all of the costs 
orders against her so there is no litigation to fund. Mrs M has said that instead she wants 
RSA to now assist her in a different legal remedy that is related to the original dispute. 
Thats not something I can consider as it doesnt form part of the original complaint shes 
made here. The investigator has advised her to make a separate claim for this with RSA 
which I understand shes now done. Its a matter for RSA to address that claim 
separately.
Mrs M wants RSA to treat the indemnity limit for her original claim as not having been 
exhausted because she feels the Solicitors instructed were negligent. Thats a different 
complaint to the one shes brought here. And the issue of whether RSA should fund a 
claim in professional negligence against those Solicitors has in any event already been 
decided by this Service separately. As such I wont be commenting on it further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint against Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman