DRN-3211736
The complaint
Mrs L complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc has unfairly settled a claim shes made on her 
buildings insurance policy as it hasnt replaced her kitchen as part of the claim and it 
originally said it would.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this matter on 26 November 2021 an extract of which is 
copied below.
Any reference to Mrs L or AXA includes any representatives or agents.
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive provided a summary.
Mrs L noticed some cracking to areas of her property and she reported this to AXA.
AXA investigated and concluded the cracking had occurred as a result of 
subsidence caused by root-induced clay shrinkage.
AXA accepted the claim and appointed a specialist agent to manage the remedial 
work. Mrs L was provided with alternative accommodation for 12 weeks while the 
work was being carried out. She said found it inconvenient being out of her house 
for so long.
A schedule of work was agreed. This schedule didnt include a replacement 
kitchen which Mrs L considered necessary, but shes told us she thought this had 
been agreed by AXA. She was unhappy with this and several other aspects of 
the claim, so she complained to AXA.
AXA said an engineer had considered the kitchen damage and concluded it wasnt 
caused by subsidence but by poor fitting so wasnt covered by the policy. It did 
agree for the kitchen to be levelled as part of the works though.
Mrs L since paid for the replacement kitchen herself but remained unhappy 
and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld her complaint as she didnt think AXA had adequately 
shown the damage to the kitchen wasnt caused by the subsidence. So, she 
said it should pay half the cost of the replacement kitchen to Mrs L together 
with an additional £200 for the distress and inconvenience AXA caused her.
AXA disagreed and asked an ombudsman to make a decision
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs L explained to our investigator, her remaining concerns were related to the replacement 
kitchen costs and the impact of poor claim handling. So, thats the focus of my investigation 
and decision.
When making a claim on an insurance policy, the onus is on the consumer to show what 
theyre claiming for is covered by the policy. Ill be keeping this in mind when reaching my 
decision together with what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
When assessing complaints, Im likely to place significant evidential weight on the opinions 
of experts in reaching my decision.
The kitchen
Mrs L says her kitchen hadnt had any damage in the 13 years it had been in place and this 
only occurred after the house experienced subsidence. Because of this, she thinks the 
damage was caused by the subsidence and should be covered under this claim.
It seems there was initially an indication the kitchen might have been damaged due to the 
subsidence and a replacement might be necessary. A kitchen design and supply company 
visited to prepare plans because of this. But I dont think it was unreasonable that when 
further investigation was undertaken, this initial view changed. Ive also noted the 
statement of works which AXA prepared and Mrs L agreed to, didnt include replacement 
of the kitchen as part of the proposal. So, it seems Mrs L knew AXA had declined to cover 
these costs.
Several experts including AXAs loss adjusters, an engineer and a surveyor all concluded 
subsidence wasnt the cause of the damage to the kitchen units. Instead it was found to be 
a combination of poor installation and general wear and tear. The surveyor concluded any 
issues with the units could be resolved without the need to replace the kitchen.
Ive also noted from AXAs evidence, the kitchen is in the original part of the property and 
the area of subsidence was in the rear extension, remote from the kitchen. And while there 
was some movement in the kitchen floor, this was only on a small scale and found not to 
have been the cause of any damage to the kitchen units. Having looked at the available 
evidence, I think this position is persuasive.
I know Mrs L didnt agree with this conclusion and believed the kitchen units had a lean 
that was caused by the subsidence and a family friend told her this couldnt be corrected 
but Ive not seen anything to support this view. Mrs L said she would arrange for their own 
independent expert to assess the damage to challenge the conclusions reached by AXA 
but Ive not seen nor have I been given any alternative report to consider.
Having carefully considered all the evidence, Im more persuaded by the professional
opinions of AXAs various experts in concluding its more likely than not the kitchen units 
werent damaged by subsidence but by a combination of poor installation and wear and 
tear. In turn, Im satisfied AXA has acted fairly in relying on the opinion of the experts in 
saying the kitchen wasnt impacted by the subsidence and declining to replace it or 
reimburse Mrs L the cost of the kitchen she had installed.
 
I understand Mrs L is unhappy with the investigation completed by AXA. And had she
provided an alternative report or expert opinion that suggested the damage to the kitchen 
was as a result of subsidence, Id have expected AXA to reconsider the claim. However, as 
Ive outlined above, Mrs L has already had the works carried out without obtaining a 
competing opinion. So, it seems unlikely to me this will now be possible.The impact of the claim
AXA agreed alternative accommodation for 12 weeks for Mrs L due to the extent of the work 
being undertaken and because the property wouldnt be in a state for her to live there. Mrs L 
found a property herself and AXA paid for it promptly but she was subsequently unhappy 
with the property and explained the impact of being out of the home had on her.
I am mindful here that Mrs Ls husband sadly passed away during the claim and I can 
understand how this would have made things much more distressing for her and how being 
out of her home would have additionally added to her upset at an already difficult time.
In Mrs Ls opinion, the work should have only taken four to six weeks and didnt happen 
quickly enough. If it had, she would have been out of the property for less time. In my 
experience, it would be unusual for an insurer to incur the expense of providing alternative 
accommodation for longer than was considered necessary. While Im sympathetic to the 
impact being out of her home had on Mrs L, Ive not seen anything to support Mrs Ls view 
the work could have been completed more quickly or that it took longer than was necessary.
It does seem to me though the service AXA provided and its communication could have 
been clearer, and AXA has acknowledged this and made an award of £200 as compensation 
alongside an apology.
I understand why the visit by the kitchen design and supply company may have led to 
confusion over what work AXA proposed to undertake to the kitchen. But I do think the 
statement of works made it clear the kitchen wasnt going to be replaced and Mrs L 
acknowledged this when agreeing to AXAs proposed remedial work scheme.
Having thought very carefully about this, and while sympathetic to the difficult time Mrs L 
was going through at the time of the claim, Im satisfied the £200 AXA has already paid Mrs 
L is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint.
Following my provisional decision, AXA confirmed it didnt have anything further to add.
Mrs L made a number of comments which Ive summarised below:
AXA dealt with the claim well, it was the agents it appointed who delivered poor 
service and tried to avoid doing work.
She had to move out of her home for longer than she thought was necessary and 
reiterated the inconvenience of doing so. When she had the new kitchen fitted, she 
didnt have to move out.
Her kitchen cupboards werent badly fitted, there was nothing wrong with them but it 
wasnt cost effective to take the old ones down and then re-fit them. She wasnt 
asked for an independent report as to the cause of the damage.
The kitchen didnt get levelled and the visit by the kitchen supplier led her to believe 
the kitchen would be replaced.
The damage got worse over time and she wasnt invited to the meeting when the 
surveyor concluded the cause of the damage to the units wasnt the subsidence.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA appointed various agents to deal with the subsidence claim and remedial work and 
ultimately, its responsible for these agents. Ive not seen any evidence to substantiate 
Mrs Ls claims the agents tried to avoid undertaking work that was required and agreed. AXA 
has acknowledged the service Mrs L received could have been better and its apologised 
and made a compensation payment to her for the things it and its agents got wrong.
I explained previously I hadnt seen anything which persuaded me the work took longer than 
it needed to. I acknowledge Mrs Ls neighbours thought at times the agents hadnt been on 
site as much as they should have been but this unsubstantiated opinion doesnt change my 
mind. It appears it was for Mrs Ls own reasons she decided not to move out when she 
arranged for the new kitchen to be installed, so I wont comment further on that.
Mrs L has reiterated her opinion there was nothing wrong with the original installation of her 
kitchen units. I explained in my provisional decision why I was persuaded by the opinions of 
AXAs various experts that the damage to the kitchen was not as a result of the subsidence 
but poor installation and wear and tear. In correspondence with AXA, Mrs Ls son said he 
was going to arrange an independent report but Ive seen nothing to show this went ahead. 
Overall, my view on the likely cause of the damage hasnt changed.
Ive explained I understand why the visit by the kitchen design company may have led to 
confusion but ultimately the statement of works made it clear the kitchen wasnt going to be 
replaced. Theres disagreement about what work was undertaken on the units - Mrs L says 
they werent levelled; AXA says they were adjusted. In the end though, this doesnt seem to 
have had a significant impact as shortly after, Mrs L decided to proceed with replacement of 
the kitchen.
Mrs L says she wasnt invited to the meeting when the surveyor came to look at the kitchen 
units but shes not explained what she considers the impact of this to have been. Ive seen 
nothing which persuades me her absence affected the claim negatively.
Mrs L says the damage got worse over time and shes seen new cracks appearing recently. 
Insurers are required to ensure repairs they undertake are effective and lasting so if Mrs L 
has concerns about the quality of the remedial work she should contact AXA in the first 
instance for it to consider what she says has happened since.
In summary, Mrs Ls additional points havent persuaded me to change my opinion on this 
complaint. For the reasons Ive explained here and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold 
this complaint and I wont be asking AXA to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman