DRN-3139550
The complaint
Miss B complains about the way Admiral Insurance Company Limited handled a claim 
against her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss B took out motor insurance with Admiral in 2018. On the same day she was involved in 
an incident with two other vehicles. Miss B collided with an unattended parked vehicle that 
was pushed into a second vehicle. 
Miss B said she told Admiral she had consumed alcohol before the incident, and the police 
had taken blood samples for testing. As the incident occurred on the same day Miss B took 
out the policy, she hadnt read the policy terms, but said she was told the claim would be 
met. 
Roughly a month later, Admiral said a policy condition relating to consuming alcohol whilst 
driving could impact the claim. At this point, all parties were waiting for the blood test results. 
And during this time, Miss B said she received threatening letters from Admiral. She 
complained and Admiral offered her £100 compensation for the way things were handled. 
Miss B later received the blood test results which confirmed she was under the influence of 
alcohol at the time of the incident. As a result, Admiral said they were required to deal with 
the third-party claims and recover their outlay from Miss B. 
Admiral said the first third-party vehicle was written off, whilst the second was repaired. And 
their claim outlay was £16,560.73 which would be recovered from Miss B. Admiral had also 
sent a letter to Miss B saying she failed to cooperate, which Miss B was unhappy with. 
Miss B didnt think Admiral took reasonable steps to ensure the claim costs were fair and 
said the second third-party vehicle should have been written off also, as the claim costs for 
this vehicle were significantly higher than the market value. She also wasnt happy with the 
way things were handled  so she complained. 
Admiral responded to the complaint and offered Miss B £50 compensation for the way things 
were handled. But they didnt agree they failed to take reasonable steps to ensure the claim 
costs were fair. Miss B remained unhappy and approached our service for an independent 
review. 
An investigator here considered the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. She felt 
Admiral were entitled to settle the third-party claims and took reasonable steps to ensure the 
costs were fair. She also felt £50 compensation was fair and reasonable to recognise things 
could have been handled better. 
Miss B didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide. So, the case was passed to 
me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party disputes Miss B breached the policy conditions when the incident occurred, 
when coming to my decision the key finding I need to make is whether Admiral took 
reasonable steps to ensure the third-party claim costs were fair. 
For completeness, however, the policy says: 
General Conditions of Your Cover 
11. Drink and drugs clause 
If an accident happens whilst you or any person entitled to driver under Section 3 of 
your current Certificate of Motor Insurance is driving your vehicle and 
Is found to be over the legal limit for alcohol or drugs 
Is driving whilst unfit through drink or drugs whether prescribed or otherwise 
Fails to provide a sample of breath, blood or urine when required to do so 
without lawful reason
No cover under the policy will be provided and instead, liability will be restricted to meeting 
the obligations as required by Road Traffic Law in those circumstances, we will recover 
from you or the driver, all sums paid (including legal costs), whether in settlement or under a 
judgement of any claim arising from the accident 
Miss B was found to be over the legal limit for alcohol at the time the incident occurred in 
2018. Therefore, Admiral were entitled to meet the third-party claims and recover their outlay 
from Miss B. The policy also enables Admiral to conduct the defence and settlement of any 
claim on Miss Bs behalf. And this might mean Admiral make a decision she isnt happy with, 
but the policy allows them to do this provided they can demonstrate theyve acted in a fair 
and reasonable way. Ill return to this point later in my decision. 
Whether Admiral should have disputed the third-party insurers claim to repair the second 
vehicle 
Miss B thinks the second third-party vehicle should have been written off, not repaired. I 
understand why Miss B says this as the total claim costs for the second vehicle were more 
than the market value. Other costs included in the second third-party claim were claims for a 
hire car, storage and recovery, travel costs and a car seat. 
Admiral said they considered the second third-party claim. And when doing so, assessed the 
inspection report completed by an engineer, along with the market value using the motor 
trade guides. This is something Id expect an insurer to do when assessing a vehicles 
market value. They said the cost of repairs were roughly £1,000 lower than the market value, 
and the third-partys insurer were to issue proceedings to recover their outlay, so they 
decided to settle the claim which they considered to be the best possible outcome. 
Returning to the policy and my comments above. This enables Admiral to conduct the 
defence and settlement of any claim on Miss Bs behalf. I understand Miss Bs argument 
here  she thinks Admiral should have disputed the repair option presented by the third-
partys insurer and requested the second vehicle to be written off. But its important I explain, 
when an insurer is considering a claim, they will also consider the prospects of success of 
defending the claim in court, and the potential risks and costs involved in doing so. And the 
policy condition cited above says Admiral are entitled to recover any legal costs incurred as 
part of the claim from Miss B  which also could have impacted the total claim costs. Ive no doubt being required to pay a significant amount of money may have caused Miss B 
to experience a lot of worry and distress. But my role here is to decide whether I think 
Admiral applied the policy terms in a fair and reasonable way. Given the circumstances of 
the claim Admiral were required to meet the third-party claims in full. And Im not persuaded 
the second vehicle should have been written off  even though Im aware the total claim 
costs for the second vehicle are more than the market value. The consideration here was to 
determine whether the second vehicle was beyond economical repair, and I think Admiral 
has demonstrated they took reasonable steps to assess the third-party claims taking into 
account the repair costs, market value and other factors Ive set out above. 
I note Miss B provided us with a photograph of the incident location and said this shows the 
visual damage sustained to both third-party vehicles. The first vehicle visually shows 
significant damage, whereas, Miss B says the second vehicle shows far less visual damage. 
And argued this evidences that the second vehicle claim costs are too high, given the first 
vehicle sustained more damage and the claim costs are less overall. 
I take Miss Bs point. But I havent been persuaded this makes a material difference to the 
outcome of the complaint. I say this because the second vehicle wasnt damaged beyond 
economical repair unlike the first was considered to be. Therefore, I wont be directing 
Admiral to do anything else here. 
Other third-party costs being claimed for 
The other claim costs put forward by the third-partys insurers were hire vehicles, a car seat, 
travel and storage costs. 
When a hire vehicle is required, Id expect an insurer to provide a policyholder with a like-for-
like replacement vehicle. This ensures  amongst other things  that the costs are fair, and 
the policyholder receives the same replacement as their own vehicle, with a similar 
specification and of the same category. And in this case, Admiral provided details of the 
category of the two vehicles provided to the owners of the third-party vehicles. So, Im 
satisfied based on what Ive seen, Admiral took reasonable steps to ensure these costs were 
fair. 
With regards to the car seat, travel and storage costs, Ive not seen persuasive supporting 
evidence here that these additional costs were unreasonable given the circumstances of the 
claim. So, I wont give further comment to these aspects. 
The letter sent to Miss B and service issues 
Miss B told us she wasnt happy with the way things were handled. Namely, she received a 
letter saying she hadnt cooperated with the claim. She also said Admiral acted 
unprofessionally, misled her and applied mental pressure. 
Admiral accepted a letter was sent due to an administrative error. So, whilst this does 
appear to be an error, I appreciate this still would have been frustrating and upsetting for 
Miss B to receive. I also think compensation is due, and I think Admirals offer of £50 
compensation is fair, reasonable and proportionate to the error and its impact on Miss B. 
After our investigator issued her opinion on the matter, Miss B asked whether she had 
listened to call recordings to consider the level of service she received over the phone. Miss 
B said Admiral caused her mental pressure and material distress due to unprofessionalism, 
they misled her and approached her with threatening conduct. Im sorry to disappoint Miss B, but within my decision, I have only considered the complaint 
points responded to by Admiral within their final response letter dated 13 May 2021. As 
such, any further complaints regarding the level of service received specific to the above 
would need to be raised with Admiral and considered by them as a new complaint. 
I appreciate the outcome of my decision will come as a disappointment to Miss B. But my 
decision ends what we  in attempting to resolve her dispute with Admiral  can do for her. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision 13 January 2022.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman