DRN-4136463
The complaint
X is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC processed a transfer to an overseas account in the 
wrong currency.
What happened
X instructed Barclays to transfer £10,000 to an account he held overseas. The overseas 
account was also a UK Sterling (GBP) account, but Barclays processed the transfer in 
Euros (EUR) rather than in GBP as X wanted. 
This meant that two unnecessary currency exchanges took place. The first was by Barclays 
when they converted the GBP to EUR before sending the money. The second was by the 
overseas recipient bank when they had to transfer the EUR received from Barclays back to 
GBP. And this meant that, after the two currency exchanges, X only received £9,522 into his 
overseas GBP account instead of the £10,000 he had instructed Barclays to transfer. X 
wasnt happy about this, so they raised a complaint.
Barclays responded to X but explained that X had instructed the transfer in EUR and that 
they didnt feel theyd done anything wrong by following the instructions X had given to them. 
X wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so they referred their complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel Barclays had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation and so didnt uphold the complaint. X remained 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When X instructed Barclays to transfer the money to the overseas account, Barclays werent 
aware of the nature of that overseas account, including that it was an GBP account. As such, 
Barclays were dependent on X to provide the correct transfer instructions to them, including 
in regard to the currency in which the transfer should take place. 
Upon review of the transfer instruction provided to this service by Barclays, Im satisfied that 
X did instruct Barclays to transfer the money in EUR, which is what Barclays then did. 
X has explained that they feel the overseas transfer instruction process that they followed is 
unclear. But Ive reviewed this process, and I dont feel that this is the case.
I say this because an early part of the process involves confirming the amount of GBP the 
instructing party wishes to send, and in which currency. And at this stage the instructing 
party is also told how much of the selected currency the recipient will receive, as well as 
what the exchange rate from GBP to that currency is. A basic illustration of this is as follows:
Youre sending50GBP
They get approx. 55.15EUR
Based on a current indicative rate, which is 1 GBP = 1.1029 EUR
With the two fields in bold  the amount being sent and the currency in which it is to be sent 
 being selected by the instructing party.
Additionally, after the instructing party has inputted the remaining required information to 
facilitate the transfer, the information that theyve inputted is displayed to them for them to 
confirm. And this includes the amount being sent, the currency in which it is to be sent, and 
the relevant currency exchange rate. 
Barclays online form and process in this regard doesnt seem unclear to me, and I feel that X 
reasonably should have recognised that they had both instructed and later confirmed that 
the transfer was to be £10,000 sent to the overseas recipient account in EUR. And because 
of this, I dont feel that Barclays acted unfairly by processing the transfer in EUR as per Xs 
given instruction to them to do so. 
One thing that is notable is that Barclays form for overseas currency transfers has EUR as 
the default currency in which the transfer is to be sent. It appears that X unfortunately hasnt 
recognised this. However, given the clarity of Barclays form and the fact that Barclays 
require instructing parties to review and confirm the transfer instructions before Barclays will 
act and process those instructions, I dont feel that Barclays should fairly be held 
accountable for X not recognising that they were instructing the transfer in EUR. Rather, I 
feel that this was a mistake that X themselves has unfortunately made. 
All of which means that I dont feel that Barclays have done anything wrong or acted unfairly 
by processing Xs transfer in EUR as per the instructions that X mistakenly provided to them. 
And it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Barclays to take 
any further action here. I realise this wont be the outcome that X was wanting. But I hope 
theyll understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman