DRN-2880248
The complaint
Ms G complains that a car she took under a hire purchase agreement from MotoNovo 
Finance Limited was not of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In December 2019 Ms G entered into a four-year hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo. 
The agreement was for a car which had been first registered in September 2010 and which 
had a cash price attached to it of just under £6,000. The agreement noted that it had 
covered just under 75,000 miles. Ms G paid a deposit of £195 and was to make monthly 
payments of nearly £160.
Within a short space of time, Ms G noted that her oil consumption was high. This problem 
was repaired by the dealership, which also replaced the cars front brake discs and pads. 
The dealership also noted that a small part of a spring within the gearbox housing had 
broken and that the passenger side CV boot was not standard and was held on with a plastic 
clip rather than a metal one.
Ms G referred these matters to MotoNovo, which arranged an independent inspection. That 
inspection did not identify any issues and concluded that the cars condition was 
commensurate with its age and mileage. MotoNovo did not therefore uphold Ms Gs 
complaint about the cars condition, and she referred the matter to this service.
Our investigator indicated that she thought the car was not of satisfactory quality and 
recommended that MotoNovo approve repairs to the clutch spring and the CV boot. 
MotoNovo did not agree and asked that an ombudsman review the case.
I considered what had happened and, because I thought it likely that I would reach a 
different conclusion from the investigator, issued a provisional decision. It included the 
following:
As the investigator noted, the hire purchase agreement was to be read as including a 
term that the car would be of satisfactory quality. That is, it was to be of the quality a 
reasonable person would expect in the circumstances  including its age, price and 
mileage.
The dealership identified two issues with the car  in addition to those it repaired. The 
independent report did not identify any and concluded that the car was in the condition it 
would expect for its age.
The dealership noted that the CV boot (or gaiter) on the driveshaft was not standard 
(which I take to mean was not a genuine part provided by the manufacturer) and had 
been fitted with a plastic rather than a metal clip. The independent report said the 
gaiters were intact and had been secured correctly. I dont however believe those 
conclusions contradict each other. The dealership did not feel the need to replace the 
fixing and did not suggest the gaiter was not working as it should to provide a seal 
around the joint it was covering. It would not be unusual for the boot to have been 
replaced at some point; the use of a non-standard replacement did not, in my view, 
mean that the car was not of satisfactory quality.
As far as the clutch spring is concerned, the dealership explained that the part had not 
failed but that it was on the way out. It might last for a further three years. I note again 
that it did not suggest the part needed immediate replacement. The independent report 
said that the car had functioned correctly in a road test; the engineer was not able to 
identify any issue with the transmission spring.
Having considered the evidence carefully, I am not persuaded that Ms Gs car was not 
of satisfactory quality. The issues she says should be fixed are relatively minor and are 
matters of wear and tear. I do not propose therefore to require MotoNovo to do anything 
more.  
Neither Ms G nor MotoNovo replied to my provisional decision by the deadline I set. I have 
therefore reviewed the case again.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments here, there is no reason 
for me to reach a different conclusion from that set out in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not require MotoNovo Finance Limited to do anything more to 
resolve Ms Gs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Ms G to accept or reject my decision before 15 July 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman