DRN-3209441
The complaint
Mr B complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a personal pension plan.
DC Financial Limited is responsible for answering this complaint and so to keep things 
consistent, Ill refer mainly to DCFL.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Bs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to 
a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Bs employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr B was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was referred to DCFL 
which is responsible for providing the pension advice. Information gathered about his 
circumstances and objectives at the time were broadly as follows:
Mr B was 24 years old, married and with no dependent children. He was in good 
health and at that point he had accrued around six-and-a-half years of pension 
benefits with the BSPS.
Mr B earned £40,000 per year and Mrs B earned around £13,000. They had 
disposable income each month of around £1,700 after commitments. They lived in a 
home valued at approximately £100,000, which had an outstanding mortgage of 
around £62,000 with 39 years to run. Mr and Mrs B had around £13,500 in savings.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Bs BSPS was approximately 
£42,950 and the normal retirement age (NRA) was 65. DCFL said Mr B wanted to 
retire early if possible, at the age of 58.
DCFL set out its advice in a suitability letter on 22 November 2017. It advised him to transfer 
out of the BSPS and invest the funds in a personal pension plan. DCFL said this would allow 
Mr B to achieve his objectives. Mr B accepted this advice and so transferred to a personal 
pension. In 2021 Mr B complained to DCFL about its advice, saying he shouldnt have been 
advised to transfer out to a personal pension. 
Mr B referred his complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint 
and said it should be upheld. In response, DCFL said it hadnt done anything wrong and was 
acting on the financial objectives Mr B had at the time. A second investigator assessed the 
complaint. They addressed and clarified some issues but they also said the complaint ought 
to be upheld. Specifically, they said Mr B would most likely have remained in the scheme 
and transferred to the BSPS2. They said a fair outcome would be for DCFL to put Mr B into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of DCFL's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, DCFL should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Bs best interests. 
Ive used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from the BSPS 
to a personal pension was in Mr Bs best interests. 
I dont think it was, so Im upholding his complaint. 
Financial viability 
DCFL referred in its transfer analysis and suitability letter to critical yield rates. The critical 
yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on the 
transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity benefits 
as the DB scheme. It is therefore part of a range of different things which help show how likely it is that a personal pension could achieve the necessary investment growth for a 
transfer-out to become financially viable. 
However, I think its important to say that DCFL itself acknowledged, during its advice, that 
the critical yields required to match the benefits of Mr Bs existing scheme were high. It said 
they were unlikely to be matched, let alone exceeded, by transferring to a personal pension 
arrangement. This is because in its suitability letter, of 22 November 2017, DCFL said, the 
critical yield required is high and it would be very unlikely that an investment could provide a 
return to match the benefits you are giving up. It explained the critical yields required to 
match his existing benefits at the age of 65 was 5.91%; and it was 6.21% compared against 
retirement at the age of 60.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 and 
was 4.7% per year for 40 years to retirement (age 65), which is well below the critical yield 
figures Ive referred to above. This infers that reaching the yields above would be unlikely.
Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's upper projection rate at the time of the advice was 
8%, the middle projection rate was 5%, and the lower projection rate was 2%. So, the middle 
rate was also below the critical yields  and even small percentage points, year-on-year, can 
make meaningful differences to growth over time.
Ive noted too, the attitude to risk (ATR) categorisation, which DCFL applied to Mr B, was 
moderate-to-aggressive. This was evidently based on some questions about investment risk 
Mr B had answered on a form provided by a fund manager. But like our investigator, I think 
this categorisation was too high and I dont think its likely Mr B really understood what being 
placed in this category could mean for his pension if he transferred out. Ive noted Mr B did 
tick a box in the form saying hed had a working knowledge of investments and some prior 
experience in this area. But I think this is no more than a generic statement and it didnt 
inform DCFL of what that experience amounted to. So, whilst its fair to use this type of 
information as a basis for discussion, I dont think other obvious facts about the consumer 
can simply be ignored. 
In fact, I think any reasonable assessment of Mr Bs circumstances should have also noted 
he was a young adult aged just 24. At the time, this pension was by far his biggest financial 
asset. And the evidence here shows he had no exposure to stocks and shares, or 
investment products linked to money markets despite having monthly disposable income 
and a healthy amount of savings for someone of his age. However, 100% of his savings at 
that time were invested in a building society deposit account. So I think the ATR applied to 
Mr B was somewhat unrealistic as it was based wholly on answers to general questions 
about investments. I do accept that his young age did provide some scope for pension 
investments to grow in the future by ironing out peaks and troughs in the years ahead, but I 
think Mr Bs ATR should have been moderated down as his circumstances simply didnt 
appear to support what was ticked on a form where the questions were generalised and pre-
formatted. In short, DCFL should have considered his obvious financial and family circumstances more 
comprehensively and I think a figure between the discount rate and regulators middle 
projection was much more comparable to the rates of growth Mr B might realistically expect 
upon transferring out to a personal pension.
Of course, all this could be said to be of limited relevance since DCFL itself said at the time 
the critical yields were very unlikely to be achieved. And so, having said this back in 2017, it 
would be hard for DCFL to argue now that these types of growth figures were viewed as 
achievable at the time. 
Furthermore, the critical yields identified and presented to Mr B were based on his existing 
scheme benefits. In my view, this was a failure on DCFLs part. At the point of giving this 
advice, Mr B didnt have the option to remain in the BSPS  he either needed to opt into the 
BSPS2 or move with the scheme to the PPF. DCFLs advice was provided on 22 November 
2017, by which time details of the new scheme had been provided (and was referred to in 
the suitability letter DCFL produced for Mr B). 
So when DCFL says now that not enough was known about the new scheme, I dont think 
thats right. Its true the situation was dynamic in that changes were still being proposed at 
that very point, but we know a great deal about the timeline because weve seen many 
similar complaints to this one. Its possible this scheme may not have gone ahead, but I still 
think the benefits available to Mr B through the BSPS2 should have been factored in with 
this advice so that he was able to make an informed decision. 
Elsewhere in its transfer analysis, DCFL also made mention of the PPF, which it described 
as a compensation scheme providing a safety net for pension schemes when the 
sponsoring employer becomes insolvent. DCFL said the critical yield to match the benefits 
available through the PPF at age 65 was 4.66% per year if Mr B took a pension under the 
reduced terms of the PPF and 4.5% per year if he opted to take a tax-free cash element and 
a further reduced pension. DCFL now says these rates might have been more achievable as 
they are lower than those quoted for the BSPS above. But these yields related to the 
reduced benefits available with the PPF and DCFL itself says Mr B wouldnt have wanted to 
transfer to this scheme. Its also important to remember here that the effect of charges and 
fees associated with a personal pension would have further reduced the likely growth  our 
investigator set out what these charges were in their view. And at the time of the advice, 
DCFL did not say the PPF critical yields could be exceeded, particularly if Mr B retired early.
So, Im persuaded to agree with what DCFL originally told Mr B at the time it was providing 
him with advice, when it said that achieving the critical yields, as shown above, wasnt 
realistic. 
As a further comparison, I can also see that DCFLs transfer analysis showed that in order to 
purchase an annuity to provide benefits of equal value to the existing scheme at retirement 
at age 65, the funds required would be around £242,318  far in excess of Mr Bs current 
CETV. Even in order to purchase an annuity to provide benefits of equal value to the 
estimated benefits of the existing scheme, assuming no spouses pension, no increases in 
payment and no guarantee at retirement, the estimated fund required was £126,758. In my 
view, these costs provide a powerful indication of the real value Mr B would lose if he 
transferred out to a personal pension plan.
However, to be clear, DCFLs recommendation that he should transfer out to a personal 
pension was not predicated on the financial comparisons with his current scheme alone. 
Rather, DCFL said Mr B had different reasons to transfer away, so Ive thought about all the 
other considerations which might have meant a transfer was suitable for him, despite 
providing the overall lower benefits mentioned above. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and other needs
DCFL recommended a transfer to a personal pension based on what it said were Mr Bs 
wider objectives. It listed the following themes as supporting the recommendation to transfer 
away:
Mr B said hed like to retire early. In a personal pension he could take more tax-free 
cash. He could then draw his desired retirement income more flexibly. 
There was the potential for more control over the funds and investments in a 
personal pension, and the chance of achieving better returns.
There would be more flexible access to death benefits in a personal pension. 
The future of the BSPS was a concern and Mr B didnt want to enter the PPF.
So, it seems the supporting reasons that DCFL recommended the transfer out to a personal 
pension was for the flexibility and control it offered to Mr B. I have therefore considered all 
these issues in turn. 
Retiring early / taking tax-free cash
DCFL mentioned several times in documents from the time of the advice and when 
answering his complaint, in 2021, that Mr B had said he wanted to retire early. I dont doubt 
that Mr B might have genuinely hoped to retire as early as 58, which is what was recorded 
on the fact-find. But Ive seen nothing that shows this was anything more than something he 
aspired to do at that stage, as opposed to being part of a formulated plan. I say this because 
Mr B was only 24 years old at the time and its simply not credible that he had any concrete 
plans for retirement at that point. 
DCFL also promoted to Mr B that he could access more tax-free cash if he transferred to a 
personal pension plan. It said hed be able to access 25% of his pension as a lump-sum and 
then use the remaining funds more flexibly. Its usually the case that more tax-free cash can 
be accessed from a personal pension when compared against a DB scheme; this is because 
the values and benefits of the two schemes are calculated differently. But DCFL should have 
been telling Mr B at the time that extra tax-free lump sums being removed from a personal 
pension, potentially from the age of 57 in his case, also came with consequences in that the 
amount left for his later retirement years would obviously decrease. 
Even if I were to consider the unlikely scenario that Mr Bs retirement plans were more fixed 
than the mere aspirations set out by DCFL - and he really did want to retire early - I think 
DCFL should have assessed the possibility of achieving this goal whilst being a member of 
the BSPS2, for example. Early retirement under the BSPS2, or indeed the PPF, would still 
have been an option for Mr B, although this would have meant Mr Bs pension benefits 
would have been somewhat reduced due to him accessing the pension earlier and for 
longer. But I think this was discounted by DCFL as Ive seen no evidence it was realistically 
discussed with a view to assessing whether it was more in Mr Bs best interests. The advice 
simply focussed on him transferring away completely.
So, whilst I accept the notion of retiring early and / or accessing tax-free cash might have 
been appealing, this needed to be considered against the other options Mr B faced, 
including opting for the BSPS2. I cant see that Mr B required flexibility in retirement in the way DCFL suggested. DCFL said that Mr Bs estimated annual pension upon his NRA was 
£5,323 per year or £3,858 at the age of 60. As a DB pension this was guaranteed and index 
linked. 
However, as he was so young, it wasnt possible to say what Mr Bs financial and income 
needs were likely to be in retirement. And I havent seen anything to persuade me that Mr B 
wouldnt have been able to meet his likely retirement income needs by accessing his DB 
pension instead of transferring out to a personal pension plan. This is because, as well as 
retirement being a long time away, we know Mr B had already joined his employers new 
defined contribution (DC) scheme and could have been making contributions to it for up to 
forty years more, until he retired. Mr Bs contributions to this second pension were being 
added to by his employer and I think theres every reason to say that by retirement  
whenever it came  there would have been a substantial amount in this DC pension to 
complement his deferred DB scheme (in BSPS2). 
I think therefore, that by retirement, Mr B could have been in a good position if hed 
transferred to the BSPS2. On one hand hed have had a long-standing modest DB pension, 
but one with all the guarantees and benefits this type of scheme brought. And on the other 
hand, hed have built up a substantial DC pension over many years, which, if he later found 
he did require flexibility, this pension could have provided it.
I have therefore considered what DCFL said about retiring early and the potential flexibility 
brought about by transferring to a personal plan: it said this would include how funds were 
invested, the level of income he could withdraw from it and a greater ability to flexibly use the 
tax-free lump sum element. 
However, I dont think recommending a transfer-out based on these reasons was suitable 
because so little was known about what his retirement would look like. DCFL also implied 
that Mr B would be able to have complete control over the pension if he transferred out. But 
Ive seen nothing which shows Mr B had either the desire or capacity to exercise personal 
control over his pension. As Ive pointed out earlier, Mr Bs previous exposure to investing 
was not really known and he had no such investments at the time, despite having savings. 
And to grow the transferred funds in the way DCFL later said he could, a much higher 
degree of risk exposure would have been required.
So, I think Mr Bs circumstances were much more aligned to him transferring to BSPS2 and 
retiring from that when he felt he was ready to do so, and then drawing a DB pension. 
Because he also had a second, DC pension, this supported that strategy, in my view. 
I therefore think the suitable option was for Mr B to access his DB pension in the way it was 
originally intended.
Death benefits 
DCFL says that death benefits were discussed at the time and the personal pension would 
better enable the retention of the value of the funds if Mr B died. But Im afraid I think this 
was no more than a stock objective with no real relevance to Mr Bs situation. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was probably made to look like an attractive feature to Mr B. But 
whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr B might have thought 
it was a good idea to transfer the BSPS to a personal pension because of this, the priority 
here was to advise him about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is 
primarily designed to provide income in retirement. I also think saying Mr Bs death benefits would improve in a personal pension because he 
could pass over all his funds upon him dying, needed putting into context. Only in his 
twenties and in good health, he and Mrs B were intending to start a family. In my view, the 
likely death benefits attached to the new DB scheme were therefore highly relevant to Mr 
and Mrs B and they were also substantially underplayed. 
DCFL implied all the benefits werent fully known to it at the time  which would of course 
mean that it advised Mr B to transfer away when it had failed to fully understand all the 
relevant information. However, Ive looked at the timescales involved and looked carefully at 
when emerging details of the new scheme were being released. As Ive said, members were 
sent a Time to Choose booklet in October 2017 and I think its reasonable for me to say that 
BSPS2 was going to provide death benefits not substantially different to those in the BSPS. 
The spouses pension provided by the BSPS2 would have been useful to Mrs B if Mr B 
predeceased her and I dont think DCFL made the value of this benefit clear enough. As an 
expectant father, I think the child specific benefits would also have been meaningful to Mr B. 
These were guaranteed and they escalated  they were not dependent on investment 
performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. And there 
may not have been a large sum left anyway in a personal pension upon Mr Bs passing, 
particularly if he lived a long life. DCFL should therefore not have encouraged Mr B to 
prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a personal pension over his security 
in retirement.
It also doesnt appear that DCFL took into account the fact that Mr B could have nominated 
Mrs B as the beneficiary of any funds remaining in his DC scheme. So, to this end, Mr B had 
already ensured a substantial part of his pension wouldnt die with him.
I cant see whether, or the extent to which, life insurance was discussed in this case. But at 
24 years old, this would have been an affordable product if Mr B really did want to leave a 
legacy for Mrs B and eventually their children. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr B. I think this objective was 
no more than a generic comment and not meaningful to Mr Bs situation. 
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme 
Its clear that Mr B, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and 
DCFL said he lacked trust in the company. Hed heard negative things about the PPF and 
DCFL said he could have more control over his pension fund. 
So, its quite possible that Mr B was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and a negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was DCFLs obligation to give Mr B an objective picture and recommend what was in his 
best interests.
By the point of the advice being delivered details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely 
it was going ahead. So, I think this should have alleviated Mr Bs concerns about the scheme 
moving to the PPF.
However, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that DCFL 
should have reassured Mr B that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he 
thought. The income available to Mr B through the PPF would have still have probably 
provided a significant portion of the income he would have needed at retirement, and he was 
still unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out, given his actual ATR and the effect of pension charges and fees Ive mentioned. And although the increases in payment in the 
PPF were lower, the income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. 
So, I dont think that these concerns should have led to DCFLs recommendation to Mr B to 
transfer out of the DB scheme altogether.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr B. But DCFL 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr B might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr B needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr B was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2. By transferring to a personal 
pension, the evidence shows Mr B was likely to obtain lower retirement benefits. And I dont 
think there were any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer and outweigh 
this. I think DCFL ought to have advised him against transferring out of his DB scheme for 
this reason, particularly as it meant hed be worse off in retirement.
So, I dont think it was in Mr Bs best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
I think it was clear to all parties that the BSPS2 was likely to be going ahead. Mr B still had 
many years before he intended to retire. So, I don't think that it would have been in his 
interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would have faced by the scheme entering the 
PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. By 
opting into the BSPS2, Mr B would have retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme 
nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. Also, Mr B was married, and his wifes pension 
would be set at 50% of his pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no 
lump sum was taken at retirement (if Mr B chose to do so). The annual indexation of his 
pension when in payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. 
On this basis, I think DCFL should have advised Mr B to opt into the BSPS2.
I have considered, given the circumstances of the time, whether Mr B would have 
transferred to a personal pension in any event. I accept that DCFL disclosed some of the 
risks of transferring to Mr B, and provided him with a certain amount of information. But 
ultimately it advised Mr B to transfer out, and I think Mr B relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr B would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, 
against DCFLs advice. I say this because Mr B was an inexperienced investor and this 
pension accounted for almost all of his retirement provision at the time. So, if DCFL had 
provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it 
wasnt in his best interests, I think he would have accepted that advice.
Im also not persuaded that Mr Bs concerns about the PPF were so great that he would 
have insisted on transferring his pension, knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his 
best interests. So if DCFL had explained Mr B was also unlikely to exceed the benefits 
available to him through the PPF if he transferred out, and that he could meet his income 
needs in retirement without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that would have carried 
significant weight.
In light of the above, I think DCFL should compensate Mr B for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr B, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for DCFLs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr B would 
have most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal pension if he'd 
been given suitable advice. So, DCFL should use the benefits offered by BSPS2 for 
comparison purposes.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr B whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now, in line 
with current guidance, or wait for any new guidance/rules to be published. He didnt make a 
choice, so as set out previously Ive assumed in this case he doesnt want to wait for the new 
guidance to come into effect. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr B. 
For clarity, Mr B has no plans at present to retire any earlier than age 65. So, compensation 
should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the 
FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Bs acceptance of the decision.
DCFL may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Bs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Bs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Bs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr B within 90 days of the date DCFL receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes DCFL to pay Mr B.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect DCFL to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
I have also considered the impact on Mr B of the unsuitable advice and transfer. Our 
investigator recommended that a sum of £300 should be paid to Mr B by DCFL for what she 
referred to as the trouble and upset caused by this unsuitable transfer. However, Ive taken 
into consideration Mr Bs age at the time and the length of time he had until retirement. Also, 
by retirement, this DB pension would be a much smaller part of his overall pension 
entitlement. So, whilst Im upholding the case, I award no additional payment for trouble and 
upset.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: Ive decided to uphold this complaint and I now direct DC 
Financial Limited to pay Mr B the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
DC Financial Limited to pay Mr B any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require DC 
Financial Limited to pay Mr B any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
DC Financial Limited pays Mr B the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr B.
If Mr B accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on DC Financial 
Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr B can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr B may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman