DRN-2841782
The complaint
Mr W complains that HDI Global Specialty SE (HDI) declined his pet insurance claim. My 
references to HDI include its agents.
What happened
On 15 October 2020 Mr W took out pet insurance on-line for his dog. The insurer of the 
policy was HDI. Mr W said for the previous two years his dog had been insured elsewhere 
but as that insurer had increased its premium hed changed pet insurance.  
On 29 October 2020 HDI received a call from Mr Ws dogs vet asking whether HDI would 
cover an illness that was first noted on 26 October 2020. HDI told the vet it wouldnt cover as 
the policy didnt cover illnesses noted within the first 14 days of the policy. Sadly, Mr Ws dog 
was diagnosed with kidney failure and it was kindest to put him to sleep.
 
Mr W complained to us saying:
when he bought the policy he wasnt told about the important 14 days exclusion and 
if hed known he would have kept the previous policy to ensure continuous cover
on 26 October 2020 the vet diagnosed his dog had an upset stomach and there was 
no claim for that treatment. His dog deteriorated which is why he went to the vet 
again on 29 October but the kidney failure diagnosis was a completely different 
condition
as well as losing his much loved dog he had a large vet bill which was going to be 
very difficult to pay and he thought HDI had been mercenary in dealing with his 
claim.
HDI said the exclusion was clear in the policy sales process and in the policy documents 
sent to Mr W.
Our investigator said HDI fairly declined the claim.
Mr W disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. In summary he added:
consumers are encouraged to shop around for better insurance deals which he did, 
but it left his dog not covered for the first 14 days due to the small print in the policy
he did the humane thing taking his dog to the vet when he did and if hed been aware 
of the 14 days exclusion he could have delayed treatment which wouldnt have been 
humane
pet insurers shouldnt have a 14 days exclusion and it was unfair as his dog had no 
underlying health conditions and was very well cared for
HDI showed no compassion and only gave him a full refund of premium when he 
complained. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive no doubt that Mr W acted only in his dogs best interests in taking him to the vet when he 
was unwell. As well as the upset of his dog passing away hes got the difficulty of paying a 
substantial vet bill. But I have to decide whether HDI fairly and reasonably declined the 
claim, and I think it did. I dont uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
Many pet insurance policies have an exclusion for claims for illness symptoms which start 
soon after the policy begins, typically the first 14 days. Its for an insurer to decide what 
exclusions it wants to add to the policy. But this type of exclusion is significant and needs to 
be made clear to the consumer.
Ive seen the screen shots of the on-line application process when Mr W bought the policy. 
Underneath the information on different tiers of cover available through the policy it says: 
There is a 14 day waiting period which applies to illness only and a 24 hour waiting 
period that applies to accident.
As part of the application process Mr W was also asked to confirm hed read and accepted 
the assumptions which included:
You accept that claims for vet fees following an illness or accident that occurred prior 
to, or within the first 14 days of your pet insurance policy start date will not be 
covered. 
So I think Mr W was given clear information about the 14 days exclusion for illness before he 
bought the policy.  
Once Mr W had bought the policy he was sent a statement of fact which was a record of the 
information and answers he provided which included an answer of yes to the statement:
You accept and understand that medical conditions or diseases that show clinical 
signs prior to or within the first 14 days from your policy inception date will not be 
covered.
Mr W was also sent a policy document which contained the exclusion: 
What is not covered...
Any illness arising prior to or within the first 14 days of the inception date of the 
insurance or pre-existing condition.
The policy definition of illness includes For the avoidance of doubt an illness is taken to start 
from the date that symptoms are first noticed, by either you or your vet (whichever is the 
sooner) not the date that an illness is first treated by your vet. Most pet policies have the 
same or similar definition of illness.
Mr W was also sent an Insurance Product Information Document (IPID), which is a summary 
of the key policy information. Under the heading What is not insured the IPID says:
Any illness that occurs within the first 14 days of the policy commencement date.
So I dont think HDI did hide the exclusion in the small print as Mr W suggests. I think HDI 
gave clear enough information about the exclusion during the policy sale and when sending 
the policy documentation. That means I think HDI could fairly and reasonably rely on the exclusion.
Mr W says his dogs diagnosis of kidney failure was a different condition to the upset  
stomach initially diagnosed. I understand he didnt know about the kidney failure on 
26 October 2020. But Ive listened to the call between the vet practice and HDI and from 
what the vet practice said HDI could reasonably understand that the clinical signs of kidney 
failure were first seen by the vet on 26 October. So HDI fairly used the exclusion to decline 
to cover the claim.
Mr W believes HDI were mercenary. But Ive explained why I think it acted reasonably in 
declining the claim. And although Mr W says HDI refunded the policy premiums only when 
he complained it gave a full refund and under the policy terms it didnt need to, so I think it 
acted fairly.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman