DRN-2799616
The complaint
The executors of Mrs Gs estate believe that Key Retirement Solutions Limited mis-sold her 
a lifetime mortgage in 2015. They have said that they dont believe Mrs G understood the 
terms of the mortgage and was offered significantly more money than she initially wanted. In 
addition, despite the paperwork recording that her children were aware of what she was 
doing, they were not. They also questioned the amount and frequencies of the further 
drawdowns taken  they think the reasons given for them should have raised red flags.
The executors are also concerned that Key failed to follow the guidance set out by the Equity 
Release Council; particularly in the area of customer vulnerability. They say this as despite 
Key being aware of the state of Mrs Gs mental health and that there were Attorneys in 
place, it was still sending offers of further equity release before her death. In addition, the 
executors have been unable to establish if Mrs G was offered a mortgage with the option to 
protect a portion of the property value for inheritance purposes. 
What happened
In 2015 Mrs G arranged to meet with an adviser from Key to discuss releasing equity from 
her home. 
The fact finding exercise completed at the first appointment between Mrs G and Key detailed 
that she was widowed and had an income of around £1,000 per month. She thought her 
home was worth around £300,000 and wanted to release some funds for home 
improvements, a cash reserve and to clear an existing loan. She was happy with her income 
and, if she paid off her existing loan, her disposable income would increase. She confirmed 
that her family werent in a position to help her financially and she would prefer to stay 
financially independent as long as possible, so didnt want to ask. The cash reserve she 
wanted to raise was for large expenditure in the future and she said she would like to be able 
to access further funds if needed. Mrs G also said shed discussed her plans to release 
equity from the house and her sons were in favour of her plan. 
Key sent Mrs G a report setting out what had been discussed, details of the mortgage Key 
was recommending and an explanation of why it suited Mrs Gs stated needs. It was detailed 
that she wanted to release money from her home to give her a cash reserve, clear an 
existing loan (£7,000) and fund some home improvements. In addition, Key was also 
detailed that Mrs G had expressed a preference for an open-ended drawdown facility to 
provide a peace of mind fund for the future. The fact that no-one else had been at the 
meetings with the adviser was confirmed, along with the fact that Mrs G had been given the 
opportunity to have someone with her. 
In relation to leaving an inheritance, it was confirmed that shed like to do so. However, shed 
said that it wasnt important for that to be guaranteed. That said, Mrs G had told the adviser 
that shed discussed her plans with her sons, and they were in favour of her proceeding. The 
adviser recommended Mrs G look into arranging a lasting power of attorney, which she did a 
short time later. In relation to the drawdown facility, this was detailed as something Mrs G 
would like to have, but it hadnt been essential. Rather her priority was releasing funds at 
that point for her immediate needs. 
The mortgage recommended by Key allowed for Mrs G to have the money she wanted 
immediately. It also provided a drawdown facility she could use to take additional funds in 
the future should she wish to  to a maximum total borrowing of £99,599. In addition, she 
was able to make payments to the mortgage if she wanted to, but she didnt have to. It was 
detailed that Mrs G had decided to take an initial advance of £30,000.
Mrs G subsequently asked that the mortgage advance be increased to £40,000.
Before the mortgage was allowed to complete, Mrs G had to meet with a solicitor to ensure 
she understood the mortgage she was planning to take out. The solicitor confirmed that the 
terms of the mortgage had been explained, as had the implications of taking it. This 
included, but wasnt restricted to, an explanation of the effect the mortgage would have on 
her estate after death. 
Following a deterioration in Mrs Gs health, her attorneys found details about the lifetime 
mortgage and complained to Key and the mortgage lender. A short time later Mrs G passed 
away.
Key responded to the executors complaint. It detailed what information it had about Mrs Gs 
circumstances and needs in 2015. It confirmed that shed wanted a mortgage that had an 
open-ended drawdown facility in case she wanted further money in the future. Key also 
explained its process when giving advice, including suggesting that family is involved. It went 
through its recommendation, its explanation of the product that had been given to Mrs G and 
reasons for the recommendation. Key was satisfied that the recommendation was 
appropriate for Mrs G at the time. It also said that there was no evidence to suggest that the 
adviser should have had cause to question Mrs Gs capacity in 2015.  It confirmed that had 
there been any concerns about her capacity or a sense that she was being coerced into 
releasing money for reasons other than shed stated, this would have been flagged and she 
wouldnt have been allowed to proceed with the mortgage. 
The complaint was referred to this service. Following Mrs Gs death, the executors confirmed 
that they wanted to continue with the complaint. They summarised the complaint as them 
believing that Key was negligent in believing that Mrs G had discussed the matter with her 
children. They feel that the childrens absence from the meetings and Mrs Gs statement that 
she wouldnt go to her family with financial issues shows this to be the case. They believe 
that it would have been simple for Key to verify that Mrs G had discussed the matter with her 
children. The executors also explained they considered she was sold a product in excess of 
her needs and that ultimately enabled unscrupulous traders to exploit her and obtain money 
for unnecessary or possibly non-existent work. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. The executors didnt accept the investigators view. As agreement couldnt be 
reached, it was decided that the complaint would be referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Before I consider the merits of this complaint, I would make it clear that I am considering the 
sale of the mortgage in 2015 and its suitability for Mrs Gs circumstances at the time. I note 
that the executors have concerns about the further drawdowns taken by Mrs G and whether 
they should have been allowed, given the reasons for taking the money. However, the 
drawdowns were dealt with directly with the lender and Key was not involved, so I wont be 
commenting on that issue in this decision.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that the executors have implied that Mrs G wasnt competent to enter into the 
mortgage contract as a power of attorney was granted to them the following year. They 
believe Key should have been aware that Mrs G wasnt mentally competent and so it 
shouldnt have sold her the mortgage. 
I have considered this carefully, and I am not persuaded by the argument. Mrs G signed the 
power of attorney some months after the sale of this mortgage and that signature was 
accepted by the Office of the Public Guardian. Had there been any suggestion Mrs G wasnt 
competent at the time she signed the form, it wouldnt have been accepted and the 
application for the lasting power of attorney would have had to be applied for on a different 
basis. In addition, I note that the executors have said the early signs of dementia werent 
noticed until the early part of 2020, some years after the mortgage started. As such, I am not 
persuaded Key should have had any reason to think or suspect there might be competency 
issues at the time of the sale of the mortgage.
I would also make the executors aware that Mrs Gs mortgage was a regulated product. So it 
was the regulators rules and guidance that Key was required to comply with when it advised 
Mrs G.
The executors have said that they consider Mrs Gs statement that she wanted to remain 
independent and so wouldnt approach her children for help, alongside them not attending 
the meetings with her, should have caused Key to be concerned. Ive considered this, but an 
older consumer wanting to stay financially independent and to make their own decisions, 
without influence from family members, isnt unusual. I can understand why the executors 
think what they do, but I dont consider Key should have had concerns about Mrs G being 
capable or for it to have questioned her decisions.
As for the executors comment that Key could easily have checked that Mrs Gs sons were 
aware of what she was doing and agreed to it; Key couldnt and shouldnt have done so. A 
consumer is entitled to privacy and if Key had contacted either of Mrs Gs sons about the 
advice shed asked for, it would have been a breach of her privacy and most likely data 
protection regulations. In addition, Key was entitled to rely on the information Mrs G was 
giving it. It wouldnt have been its place to doubt her integrity unless there was very good 
reason, which the evidence in this case doesnt point to there being in this case.
I know that the executors wont agree with me, but having looked at all the information from 
the time of the sale, I dont think the advice Key gave Mrs G was inappropriate or unsuitable. 
She was in a position where she had assets, but a modest income. She wanted to use some 
of the value of her assets to provide for her needs, which was a choice she was entitled to 
make. As for the provision of the drawdown facility, the reasons this was recommended dont 
seem unreasonable. It gave Mrs G access to further funds if she needed them without 
having to go through the process of further advice and incurring associated costs. 
The documentation and explanation would have made Mrs G aware of how the mortgage 
worked and that the debt would grow quickly because interest was being added to the debt. 
Indeed, the key facts document shows what the mortgage debt might be at various points, 
and shows the debt having more than doubled by the end of year fourteen.
I accept the executors think Mrs G might have been targeted by unscrupulous traders some 
time after the mortgage was advanced; but this isnt something Key could have predicted 
would happen.As for Key continuing to send Mrs G advertising information after it had been told there were 
attorneys in place, I dont think this was wrong or implies anything about the advice that was 
given in 2015. Businesses will have mailing lists and they dont tend to remove individuals 
until they have to (for example on death) or theyre asked to. Whilst Mrs G was by 2020 
unable to manage her own financial affairs, her attorneys may have been interested in 
further financial products or services. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask the estate of Mrs G to accept or reject my 
decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman