DRN-3406735
The complaint
Mr A complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) unfairly registered a late 
payment on his credit file and charged interest on his credit card account after it agreed not 
to.
What happened
Mr A says he had an agreement with Halifax, that provided he made regular monthly 
payments of £20 per month to his credit card account, he wouldnt be charged interest. Mr A 
says he telephoned Halifax on more than one occasion about this, and each time the interest 
was refunded. Mr A says he arranged for a direct debit to be set up from his bank account 
but needed to pay the April 2020 payment manually. Mr A says he attempted to do this with 
his debit card, but it was rejected, so he arranged for a family member to pay April 2020s 
payment directly to his credit card account, on his behalf. 
Mr A says he wasnt informed the April 2020 payment was rejected by Halifax back to his 
family members bank account and as a result, Halifax registered a late payment marker on 
his credit file, which he feels is unfair. 
Mr A says Halifax also agreed, in a telephone call in April 2020, that if he kept to his 
payment plan of £20 per month it wouldnt charge him interest, and while some interest had 
been refunded, interest has since been charged again by Halifax and that wasnt the 
arrangement they came to. 
Mr A wants Halifax to refund the interest charged on his credit card account and remove any 
late payment markers from his credit file. 
Halifax says they have acted fairly here and the payment for April 2020 was rejected 
because the wrong account details were quoted by the sender. Halifax says it is Mr As 
responsibility to check his credit card account payments are made on time. Halifax says it 
previously refunded interest charges as a gesture of goodwill but didnt agree to permanently 
suspend interest on Mr As credit card account. 
Mr A wasnt happy with Halifaxs response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says it was Mr As  responsibility to ensure the payment to his credit card 
account was made on time. The investigator says Mr A had been informed before by Halifax 
that he couldnt use his debit card to make payments to his credit card account. The 
investigator felt Halifax had acted fairly when it returned the payment made to his credit card 
by a family member, as the account details were incorrect. 
The investigator felt as a result, Halifax had recorded the late payment on Mr As credit file 
accurately, even though he had attempted to make the payment. The investigator could see 
no evidence to show Halifax had agreed to suspend interest on Mr As credit card account 
and these charges had been applied fairly. The investigator felt Halifax had acted reasonably 
when it agreed to refund the interest charges to Mr As credit card account, when it did.
Mr A didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
I sent both sides a provisional decision, where I said :
Ive considered all of the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to a different outcome to that of the investigator and I will 
explain how I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Mr A to see a late payment marker 
registered on his credit file when he had made attempts to ensure the monthly payments 
were made on time. I can also understand it would have been frustrating for him, having 
thought Halifax had agreed to stop further interest payments on his credit card account, only 
to find these had been charged and no record of their telephone agreement was traceable 
by them. 
Mr As complaint centres around two main points, firstly Halifax had agreed not to charge 
him interest on his credit card account. Secondly that Halifax acted unfairly in registering a 
late payment marker in April 2020, despite his attempts to make the payment.
Mr A says there was a telephone call with Halifax where it was agreed no interest would be 
charged on his credit card account and this service has been provided with two telephone 
calls in early April 2020 - no other calls have been located by them surrounding this issue. 
So unfortunately here, I can only comment on the calls that have been provided to this 
service. 
I have listened to these two telephone calls made at the beginning of April 2020, and the first 
thing to say is the quality of the call recordings made it very difficult for the representative of 
Halifax or this service to clearly hear what Mr A was saying, this in part seems to be due to 
the fact he was calling from overseas at the time. What I have understood from the first call 
is it was agreed with Mr A, given the issues he had experienced in attempting to contact 
Halifax due to the Covid pandemic, Halifax would remove the late marker on his credit file for 
March 2020, which they have. In addition, the representative tells Mr A if he doesnt wish to 
pay interest on his credit card account, a payment arrangement needs to be agreed and put 
in place based on affordability. 
It was then agreed by both parties that £20 per month would be affordable even though Mr A 
says he wasnt working, but he does confirm he had savings he could use; the call then cuts 
off . Mr A then calls back and speaks to another representative who checks the file records 
and confirms a plan was agreed with a direct debit of £20 per month to be set up. Mr A goes 
on to ask if that meant he wouldnt pay interest, and he is told there would be no interest 
charged for three months, and after that it would be charged, but the plan could be 
reassessed at that time. Mr A asks if the amount of the debt he owed could be reduced and 
he is told it couldnt be.
Its worth mentioning that this conversation was held just prior to the guidance provided to 
banks from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) surrounding issues confronting 
consumers during Covid. But here, Halifax have supported Mr A and provided forbearance 
for a period of three months, and explains it would then charge interest from July 2020, 
which is what happened here, and I cant say Mr A wasnt made aware of that. I cant see Mr 
A made any further contact with Halifax regarding the payment arrangement, although Mr 
As credit card statements shows he put the account up to date in May 2020, and the normal 
monthly minimums amount were collected by direct debit after that. With that in mind Im satisfied the interest charged to Mr As credit card account from July 2020 was correct and it 
was for Mr A to have contacted Halifax if he felt further support was needed beyond the 
three-month period approved. 
Where I do have an issue here, is with the marker for a late payment made on Mr As credit 
file in April 2020. I can see Halifax had previously amended Mr As credit file for March 2020 
due to the issues he faced making payments and that is what I would expect to happen 
given the circumstances. But here, in April 2020 from the information I have seen, Mr A 
initially attempted to make a payment to his credit card account in April 2020. But it was 
refused, and Halifax make the point Mr As debit card was rejected because its system 
identified it as a credit card, which wasnt acceptable. Mr A then attempted again to make 
the April 2020 payment by asking a family member to make a direct bank transfer, but 
unfortunately this payment was rejected by Halifax, as the credit card account number was 
prefixed with a letter. 
While I accept the payments perhaps couldnt be accepted by Halifax, its fair to say that Mr 
A did attempt to make both payments in good faith. Also, while I understand Halifaxs system 
didnt recognise the card payment he tried to make, Im not persuaded that Mr A should be 
disadvantaged because of that. Here, given what we know now, I am satisfied a fair outcome 
would be for Halifax to recognise the attempts Mr A made to pay the April 2020 payment and 
amend his credit file accordingly.  
While neither Mr A nor Halifax will be happy with my provisional decision, I feel this is a fair 
outcome here. 
While Halifax responded to my provisional decision, I have heard nothing further from Mr A, 
so the case has been passed back to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I gave both Mr A and Halifax until 30 March 2022, to accept or reject my provisional 
decision. Mr A has made no further comment to my provisional decision, but Halifax have. 
Halifax have agreed to remove the late payment marker on Mr As credit file dated April 
2020, but it wanted to clarify the reasons for the two payment attempts being rejected. 
Firstly, Mr A attempted to use his own credit card to make a payment, which isnt permitted 
and secondly, the family members payment would have been rejected even if the card 
number wasnt prefixed by a letter. This is because, for security reasons, a payment to a 
credit card account can only be made from a debit card that is in the same name as the 
credit card itself. 
This is understood and Mr A should be aware of this going forward, but as I said in my 
provisional decision, Mr A did attempt to make the payments in good faith and with that in 
mind, I cant say this changes my original provisional decision and so my final decision 
remains the same. Putting things right
I instruct Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax to remove the April 2020 late payment 
marker on Mr As credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax to remove the April 2020 late payment 
marker on Mr As credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman