DRN-3388895
The complaint
Mr A complains about Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant), who declined his 
claim under his gadget insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr A had a gadget insurance policy via his bank. He had a phone that he wanted to sell. 
Two men attended his home to buy the phone. But the sale didnt go through as Mr A 
believed he was being scammed. Mr A refused to sell the phone and explained that he was 
made to feel pressured and intimidated to hand over the phone, which he did. The two men 
left his home with the phone. Mr A reported the theft to police and obtained a crime 
reference number and then reported the theft to Assurant. The police were unable to find the 
men.
On considering the claim, Assurant asked Mr A about the circumstances of the loss of the 
phone. Mr A told them that he was in the process of selling the phone when the theft 
occurred. Assurant said that in these circumstances, and due to the policy terms, the claim 
would be declined as the incident wasnt covered. 
Mr A raised a complaint with Assurant and in its final response, it maintained that the theft 
wasnt covered under the terms of the policy, due to the phone being stolen during a sale. Mr 
A was given his referral rights and he referred a complaint to our service. 
After Mr A referred the complaint to our service, Assurant offered him £250 to settle the 
complaint. Mr A rejected the offer, so Assurant withdrew the offer. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said she accepted that a crime had been committed but, the circumstances of this sort of
crime and loss of his phone were clearly excluded by the policy terms and conditions. She 
concluded that Assurant had fairly declined the claim. 
Assurant accepted the view, Mr A did not. He said that Assurant had offered him £250 to 
resolve the complaint and this must be an admission of its guilt. Hed been a loyal customer 
who had never made any claims before and was a victim of a crime. And his treatment by 
Assurant was unacceptable and he felt as if it had been accusing him of fraud. He 
acknowledged that the policy didnt cover him for this type of theft, but he felt that he 
shouldve been made better aware about this. And he said he would be making another 
complaint about the mis-selling of the policy. But he asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman on the current complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to 
Mr A, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
I note that Mr A has made a number of detailed points, which I have read and considered. I 
hope the fact that I dont respond in similar detail here wont be taken as a discourtesy. As 
an informal dispute resolution service, we are tasked with reaching a fair and reasonable 
conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, it isnt necessary for me to respond to 
every point made, but to concentrate on the nub of the issue.
I have reviewed the policy documents as well as the information provided to me by both 
sides. The main issue of the complaint I think, relates to how the theft of the mobile phone 
occurred and whether Assurant fairly applied the terms and conditions of the policy to the 
claim. 
I have listened to the call, in which Mr A reports the theft to Assurant and during which the 
advisor asked Mr A what happened. The summary of the call is as follows: Mr A reported 
that he tried to sell the phone and put it online. He was contacted and two people came to 
his home. They seemed genuine and wanted to buy the phone. He explained that they tried 
to make an online banking payment. They told him that the payment had gone through, but 
he never received the payment and became sceptical. He didnt release the phone, but the 
people got agitated, got hold of the phone and ran off. He said that he called the police, he 
had CCTV, but despite this the police were unable to find the two people. 
The advisor then put Mr A on hold and returned to tell him that for this kind of theft, the policy 
didnt provide cover. Following this, Mr A raised a complaint. 
I have reviewed the policy terms and conditions, to see what is covered under the section of 
theft. Theft is covered under the policy, but there are exclusions which provide: We do not 
cover any loss of your mobile phone or any loss of money in connection with an attempted 
sale of your mobile phone, for example where the purchaser fails to pay you some or all of 
the agreed price, or if the phone is lost in transit.'
The policy terms make it clear that during the process of the sale of the phone (whether 
money exchanges or not), in which a theft happens, this is excluded from cover. Mr A 
explained during the account to Assurant, that he was in the process of selling the phone, 
this appeared to be the primary reason why the two men were present in his home, having 
answered an ad that he had placed to sell the phone. And it was during the process of this 
sale, the theft took place. 
I understand that Mr A said that he decided not to sell the phone once he discovered that the 
money hadnt been transferred to his account. But the exclusion provides for such a 
situation. It clarifies that where there has been an attempted sale, for example, where a 
purchaser fails to pay some or all of the agreed price, this is not covered by the policy.  
The policy recommends that those who choose to sell their device must exercise some 
caution, such as waiting for payment (including waiting for cheques to clear) before 
releasing your mobile phone or using a secure payment service. I think as Assurant has 
listed these recommendations (and I havent listed all of them) it shows policyholders that it 
never intended to cover the loss of phones during an attempted sale. Consequently, I dont 
think that the incident as explained by Mr A was covered under the terms of the policy. And I 
do think Assurant were fair and reasonable in relying on the terms and conditions of the 
policy, to decline the claim. 
I appreciate that this is not the outcome that Mr A wouldve liked. And I do sympathise with 
the distress that this incident wouldve caused. But, in the circumstances of this complaint, Im not satisfied that Assurant were unfair or unreasonable in declining the claim. And I wont 
be asking it to do anything further to resolve the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman