DRN-3854741
The complaint
Miss O complains that Santander UK Plc closed her account and registered information with 
CIFAS, the UKs fraud database.
What happened
Ms O had an account with Santander. In April 2021 she received a payment of £8,685 from 
a third party, who Ill call B. But Santander says that some of these funds were connected to 
fraud, and so it closed Ms Os account and withheld access to the funds. It also registered 
information about what had happened with CIFAS. Dissatisfied, Ms O complained to 
Santander and then referred the complaint to us.
Our investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Ms O didnt 
agree. The complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision, I need to decide whether Santander acted fairly in closing the account, 
withholding the funds, and reporting information to CIFAS.
Ive first considered Santanders decision to restrict and close the account. The terms and 
conditions that applied to Ms Os account allowed Santander to close this account 
immediately in certain circumstances. That would include where Ms O acted dishonestly or 
acted in any way to give rise to a reasonable suspicion of fraud.
Here, Santander received a report that some funds paid into Ms Os account were the result 
of fraud. I note that Santander contacted Ms O to ask her about these funds, and Ms O said 
her friend, B, had received them from Ms Os parents. But these funds werent from her 
parents  they were paid to B by an apparently unconnected third party. Given the report 
Santander had received and that Ms Os explanation was at odds with what appeared to 
have happened, I accept that Santander was acting in line with the applicable terms and 
conditions when it restricted and then closed Ms Os account.
Santander then decided to withhold access to the remaining funds. Id only expect 
Santander to do this if it wasnt satisfied that Ms O was entitled to the funds.
Weve asked Ms O about this. She says that the funds actually related to a foreign exchange 
transaction that shed arranged with the help of a third party, who Ill call C. She says she 
arranged to pay foreign currency to a business based overseas. In return, C arranged for 
someone to make a payment to Bs account in the UK.
Ms O says the reason she asked for the payment to go to Bs account was because shed 
recently lost the cards for her own bank accounts. So she temporarily used Bs account in 
case anyone else found her cards and tried to make unauthorised payments. For similar 
reasons, shed also transferred the balance of one of her other accounts with another bank 
to B, which B had then transferred to her account with Santander, together with the other 
funds.
To support her version of events, Ms O has provided screenshots of messages on an instant 
messaging app between herself and C. According to these screenshots, when Ms O wanted 
money, shed tell C how much she wanted to change, and C would send her bank details to 
make payments to. Once Ms O had made the payment, C would arrange for a third party to 
make the payment to her or Bs accounts in the UK.
But while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Ms O, I cant say Santander 
acted unfairly here. Based on what Ms O was saying, she has received large sums into her 
account from people she has no connection to. And then Santander received a report that 
one of the payments was the result of fraud. In the circumstances, I can understand why 
Santander hasnt found the information Ms O has provided satisfactory and why it required 
further information before it can release the funds to Ms O.
Finally, Ive considered Santanders decision to register information with CIFAS.
 
The marker Santander has filed with CIFAS records that theres a misuse of facility  
relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. To file this information, it isnt 
required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Ms O is guilty of fraud or a financial crime, 
but they must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. There 
needs to be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial crime has 
been committed or attempted, and the evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such 
that the member could confidently record the conduct of the subject to the police.
Here, fraudulent funds were moved into Ms Os account  Santander received a report from 
a third party that these funds were fraudulent, and nothing Ive seen suggests this report was 
mistaken.
Id also expect Santander to have strong evidence to show that Ms O was deliberately 
dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate 
payment.
Ive carefully considered this. I note that when questioned by Santander Ms O said the 
payments were from her parents. She didnt mention the arrangement with C or that the 
funds might have been paid by a third party. I note that B apparently gave Santander a 
completely different explanation of where the money had come from. And then Ms O gave a 
further explanation when she referred the complaint to this service. Given the 
inconsistencies in what Ms O has told us and the business, its difficult to place much weight 
on what Ms O has said. It also remains unclear what connection there was between Ms O 
and C on the one hand, and the third party who sent B the funds on the other. Ive also 
considered Ms Os actions in transferring these funds away from and then back to her 
accounts.
Having weighed everything up, Im persuaded Santander acted fairly and reasonably in 
applying the marker with CIFAS against Ms O. For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied 
that Santander had grounds to believe that Ms O was involved in the dispersal of 
fraudulently obtained funds based on the evidence it had. I find it more likely than not that 
Ms O knew rather more about the account activity than shes told us and the bank. So I think 
it was fair for Santander to register the CIFAS marker.
It follows that I dont uphold the complaint and Im not going to tell Santander to do anything 
further to put things right.My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman