DRN-3564869
The complaint
Miss A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC declined her disputed transactions claim.   
What happened
On 19 and 20 January 2022, three payments of £500, making a total of £1,500, were debited 
from Miss As current account to a third-party merchant. 
Miss A discovered this on 21 January 2022 and contacted Barclays to raise a disputed 
transactions claim as she said she did not complete the transactions herself. 
Barclays investigated and provided a final response on 23 February 2022. This explained 
that the transactions were authorised through the Barclays app, so they were holding Miss A 
liable for the transactions. 
Miss A referred the complaint to our service and said someone must have accessed her 
online banking to make the payments. Our investigator looked into the complaint and agreed 
that Barclays had acted fairly when it declined Miss As claim. They said that the disputed 
payments were approved via Miss As mobile banking app and that the device used was 
linked to Miss As phone number. And as Miss A has said she had her device at the time of 
the transactions, it was more likely than not that Miss A authorised them herself.
Miss A disagreed with this. She explained that she may have authorised the first transfer, 
thinking that she was authorising a transfer of £600 she had made to her current account 
from a credit card account. But that she was tired and on medication which meant she 
wasnt thinking clearly. And that the following day, she was in the hospital for treatment and 
her phone was in a locker, so she could not have authorised the payments herself.  
Our investigator responded and explained that looking at the evidence available, Miss A 
would have had to log onto her mobile banking app and approve the specific payment 
amount to the correct merchant. In addition to this, the merchant was contacted and 
explained the payee entered Miss As correct name, date of birth, e-mail address and home 
address when making the payments. So overall, it was more likely than not Miss A 
authorised the transfers herself.
Miss A did not agree and as an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint was 
passed to me for a final decision. 
   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Barclays decision not to refund the disputed transactions is 
reasonable in the circumstances, so I dont uphold the complaint. Ill explain why in more 
detail. 
Generally, Barclays is able to hold Miss A liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests its more likely than not that she made or authorised them herself. This position is 
confirmed in the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs) and the terms and conditions of 
her account.
Looking at the banks records, Im satisfied that Miss As genuine card details were used to 
make the payments to the third-party merchant. While this is important, it isnt enough on its 
own to say that Miss A is liable for the transactions. Barclays also has to be satisfied its 
more likely than not that Miss A herself made or otherwise authorised the transactions. 
Ive considered all the evidence available to me, as well as Miss As own testimony. Ive 
firstly looked at how the payments were authorised. The evidence that Barclays has 
provided shows that prior to each payment being made, Miss As mobile banking was logged 
into using her unique passcode. And this was via an IP address that had been used many 
times before for legitimate transactions on her account. 
In addition to this, Barclays sent a warning message to Miss As mobile banking app that 
required her to log onto the app and then authenticate the payment. The screen would have 
shown the amount, the merchant and the card details that had been used to make the 
payment. And Miss A would have had to confirm or decline the payment each time.
Miss A has said she did not lose her phone during this time or that anyone else had access 
to it. Shes said that she may have authorised the first payment on 19 January, but that she 
was tired, dizzy and thought it was a general notification about money had sent from her 
credit card to her current account. And that on the following day she was in hospital with no 
access to her phone, so could not have authorised that payments. 
Ive thought about this carefully. With the payment on 19 January, the prompt would have set 
out the amount of the transaction; £500, and the merchant it was being sent to. This is 
therefore a different amount to what she had received from her credit card account, which 
was £600. It was also being sent to a different merchant, which was clearly set out on the 
notification. So, on balance, I think its more likely Miss A would have known what payment 
she was authorising at the time. In addition to this, Barclays would not have needed 
authorisation for Miss A to receive funds into her account from her credit card account. 
Ive considered her comments about the later payments and the evidence she has provided 
showing she had a hospital appointment the following day. I have no reason to doubt what 
Miss A has said about her medical appointment. But as I explained above, the payment was 
authorised via her mobile banking app which does not appear to have been compromised in 
any way and this required someone knowing Miss As unique passcode. The payments were 
made via an IP address that has been used for legitimate payments on her account many 
times before and after the disputed transactions and someone logged onto Miss As mobile 
banking app shortly before each payment using her unique passcode. As theres no 
evidence any of this information has been compromised, even considering her testimony 
about being at the hospital at the time of the transactions, the evidence suggests its more 
likely than not that Miss A made or otherwise authorised the transactions herself. 
In addition to this, the merchant who the funds were sent to were asked for details 
surrounding the transactions. They produced details of the individual transactions as well as 
the customer linked to them. This had Miss As full name, address, date of birth and e-mail 
address connected to it. Considering the significant amount of personal information they held 
about Miss A, I think its more likely Miss A provided this information herself for a genuine 
transaction. 
Having carefully considered everything available to me, I think its more likely Miss A made or otherwise authorised the transaction herself, so I think Barclays acted fairly when it turned 
down her disputed transactions claim.    
My final decision
I dont uphold Miss As complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 September 2022. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman