DRN-2080599
The complaint
Mr W and Mr W complain that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. has turned down a medical expenses claim they made on their travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W and Mr W were on holiday abroad, celebrating Mr Ws birthday. Unfortunately, Mr W 
burned his feet on hot tarmac and suffered second degree burn injuries. He was taken to 
hospital for treatment. Mr W and Mr W made a medical expenses claim of around $26,000 
on their travel insurance policy. 
Mapfre investigated the claim. It obtained a medical report from the hospital treating Mr W. It 
noted the treating doctor had stated Mr W had taken drugs and was intoxicated. It felt these 
factors had impaired Mr Ws judgement. So it turned down the claim based on a specific 
policy term which excluded claims which were down to a policyholder drinking so much that 
their judgement had been impaired. 
Mr W and Mr W werent happy with Mapfres decision. They asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr W and Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. He felt the 
available medical evidence showed that one of the treating hospitals diagnoses was alcohol 
intoxication. And it indicated Mr W had told medical staff hed been drinking all day and had 
taken drugs. So he didnt think it was unfair for Mapfre to rely on the medical evidence to 
conclude Mr Ws judgement had been impaired by his alcohol consumption.
Mr W and Mr W disagreed. Mr W said hed never taken drugs and he queried how much 
alcohol hed drunk that day. He didnt remember a conversation with the medical crew, as 
hed been in shock. He hadnt started drinking until the pool party began at 11am. And it only 
took two seconds to cause the type of burn injuries hed suffered. Hed been running to try 
and throw himself into a bush to escape from the tarmac. Mr W had declared medical 
conditions and expected a professional service. And he said Mapfre hadnt provided 
adequate assistance when he returned to the UK.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. Id like to make clear that Im only considering 
whether it was fair for Mapfre to turn down Mr W and Mr Ws claim. I appreciate Mr W and 
Mr W are unhappy that they werent kept updated about the claims decision and theyve now 
mentioned theyre unhappy with the arrangements Mapfre made for Mr Ws return. These 
are new complaint points which Mapfre hasnt yet had a chance to look into. Mr W and Mr W 
will need to complain directly to Mapfre about these issues before we can potentially help.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think it was fair for Mapfre to turn down Mr W and Mr Ws claim. Ill explain 
why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive carefully considered all of the available 
evidence, what both parties have said and sent us and the policy terms to decide if I think 
Mapfre handled the claim fairly.
First, Ive turned to consider the policy terms. The policy does provide cover for emergency 
medical expenses. But the policy also sets out things that Mapfre doesnt cover in the 
general exclusions section. One of these terms says:
You are not covered for
3) you being involved in any malicious, reckless, illegal or criminal act. No section of this 
policy shall apply in respect of any claim arising directly or indirectly from using drugs 
(unless the drugs have been prescribed by a doctor) or where you are affected by any 
sexually transmitted disease or infection. We do not expect you to avoid alcohol 
consumption on your trips or holidays but we will not cover any claims arising because you
have drunk so much alcohol that your judgement is seriously affected and you need to make 
a claim as a result (e.g. any medical claim where in the opinion of the treating doctor, your 
excessive alcohol consumption has caused or actively contributed to your injury or illness).
Mapfre states that Mr Ws alcohol intake had actively contributed to his burn injuries. So Ive 
looked closely at the available medical evidence to decide whether I think it was fair for 
Mapfre to draw this conclusion.
The medical report from the treating hospital provides an admission diagnosis of alcoholic 
intoxication. It goes on to state:
Patient is a..male who was found running through the parking lot of a localclub barefoot. 
He admits to doing (drugs) and drinking all day long. Patient states he was walking around 
for approximately ten minutes. Patient is visibly the (sic) inebriated on arrival.
The overall diagnosis given by the treating doctor was 1) bilateral 2nd degree plantar foot 
burns and 2) intoxication.
Mr W disputes the treating hospitals report. He denies taking drugs or that hed been 
drinking all day. He says he doesnt recall what he said because he was in shock. He also 
said hed been running on the tarmac to try and escape the heat of it. Ive thought carefully 
about what Mr Ws said.
But I think its fair for Mapfre to rely on the evidence provided by the doctor who treated Mr 
W. Thats because they had the opportunity to examine Mr W and draw clinical conclusions 
based on their expert assessment of his condition. They also had the chance to find out Mr 
Ws first version of whatd happened in the immediate aftermath of his injuries. The treating 
hospital is also an independent expert.
So I think it was fair and reasonable for Mapfre to place significant weight on the available 
medical evidence and to conclude that the alcohol Mr W had drunk had impaired his judgement and contributed to his injury. In the absence of medical evidence which suggests 
Mr W hadnt been intoxicated and that therefore alcohol hadnt impaired his judgement, Im 
satisfied it was fair to Mapfre to rely on the medical evidence to turn down this claim.
Overall, while I sympathise with Mr W and Mr Ws position, as I appreciate Mr W suffered 
painful injuries and the medical costs are substantial, I dont think Mapfre has done anything 
wrong that it needs to put right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman