DRN-2735415
The complaint
Mrs A complains that she was mis-sold a packaged bank account in September 2005 by 
HSBC UK Bank Plc.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs A has made it clear in her response to our adjudicators view that her complaint is that 
she was not given the option of a fee free account; English was her second language at the 
time which affected her ability to understand the UK banking marketplace; and she has not 
made much use of the benefits.
HSBC says that Mrs A knew she was choosing a fee-paying account and she did so on an 
information only basis.
Both parties agree the sale took place through a discussion in a branch. I wasnt there so its 
impossible for me to know what was said. So, I can only look at the evidence available.
Mrs A had been in the UK for many years when the sale took place, had graduated and had 
held a previous UK bank account over that period. So, I think its more likely than not that her 
English was of a reasonable standard at that time. I think she wouldve been aware that fee 
free bank accounts were available to her because they were widely advertised in the UK by 
both HSBC and other banks and financial institutions. And Mrs A had the fee-paying account 
for 15 years, and in my view, if shed been unhappy at any time and wanted a fee free 
account instead, she couldve closed the fee-paying account, but she didnt.
So, while I dont doubt Mrs As honest recollections, I think her memory is mistaken and I 
think its more likely than not that Mrs A knew she had a choice whether to take out the fee-
paying account and she chose to do so.
Mrs A and HSBC both say that Mrs A was not advised to take out the packaged bank 
account, in other words, HSBC did not recommend it to her. So, HSBC was only required to 
provide Mrs A with enough information about the account to make an informed choice.
HSBC was trying to sell her the account, so I think its likely it gave her a lot of information 
about it. And HSBC has provided evidence that it sent her a welcome pack which explains 
the benefits.
The fee-paying accounts benefits in 2005 were worldwide travel insurance, fee free cash 
withdrawals abroad, preferential rates on savings, credit and her overdraft; and a 10% 
refund of her credit card interest.
Mrs A travelled a lot over the following years. She says some of the trips were covered by 
business travel insurance but agrees that not all were. So, these would have been potentially 
covered by her accounts travel insurance.
HSBC has also provided evidence that Mrs A benefitted from several of the financial 
preferential rates, including overseas cash withdrawal, credit card interest refund and 
overdraft rates.
So, I think its more likely than not that Mrs A had enough information to make an informed 
decision, and even if HSBC had recommended the account to Mrs A, I dont think I could say 
it was unsuitable for her.
Mrs A makes the point that she hasnt used many of the benefits. But once she had the fee-
paying account it was for her to decide what benefits to use or whether to close the account. 
HSBC has provided evidence that it was continuously in touch with her by letter about 
product updates from the time of sale, and from 2015 asking her annually to review whether 
the account was right for her. So, I think its more likely than not she chose to continue with 
the account until she closed it last year.
So, I dont think HSBC has done anything wrong in the sale of the fee-paying account.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman