DRN-2243270
The complaint
Mr L complains about issues hes experienced with a car supplied with finance from 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited.
What happened
In December 2018 Mr L was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale 
agreement with Moneybarn. At the point of supply the car was approximately 6 years old and 
had covered around 40,000 miles.
In January 2019 Mr L contacted Moneybarn and reported issues with the car including:
Steering wheel lock jammed
Heated rear windscreen not working
Rear tail light faulty
Moneybarn arranged an independent inspection of the car, which took place in March 2019. 
The supplying dealer was already carrying out repairs at this time. The reported faults at the 
time of the inspection were:
Heated rear window not working
Rear passenger tail light faulty
Keyless entry faulty on drivers side
Heater blowing cold air when driving in electric mode
Charging flap jammed
Outside door unlock button not working on drivers side
EML illuminated
The report concluded that faults were present, and that the car should be returned to the 
dealer for investigation and repair to the electrical system.
The supplying dealer carried out a diagnostic in May 2019 and found the parking brake 
wasnt locking and a charge port door was sticking causing fault codes.
The car was subsequently involved in an accident which delayed completion of the repairs. 
When Mr L got the car back in April 2019, he said the issues hed raised hadnt been 
repaired. The car was returned to the supplying dealer and repairs were completed in July 
2019, apart from the rear tail light as the part was on order.
Mr L remained unhappy because some of the issues still hadnt been resolved. Moneybarn 
said it would cover the cost of repairs to the rear tail light. It also refunded two monthly 
instalments and paid compensation of £150.
Mr L wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. He said the heater 
doesnt work properly, the rear lights were full of water and the electric fuel flap doesnt open 
properly. He wants the faults repaired.
Our investigator asked Mr L to obtain a report confirming that these faults were still present. 
In January 2020 Mr L obtained a diagnostic which showed that the nearside door mirror 
wasnt folding, and the heater wasnt working properly.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She thought there were faults with the car which 
hadnt been successfully repaired and said Moneybarn should arrange repairs to the heater, 
the door mirror and the rear lights. She also said Moneybarn should pay further 
compensation of £75.
Moneybarn agreed to reimburse the cost of diagnostic reports obtained by Mr L and pay a 
further £75 compensation. It also agreed to repair the heater and the rear lights. But it said 
that the issue with the door mirror hadnt been raised prior to the diagnostic in January 2020 
and that it shouldnt be responsible for this.
Mr L said he was happy for repairs to be carried out as a resolution to his complaint, but he 
wanted more compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Moneybarn supplied the car to Mr L under a conditional sale agreement, theres an 
implied term that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a 
standard that a reasonable person would expect, taking into account all of the relevant 
circumstances such as, amongst other things, the age and mileage of the car and the price 
paid. Id expect a second hand car  such as that supplied to Mr L  to have a degree of 
wear and tear and to require repairs more often than a brand new car. So, in order to uphold 
this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that there was an inherent fault with the car 
rather than a fault caused by general wear and tear.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, theres a 
presumption that it was present or developing at the point of supply unless the business can 
show otherwise. The business sis allowed one opportunity to repair the fault. If the repair 
isnt successful, the consumer can reject the car. After 6 months its up to the consumer to 
show that the fault was present at the point of supply.
Theres no dispute in this case that some of the repairs werent successful. Mr L doesnt 
want to reject the car and instead wants the faults repaired. Moneybarn has agreed to arrange repairs to the heater and the rear tail lights. It has also agreed to reimburse the 
costs of the diagnostic reports. The only issues between the parties are the door mirror and 
the level of compensation. 
Mr L says it took him a while to realise that the door mirror wasnt folding as it should. He 
says that as soon as he became aware that there was a fault, he reported this to 
Moneybarn. He says that Moneybarn asked him to obtain a report from the main dealer 
confirming the fault, which he did and sent this to Moneybarn.
Moneybarn says the issue with the mirror wasnt raised until the diagnostic report was 
carried out in January 2020. 
Ive reviewed the available information. I cant see any reference to the mirror in the 
independent inspection, but I can see that it was identified in the diagnostic reports dated 
November 2019 and January 2020. Ive taken Mr Ls testimony into account which has been 
consistent about the mirror and Im persuaded that there is a fault with the mirror which was 
more likely than not present or developing at the point of supply.
In relation to compensation, I can see that Mr L has had to return the car for repairs several 
times. Ive no doubt that this caused him inconvenience, as he was left without the use of the 
car. I also appreciate that Mr L will have incurred some expenses in returning the car for 
repairs. 
I can see that Moneybarn has already paid the sum of £888.70 to Mr L plus travel expenses 
of £71.15. Of this sum, £150 was for distress and inconvenience. I think the award for 
inconvenience should be increased by a further £75 but otherwise the compensation is fair 
and reasonable. 
Putting things right
Moneybarn should arrange for repairs to be carried out to the heater, the rear tail light and 
the mirror. It should reimburse the cost of the diagnostic reports. It should also pay further 
compensation of £75.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Moneybarn No.1 Limited must:
Arrange for repairs to the heating system, the rear lights and the mirror
Reimburse the diagnostic costs incurred by Mr L upon provision of proof of payment
Pay further compensation of £75
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman