DRN-3499524
The complaint
The Trustees of C, a private family trust, complained about problems they had experienced 
with Barclays Bank UK PLC, in relation to adding a signatory to their account.
The Trustees believe theyve provided enough information for Barclays to add the new 
signatory, but Barclays says it still needs more information.
The Trustees want Barclays to add the signatory to the account mandate, and compensation 
for the delay and trouble theyve experienced.
What happened
The Trust had the same three trustees for many years, and had banked with Barclays for 
many of those years. On 30 July 2020 a fourth trustee was appointed by a Deed of 
Appointment. 
On 3 August, the Trustees notified Barclays, but Barclays didnt reply. The Trustees chased 
on 5 and 7 September. On 23 September Barclays replied, asking the Trustees to complete 
a form. This was headed Mandate Change Form and required information about the new 
trustee, plus the authorising signatories of the existing three trustees. The Trustees returned 
the completed form to Barclays on 10 October.
The Trustees didnt receive a reply, and chased in September and November.
On 26 January 2021, they complained by phone. 
During the call, Barclays told the Trustees that it had sent two letters.  But these had been 
sent to a former address of the Trustees former accountant, who had never been a trustee 
and whod left six years earlier. Barclays also said that it needed confirmation of the identity 
of the three existing and one new trustee, by a solicitor or accountant  though the four 
trustees all had one of these qualifications themselves. Barclays also said it would normally 
take 12 weeks for it to respond to a change of bank mandate. And finally, Barclays said it 
had sent the wrong form in September 2020, and it would need a different one.
The Trustees sent a formal complaint letter on 31 January. 
On 24 February, Barclays sent its final response letter.  This said that Barclays needed the 
New Mandate form to be completed, and a copy of the Trust Deed as well as the new 
trustee to ring up to update his personal details. Barclays apologised for not answering 
previous letters and for having been sent the wrong form when they did eventually speak to 
the team.
The letter also gave referral rights to this service, but said you must do so within six months 
of the date of this letter. If you do not refer your complaint in time, the Ombudsman will not 
have our permission to consider your complaint and will only be able to do so in very limited 
circumstances.  The date of the final response letter was 24 February 2021. 
The Trustees complained to this service on 4 November 2021, which was outside this six 
month time limit. Barclays disputed our jurisdiction to consider the complaint. Its accurate, 
under the rules that govern our service, that the Trustees brought the complaint too late. 
Barclays agreed, however, that although we couldnt consider events before the date of the 
final response letter, 24 February 2021, we could consider issues since our final response 
letter.
This means that the investigator, and I, can only consider aspects of the Trustees complaint 
after 24 February 2021.  
On 26 March, the Trustees sent Barclays the second mandate form, together with a copy of 
the Trust Deed, as requested in the February letter. 
On 13 April, the new trustee phoned Barclays. He spent over an hour on the phone, trying to 
provide the identification details using Barclays identification and verification link, but each 
time the adviser told him it wasnt good enough. He was told hed have to go to a branch. He 
said he wished hed been told that in the first place  especially as he needed to be careful 
as he was medically in a vulnerable category for Covid. 
The new trustee went to a Barclays branch on 16 April with his identification documents. He 
also took the original Deed of Appointment of Additional Trustee. Barclays took copies and 
said it would pass it to the relevant department.
On 18 May, Barclays wrote to the Trustees saying that it needed a new mandate form, and 
an up to date Trust Deed to be taken to a branch to be copied and certified. It also said 
that the signature of one of the trustees on the Mandate Change form didnt match its 
records. Barclays gave the name of the trustee as his first and middle names, not his first 
name and surname. It asked him to phone, or confirm on company paper, that the signature 
had changed. Barclays sent this letter to the address of the Trustees former accountant, 
whom the Trustees said had never been a trustee himself. So the Trustees didnt receive it.  
On 9 June, Barclays emailed the Trustees saying that a new deed was required as the deed 
must show outgoing, incoming and remaining trustees. The Trustees felt Barclays hadnt 
read the Deed of Appointment which theyd provided, because that clearly showed no 
outgoing trustee, three continuing trustees and one extra new one.
Barclays rang the Trustees on 14 June, saying there was still information outstanding. The 
Trustees asked for confirmation by letter, but Barclays only sent printed application forms, 
with no list or covering letter explaining what was outstanding.
The Trustees complained to this service in November. They set out what had happened, and 
said that, in summary, theyd:
- provided Barclays with two completed and detailed mandate application forms with 
full current contact details for all four trustees;
- supplied specimen signatures for all four trustees;
- provided the original Deed of Appointment of Additional Trustee;
- supplied a copy of the original 1952 Trust Deed, which Barclays would already have 
had on file; and 
- the new trustee had been to a Barclays branch with his identification.
The Trustees explained that their patience was now exhausted, and they didnt want to do 
anything further. They said that if Barclays wouldnt add the additional trustees signature 
without any further requirements, theyd move to another bank, because they thought 
opening a new account could hardly be more tiresome than the bureaucratic nightmare they 
said theyd experienced at the hands of Barclays.Our investigator said she thought Barclays should compensate the Trustees by £175 for the 
level of service it had provided  but she didnt think Barclays had to change the Trustees 
mandate because it still didnt have all the information it needed.
She also contacted Barclays to ask what the outstanding issues were, which it said were 
preventing it from adding the fourth trustee. Barclays said it needed:
- a New Mandate Form, because the one the Trustees had supplied was a Mandate 
Change form (because Barclays had sent  them the wrong form). Barclays said the 
Trustees would have to phone Barclays to have the forms generated, and all four 
trustees would have to sign, as it would replace the previous mandate; 
-  a certified copy of the most recent Trust Deed, or a letter from a solicitor or 
accountant (not one of the trustees) to confirm the trustees; and 
- for the existing trustee whose signature had changed, a signed statement on headed 
paper saying that his signature had changed over time. Alternatively he could ring the 
Mandate Change team, and once past the identification process, he could confirm he 
had signed the forms.
The investigator looked at the history of what the Trustees had provided. She noted that 
Barclays had sent the Trustees the wrong, Mandate Change, form  but as it was before the 
date of the Final Response letter, we couldnt consider the impact of that inconvenience.  
The Trustees had returned the right form on 26 March 2021  but on 11 June Barclays had 
said this was in a jpeg format which couldnt be accepted, and some information was 
missing because it hadnt been scanned straight. Barclays said it would need to be scanned 
again or taken to a branch.  By this time the Trustees were so frustrated that they hadnt 
done that.
The investigator commented that the form said it would have to be returned by post or to a 
branch  but Barclays 24 February letter had specifically said it could be emailed, which was 
misleading. And the investigator thought Barclays should have contacted the Trustees about 
the problems earlier than it had done. Theyd sent the form on 26 March and Barclays hadnt 
replied until 11 June. 
The investigator also said that the Trust Deed provided in March 2021 didnt include the new 
trustee, so the latest one was needed. And she asked Barclays for a copy of the disputed 
signature which Barclays said had changed. She could see both sides, but agreed that it 
would need to be confirmed before Barclays would add the new signatory.
The Trustees replied that theyd already sent a completed New Mandate form, and a copy of 
the most recent Trust Deed. And although the trustee whose signature had allegedly 
changed didnt think it had changed, he said he now formally confirmed it was the same as 
on the many cheques hed recently signed for the Trust  all of which Barclays had 
honoured. And it was also the same as hed signed on the Deed of Appointment of the new 
trustee in July 2020.
The investigator contacted both Barclays and the Trustees again. But Barclays continued to 
say that it would need the extra information, and the Trustees continued to say that it had 
done enough for Barclays to add the additional signatory  especially as technically the 
additional signatory didnt even have to be a trustee. 
The Trustees asked for an ombudsmans decision. They set out detailed reasons, including:- the proposed £175 compensation was woefully inadequate for the wasted time and 
energy expended by the Trustees;
- all they had wanted to do was add another optional signatory, who didnt even have 
to be a trustee. So they thought the only question was whether the trustees had done 
enough to verify that persons identity and signature  which the person had done by 
going to the branch with identification;
- just because Barclays required something didnt mean the customer should 
reasonably be obliged to comply, especially when it was making unreasonable 
demands;
- the new Deed of Appointment of a New Trustee had been taken to Barclays by the 
new trustee as one of the documents which the branch had copied;
- the signatory whose signature had been disputed had been signing around a dozen 
cheques a year without any query.
The investigator sent Barclays a copy of the new Deed of Appointment. It agreed that the 
quality satisfied its requirements, as long as it was the most recent Trust Deed. But it said 
the document would have to be certified by Barclays staff in a branch, or by a solicitor who 
was not one of the trustees.  
The investigator replied that the Trustees said this had already been taken to a branch in 
April 2021. Barclays replied that it didnt have any records of any documents scanned in 
April 2021. It only had the original 1952 Deed which had been supplied in early March 2021.
The investigator asked Barclays what it had received via the branch in April 2021. Barclays 
replied that its team had received a postal letter with identification for the new trustee, 
certified in the branch on 16 April  but no Trust deed was enclosed. And Barclays said that 
although the identification and proof of address were acceptable at the time, theyd no longer 
be acceptable, because theyd been certified more than six months earlier, and the new 
trustees driving licence would now have expired.
The Trustees provided further comments on this, pointing out Barclays various failings. They 
said that the point they kept making was that the new trustee had personally attended with 
identification and a certified copy of the new, latest, Trust Deed, which should mean that 
Barclays further requirements were unnecessary. The Trustees also said that in December 
2021, Barclays had emailed to say it was re-opening the complaint, and would email its 
response. But hed never done so, and now it was our investigator, not Barclays, who now 
relayed to the Trustees that Barclays couldnt find an important Trust document which theyd 
supplied twice as a plain copy and once as a certified copy  and the branch had taken its 
own copy too. The Trustees also said that as their new trustee, who had impeccable 
professional qualifications, had said he attended the branch with identification and a certified 
copy Trust deed, we could be sure he was not lying. 
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. Before doing so, I considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I first set out that because the Trustees didnt bring their 
complaint to this service within six months of the final response letter on 24 February 2021, I 
couldnt consider any of the events before that date. Barclays had agreed to this service 
considering what happened after that. I acknowledged that the Trustees had said that 
although the rules preclude us from adjudicating on a complaint which is brought out of time, 
this shouldnt preclude us from looking at and taking account of the events leading up to that 
point  but it does. I explained that I could set out the events in order to make an understandable narrative, but I couldnt, for instance, take account of any failings up to that 
point when considering the compensation I award.
Ive set out the major events in some detail above. The issues, however, are clear:
- should the Trustees have to do any more in order to have their fourth trustee added 
to the Barclays account; and 
- whether compensation would be fair and reasonable for what happened, and if so, 
how much.
Whether the Trustees should have to do any more in order to have their fourth trustee added 
to the Barclays account
Our investigator contacted both sides in some detail for what had been provided and what 
was still required. However, as it stood at the time of my provisional decision, neither side 
was willing to give way. 
I said I could understand the Trustees frustration  which Ill deal with under the 
compensation section below. However, it isnt for this service to order a bank to accept 
someone onto an account, let alone that it must do so without carrying out what it has set as 
its own procedures. So I explained that while I could reflect the frustration and inconvenience 
experienced by the Trustees in the compensation, I didnt think itd be fair of me to order 
Barclays to accept the fourth trustee without the further and/or repeat evidence it says it 
wants.  It had explained why, as a business, it wanted this and I thought its explanation is a 
fair one. I realised it would be a further inconvenience to the trustees, but Barclays was only 
seeking to comply with its procedures as a business here.
I realised this would be frustrating to the Trustees. I noted that the Trustees have said they 
have been considering transferring to another bank, and given the breakdown in trust and 
confidence, this might well be what the Trustees decide to do. But that is a matter for them to 
decide.
Compensation
First, in considering what compensation would be fair and reasonable, I explained that I 
hadnt taken into account any of the events prior to the 24 February 2021 final response 
letter, for the reasons set out above.
I also clarified the position about paying compensation to trustees. As individuals, trustees 
can experience the same kinds of impact as other consumers, so we can make awards for 
distress and inconvenience. If trustees take the form of a separate legal entity, such as a 
limited company, we wouldnt usually make awards for distress and inconvenience because 
a limited company is a separate entity which cant personally experience those feelings. 
Also, we cant compensate professional trustees. Here, the four individual Trustees had 
pointed out that they are professionally qualified. I considered that carefully, because we 
cant provide compensation to professional trustees for the reasons Ive given above. 
However, I considered that this means those who, for example, work for a company which 
provides professional trustees as their job. Here, I considered the Trustees of C just happen 
to be professionally qualified, but were acting as trustees as individuals. This means that I 
can award compensation for distress and inconvenience to the Trustees of C. 
I looked in detail at the customer service which Barclays provided to the Trustees from 24 
February 2021 onwards. Ive listed below some, but not all, of these frustrations which I 
considered would have caused frustration and upset to the Trustees:- The final response letter was ambiguous about which Deed was required, and I could 
understand why Trustees thought that what was required was the original 1952 Trust 
Deed, despite the fact Barclays already had this one file. This was misleading. In fact 
it wanted the Deed appointing the new trustee;
- The new trustee said, and I accepted, that he spent over an hour on the phone to 
Barclays, trying to send identification documents using Barclays online verification 
system. This would have been very frustrating and inconvenient;
- The new trustee was then told he had to go to a branch, which at that time would 
have been particularly distressing and inconvenient for someone who was medically 
categorised as vulnerable for Covid;
- I accepted that when the new trustee did go to the branch, he took with him his 
passport, driving licence, and the original Deed of Appointment of Additional Trustee. 
The branch took the documents to photocopy, and gave them back to the trustee. As 
Barclays has since said that all its head office department received was the 
photocopies of the trustees passport and driving licence, I considered the branch 
either failed to copy the Deed, or failed to forward it to Barclays head office 
department. The impact of this was further delay and more requests for information 
which the Trustees had already supplied; 
- When Barclays wrote to the Trustees on 18 May, it gave the name of the trustee 
whose signature it was querying, just by his first and middle names, instead of his 
first name and surname. This would have added to the Trustees belief in Barclays 
incompetence;
- It was understandable that the Trustees would have been very frustrated that, when 
they were trying just to add a single signatory, Barclays then challenged the 
signature of one of the existing signatories  who had been signing cheques about 
once a month for many years without a challenge. I recognised that banks need to be 
cautious in order to avoid possible fraudulent changes to an account. However, I 
thought this could have been dealt with in a more customer-friendly way;
- Barclays sent its 18 May letter to an incorrect address, where the Trustees former 
accountant had had his business address, but which the accountant, who was never 
a trustee, had left six years earlier. So the Trustees never received it at the time. I 
also noted that this was a repeat mistake, because the Trustees had discovered in 
January 2021 that Barclays had sent two other letters to this incorrect address. While 
I couldnt take the pre-February errors into account, I bore in mind that the May error 
shouldnt have happened because it had previously been advised to the bank. The 
correspondence address on the Trustees correspondence was also clearly a 
different address, to which Barclays should have addressed its correspondence;
- When Barclays rang the Trustees in June 2021, saying there was still information 
outstanding, the Trustees asked for confirmation by letter. I find this was reasonable. 
However Barclays simply sent printed forms with no list or covering letter;
- Having accepted the fourth Trustees passport and driving licence in the branch in 
April 2021, it would be upsetting and annoying that recently, when the investigator 
was trying to sort out a solution, Barclays said it would need all that information all 
over again because the expiry date of his driving licence had since expired. 
 
As Ive set out above, the Trustees said theyd:- provided Barclays with two completed and detailed mandate application forms with 
full current contact details for all four trustees;
- supplied specimen signatures for all four trustees;
- provided the original Deed of Appointment of Additional Trustee;
- supplied a copy of the original 1952 Trust Deed, which Barclays would already have 
had on file; and
- the new trustee had been to a Barclays branch with his identification.
I considered it was understandable that they are upset and despairing of ever getting to a 
solution with Barclays. Taking into account all the upset since 24 February 2021, I 
considered that a fair and reasonable amount of compensation for Barclays to pay the 
Trustees would be £750.
So my provisional decision was that I intended to uphold this complaint in part:
- I did not intend to uphold the Trustees request for the fourth signatory to be added 
without any further action by them;
- I intended to uphold the Trustees complaint for more compensation and to order 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay the Trustees of C £750 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.
Responses to my provisional decision
The trustees said they appreciated the careful and detailed review and analysis, and they 
had nothing more to say at this juncture.
Barclays said that after careful review it agreed with the provisional decision and proposed 
settlement of £750 redress.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments, and in the light of the 
responses to the provisional decision, I consider that my original decision was fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that:
- I do not uphold the Trustees request for Barclays Bank UK PLC to add the fourth 
signatory without any further action by the Trustees;
- I uphold the Trustees complaint for more compensation and I order Barclays Bank 
UK PLC to pay the Trustees of C £750 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask The Trustees of C  
to accept or reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman