DRN-3026309
The complaint
Mr L complains that TSB Bank Plc wont reimburse him the money he paid to what he says 
was a binary options trading scam. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some of the key events. In 2015 Mr L began a series of payments to a 
company Ill refer to as U. He says that U operated a fraudulent Binary Options / Forex 
trading scam. 
From 2015 to 2018 Mr L paid significant sums to U using both his TSB debit and credit 
cards. In November 2018 Mr L wrote to TSB and explained hed been the victim of a scam in 
relation to the payments to U. He asked that TSB reimburse him via chargeback or section 
75. 
TSB responded the same month and explained that Mr L had raised his chargeback claim 
too late under the scheme rules and so they would be unable to assist him. In February 2019 
Mr L brought his complaint to our service. One of our Investigators didnt recommend that it 
should be upheld. As he disagreed, Mr L asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
In January 2022 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ls initial complaint referred to the payments he made to U. I understand that Mr L has 
since disputed many other further payments to different merchants. Ive no desire to further 
extend the significant time Mr L has been waiting for an answer, but this complaint is about 
what Mr L brought to us on our complaint form which he signed in February 2019. Ill ask our 
investigator to help Mr L set up complaints in relation to his outstanding issues. 
There are slightly different considerations for trying to obtain redress for debit compared to 
credit card payments. So, Ill deal with each one in turn. 
Debit Card Payments
Mr L wrote to TSB on 18 November 2018 disputing payments he made to U using his TSB 
Visa debit card between November 2015 and May 2016 totalling £34,102.57. TSB says it 
asked Mr L for some specific evidence to decide whether or not it had any chargeback rights 
and in the absence of further evidence, it concluded it had no chargeback rights. TSB said 
the matter was raised more than 120 days after the date of the disputed transactions and 
they were out of time for the purposes of Visas chargeback time limits. 
Mr L has since provided our service with a spreadsheet detailing all the payments he made 
to U (amongst others). From this the relevant payments took place between 24 November 
2015 and 2 March 2018. I dont see that Mr L complained about all of these transactions to 
TSB on 18 November 2018 but Ive considered whether TSB responded to Mr L 
appropriately. 
Prior to October 2017, Visa had limited scope for chargeback claims relating to binary 
options or investment trading disputes. For a claim to have succeeded, Mr L would have 
needed to provide written documentation from U guaranteeing an amount of profit/return the 
cardholder was due to receive. I note Mr L says most of the (mis)representations occurred 
over the phone. A claim would also have needed to have been processed within 120 days of 
the date of the transaction. So I dont think TSB acted unreasonably in declining Mr Ls claim 
on the basis that it was brought outside the Visa time limits as he didnt contact it until more 
than 120 days after the date of his last transaction (in accordance with his letter of 18 
November 2018).
Ive noted there were payments to U that Mr L made this service aware of that were not 
brought to TSBs attention at the time of his complaint. Some of those payments would still 
have been out of time on the basis that Mr L contacted TSB too late. But Visa expanded its 
rules for transactions that occurred after 14 October 2017 and gave further rights for 
disputes relating to binary or investment trading. For a claim to have succeeded under Visas 
rule expansion, Mr L was required to provide evidence that he tried to withdraw funds from 
his trading account, and that this was declined by U. Mr L was also required to provide 
evidence of a screenshot of his trading account showing an available balance at the time he 
requested his withdrawal. 
Mr L provided his U trading account snapshot dated 16 June 2018. It showed he had an 
account balance of $76.84. It also showed that Mr L had successfully withdrawn $21,255 
since opening his account. I dont find that Mr L would have had any chargeback options in 
relation to his disputed payments to U at the time he contacted TSB to complain. 
Credit Card Payments
I cant see that TSB provided Mr L with an answer in relation to the transactions he disputed 
on his credit card. Mr L made specific reference to a claim under section 75 which would 
have applied to his credit card payments. I think TSB ought to have considered this and it 
doesnt appear that they did. So, Ive gone on to consider whether this has made a 
difference. 
Mr Ls credit card was a Mastercard. So different chargeback rules apply compared to his 
Visa debit card. Our service has sought clarification from Mastercard and it explained that if 
a cardholder authorised and engaged in a transaction with the intent to participate in 
gambling, investment or similar services, then cardholder-dispute chargeback rights are 
restricted. It went onto explain that issuers have no chargeback rights related to the use of 
these chips or value, unspent chips, or withdrawal of such value, or on any winnings, gains 
or losses resulting from the use of such chips or value. 
In short, Mastercard consider the purpose of the Mastercard transaction to load funds into 
the gambling or investment account and not what activities are subsequently done with the 
funds. In this case, Mr Ls claim relates to him alleging U were operating fraudulently, so I 
dont think there was any recourse for TSB to try to recover Mr Ls credit card payments to U 
through the Mastercard chargeback scheme.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 gives a debtor the right to pursue a like claim 
for breach of contract and/or misrepresentation against a creditor as he would have against 
the supplier of goods or services. For a claim of misrepresentation to be successful its 
necessary to show not just a false statement of fact but also that the statement induced Mr L into entering into an agreement. Mr L hasnt presented evidence that would suggest U made 
a misrepresentation that induced him into entering into the agreement with them. Nor that 
they breached any contract he had with them. 
Ive noted that U were regulated by CySec at the time Mr L contracted with them and they 
also had passporting rights through the FCA. The FCA removed Us passporting rights in 
June 2020 but this was some time after Mr L made all of his payments. Ive further noted that 
Mr L was able to successfully withdraw money from his trading account. I recognise he also 
lost money and I dont doubt there may have been some bad practices on the part of the 
broker. But Mr Ls loss appears to have been due to the high risk nature of his investments 
rather than U breaking promises they made to him. If Mr L has evidence to show that U 
misrepresented themselves or breached the contract they had with him, I would invite him to 
submit it in response to this provisional decision. But as things stand, I dont think he has 
established a claim under section 75 for either a breach of contract or misrepresentation. 
 
Duty of Care
Mr L believes TSB has failed in its duty of care by allowing all his payments to be made. Ive 
considered this and having looked at the outgoing payments, Im not currently persuaded 
that the payments to U (on either card) would have stood out as unusual or out of character. 
Mr L commonly made payments of similar amounts to similar merchants. 
Even if Im wrong on this point and TSB had contacted Mr L to confirm the payments and to 
provide warnings of common scams, Im not persuaded this would have made a difference. 
As I explained above, at the time of Mr Ls disputed payments, U were regulated by another 
jurisdiction and had permission through the FCA to offer services to UK customers. So if 
Mr L had been prompted to do more checks by an intervention from TSB, its likely he would 
have discovered that. I dont think it would have reached the point where Mr L wouldnt have 
instructed the payments.
Summary
Overall, Im not currently intending to uphold this complaint as I dont think TSB are 
responsible for the losses Mr L has suffered. I dont think chargeback was an option at the 
time the issue was raised. Im not persuaded Mr L has evidenced a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation such that section 75 would apply and I dont think TSB ought to have 
questioned the payments at the time they were made.
TSB responded and said they had nothing to add. Mr L also responded, and Ill address his 
comments below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ls response re-iterated that he felt hed done nothing wrong and was a victim of fraud. 
He also made reference to an amount of around £786.44 which he feels shouldnt have been 
removed from his account. 
Ive considered this, and whilst it isnt entirely clear where this amount of £786.44 has come 
from or to what it relates, Im not persuaded to change from the outcome explained above. It 
seems the loss Mr L initially alleged as a result of his payments to U was far in excess of this 
amount. But in any case, nothing that Mr L has submitted persuades me that TSB ought to have done more in relation to his payments to U, or that there is any reasonable basis upon 
which to direct that he should be refunded by TSB.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman