DRN-3817734
The complaint
A partnership Ill refer to as P has complained that The National Farmers Union Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited trading as NFU Mutual (NFUM) unfairly turned down its business 
interruption insurance claim after it was forced to close due to Covid-19. 
Mr and Mrs B, partners in P, have brought the complaint on Ps behalf. 
What happened
P is a hotel and held a business interruption insurance policy with NFUM. P claimed on its 
policy after it was forced to close its hotel due to the Governments restrictions introduced in 
response to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
NFUM said that the policy didnt cover Ps claim. It said that the business interruption 
extension for public emergency didnt provide cover because of an exclusion for infectious 
or contagious diseases, which would include Covid-19. The policy included an extension for 
human diseases but Covid-19 wasnt one of the diseases listed in the policy. 
Unhappy with NFUMs response, P brought its complaint to this service. P said that NFUM 
had not commented on some of the points that it had raised including policy cover for 
defects in drains and sanitary arrangements. P thought there were some ambiguity in the 
public emergency policy wording, and any doubt should be decided in Ps favour. 
NFUM provided some further comments about Ps complaint when sending us its file.
Our Investigator looked into Ps complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. She explained 
why she did not consider the terms of the policy provided cover for the circumstances of the 
claim. She referred to a legal case of Rockliffe Hall Limited v Travelers Insurance Company 
Limited [2021] EWHC 412. In that case, the Court differentiated policies with specified lists of 
illnesses from those considered in the Supreme Court in the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) business interruption insurance test case. 
P asked for an Ombudsmans decision and queried whether a mistake might have been 
made in the policys interpretation. 
P also said that NFUM must have mis-sold the policy because P had asked NFUM to make 
sure P was covered in the event it had to close through no fault of its own. Our Investigator 
asked NFUM to look into Ps concern about a mis-sale as a separate complaint. In the 
meantime, Ps complaint about the claim decision has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision I make no findings on Ps mis-sale complaint, which we have not yet 
investigated. This decision is confined to NFUMs decision to turn down Ps business 
interruption insurance claim.  
I have been sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had 
an impact on Ps business. However, I am not going to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why. 
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. 
Ive seen a copy of the policy that was in force at the time of Ps claim and have looked at it 
carefully to see if NFUM has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy when declining Ps claim. Whilst Ive reviewed the policy in full, Ive 
addressed only the sections most relevant to Ps claim. For the purposes of this decision, 
and for the sake of completeness, I might need to repeat some information that our 
Investigator has already explained to P.  
Damage
This is the core business interruption cover under the policy, which says:
WE will pay for the loss of INCOME occurring during the INDEMNITY PERIOD 
arising from DAMAGE to PROPERTY used by YOU at the PREMISES arising from 
an INSURED PERIL during the PERIOD OF INSURANCE. 
Damage is defined in the policy as:
Accidental physical loss, destruction or damage
I havent seen anything to indicate that Covid-19 caused damage to the property P used as 
its premises so I dont think this provides cover for its claim. 
The core cover under the policy is extended by various extensions:
Prevention of Access
This extension says:
WE will pay for loss of INCOME arising from DAMAGE to PROPERTY in the vicinity 
of the PREMISES arising from an INSURED PERIL which hinders or prevents 
access to the PREMISES.
For this extension to provide cover, Ps loss of income would need to arise from damage to 
property in the vicinity of its premises which hindered or prevented access to its premises. 
I havent seen anything to indicate that Covid-19 caused damage to property in the vicinity of 
Ps premises which hindered or prevented access. So this extension does not provide cover 
either.
Public emergency
This extension says:
WE will pay for loss of INCOME arising from the actions or advice of a competent 
Public Authority, due to an emergency likely to endanger life or property occurring 
within the vicinity of the PREMISES, which prevents or hinders the use of or access 
to the PREMISES for a period greater than four consecutive hours.
WE will not pay for any loss resulting from infectious or contagious disease or the 
suspected or actual presence of an incendiary or explosive device.In reaching a decision, one of the things Im required to take into account is the relevant law. 
I have considered whether the Supreme Court judgement in the FCA test case impacted 
Ps claim. However, I think the High Court judgment is more relevant to Ps claim, because 
the High Court considered a similar term to that within NFUMs policy and this part of the 
judgment wasnt appealed. 
Paragraph 376 of the judgment says:
The order or advice contained in the 20 and 23 March government advice and in the 
21 and 26 March Regulations was the order or advice of the competent local 
authority, and was as a result of an occurrence (in fact many occurrences) of an 
infectious disease. Accordingly, the carve-out applies and there is no cover under 
either [this type of] wording in respect of the closure of or restriction in the use of the 
premises. 
I see no reason to depart from the position reached by the Court. I think Ps premises closed 
as a result of Covid-19, which the World Health Organisations website describes as an 
infectious disease. So, this extension doesnt cover Ps claim. 
P has argued that NFUMs policy wording is ambiguous because the exclusion above 
excludes cover for the suspected or actual presence of an incendiary or explosive device.
P points out that another extension to the business interruption extension is for:
Bomb Scares
WE will pay for loss of INCOME arising from the suspected or actual presence of an 
incendiary or explosive device which hinders or prevent access to the PREMISES for 
a period greater than four consecutive hours
P argues that the NFUM policy must be ambiguous because NFUMs policy covers bomb 
scares arising from the presence of an incendiary or explosive device but the policy also 
excludes cover for incendiary or explosive devices. 
I see the point P is making but I do not agree that the wording I have quoted gives rise to 
ambiguity. NFUM set out the scope of the cover under the Public Emergency extension 
and was then entitled to restrict the scope of cover under Public Emergency by using an 
exclusion clause. The bomb scare cover was a separate extension to the policy cover. In 
any event, I dont think whether or not there is cover for a bomb makes a difference to the 
fact that there is an exclusion for diseases, because there is no ambiguity over that. 
Human Diseases
This extension says:
WE will pay for loss of INCOME caused by the occurrence of any of the following 
diseases at the PREMISES which results in closure or restriction in use of the 
PREMISES on the order or advice of a competent authority: 
The policy then sets out a list of diseases which doesnt include Covid-19. Given Covid-19 
wasnt in existence at the time the policy was entered into, I wouldnt expect it to be included 
in the list. But there were similar policies on the market that provided cover in the 
circumstances of the pandemic, e.g. policies which covered all notifiable diseases as set out 
and updated on a Government-defined list. Ps policy is not like this  it sets out a defined list 
of the diseases which are covered. And there is nothing in the wording of the policy which implies it would provide cover for any new diseases which might emerge. So I dont think the 
policy can fairly be read as covering all or new diseases. 
Action of Competent Authority
The extension says:
WE will pay for the loss of INCOME arising from the closure or restriction in use of 
the PREMISES by a competent local authority due to defects in the drains or other 
sanitary arrangements or discovery of vermin or pests at the PREMISES. 
P says that the dictionary definition of sanitary arrangements is relating to the conditions 
that affect hygiene and health. As the closure and the restrictions were due to public health 
P argues that the policy should cover its claim. 
I have considered Ps arguments but I dont think that the closure of the hotel due to the 
Covid-19 restrictions would reasonably be considered a defect in Ps sanitary arrangements. 
I havent seen anything to persuade me that there was any deficiency or fault in Ps sanitary 
arrangements. Im not persuaded that the normal operation of a business can be called a 
defect, and certainly not a defect specific to Ps premises in particular that led to the 
Governments decision to introduce the restrictions it did. For these reasons, I dont think this 
extension covers Ps claim. 
Other factors
P has said that there is no exclusion for pandemics in the policy. But I dont think it matters 
that pandemics arent excluded as there isnt a clause in the policy that provides cover. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome that P was hoping for but, having considered the matter 
very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require NFUM to pay its claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Amanda Maycock
Ombudsman