DRN-2336829
The complaint
Mr W complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Ltd (LVI) wont pay out the full 
amount he claimed under his motor insurance policy after his car was stolen and not 
recovered.
What happened
In May 2019, Mr W acquired a new car which he financed under a hire purchase agreement. 
He insured the car on a policy with LVI. In March 2020, his car was stolen and hasnt been 
recovered. He claimed under his LVI policy.
Mr Ws policy contained the following provision:
If you or your partner are the first and only registered keeper, within 12 months of buying
your car from new and:
Its stolen and not recovered
Well replace your car with a new one of the same make, model and specification. If one is
not available in the UK, well pay you the price you paid for the car or the manufacturers
current list price (including taxes) whichever is less. Your car will then become our property.
Mr Ws finance company wouldnt accept a replacement car on his hire purchase agreement, 
and LVI had difficulty in getting a quote for a new car. So it said it would base its settlement 
on the price paid for Mr Ws car. The invoiced cash price of his car in May 2019 was 
£44,169.00. LVI said it would pay this amount less:
the excess on Mr Ws policy - £450.00;
the amount paid for the road fund licence - £530.00; and
an amount described on the invoice as service plan extended warranty - £504.17.
LVI justified the last deduction by saying that whilst it appreciated that Mr W paid for an 
extended warranty when he acquired the car, this was an additional plan and wasnt part of 
the car or its specifications. Therefore, it wasnt covered under the wording of his policy as 
set out above.
LVI paid out the net amount - £33,646.60 to the hire purchase company to satisfy what was 
owed under the hire purchase agreement, and the balance of £9,038.14 to Mr W.
Mr W disputed the amount of the payment. He said that the description of the warranty on 
the invoice was misleading. He produced evidence from the manufacturer of the car that this 
item wasnt a separate free-standing warranty.
A purchaser had the option when drawing up the specification of the car before purchase, by 
paying the fee in question - £504.17 - to extend the standard manufacturers warranty from 3 
years to 4 years. This could only be done at the time of order, continued with the car if it was 
later sold, and couldnt be cancelled or refunded later.
So Mr W said this warranty was part of the specification of the car as paid for and delivered 
in the same way as any of the other items LVI had accepted and refunded, and should be 
included in the price to be refunded.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He thought LVI had 
acted reasonably in deciding that the extended warranty wasnt part of the car or its 
specification for the purposes of the wording of the policy. So LVI hadnt acted unreasonably 
in not including its cost in the settlement figure.
Mr W responded to say, in summary, that the extension of the warranty was part of the 
specification of the car he agreed before placing his order, and its cost formed part of the 
agreed price of the car. It was a feature of the car he acquired, and its cost should be 
reimbursed under the terms of the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
LVI and Mr W dispute how the new for old provision of his motor insurance policy set out 
above should be interpreted. Their arguments, as I understand them, are, in summary:
LVI says the policy is to insure the physical car and physical accessories fitted to it. It 
doesnt apply to non-physical financial products sold with the car, such as the 
warranty extension Mr W bought with the car.
Mr W says the warranty extension is a manufacturers option like any of the physical 
options offered by the manufacturer and so was part of the specification of the car he 
bought. So its price should be included in the price he paid for his car, and paid as 
part of his claim.
I understand Mr Ws reasoning, and the strength of his feeling on the subject. However, on 
balance, I cant say that the construction LVI places on the wording is unreasonable.
We wouldnt expect a financial product sold with a car to be insured under a motor insurance 
policy in the absence of very clear intention that this was to be the case. In my view this isnt 
present here. So I dont require LVI to reimburse the cost of the warranty extension as part 
of Mr Ws claim.
I understand that the manufacturer has indicated to Mr W that it wouldnt refund the cost of 
the warranty extension on the ground that it should be recoverable under his insurance 
policy. It may be that if Mr W tells it that this isnt the case it may be willing to reconsider its 
stance.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and make no order against Liverpool 
Victoria Insurance Company Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Lennox TowersOmbudsman