DRN-4368122
The complaint
Mr S and Mr S complain about St Andrews Insurance Plcs (St Andrews) decision not to 
fully settle a claim made under their building insurance policy for subsidence.  
Any references to St Andrews also include its agents.
What happened
Mr S and Mr S own a property which they rented out. They say there is an internal tilt in the 
property which means theyve been unable to rent the property for several years. The 
damage has already been the subject of a long-running claim, which has involved some 
repairs and a number of inspections at the property. 
St Andrews says the most recent reports indicated signs of recent movement at the back of 
the property, and a stabilisation plan was being investigated. However, they considered the 
tilting of the floor to be as a result of historic movement. 
Mr S and Mr S didnt agree, so arranged for a structural engineer to inspect their property. 
They also noted the tilting of the floor, concluding this was consistent with damage visible on 
external walls and alluded to downward movement at the rear of the building. Essentially the 
structural engineer recognised movement in the property but believed there had been 
settlement over a number of years. 
Mr S and Mr S thought St Andrews ought to do more to repair the damage to the floor and 
complained. St Andrews issued two final response letters. The first, in February 2023, said 
the report from their structural engineer didnt state the cause of the damage was 
subsidence. Following another complaint, a second final response letter was issued in     
July 2023 and reached the same conclusion. 
Unhappy with St Andrews response, Mr S and Mr S asked us to look into their concerns. 
They were passed to one of our investigators who said as the structural engineer appointed 
by Mr S and Mr S didnt confirm the damage was related to subsidence, she didnt think      
St Andrews needed to do anything more in relation to the tilting floors. Mr S and Mr S didnt 
agree, so this matter has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This claim has previously been the subject of a case with this Service and, as our 
investigator said, here were focusing only on whats happened since September 2022. So, 
this decision only focuses on whether St Andrews acted fairly in continuing to decline part of 
the claim about the damage to the internal floor on the basis it pre-dated the policy start 
date. 
As a starting point, I think its helpful for me to set out how the policy defines subsidence:
Subsidence
Downward movement of the ground beneath the buildings not due to the weight of 
the buildings.
In order for me to conclude St Andrews should consider the tilted floors as part of the claim, 
Id need to be persuaded there was evidence the damage was caused by the current 
movement at the property. 
St Andrews has, in previous cases, considered by this Service, set out why it considers the 
damage is historic. As those issues have been considered by this Service already, its not 
appropriate for me to revisit them. Instead, Im considering` whats happened since 
September 2022.
Ultimately, the only evidence that has been obtained since the September 2022 is the 
structural engineers report instructed by Mr S and Mr S. Ive also been provided with the 
comments of the surveyor St Andrews had previously instructed to inspect the property after 
they reviewed the report. Ive noted the findings of this report, which acknowledged there is 
movement in the property. But this isnt in dispute, as St Andrews has accepted movement 
to the rear of the property and says a plan is in place to determine the best way to stabilise 
this movement. The issue is whether the tilting floors have been caused by subsidence.
Ive considered what the report says about the damage to the internal floors. Having done 
so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for the same reasons. The 
report provided by Mr S and Mr S structural engineer doesnt set out a finding the tilting 
floors have been caused by the current movement and instance of subsidence. It indicates 
theres been movement over a number of years. In the observations and comments section, 
the report said:
we believe that these problems are a combination and consequence of settlement in 
the building over the years and significant movement in the supporting structure, 
predominantly at the rear of the building.
Without evidence to support Mr S and Mr S belief subsidence is the cause of the damage to 
the internal floors; I cant conclude St Andrews has acted unreasonably in declining their 
request this damage be considered as part of the claim. 
While Im sorry to disappoint Mr S and Mr S, Im not going to require St Andrews to take any 
further action in 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2023. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman