DRN-1841799
The complaint
Mr D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to raise a chargeback in time.
What happened
In April 2018, Mr D paid £3,500 using his Barclays debit card for a course at a college. The 
course advertised that participants were guaranteed a job at the end. Mr D enrolled and 
completed the course but didnt receive a job at the end. Hes explained that he was told he 
didnt have enough experience, and he continued to look for work as well as doing work 
experience, but the college didnt find him a job. The college went out of business in 
November 2019  at this point Mr D asked Barclays to raise a chargeback.
Barclays said it was too late to raise a chargeback. There was confusion over dates but at 
first Barclays told Mr D that it had 120 days from the date payment was made to raise a 
chargeback and that he was past this deadline. Mr D returned to Barclays to say that its 
website said it had 540 days to request a chargeback. Barclays explained that this time had 
also passed. Mr D complained. He said hed asked Barclays to request a chargeback earlier 
in October 2019 which wouldve been within 540 days. However, he was told it couldnt be 
requested as 120 days had passed. He believes that he wouldve been able to get his 
money back had it been raised at this point.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He explained the time limits in detail to Mr D, 
but explained that the date the college went out of business was the date that he wouldnt 
have been able to get a job, and this was after 540 days had passed. He explained that a 
chargeback is a request that Barclays could put to the merchant  in this case the college. 
And that if this was raised earlier when the college was still operating, it may have been the 
case that it rejected the chargeback as it couldve still found Mr D a job. The investigator said 
he hadnt seen anything to show Mr D asked Barclays to raise a chargeback earlier than 540 
days since he made the payment. He also said there was nothing to show the chargeback 
wouldve been successful.
Mr D disagreed with the investigator. His representative told us that the agreement was for 
Mr D to be given a job at the end of the course. Mr D completed the course in April 2019 and 
had asked Barclays in early October to raise a chargeback. He believes it wouldve been 
successful as the college hadnt fulfilled its obligations under the contract. So, hes asked for 
an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the situation Mr D now finds himself in. I can imagine its very 
disappointing after the amount of money hes paid for the course. However, my role here is 
to look at whether Barclays has done something wrong. And I cant see that it has. Ill explain 
why.A chargeback isnt an obligation, its not guaranteed to succeed. Its something that a card 
scheme  in this case VISA  operates. Its a process that allows a card issuer (Barclays) to 
request money is returned for a number of specified reasons. The request goes to the 
merchant (the college). The usual time limit to request a chargeback is 120 days from when 
the payment is made. However, there are some circumstances where the 120 days starts 
when its realised the goods or services wont be provided. In any case it must be made 
within 540 days of the transaction. If a chargeback is requested in the time limits, a merchant 
can defend or accept it. If a merchant defends the chargeback, then its unlikely it will be 
successful. But in this case, a chargeback wasnt requested as Barclays were told after 540 
days had passed about the college not being able to fulfil what Mr D had paid for.
Mr D has told us he asked Barclays to request the chargeback multiple times before the 540 
day limit had passed but was told that it couldnt be done as it was more than 120 days since 
the payment was made. Ive not seen anything to show that Mr D asked for this to happen 
earlier. But if he had Im not sure hed be in a different position.
Ive only seen an advert for Mr Ds college course. It does say theres a guaranteed job at 
the end. But it also says that terms and conditions apply. So, there may be separate reasons 
why the college didnt find Mr D a job which are covered by its terms  if this was the case 
then its unlikely a chargeback would have been successful. Ive also noted that if the 
chargeback was requested within the 540 day timeframe, the college wouldve still been 
operating. So, theres a chance it would defend the chargeback, as it couldve still fulfilled 
the contract at that point. So, on balance, Im not persuaded that Mr D would be in a different 
position had Barclays requested a chargeback earlier. And as Ive mentioned before, Ive not 
seen anything to suggest it shouldve done this. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman