DRN-2845655
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) unfairly declined her claim 
for a refund of transactions she says she didnt authorise.
What happened
Mrs B disputes multiple payments that were made on her account between January and 
April 2019. She says she couldnt have made the transactions herself as she was in prison 
from 14 February 2019.
Nationwide declined Mrs Bs claim, saying it couldnt identify when Mrs Bs PIN could have 
been compromised and that many of the transactions were to merchants Mrs B had 
previously paid money to.
Mrs B brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator thought it was more likely that 
Mrs Bs daughter had made the transactions, with Mrs Bs authority. Mrs B didnt agree. She 
said there were lots of people coming and going to and from her flat who could have taken 
the card, and she said shed given her daughter £5,000 before she went to prison.
Our investigator couldnt reach an agreement, so Mrs B asked for an ombudsman to review 
matters afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In simple terms, if Im to uphold this complaint, Id need to be persuaded that Mrs B didnt 
authorise the transactions in question. That is to say that she didnt make the transactions 
herself, or give someone permission to make the transactions.
Some of the payments in dispute were online payments, some were contactless, and others 
were made using Mrs Bs PIN, such as ATM withdrawals. So, whoever carried out the 
transactions had Mrs Bs card and PIN.
Mrs B has told us that she had several carers coming and going to and from her flat, that, 
after she went to prison, her daughter had a party at the flat and regularly invited numerous 
guests into the flat, and that the flat was broken into. Shes speculated that her card and PIN 
could have been taken by any number of people who had access to her flat, which is where 
her card and PIN were kept.
I accept its possible that Mrs Bs card was stolen by one of the people who had access to 
her flat, and that they also took the PIN. However, I think its more likely than not that the 
transactions were made with Mrs Bs authority by someone she knew. Ill explain why.
The pattern of transactions Mrs B disputes is similar to those made before she says her card 
was compromised, and Mrs Bs card was used to pay money to some of the same 
merchants she previously paid herself. Mrs B also said she had a gaming computer in her 
flat, and I can see that many of the transactions were made to the gaming computers online 
platform, shortly after Mrs B went to prison. There were also recurring payments to a 
television service that appeared on Mrs Bs statements before she went to prison.
Ive also seen numerous online banking logins to Mrs Bs account both before and after the 
disputed transactions, using the same device. All of which suggests that whoever carried out 
the transactions obtained Mrs Bs card and PIN before she went to prison, which in turn 
means its more likely than not that the card and PIN werent taken by any of Mrs Bs 
daughters guests, or whoever broke into Mrs Bs flat.
Mrs B told Nationwide her last legitimate use of the card was in January 2019. There were 
dozens of transactions after January, and before Mrs B went to prison. Which means that a 
fraudster would have had to either take Mrs Bs card without her noticing for weeks, or take 
and replace it dozens of times in the space of a few weeks, again without Mrs B noticing.
When Mrs B first called our service, she told our investigator her PIN was written down, but 
that it was in a separate location to her card. And that the PIN was disguised in a way that 
meant it wasnt clear that it was a PIN for a bank card.
I accept its possible that someone who entered Mrs Bs flat could have located both Mrs Bs 
card, and her PIN without her noticing, but I have to base my findings on the balance of 
probabilities. And I think its more likely than not that Mrs Bs card and PIN werent obtained 
by a third party without her knowledge or authorisation.
Given what Ive said above, Im not persuaded that the transactions Mrs B disputes were 
carried out by someone without Mrs Bs authority. So, it follows that I dont uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman