DRN-3205003
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Zurich Insurance plc (Zurich) declined his claim under his buildings 
insurance for storm damage to his property.
 
What happened
Briefly, Mr G had a property abroad which was covered under the same buildings policy as 
his home in the UK. He explained that the ground moved from under his villa pathway during 
a heavy rainstorm, causing part of the pathway and wall to collapse. Mr G made a claim 
under his home insurance, but Zurich declined his claim. 
Zurich said other factors were the primary cause of the damage and its structural report 
confirmed this. However, Mr Gs structural report provided a differing opinion. Zurich 
maintained its decision to decline the claim for storm damage.
Our investigator initially thought that the storm caused the land movement but, after 
receiving a further structural report from Zurich, she concluded that the storm wasnt the 
main cause of the damage.
Mr G pointed out what he considered to be several inaccuracies in the second report and 
asked for the information to be reconsidered.
I issued a provisional decision in September 2021 explaining why I didnt think Mr Gs claim 
was covered under his policy. Ive summarised it here.
My first provisional decision
Zurich gave permission for this service to consider Mr Gs complaint before it had reached 
the time allowed for it to conclude its own investigation. So, Zurich hadnt sent Mr G a final 
response to his complaint about the storm damage claim. However, Zurich declined his 
claim because it didnt think the storm was the main cause of the damage.
Regardless of whether the storm caused the damage, I thought the policy only covered Mr G 
if his home was damaged at the same time by the same storm. The policy wording wasnt 
explicit, but it implied that the home meant the actual building. So, I didnt think it was wrong 
for Zurich to decline his claim, albeit for a different reason to the one it gave when it started 
its investigation.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Responses to my first provisional decision
Mr G said the policy wording, as follows, is precise:
Storm and flood
We will not pay for any loss or damage to fences, hedges, gates other than electric or 
metal gates, piers, wharves or docks caused by or resulting from wind, storm, flood or 
weight of snow unless your home is damaged at the same time by the same cause".
The damage he suffered was to the grounds of his home, including walls, paths, drains, 
pipes and cables, none of which are excluded from storm cover. This matters because Mr G 
had an All Risks policy which means cover is provided unless specifically excluded. 
Therefore, Mr G didnt think it was fair to say his claim was excluded under the storm 
damage clause.
Mr G also provided further evidence from the Structural Design Engineer whod previously 
said the storm caused the damage, which showed the drainage network around his villa and 
confirmed it was adequate.
Zurich agreed that an All Risks policy provided cover unless specifically excluded. But it 
pointed to the general policy exclusions which apply to the whole of the policy to support its 
decision to decline the claim. Zurich said landslip wasnt covered under the policy unless the 
home was damaged at the same time.
My second provisional decision
I reconsidered the evidence about the storm damage claim and issued my second 
provisional decision in October 2021 explaining why I was persuaded by Mr Gs point about 
the All Risks policy cover  the policy doesnt specifically exclude cover for ornamental walls 
or paths damaged by storm, so its reasonable to expect that theyre covered. Heres what I 
said:
Ive provisionally decided that it wasnt fair for Zurich to decline Mr Gs claim for storm 
damage and Ill explain why now. 
Zurich declined Mr Gs claim because it said the land slipped from under the wall and path 
because of inadequate drainage, so the storm simply highlighted an existing problem. Zurich 
relied on the following general exclusion:
Defective design
We will not pay for any loss or damage caused by or resulting from, or any damages 
arising from defective design, workmanship, maintenance or materials.
Zurich also highlighted the following specific exclusion:
Subsidence, heave or landslip
We will not pay for any loss or damage to the grounds of your homeunless your home is 
damaged at the same time by the same cause.
We will not pay for any loss or damage to, or caused by or resulting from, the movement of 
solid floor slabs unless the foundations beneath the external walls of your home are 
damaged at the same time by the same cause.However, Mr Gs claim was for storm damage which has different conditions and exclusions 
to those under landslip. Even so, Zurich didnt think the storm caused the damage and cited 
the same exclusion.
When looking at a complaint about storm damage, I consider three questions:
Was there a storm?
Is the damage consistent with storm damage?
Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
If the answer to any of these questions is no, then the claim wont succeed.
Was there a storm?
The policy doesnt define a storm, so Ive thought about whether its reasonable to class the 
recorded weather conditions as a storm. Having looked at online weather data from the time 
of the damage, I can see that rainfall exceeded 180mm in the 24 hours leading up to the 
damage. Media reports confirmed the impact of the rainfall on the surrounding area, 
including loss of life, and the local government declared a natural disaster. Im satisfied the 
torrential rainfall was a storm.  
Is the damage consistent with storm damage?
Mr Gs wall and some of the pathway were damaged because the ground underneath 
slipped away during the storm. All the expert reports provided by Mr G and Zurich confirm 
that the rainfall caused the ground to slip. With the rain falling at such intensity, structural 
damage can be expected. So, I think the damage to Mr Gs villa is consistent with storm 
damage.
Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
This is the main issue in dispute and theres a lot of supporting evidence to consider. Both 
Zurich and Mr G provided structural engineer reports, each one supporting their differing 
views of the main cause of damage.
Zurichs evidence points to inadequate drainage as the main cause of the damage. While its 
reports comment on many other factors, each relates back to the drainage. So, Ive focused 
on this overriding issue. In summary, Zurichs expert report says:
Reason for slope failure
the addition of poorly conceived landscape terracing that combined with an inadequate 
rainwater drainage scheme to artificially concentrate a relatively small amount of 
stormwater in a localised area, is the primary reason this particular localised section of 
slope suffered such a catastrophic landslip.
And,
The lack of an adequate drainage scheme from areas of the villas roof, upper
driveway and hard landscaping zones, where a significant proportion of rainwater openly 
discharged onto corresponding lower roofs and surfaces, ultimately discharging onto the 
slope immediately below the property and contributing to the long term deterioration of this 
localised area.Mr Gs evidence points to the storm being the main cause of the damage, and his experts 
reports state the drainage was adequate. 
Ive looked at the original and supplementary reports and I can see that Mr Gs engineer has 
highlighted many more drainage points than those shown in Zurichs report. Photos are 
provided of each point and the direction of drainage is indicated. 
Im not expected to be an expert in structural design so I must rely on the reports provided. 
And having compared the reports, I find Mr Gs structural engineer more persuasive for the 
following reasons:
Zurich commented that, no evidence of any stormwater drainage system below the 
villa could be found and is believed that the majority of rainwater collected from the 
villa roof and hard landscaping/driveway is ultimately discharged directly onto the 
slope below the property.
Mr Gs engineer said, We certify that the impermeable zones of the propertyhad a 
good system for managing rainwater, comprising drains, gutters, collectors, 
manholesAnd the water collected was not discharged onto the collapsed area, an 
underground collecting pipe is directly connectedfrom the manhole at the foot of 
the frontage of the villa. The report included photos of the drainage below the villa 
which directly contradicts Zurichs report.
These comments alone suggest that Zurichs report isnt a fully accurate description of the 
drainage system in place at the property, so I think its fair to place greater reliance on Mr 
Gs expert report.
I note Zurichs report says the slope didnt fall away during a similar storm some years 
earlier, and it has given that as another reason for the storm not being the main cause of the 
damage. However, I cant say that withstanding the effects of one storm necessarily means 
Mr Gs villa shouldve held up to any subsequent storm. 
Zurichs report also confirmed that localised storms can affect properties differently, again 
saying that it doesnt follow that Mr Gs property was affected just because there was a 
storm in the area. However, that argument contradicts the one above - that it cant be storm 
damage because the previous storm didnt affect the property. I dont find Zurichs argument 
persuasive. 
Ill comment briefly on Zurichs view that the walls foundations were insufficient to retain the 
ground so the storm simply highlighted weakness. Mr G considered the wall ornamental and 
his engineer, when asked about the role of the walls in the damage, said, Several 
ornamental terracing walls (not calculated for a supporting function) have been carried to 
[the road] below. Grills for the protection of the embankment have been torn away at the 
time of the landslide, their function was solely with the intention of protecting the road from 
falls of stones.
Further, the engineer said, The dominant causes of the disturbances on the land are the 
episodes of intense rain at the end of November and beginning of December 2019, the 
fittings at the property had been stable for several years, the damage would not have taken 
place without this meteorological phenomenon of such intensity.
When asked again in response to details from Zurichs report saying the drainage was 
insufficient, Mr Gs engineer said, We underline once more that the trigger for the landslide 
at the property is the extremely intense and sudden rain.This decision has been difficult to reach because the evidence provided by each party 
contradicts the other. But Ive decided that, on balance, the evidence suggests the storm 
was the main cause of the damage. Thats because Mr Gs engineer has never strayed from 
his original view that the severe rainfall caused the damage, and he gave that opinion before 
there was any dispute about what the policy covered. Zurichs initial report supported this:
The surface water generated by the storm events in November and December produced a 
landslide which effectively washed this upper layer off the underlying bedrock, exposing it 
in the process.
Also, Ive asked myself whether the damage wouldve happened but for the storm. Given 
that the wall and path had been standing undamaged for around 30 years before, it seems 
they were adequate to withstand all except the most extreme weather conditions. So, I think 
its more likely that it was this natural disaster  the storm - which was the main cause of 
the damage. 
Overall, Im satisfied that the evidence suggests the storm was the main cause of the 
damage to Mr Gs property. As walls and paths arent specifically excluded from cover, I 
think its fair to say that Zurich should reconsider the claim under the policy without relying 
on a storm damage exclusion.
For the reasons I explained above, I said I was minded to require Zurich Insurance plc to:
reconsider Mr Gs storm damage claim in line with the remaining terms of the policy 
without relying on a storm damage exclusion.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Mr G accepted my findings.
Zurich disagreed. It provided a further engineers report and commented on the overall 
findings. Ill address the main comments now.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Zurich says the damage was caused by a lack of rainwater drainage, which allowed the rain 
to gather behind the retaining walls and, eventually, force the walls to fall. So, the rain 
contributed to the damage but the ultimate cause was the poor design and workmanship.
Mr G said the wall had been standing for around 30 years, so it was unlikely it suddenly 
failed, coincidentally, during the heavy rainstorm.
The issue we have, simply, is that all the engineers who have reported on this matter have 
slightly differing views of the cause, and the purpose and suitability of the structure of Mr Gs 
wall.
Zurich considered it nave to assume that the storm was the cause of the damage or that the 
land wouldve remained intact indefinitely without the storm. It said the small catchment area 
wouldve been affected by previous storms otherwise. I addressed this point in my second 
provisional decision:I cant say that withstanding the effects of one storm necessarily means Mr Gs villa 
shouldve held up to any subsequent storm. 
Zurichs report also confirmed that localised storms can affect properties differently, again 
saying that it doesnt follow that Mr Gs property was affected just because there was a 
storm in the area. However, that argument contradicts the one above - that it cant be 
storm damage because the previous storm didnt affect the property.
Im not persuaded that its fair for Zurich to rely on the lack of damage during previous 
storms as evidence that the storm in question here wouldnt have caused the damage.
Zurich says Mr G mistakenly concluded that drainage is being cited as the main cause of the 
damage, leading him to seek a drainage report in support of his claim. However, Zurich says 
its engineers never stated that the original construction was not well executed or had 
drainage defects. Instead, its engineer said:
The main reason that the slope collapsed is the poorly conceived and executed terrace 
walls that exacerbated the effect of consistent rainfall on the slope during the proceeding 
(sic) week by effectively acting as dams, trapping the moisture.
Looking back at Zurichs expert reports, I note the engineer deemed the following factors 
contributed to the damage:
an inadequate rainwater drainage scheme to artificially concentrate a relatively small 
amount of stormwater in a localised area, is the primary reason this particular 
localised section of slope suffered such a catastrophic landslip.
The plan layoutwith no consideration to the damaging effects of allowing undrained 
rainwater discharge to weaken the walls.
The lack of any effective land drains solutions behind the terrace walls.
The lack of an adequate drainage scheme from areas of the villas roof, upper 
driveway and hard landscaping zones, where a significant proportion of rainwater 
openly discharged onto corresponding lower roofs and surfaces, ultimately 
discharging onto the slope immediately below the property and contributing to the 
long term deterioration.
Subsequent additional hard landscaping surfaces were built without modifying the 
original defective drainage scheme.
I cant agree that Zurich didnt cite drainage defects as a cause of the damage. So, looking 
again at Mr Gs drainage report, Im satisfied that it shows drainage points not considered by 
Zurich, which calls into question its expert report.
Zurichs engineer said the feature terrace walls were built without regard for the foundations 
or drainage, and they would fail eventually. Zurich doesnt agree that a wall is necessarily 
adequate just because it remained intact for more than 25 years. I accept this, but I think 
Zurich has missed its own point about the location of the villa. The wall didnt collapse after 
just one bad storm. It, and the drains, stood up to regular heavy rainfall. 
Going back to the original point about whether there was a storm, it was classed as a 
national disaster. While the wall couldnt withstand such torrential rainfall, I dont think the 
evidence shows it was inadequate. It was evidently adequate for normal to bad weather conditions  the predictable conditions Zurich expected it to withstand - so its unreasonable 
to disregard the extreme nature of the storm in question. 
So, in respect of this point, I dont agree with Zurich that Mr G was mistaken, or that Zurich 
has provided evidence to say the design of his wall was inadequate as a feature terrace. 
Returning to Zurichs point about drainage, it says the report provided by Mr Gs engineer 
doesnt show that there was adequate drainage behind the walls. Zurich points out that the 
study of the drainage system didnt include video footage of the inside of the drains to show 
that they were working effectively, and theres a lack of comment on the broken pipes shown 
in the photos which ran from the villa to the road below.
Ive looked again at the drainage report in light of Zurichs comments and I remain satisfied 
that Mr Gs report provided an overview of drainage which Zurichs engineer has not 
accepted. While the pipes do run through the property, Mr Gs annotated photos show 
rainwater channels through surfaces too, to the ground drains below. Theres no dispute that 
the drainage system has been described as unusual, but that doesnt mean its inadequate 
for predictable weather conditions.
Overall, Im satisfied that the amount of rainwater which fell in a relatively short space of time 
overwhelmed the drainage system, which is, in very simple terms, what Mr Gs report 
concluded.
The final point Ill address is Zurichs question of Mr Gs engineers qualifications. Zurich 
doesnt think the engineers professional profile demonstrates suitability to comment on this 
matter. Ive looked at the same online profile, but I dont share Zurichs concerns. The 
engineer has limited information on the profile, but what is available indicates more than ten 
years experience in engineering, including structural and foundations analysis. The engineer 
signs the report as structural engineer and so does the author of another report, upon 
which Zurich has placed some reliance. Zurich hasnt challenged the suitability of that 
engineer and I have no reason to doubt that Mr Gs engineer is qualified to report on the 
matter.
There are about eight reports provided by Zurich and Mr G as evidence for this claim. None 
of the engineers fully agree, so it remains difficult to rely on a single report as the defining 
expert evidence. So, taking a step back, Ive thought about the overall circumstances. 
Zurich declined Mr Gs claim because it didnt think a storm had caused the damage to the 
paths, walls, and drainpipes around his home. Its evident that there was torrential rainfall 
and the damage happened during the storm. The paths and walls had been in place for 
around 30 years withstanding fairly extreme weather but, on this occasion, structural 
damage happened. All the expert reports say the rain caused the ground to collapse under 
the path and bring the walls down, but Zurich thinks the poor design was the main cause. 
Given that the property was built 40 years earlier, and the walls had been in place for more 
than 25 years, I dont think Zurich has provided sufficient evidence to show that it fairly relied 
on the poor workmanship exclusion.
So, Ive decided that Zurich should reconsider Mr Gs claim without relying on the exclusions 
for storm damage.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Gs 
complaint and Zurich Insurance plc must:
reconsider Mr Gs claim without relying on the exclusions for storm damage.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman