DRN-3588478
Complaint
Miss C is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) blocked her account, closed it and 
then recorded a fraud prevention marker against her. 
Background
In August 2020, Miss Cs account received a number of payments. HSBC subsequently 
received notifications from the banks which sent some of the funds confirming that its 
customers had been scammed into making the transfers into Miss Cs account. HSBC 
placed a block on Miss Cs account while it conducted a review. As a result of its review it 
decided to close all of Miss Cs accounts and also record a fraud prevention marker against 
Miss C.
Miss C complained about HSBC restricting her access to her accounts and eventually about 
it recording a fraud marker against her. HSBC looked at Miss Cs complaint and didnt 
uphold it. As Miss C remained dissatisfied, she referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Cs concerns. She didnt think that HSBC had done 
enough to show that Miss C was complicit in fraud and so it unfairly recorded the fraud 
prevention marker against Miss C. HSBC didnt respond despite being provided with 
additional time to do so, so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision 
as per the next stage of our dispute resolution process.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that HSBC has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility  
relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it isnt 
required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Miss C is guilty of a fraud or financial crime, 
but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The 
relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that HSBC must first be able to show that fraudulent funds
entered Miss Cs account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
HSBC also needs to have strong evidence to show that Miss C was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving any fraudulent payments and knew they were, or might be, illegitimate payments. 
This can include Miss C allowing someone else to use her account in order to receive 
illegitimate payments. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Miss Cs complaint, I need to decide whether I think HSBC had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Miss Cs account and that she was complicit in 
this. Its important to note HSBC had to have enough evidence to meet both parts of test for 
it to have acted fairly and reasonably.
Having considered matters here, there doesnt appear to be any dispute that Miss Cs 
account had been in receipt of fraudulent funds in August 2020. So I can understand why 
HSBC had concerns about Miss Cs account usage and decided to carry out a review. While 
I understand Miss Cs disappointment at the length of time it took to carry out the review, its 
clear that there was quite a lot of activity which needed investigating. And given the 
circumstances, I dont think that it was unfair for HSBC to block Miss Cs account while it 
was carrying out its review.
That said, while Im satisfied that HSBC had reasonable grounds to block Miss Cs account 
and carry out an investigation, this in itself isnt enough to register a fraud prevention marker 
against a customer. HSBC also has to produce sufficient evidence to show Miss C was 
complicit in fraud. And I dont think that it has done that here.
Miss C has explained that she met someone online who persuaded her that hed got into 
financial difficulty and that he asked her and his friends to help. Miss C further explained that 
she was told to provide her account details to receive funds which she could then transfer on 
to him. Miss C has provided some of the messages she exchanged in support of her version 
of events. Our adjudicator found Miss Cs version of events plausible and she thought that 
Miss C was unwittingly involved in fraud, rather than it being the case that she was complicit 
in it. She as also concerned that HSBC recorded the fraud marker despite having been in 
possession of this information.
Ive thought about what the parties have said. 
I want to start by saying that the important thing to remember here is that it is HSBCs 
responsibility to demonstrate that Miss C was knowingly and dishonestly involved in fraud. 
And I think that it has failed to do that here. 
HSBC needs to have relevant and rigorous evidence such that it could report the matter to 
the police. In other words, a reasonable suspicion that Miss C knew fraud would take place 
when she provided her account details and transferred the funds which came into her 
account on. Simply pointing out that fraud took place and that Miss C transferred the funds in 
question, when shes never denied this is the case, just isnt enough to meet what is a high-
bar. This is especially the case seeing as the messages Miss C has provided, which also 
appear to indicate that she lost some of her own funds, suggests that her version of events 
here isnt implausible.   
Furthermore, there isnt any evidence indicating that Miss C made a financial gain either as 
the fraudulent funds in question were transferred elsewhere. Indeed, the content of the 
messages Miss C has provided suggests that she might well have lost some of her own 
money as a result of what happened. I would question why Miss C would send some of her 
own funds if she was knowingly participating in fraud.Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that HSBC had sufficient evidence to 
meet the test for recording a fraud marker against Miss C. As this is the case, I think that it 
was unfair for HSBC to record a fraud prevention marker in the circumstances that it did. 
Ive considered what Miss C has said about the impact HSBCs actions have had on her. 
Miss C has said that HSBCs actions put her in a situation where she couldnt pay her 
mortgage or bills. She had to open a new account and borrow money to ensure that she 
could pay her mortgage and provide for her son. Miss C has also provided copies of the 
letters she sent to HSBC explaining this. 
Ive thought about what Miss C has said and Im sorry to hear about the difficult time shes 
clearly been through. But most of what Miss C has told us about happened as a result of the 
block that was placed on her account. Ive already explained that as Miss Cs account was in 
receipt of fraudulent funds, albeit without Miss C being knowingly involved, HSBC had an 
obligation to carry out an investigation and satisfy itself that any funds were legitimate before 
releasing them. So I dont think that Miss Cs initial difficulties were caused as a result of 
HSBC acting unfairly or unreasonably.
That said, I do think that HSBCs decision to record a fraud marker after it had decided to 
release the funds, is likely to have had an additional impact. Although Miss C will have 
already had another bank account by this stage, the marker will have impacted her ability to 
access other financial products and will have caused her an amount of distress and 
inconvenience. As I dont think that HSBC should have recorded the fraud marker and    
Miss C experienced a relatively significant amount of distress and inconvenience as a result, 
I think that HSBC should pay Miss C £350 in compensation for its actions.    
So overall Im upholding Miss Cs complaint and HSBC needs to remove any and all fraud 
markers it has recorded against Miss C and also pay her £350 in compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Cs complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should 
remove any and all fraud markers it has recorded against Miss C and also pay her £350 in 
compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman