DRN-3303812
The complaint
Mr H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as First Direct unfairly reduced his 
overdraft.
What happened
Mr H had a £4,000 overdraft with First Direct, who wrote to him on 17 August 2021, to inform 
him that they were going to reduce the overdraft on the account to £2,350 on 18 September 
2021. Mr H says he had been using the overdraft for two months and received the letter from 
First Direct on 6 September 2021.
Mr H says he had some money to move around but he needed the overdraft while he did so. 
He had planned to use the overdraft as it was agreed and available. Mr H says that when he 
received the letter from First Direct, he was already over the £2,350 at which they intended 
to reduce the overdraft to, which caused him considerable stress, as he still needed some 
time to finish his money movements. Mr H was worried he would incur significant costs if he 
remained over that limit. Mr H said the agreed overdraft of £4,000 had been in place for 
many years and First Direct never sought to reduce it. But when he started to use the 
overdraft, First Direct disadvantaged him significantly by reducing it at the point he needed it. 
Mr H says he contacted First Direct by phone to reinstate his £4,000 overdraft limit, but First 
Direct wouldnt do this for him. Mr H says they told him they could remove the overdraft as 
they see fit to. Mr H tried to resolve this by the messaging facility, but First Direct wouldnt 
change their decision. Mr H made a complaint to First Direct.
First Direct did not uphold Mr Hs complaint. They said that they had taken the decision to 
review all their customers' overdraft limits to ensure they're still suitable. A number of factors 
are considered, which can't be divulged as they're business sensitive. Mr H brought his 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Hs complaint. He said regular reviews of customers 
accounts and credit to ensure affordability and suitability is a standard practice. He said in 
Mr Hs contact with First Direct, their staff tried to explain that the decision was made due to 
regular reviews of customer accounts to ensure suitability and this wasnt meant to cause 
him inconvenience and the decision wasnt made based solely on his recent use of the 
account. Our investigator quoted the terms and conditions of the account which showed the 
overdraft isnt fixed.
Mr H asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said he had to do some 
significant financial juggling because First Direct reneged on a long standing agreement. He 
does not accept that First Direct had the right to reduce the overdraft at the time he was 
using it. Mr H said his overdraft had been in place for a number of years and the timing of 
the reduction was more than suspicious. He said the overdraft was being reduced when he 
needed it the most, which caused him a lot of stress. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
At the outset Id emphasise that this service is not the regulator. Nor do we act as the
enforcer for the regulator. The regulator is the Financial Conduct Authority. Our service acts
as an informal dispute resolution service for complaints about financial businesses. So I
must be clear to Mr H from the outset that Im unable to tell First Direct how to manage their 
procedure to reduce arranged overdraft limits as this is a business decision.
But I have considered what Mr H has said about his personal circumstances at the time First 
Direct wrote to him. I understand he was planning on moving money around and he had only 
temporarily intended to use the overdraft during this timeframe. Ive noted the strength of Mr 
Hs feelings when First Direct wrote to him about reducing his overdraft  especially at a time 
when he was already overdrawn.
This was compounded as by the time he received the letter, he was already over the 
overdraft limit that First Direct said they were going to reduce his overdraft to. At this time, it 
would have been 12 days before this change took effect. So I can sympathise with what Mr 
H has said about the effect the changes were going to have on him. I can see that Mr H tried 
to contact First Direct to get them to change their decision but to no avail. So Mr H had to 
rush around and rearrange his finances to try and ensure he was within the new, reduced 
overdraft limit before the overdraft reduced. This was at a time when he had needed the 
overdraft the most.
Ive considered what Mr H has said about First Direct reneging on a long standing 
agreement. So Ive looked at what his terms and conditions say. Mr H wouldve needed to 
agree to these terms and conditions when he opened his account. While his overdraft may 
have been in place for a long period of time, the terms and conditions are clear that all 
overdrafts are payable on demand. 
So First Direct would be able to ask him to repay the full amount back at any time, instantly, 
regardless of his personal circumstances  although they would often try and give notice 
first. While First Direct didnt do this here, Im persuaded that it shows that just because an 
overdraft limit has originally been agreed, an overdraft is not fixed for the duration of the time 
an account is held and neither would I expect it to be. I say this as a customers personal 
circumstances are likely to change over the course of holding an account. So I cant agree 
with Mr H that First Direct had reneged or broken an agreement here.
Although Mr H did not use his overdraft for a considerable amount of time, this doesnt mean 
that First Direct should always make this amount available to him. So while Mr H had the 
overdraft for a long period of time set at £4,000, this was because First Direct deemed the 
overdraft suitable for Mr H prior to their review which led to an overdraft reduction. His terms 
and conditions show theres no fixed period, but well review (the overdraft) regularly. 
Im persuaded thats what First Direct did here. They reviewed his overdraft and took a 
decision to lower the overdraft considering all sorts of things, including how (Mr H managed 
his) accounts. I know Mr H feels the timing was suspicious. But Im satisfied that it was 
coincidental. I say this as at the time First Direct had produced their letter to Mr H, he was 
within the overdraft limit that First Direct were going to reduce his overdraft limit to. He still would have had over £450 of the new overdraft limit (£2,350) to use on 17 August 2021  
the date of the letter they sent him. 
I wouldnt expect First Direct to be able to foresee what Mr H would spend in the future. But 
here, First Direct acted in accordance with the terms and conditions and gave Mr H notice of 
the change, regardless of whether Mr H received the letter only 12 days before the reduction 
of the overdraft took place. 
In order to uphold this complaint I would need to see that First Direct have acted outside of 
their terms and conditions with how theyve applied the overdraft reduction. But Ive seen no 
evidence of this. I know Mr H will strongly disagree with me here, but First Direct did have 
the right to reduce the overdraft  even if he was using it. So although I appreciate what Mr 
H has said about the impact the change caused him personally, at a time when he needed 
the overdraft the most, it follows that I wont be asking First Direct to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman