DRN-3300771
The complaint
Mr C says Chesterton Grant Ltd (CGL) obscured details of the charges it would make for the 
advice it provided and continued in its attempt to mask these fees through deceptions 
despite there being no agreement in place to allow for charges to be levied. Mr C also says 
because of whats happened his confidence in CGLs recommendation to switch his 
personal pension has been undermined. He wants certain charges reimbursed.
What happened
Mr C says that before he reached 65 he was bombarded with information warning him of the 
pitfalls associated with bad pension planning. This suggested he should seek advice from a 
reputable financial adviser before making any decisions about his pension arrangements. 
Given his personal circumstances he was seized of the importance of obtaining expert input.
Mr C says he originally made contact with a long established local firm of financial advisers. 
But after an initial consultation, he told this Service that he felt uneasy, there was very little 
transparency or clarity on what the costs would be for providing the advice and ongoing 
service. He didnt feel confident the company understood his objectives nor that it would be 
able to provide options to meet these in the most financially advantageous way.
Mr C says that a family member suggested CGL may be able to assist. And so he made 
contact with it to arrange an initial consultation, which took place on 2 February 2018. He 
shared with it his recent experience of the local firm of advisers. 
CGL says that it was at this meeting that it introduced its client agreement to Mr C. It says it 
set out its charging structure for initial and ongoing advice and how this worked in practice. It 
said its adviser took some time doing this because of what had happened with the local 
advisory firm. As Ill explore later, Mr C refutes this version of events.
Mr C discussed his requirements and several matters were identified as potentially requiring 
advice, including protection policies and the updating of his will. But a priority for attention 
was his current retirement plans and options as he saw them. 
Mr Cs circumstances, objectives and appetite for risk were established by CGL. Together 
with email exchanges, subsequent meetings between Mr C and CGL appear to have taken 
place on 2 and 9 March 2018, presumably to flesh out details further.
A final meeting for this initial advice package took place on 16 March 2018. CGL says this 
was when the adviser discussed all aspects of his recommendations with Mr C. This 
included a breakdown of the charges. It said various documents were signed at this time 
including the client agreement, fact-find and pension switching questionnaire. An application 
for a new pension plan with Royal London was also signed. As Ill set out, Mr C challenges 
important aspects of this documentation.
A suitability report capturing what had been discussed at the meeting on 16 March was 
produced by CGL, its dated 20 March 2018. This recorded Mr C:
- Was 65 and remarried. He didnt have financially dependent children.
- Owned his home worth around £300,000, which had an outstanding mortgage of 
about £79,000.
- Was the director of his limited company. Had an income of around £50,000 per 
annum (which included some pensions already in payment). Household outgoings 
were said to slightly exceed net income. He had an emergency fund of around 
£3,000.
- Had £150,000 excess cash in his business. As well as a property related to his work 
worth about £150,000.
CGL recorded that Mr C wanted to review his pension plans. He wanted to retire when he 
reached 68. He was said to be targeting an income of around £34,000 a year (including his 
pensions already in payment). He had two personal pensions with Abbey Life (AL), together 
these were worth around £59,000. His intention was said to have been to also utilise the 
excess cash in his business to support his retirement.
Mr C was said to have an immediate need for £17,000 of tax free cash (TFC) to fund an 
important trip his wife had to make overseas. Hed discounted other forms of borrowing 
because he wanted to reduce his liabilities in advance of retirement. But he didnt need to 
draw an income at that stage as he expected to continue working for the next few years.
CGL recommended that Mr C should switch his personal pensions to a flexible drawdown 
arrangement with Royal London. It said he should use some of the excess cash in his 
business to make a contribution of £90,000 to his new pension plan. It also recommended 
he crystalise £68,000 of his new pension to deliver the TFC he required.
Mr C has told this Service he never received CGLs March 2018 suitability report, which Ill 
consider along with the other arguments hes made in his complaint.
Ultimately Mr C accepted CGLs recommendations. His AL pension funds were switched. He 
made a lump sum contribution to his RL pension. And he accessed £17,000 TFC.
Mr C says he approached CGL on 3 February 2019 as he wanted to make another pension 
contribution from his business. CGL says they met at its office on 15 March 2019. It said this 
review meeting was included as part of the ongoing service Mr C had agreed to and paid for. 
A review of his circumstances and attitude to risk was completed and forms appear to have 
been signed by him.
A record of actions indicate that Mr C wanted to maximise contributions for his RL pension. 
A calculation taking into account his allowance indicated an employer contribution of 
£110,000 was possible. He was said to want to maintain his existing exposure to risk for 
investments. And that hed be taking maximum TFC to fund his tax bill and to assist a family 
member. 
Mr C sent a cheque to CGL for £110,00 on 24 March 2019. He said he wanted to draw 
£25,000 TFC from his pension plan as soon as possible. CGL confirmed receipt of his 
proposed contribution, but it says it told him they would need to meet to go through 
everything, including completion of necessary documentation. 
CGL produced a suitability report dated 25 March 2019, recommending this contribution to 
his RL pension to be invested in line with his risk appetite. An illustration with RL was 
produced the same day. CGL says it met with Mr C on 29 March 2019 to discuss matters. It 
says it provided him with all the paperwork and that he signed key documents, including a new client agreement. The transaction was executed according to its recommendations. Mr 
C also disputes certain elements of this record.
Mr C says that it wasnt until May 2019, after talking to RL and later receiving a copy of his 
plan application form, that the position on the charges being made by CGL became apparent 
to him. He ended his relationship with the firm in December 2019.
Mr C had several concerns about what had happened. He said there was never a signed 
agreement of the charges CGL would be making. He says when he tried to obtain 
information about costs he received partial and incorrect information. He raises questions 
about completion of various forms. 
For example, Mr C says its possible his application for his Royal London pension plan, was 
completed by CGL after his signature to include the fees it would receive. Or that it was pre-
completed and presented for his signature and that he wouldnt have expected it to have 
contained information about adviser fees.
Mr C has said that based on his investigations he is now concerned that the switching of his 
AL personal pension to RL may not have been in his best interests. Hes worried it was 
recommended so that CGL could generate a transfer fee.
Mr C has made several serious allegations about CGLs motivations and actions. For 
example, in his complaint letter to CGL of 5 February 2020 commenting on his experience of 
what had happened with the charges levied in 2019 he said:
This is altogether very distasteful and reinforces my belief that Financial Advisors are 
predatory parasites lying in wait to suck cash from unsuspecting and trusting pensioners. 
Their modus operandi is helped by the constant warnings to pensioners to be on their guard 
for dishonest individuals trying to separate people from their hard-earned pension pots.
CGL provided Mr C with a final response to his complaint on 25 March 2020. It refuted his 
arguments. It said it had spent a lot of time in its initial meeting with him discussing the 
charges specifically because of his experience with another firm. It also covered the 
charging regime in subsequent meetings. 
CGL says it provided Mr C with a client agreement in 2018 and 2019, which set out its 
service propositions and associated fees. And that he signed these documents. It also says 
hed have been aware of the charges because they were shown in his applications for the 
RL pension plan and that separate documents issued by his provider clearly set these out as 
well.
Mr C brought his case to this Service to review. The Investigator didnt uphold his complaint. 
He thought there was evidence to show that overall hed been properly informed about 
CGLs charges. 
Mr C disagreed with the Investigator. He pointed to evidence that he thought showed CGL 
hadnt acted properly. The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change his mind by Mr Cs 
arguments. 
As both parties didnt agree with the Investigator, Mr Cs complaint has been passed to me 
to review afresh, and then to provide a final decision which is the final stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im mindful both parties have held to their basic arguments throughout the course of this 
case. Their respective accounts of fundamental matters are directly opposed. Some 
submissions have become heated. And positions entrenched. Its inevitable then that one 
of the parties to the complaint will be deeply unhappy about the outcome I arrive at.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened. I tend to put more weight on evidence 
contemporaneous with events complained about. Memories can and do fade.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats 
deliberate; ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial 
businesses and their customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive 
concentrated my findings on what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by CGL for Mr C. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, 
which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA 
Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2 - which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 6 - which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly.
- Principle 7 - which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of 
its clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like CGL. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Cs complaint.
Ill now turn to the individual grievances which Mr C laid out in his complaint letter to CGL. 
The charges applied by CGL to Mr Cs pension funds
Its useful to revisit what was happening around the first transaction between CGL and Mr C 
at this point. The services and advice Mr C received from CGL were provided in 
February/March 2018. The initial consultation took place on 2 February 2018. A little under 
two weeks later, after examining his existing retirement plans a proposal was emerging from 
CGL. In an email to Mr C it explained:
With regards accumulating a retirement fund in 4 years I really think there are better ways of 
you doing this rather than the one you have shown.
1 You can save probably £80,000 tax over the next 4 years. 
2 You can get money legitimately out of your business and into your own name.
3 You can nominate beneficiaries from your funds and the money would be paid to 
them tax free on your death. 
4 You will be eligible to access 25% of the fund tax free whenever you want it. 5 Your money could achieve capital growth over the next 4 years.
You can achieve the above by making lump sum company pension contributions to your 
own pension fund each tax year. £100k would attract 20% reduction in your tax bill. E.g. You 
would have paid no tax last year and saved £20k.You can continue to do this each year you 
have your business tradingnext 4 years i.e. no tax bill each year.
I would also look to transfer your Abbey Life pensions to another provider. You can then 
consolidate both pots into one. You can then take the tax free amount you want now (up to 
25% of the fund). There would be no need to take the income. Leave the money in the 
pension fund to grow over the next 4 years. You can then take the income as required...
The next day Mr C responded:
Thanks very much for your e-mail and the information contained. The details are very 
interesting and highlight the fact that I need advice and guidance into making the most 
sensible decisions now, that will last into the future for myself, my wife and my 
daughters/stepdaughter.
Further meetings were held in early March and a final session took place on 16 March 2018. 
CGL says this was when the adviser discussed all aspects of his recommendations with Mr 
C. This included a breakdown of the charges. It said various documents were signed at this 
time including the client agreement, fact-find and pension switching questionnaire. An 
application for a new pension plan with Royal London was also signed. 
As we know, Mr C accepted CGLs recommendations. His AL pension funds were switched. 
He made a lump sum contribution to his RL pension. And he accessed £17,000 TFC. 
At the heart of Mr Cs complaint is that there never was a signed agreement about CGLs 
fees. He says while he was provided with a copy of a client agreement, the level of fees to 
be charged wasnt made explicit to him. An extract from one of Mr Cs later submissions to 
this Service summed up his view of CGLs approach:
I am of the opinion that Chesterton Grant have used misinformation, lies, cover-ups and 
avoidance to further their financial gains
Mr C says that his email to CGL of 20 March 2018 is evidence that even by this stage in the 
process he still didnt know what the charges were going to be. In it he wrote:
I am currently sorting out the transfer between accounts etc. to facilitate the payment to 
Royal London. One thing that I don't know is what the costs will be for implementing the 
existing planned arrangements and also the costs going forward. I'd be very grateful if you 
would please advise on this at your earliest convenience.
CGL responded to him in the following terms:
Costs will be as per our terms of business I left youTotal set up costs for everything are 
approx 4%. This includes everything ..all advice costs, two transfers, new investment, 
realising tax free cashGoing forward fund costs, management costs and adviser costs 
equate to approx. 0.95%..(probably cheapest in the industry)
Mr C sought to further clarify certain matters. Whether CGL meant a charge of 4% of the 
£90,000 lump sum contribution he was making to his pension would be made. He asked 
what the 0.95% going forward was based on. And how this would be paid. CGL responded by confirming a 4% charge would be applied to the £90,000 pension 
contribution. It said the 0.95% rate was the fee RL charged for the management of his 
portfolio. And that this would come from his fund.
CGL takes a different view of this email exchange. It says it says at the meeting on 16 March 
they had discussed many details of its recommendations including tax implications, carry 
forward of unused relief, how the plan would meet his short and long term goals, as well as 
costs and charges. It thought Mr Cs email of 20 March was simply seeking clarification of 
the charges discussed. It says his questions were answered immediately and directly. It 
refutes any suggestion of an attempt to hide or mislead Mr C.
Id observe that understanding the fees and charges for the provision of advice services, 
new products and the execution of decisions agreed can be complicated. So, Im not 
persuaded that Mr C reaching out to his adviser in this way necessarily means he hadnt 
already been informed of CGLs charges during the meetings and in paperwork hed 
received.
In its final response to Mr C, CGL acknowledged that it had made a mistake in this exchange 
of emails. Instead of telling him the ongoing charges would amount to 1.45% (1% for its 
ongoing fees and 0.45% levied by RL), it instead quoted 0.95%. It said it had tried to 
respond to Mr C too quickly and that it had mistakenly taken the cost of a lesser service level 
it offered, but which Mr C hadnt selected.
CGL said while it had been in error, it was an honest mistake. It noted that Mr C would in any 
case have been aware ongoing costs would be higher than suggested in the email exchange 
because hed been informed of such in their meetings and had signed a client agreement 
which set these matters out.
Mr C says he thought GCLs statement implied the ongoing charges were solely applied by 
RL and included all management and adviser costs. He again said thered never been any 
mention, discussion nor agreement to an additional 1% charge amounting to approximately 
£2,000 a year as a deduction from his pension pot.
At this point I turn to the issue of what information Mr C received about CGLs charges as 
part of the advice process. I note that in responding to the Investigator he said:
I request that you keep an open mind on the authenticity of all documents provided 
especially when copy documents were not issued to me for verification or comparison 
purposes. It would be entirely possible for single documents to be amended after the fact 
without any means of detection other than viewing the original to check the authenticity.
I understand what Mr C is saying. And of course, this Service always keeps an open mind 
about all matters when investigating complaints. Id simply observe that a high bar needs to 
be cleared before I would set aside evidence which is contemporaneous with the events 
complained about. 
While he has raised certain issues about the documentation in his case, most of which Ill 
address in this decision, hes failed to provide telling evidence the documents provided by 
CGL are unsafe for the purposes of my consideration of his complaint.
Actually theres a significant body of information available that suggests Mr C wouldve been 
fully informed about the costs of CGLs advice and services. For example:
- When Mr C originally approached CGL hes confirmed one of the reasons for doing 
so were concerns he had about a local advice firm hed approached which failed to 
give him confidence in terms of the transparency and clarity of its charges. So, I think he wouldve been particularly acute to this matter in his dealings with CGL.
- The unsigned client agreement he acknowledges receiving at the outset of the 
process, establishes what CGLs charges were for lump sum investments and 
pension transfers. These were based on a percentage of the funds in question, 
varying according to the sum. This wouldve given him a good idea about costs for 
these transactions. The agreement also set out the different ongoing service levels 
and costs associated with each. So again, this wouldve given him some sense of the 
scale of costs dependent on what his requirements were.
- Theres a client agreement on file which bears Mr Cs signature dated 16 March 
2016. This sets out the costs of the advice and identifies the ongoing service level he 
required, and the cost associated with this.
- Ive also seen a Royal London illustration for Mr Cs lump sum contribution and his 
switched pension funds, which identify the adviser fees to be charged. As does the 
application made to Royal London for him to open a new pension arrangement. The 
later bears his signature and is dated 20 March 2018.
- Further, the suitability report CGL produced for Mr C dated 20 March 2018, which set 
out its recommendation, also identified the charges hed incur.
- Finally, I can see that RL sent a welcome pack to confirm when Mr Cs lump sum 
pension contribution had been received safely. It sent another pack when it received 
funds hed switched from AL. Both packs contained information about CGLs fees. 
Although these packs were sent via CGL, Ive seen its log of when the packs were 
received and when they were sent to his address.
Mr C has raised several issues about some of this documentation. For example, he says the 
documents were relying on arent the originals. CGL told us:
We are also unable to supply you with evidence that the customer was given copies of the 
documents he signed (other than on the declaration page of the fact find already submitted 
to you) as these are in most cases handed directly to the client during the presentation at the 
recommendation stage of the process with copies retained within the client file
Mr C notes certain oddities with some documents, for example his RY application which he 
is said to have signed was dated 20 March 2018  this was impossible because he was 
away on business. I note CGL did confirm in its final response to him an error had been 
made in the office. The adviser hadnt dated the form, so although it says Mr C signed it on 
16 March 2018, a member of staff incorrectly added the later date (assuming it to be the 
same date as Mr Cs cheque for the lump sum contribution to his pension).
Mr C says he never received CGLs suitability report. CGL asserts it provided him with such.
Mr C acknowledged that he did sign some papers, for example he told us:
Whilst I agree completely that I am at fault for not thoroughly reading through the Pension 
Application Form but it was presented to me just as that  an Application Form and I did not 
expect that it would contain information as to charges that would be levied. I assumed it was 
much the same as an Insurance Proposal Form. The details of charges were not explained 
and it was presented as just requiring your signature.
Mr C went on to say:
You must realise that I have worked in senior positions on many multi-billion-dollar projects 
and I was comforted by the fact there was no signed agreement in place regarding charges 
which, in my view, meant there was no contract in place. Additionally therefore, when 
astutely aware of the contractual position and on a balance of probability, I would have been unlikely to have signed an agreement three times on three separate occasions when just a 
few centimetres above my signature were the details of charges that CG wanted to make, 
unless of course these were concealed.
I understand the points Mr C makes, but its arguable he faces both ways here. He implies 
he was duped into signing key documents in relation to his pension arrangements. While at 
the same time he also sets out his experience of dealing with much more substantial 
contracts.
Having thought carefully about all these matters in the round, Im satisfied the weight of 
evidence enables me to reasonably conclude that its more likely than not Mr C was aware, 
or ought reasonably to have been, of the charges CGL would make for its advice and 
services in 2018. 
I recognise at one point in the process CGT didnt provide him with correct information, 
nevertheless the consistency and volume of information hed been provided with both before 
and after this unfortunate error, should have put him on notice about what the true costs 
would be and to enquire again if hed had any doubt.
Mr Cs next substantive engagement with CGL was on 3 February 2019 - he wanted to make 
another pension contribution from his business. CGL says they met at its office on 15 March 
2019. A review of his circumstances and attitude to risk was completed and forms appear to 
have been signed by him.
Mr C wanted to maximise contributions for his RL pension. A calculation taking into account 
his allowance showed an employer contribution of £110,000 was possible. He was said to 
want to maintain his existing exposure to risk for investments. And that hed be taking 
maximum TFC to fund his tax bill and to assist a family member. 
Mr C sent a cheque to CGL for £110,00 on 24 March 2019. He said he wanted to draw 
£25,000 TFC from his pension plan as soon as possible. CGL confirmed receipt of his 
proposed contribution, but it says it told him they would need to meet to go through 
everything, including completion of necessary documentation. 
CGL produced a suitability report dated 25 March 2019, recommending this contribution to 
his RL pension to be invested in line with his risk appetite. An illustration with RL was 
produced the same day. CGL says it met with Mr C on 29 March 2019 to discuss matters. It 
says it provided him with all the paperwork and that he signed key documents, including a 
new client agreement. The transaction was executed according to its recommendations. 
While this second advice process was ongoing, Mr C has identified another example of 
CGLs communication with him about its charges, which he characterised as the firm 
seeking to conceal matters. On 22 March 2019, he sent an email saying:
I returned from Lithuania last night and have today been reading through the review 
documentation you gave to me. When we were talking in your office, you showed me the 
performance of the Royal London Investments and they all seemed to have varying positive 
gains albeit some small so I was a little disappointed to note that my pension sum has 
actually reduced by £1435.16 (1.2%) in the year. Why is this and can this be expected to 
continue in the coming year?
CGL replied:
This is because of the uncertainty of brexit. Indeed markets have since risen by 3 %. I 
cannot tell you what will happen in the next year. I do know Royal Londons investment 
performance is excellent compared to other companies. Also the charges are highly competitive. There will inevitably be bumps along the way as investments never go up in a 
straight line. The long term performance is first class though. I am confident over time 
investment performance should return.
Mr Cs unhappy because following a discussion he had with RL in May 2019 he says he was 
led to believe his pension funds had decreased wholly due to CGLs ongoing adviser 
charges.
From the available information, I think this is an example of both parties being at cross-
purposes. Clearly, where charges are taken from funds this has an impact on the position. 
But I think Mr Cs message was focussed on the performance of his funds. I think the way 
CGL interpreted and responded to his question was reasonable.
Mr C says he was never made aware of what charges CGL would be making for the 
transaction in 2019 and there was no agreement about this. He characterises its role as 
forwarding a cheque to RL.
Mr C says that it was only when hed spoken to RL in May 2019, when he says it told him he 
was paying for advice that hadnt been provided he realised CGL were being paid fees from 
his funds. He says in the following months he was overseas a great deal and it wasnt until 
his return in November 2019 that he looked more closely at CGLs charges since hed been 
a client. And then he brought his complaint in February 2020.
Mr C has made similar arguments about his dealings with CGL in 2019 as he did for the first 
transaction in 2018. For example, he says that to his knowledge he didnt sign a client 
agreement. And he says he didnt receive a suitability report. 
Having considered his arguments and the available information, again Im satisfied the 
weight of evidence shows its more likely than not Mr C was aware, or ought reasonably to 
have been, of the charges CGL would make for its advice and services.
The recommendation to switch his AL pension to RL
Mr C also told this Service that given CGLs acts and omissions in relation to its charges, this 
has made him call into question whether its advice for him to switch his personal pension 
from AL to RL was in his best interests. Hes worried it was recommended by it to generate 
more fees.
Mr C also told the Investigator:
Chesterton Grant did not provide any details of options for the Pensions Transfer and did 
not discuss or provide illustrations as to the possible financial implications of transferring the 
existing pensions with Abbey Life. As mentioned previously, once Royal London advised me 
that the transfer of my pension had resulted in Chesterton Grant obtaining a fee of £2364.66 
for that transfer, I began to question whether that advice was sound financial advice or just a 
mechanism to financially benefit Chesterton Grant.
CGL responded in the following terms:
Theresponse by Mr C is to be honest quite upsetting. The advice Mr C has been given is 
in my view totally appropriate and suitable and was fit to meet both his short and long term 
goals. It is advice I would still stand by now
Clearly all options were discussed with Mr C as evidenced by Your retirement options 
explained which was again signed by Mr C. Immediately above his signature it states I confirm that I have been fully made aware of the associated advantages and potential 
disadvantages of these products and would add that it simply cannot be any clearer.
Ive already set out my findings and conclusions about CGLs approach to charging.
Ive reviewed CGLs advice to Mr C about switching his personal pension a drawdown 
arrangement with RL. It recommended this after considering 19 different pension plans 
offered by 13 different providers (Ive seen the paperwork on file which shows this research 
was done). The criteria it assessed options against included whether flexible access 
drawdown was available; the ability to take full or partial lump sums; the model portfolios 
available, whether these were free and provided for reviews; and the costs and penalties for 
switching. Provider charges was also an important factor.
Ive not seen anything which makes me think CGLs advice for Mr C to switch his AL pension 
funds to a plan with RL was unsuitable. I say this because:
- Mr Cs AL plan couldnt facilitate flexi-access drawdown, so a switch of his pension 
was required to meet Mr Cs main retirement planning objectives.
- The RL arrangement enabled him to access tax-free cash in partial lump sums.
- The RL plan enabled him to keep his residual funds invested in a portfolio consistent 
with his attitude to risk. He didnt require an income from his funds at the time.
- RLs charges appear competitive.
Concerning Mr Cs central concern, the possibility that CGL recommended he switch his 
pension from AL to RL simply to secure a fee, Ive seen no evidence to support this. Its clear 
from the available documentation it conducted what appears to have been a thorough review 
and recommendation process.
In summary
I know Mr C wont agree with my decision. But I hope he can understand why Ive arrived at 
the conclusions I have.
Some of the suggestions and allegations made by him about CGLs acts and omissions are 
very serious. While I can understand the arguments hes made and I can see CGLs 
operation hasnt been perfect (as it has acknowledged to him), hes not been able to provide 
information which is persuasive in advancing his main complaint points.
The bulk of available evidence contemporaneous with the events complained about show 
that its more likely than not Mr C was informed about CGLs charges, for each advice 
transaction and for its ongoing service. These were set out in a reasonable clear manner in 
the client agreements between him and CGL; in the suitability reports it produced for him; 
and in the RL applications. His signature is provided on key documents. 
I also think its more likely than not the charges were discussed during meetings between Mr 
C and CGL. And that he received RL documents which again set out clearly what the 
transaction and ongoing charges levied by CGL were.My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2022.
 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman