DRN-3343645
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that West Bay Insurance (WBI), previously known as Zenith Insurance plc, 
declined his claim for the theft of his laptop and tablet.
What happened
Mr A had gadget insurance with WBI. He made a claim under the policy when his laptop and 
tablet were stolen from his gym locker. 
After looking into the claim, WBI declined it stating Mr A hadnt provided evidence of an 
insured event. It said the terms of the policy allowed it to decline the claim because Mr As 
description of what happened varied and hed made a claim for the same two items the 
month before.
Mr A complained to WBI. He said hed cancelled the previous claim after his items were 
returned to him. And he didnt think it was reasonable for WBI to expect him to provide 
evidence of the theft when there was nothing he could show.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said WBI had declined Mr As claim in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy and he didnt think WBI had been unreasonable in 
the circumstances.
Mr A didnt agree. He didnt think common sense had been used and repeated his concerns 
that he couldnt provide evidence of something that had been taken.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I understand Mr A will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill 
explain.
The issue is that WBI declined Mr As claim and he doesnt think it was fair to do so.
WBI declined the claim for two reasons:
the policy doesnt cover for theft, from any building or premises (including your home 
or workplace) unless the theft involves force in gaining entry to or exit from the 
building or premises, resulting in damage to the building or premises. A copy of the 
repairers account for such damage must be supplied with any claim
You are required to take care to supply accurate and complete answers to all the 
questions in the declaration and to make sure that all information supplied is true and 
correct. You must tell us of any changes to the answers you have given as soon as 
possible.
Under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 your 
failure to take reasonable care to avoid misrepresentation in relation to the 
information provided (including subsequent changes to any such information) could 
result in your policy being cancelled or your claim being rejected or not fully paid
Ive looked at the evidence to see whether WBI fairly declined Mr As claim for the reasons it 
gave.
Mr A said he locked his laptop and tablet in a locker in the gym changing room, but 
everything was taken. WBI asked for evidence of forceable entry to the locker but Mr A 
couldnt provide it. He said the thief mustve cut the lock off and taken it away. WBI asked for 
CCTV footage or evidence from the gym, but Mr A couldnt provide either. On request, Mr A 
did provide evidence that hed bought the laptop and tablet, and that hed reported the 
matter to the police.
Having considered the evidence, I think it was reasonable for WBI to decline the claim for 
the reasons given. Thats because:
Mr A couldnt provide any evidence of forceable entry to the locker in line with the 
terms of the policy.
He gave conflicting accounts of why hed taken the gadgets to the gym, saying that 
hed gone straight from work, and later saying hed gone from a friends home, or 
from his own home.
The police confirmed there was no evidence of the theft so it wouldnt be taking the 
matter further.
I understand its difficult to provide evidence of something which Mr A no longer has. 
However, WBI explained to him why a previous claim affected its decision. Mr A submitted 
an online claim for the laptop and tablet the month before, saying hed lost them. When he 
followed up with WBI it said hed cancelled the claim. Mr A didnt agree and wanted his claim 
considered. At that point, WBI confirmed his gadgets werent covered for loss and it declined 
the claim.
When Mr A reported the theft to WBI it asked him whether hed made previous claims, which 
he denied because he believed the previous claim was withdrawn. Nevertheless, he told 
WBI hed never claimed for the gadgets before. Having listened to the call recordings, I can 
understand why, at first, WBI didnt think Mr A had shown that an insured event had 
occurred. When WBI questioned Mr A further, it became apparent that hed got his gadgets 
back when the taxi company found and returned them. Ive seen a documented statement 
from the taxi company confirming that.However, Mr A was unable to explain why hed taken the laptop and tablet to the gym with 
him, and his answers continued to be inconsistent. For example, he said hed gone straight 
from work, but later he said hed gone from home. WBI didnt think Mr As inconsistent 
account of events supported his claim and, along with the lack of evidence showing 
forceable entry, it relied on the policy terms quoted above to decline the claim.
Overall, while I can see why Mr A thinks he provided enough evidence to show that he 
owned the laptop and tablet, he couldnt provide evidence that an insured event  the theft  
had taken place. Therefore, Im satisfied WBI declined Mr As claim in line with the terms of 
the policy and I see no reason to ask WBI to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman