DRN-3499816
The complaint
Mrs W has complained that Building Block Insurance PCC Ltd (Building Block) unfairly
refused a claim she made on her pet insurance policy.
Reference to Building Block includes the agents which administer the policy on its behalf.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 17 May 2022. I planned to uphold Mrs Ws 
complaint as the investigator had, but for slightly different reasons and with different redress. 
So, I wanted to give both parties the chance to respond with anything additional they wanted 
me to consider before I reached my final decision. Im now in a position to come to my 
decision.
I have copied my provisional decision below, which also forms part of this final decision.
In February 2021 Mrs W took her dog, who Ill refer to as K, to the vets as she had 
noticed some lameness in his left hind leg. The vet referred K to a specialist as they 
suspected K had cruciate ligament damage. The specialist carried out investigations 
including surgery, which concluded there was no cruciate ligament damage, but that 
K did have a protruding disc. The specialist recommended a course of physiotherapy 
and hydrotherapy to build Ks muscle up in this area.
Mrs W submitted a claim to Building Block for the investigations and treatments 
carried out by both the vet and the specialist. But Building Block turned the claim 
down. It said K was overweight and Mrs Ws policy excluded cover in those 
circumstances.
Both the treating vet and the specialist wrote to Building Block confirming that Ks 
issue had not been caused by his weight. But Building Block remained of the opinion 
that the claim was not covered. So, Mrs W brought her complaint to this service. Our 
investigator upheld the complaint, he didnt think it was fair for Building Block to turn 
down the complaint based on its assumption that K was overweight. So, he asked 
Building Block to:
Pay the claim adding 8% simple interest
Pay any future claims relating to this issue, subject to the policy limits
Pay Mrs W £100 for the distress and inconvenience it had caused.
Building Block didnt agree and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im currently intending to uphold this complaint.
Mrs Ws policy says it wont cover claims where Ks weight results in him needing
treatment. Building Block said the vet had noted K was overweight. It said that while 
the cause of a cruciate ligament rupture is multifactorial, the fact remains that the 
normal vertical force on a pets joints is increased if the pet is obese. Also leading to 
greater ground force tension on the ligaments. It went on to say that veterinary 
studies had noted weight as one of the causing factors of ligament rupture.
In order for Building Block to fairly exclude cover for Mrs Ws claim, it would need to 
show that it was more likely than not that K being overweight resulted in his 
lameness and need for treatment. Im not persuaded it has done this; Ill explain.
Before I do, Id like to point out that both the vet and the specialists notes confirm 
that although they initially suspected cruciate ligament damage, none was detected, 
and the cause of Ks lameness wasnt determined. However, a protruding disc was 
diagnosed. So, I find it strange that Building Block has declined the claim based on 
the ligament damage being related to Ks weight, when Mrs Ws claim is not for 
ligament damage.
Ive seen that the vet did refer to K being slightly overweight back in 2019, but I 
havent seen anything that explicitly links Ks weight to his lameness. Furthermore, 
the specialist that treated K said the protruding disc could be causing the lameness. 
The lameness and subsequent exercise intolerance, has likely contributed to Ks 
reluctance to walk, exercise and therefore maintain a healthy weight. They went on to 
say they didnt feel it was a valid decision not to pay out for this condition.
Building Block has not provided any additional evidence  beyond its comments  
that Ks weight caused a ligament issue. And the expert evidence I have seen, from 
the vet and specialists that treated K, have found there was no ligament damage. 
And they havent concluded that his weight resulted in his need for treatment. So, I 
cant say Building Block has shown that it was more likely than not that Ks weight 
caused his lameness. It follows I dont agree that Building Block has turned Mrs Ws 
claim down fairly and so I think it should reassess it without applying the exclusion for 
Ks weight.
In the interest of completeness, Im satisfied that it would be fair to treat the 
investigations and subsequent treatment as one condition for the purposes of the 
policy.
If Mrs Ws claim is successful under the remaining terms of the policy Building Block 
should pay her 8% simple interest from the date of her making the payments to the 
vet until the date it issues payment to her.
Building Block has not listened to Mrs W when she has been trying to deal with this 
claim, as shown by its insistence that K had cruciate ligament damage when all the 
notes clearly say he doesnt. I can understand that Mrs W will have found this 
frustrating and accept that she felt Building Block was simply looking for a way not to 
pay her claim. Because of this I think Building block caused unnecessary distress 
here and it should pay Mrs W £150 in recognition of this.
Mrs Ws policy with Building Block has come to an end now, but if there are any other 
claims for this issue that fell within the policy year, she should submit them to 
Building Block now so it can consider them as a continuation of this claim.My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, Im provisionally upholding this complaint and intend 
to instruct Building Block Insurance PCC LTD to:
Reassess Mrs Ws claim for Ks lameness, applying the remaining terms, 
limits and excesses of the policy without applying the exclusion of him being 
overweight. Adding 8% simple interest, if the claim is successful, from the 
date Mrs W paid the vet until the date it issues payment to her
 Accept and asses any continuation claim that fall within the policy year 
(before the expiration date)
Pay Mrs W £150 for the distress it has caused
Her Majestys Revenue & Customs may require that Building Block deduct tax from any interest paid to 
Mrs W. If it does and Mrs W requests it, Building Block must provide her with a certificate showing how 
much tax it has taken off, so she may reclaim it if appropriate.
I invited both parties to respond. Mrs W responded accepting the provisional decision and 
Building Block responding saying it had no further comments to make.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Neither party has put forward any further comments for me to consider. I have reached 
the same conclusion as I did in my provisional decision, and for the same reasons.
Putting things right
Mrs W has accepted the redress I proposed in my provisional decision, as laid out above, 
cand as Building block has not offered any counter argument to it, I see no reason to depart 
from that.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Building Block Insurance PCC Ltd 
and require it to now:
Reassess Mrs Ws claim for Ks lameness, applying the remaining terms, limits and 
excesses of the policy without applying the exclusion of him being overweight. 
Adding 8% simple interest, if the claim is successful, from the date Mrs W paid the 
vet until the date it issues payment to her
Accept and asses any continuation claim that fall within the policy year (before the 
expiration date)
Pay Mrs W £150 for the distress it has caused
Her Majestys Revenue & Customs may require that Building Block deduct tax from any interest paid to Mrs W. 
If it does and Mrs W requests it, Building Block must provide her with a certificate showing how much tax it has 
taken off, so she may reclaim it if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman