DRN-2762287
The complaint
Mr R is a sole trader. He complains about the delays he experienced when trying to obtain a 
Bounce Back Loan from National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest).
What happened
Mr R was looking to apply for a Bounce Back Loan shortly after the government-backed 
scheme launched in May 2020. 
Mr R held a personal account with The Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS, a part of the 
NatWest banking group). So he approached RBS about the loan in the first instance. He was 
told that hed need to open a business account or a loan servicing account before he could 
apply. But after initially applying to RBS, it later told him that  as he lived and worked in 
England  he would need to apply to NatWest instead.
Mr R subsequently made a number of account applications to NatWest. Unhappy with the 
time things were taking, he complained. NatWest responded on 8 June. It apologised for the 
delays and paid him £300 compensation. It also confirmed that his application was being 
processed by the account opening team. 
With the account still not open, Mr R brought his complaint to us. He wanted things sorted 
out so that he could access the Bounce Back Loan Scheme, and said hed had to borrow 
money elsewhere in the interim. He was also concerned at the number of searches the bank 
had recorded on his credit file and thought it should pay more compensation to reflect the 
distress and inconvenience hed been caused  noting in particular that hed spent time 
away from his family at a difficult time, with his son ill in hospital.
NatWest opened a business account for Mr R on 3 July and he was able to proceed with his 
Bounce Back Loan application. His initial application was declined, but on receipt of further 
evidence a £10,000 loan was agreed and drawn down last October. NatWest also agreed to 
remove any additional searches recorded on Mr Rs credit file in respect of the various 
account applications  and to pay him a further £300 compensation. 
As Mr R remained unhappy, one of our investigators looked into things. In summary, she 
said:
The requirement for Mr R to open a business account with NatWest was reasonable, 
but the bank had taken too long to process his application. This had caused Mr R 
some additional stress and hed had to chase things up on a number of occasions. 
But the bank had already paid £300 compensation for this, which she thought was 
fair. It had also shown that it had instructed the removal of any additional searches, 
so that Mr Rs credit file wouldnt be adversely affected.
NatWests initial decision to decline Mr Rs loan application was reasonable in light of 
the information it had at the time and given its obligations under the Loan Scheme 
rules. But she thought there had been a delay in reconsidering the application after 
Mr R had submitted further evidence. She didnt think Mr R had evidenced any 
financial loss as a result of this, but thought it had caused him further 
inconvenience  although as she thought the banks offer of a further £300 was fair, 
she didnt think it needed to do anything more. 
Mr R didnt accept our investigators view. He said there were still over 30 credit searches on 
his file and that hed only received £300 from the bank. In any case, he didnt agree that 
£600 fairly compensated him for the time and stress caused by how the bank had handled 
things. So he asked that an ombudsman review the complaint, and it was passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that it took longer than it should have done for Mr R to obtain the Bounce Back 
Loan, of which the delays in opening the necessary account were a factor. But while I agree 
that there were errors on NatWests part, I think the compensation already proposed 
represents a fair way to put things right. Ill explain why.
Mr R initially applied for a new account in early May, when the Bounce Back Loan Scheme 
was launched. I should firstly reiterate that the bank was entitled to require Mr R to enter into 
a business relationship before it would accept a Bounce Back Loan application from him. But 
it took almost two months for the requisite account to be opened. The bank accepts that this 
was partially due to delays on its side, which were exacerbated by the demands it was under 
as a result of the pandemic and the rollout of the Loan Scheme. I think it could also have 
been clearer with Mr R initially as to the account that was needed, which wouldve avoided 
some unnecessary applications being made initially. 
At the same time though, it seems that Mr R was making multiple applications and that this 
also contributed to the delay. NatWests records show that he made multiple applications, 
each within a few days of the last until 28 May. And it says that each new application 
wouldve led to the previous one being cancelled. I cant see that Mr R did so on the advice 
of the bank  and while I can understand the urgency, it seems this further delayed things for 
him too.
Once the account was open on 3 July, Mr R was able to apply for a Bounce Back Loan. He 
then didnt receive the loan funds until 29 October. So Ive looked at why it took this long to 
obtain the loan, bearing in mind that the aim of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme was to 
provide funds to businesses in need quickly  and, generally speaking, within a matter of 
days.
Mr Rs first application was reviewed without delay. NatWest communicated its decision to 
decline the application promptly, notifying Mr R on 6 July. Its internal records show that the 
application failed the banks standard checks, which it had carried out in line with the 
requirements of the Loan Scheme. Im satisfied this decision was reasonable based on the 
information that the bank had at the time  and on which it was entitled to rely. 
Mr R appealed NatWests decision and Im pleased to see that it liaised with him to establish 
his eligibility and obtain the information that it needed in order to approve the loan. Mr R 
says he provided this evidence to NatWest when he applied initially, but Ive not seen that 
this was the case. So I think it was only when the bank received this information  in 
October  that it was in a position to reconsider the application and, ultimately, approve it. 
And once it had the information, there were some minor delays in processing the application (although bearing in mind the volume of the applications that the bank wouldve been dealing 
with around this time, I dont consider it to have held things up unreasonably here).
In all then, it took Mr R just under six months to obtain the Bounce Back Loan. Although I 
dont think this was wholly down to errors on NatWests part, there were instances  
particularly when handling his account application  where the bank couldve progressed 
things more quickly. So its right that hes compensated for this. 
Mr R says that the delays caused him a financial loss, highlighting that he had to obtain 
money from elsewhere and that the issues impacted his business. But hes not been able to 
sufficiently evidence what these costs were, when they were incurred and how they were the 
result of the delays that were caused by the bank. So Im not requiring NatWest to pay 
anything in this respect.
I do, though, recognise that the delays put Mr R to some unnecessary inconvenience in 
chasing things up and in having to make alternative arrangements while without the loan 
funds. Ive considered everything hes said and provided in this respect, including the extent 
of email correspondence he had with NatWest. I also appreciate that this was a particularly 
stressful time for Mr R. I was sorry to see that his son was in hospital during this time  and 
understandably he was also anxious to get the loan as quickly as possible, given the 
difficulties faced by his business during the pandemic. So the issues he experienced with 
NatWest would only have added to the stress he was already under. 
Taking all of the above into account, I think that the £600 that NatWest has already offered 
Mr R is fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience he was caused by its errors. 
The bank has also offered to remove the additional searches that were recorded against his 
credit file  so this means hes not adversely affected by the multiple account applications. 
So the bank should arrange the settlement its already offered  but for the reasons set out 
above, I dont think it needs to do anything more.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require National Westminster Bank Plc to:
Pay Mr R compensation of £600 (less any amounts already paid); and
If it hasnt already done so, arrange for any additional searches to be removed from 
Mr Rs credit file such that only one remains in respect of his application for a new 
bank account.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman