DRN-4256634
Complaint
Mrs T has complained about a loan Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (trading as Post Office 
Financial Services) provided to her. 
She says the loan was unaffordable and so shouldnt have been provided.
Background
Post Office provided Mrs T with a loan for £5,600.00 in October 2021. This loan was due to 
be repaid in 60 monthly instalments of £132.77. One of our investigators reviewed what        
Mrs T and Post Office had told us. And she didnt recommend that Mrs Ts complaint be 
upheld.  
Mrs T disagreed with our investigators assessment and asked for an ombudsman to look at 
her complaint and reach a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs Ts complaint.
Having considered everything, Ive not been persuaded to uphold the complaint. Ill explain 
why in a bit more detail.
Post Office needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is Post Office needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether 
Mrs T could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Post Office says it agreed to Mrs Ts application after she provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and other information it obtained. In its view, all 
of this information showed Mrs T could afford to make the repayments she was committing 
to. 
On the other hand, Mrs T has said she was in financial difficulty.
Ive carefully thought about what Mrs T and Post Office have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Post Office has suggested it carried out credit searches 
which showed that Mrs T didnt have that much in the way of existing credit commitments 
and what she did have was relatively well maintained. It also obtained a copy of a recent 
bank statement.
Having looked at the copy of the credit file provided its fair to say that Mrs Ts existing 
commitments at the time of this application were relatively well maintained. I accept that 
there is a late payment to a revolving credit account in the month of the application, but 
given the proximity to this application, I think its unlikely to have shown in Post Offices 
credit search. 
Mrs T appears to be suggesting that her actual circumstances may not have been fully 
reflected either in the information she provided, or the information Post Office obtained. And 
I know that shes said that her circumstances have worsened as a result of the cost of living 
increasing. 
Im sorry to hear that Mrs T has been struggling. But its only fair and reasonable for me to 
uphold a complaint in circumstances where a lender did something wrong. Post Office could 
only make a decision based on what it had at the time and I dont think that it could 
reasonably have been expected to know that things would change in the way that they have 
done.
Given the monthly payments and the lack of obvious indicators of difficulty in the information 
obtained, I dont think that Post Office decision to lend, at the time at least, was 
unreasonable. Indeed the bank statement Mrs T provided appears to support his having 
been the case.
As this is the case, I dont think that Post Office did anything wrong when deciding to lend to 
Mrs T - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. And, in any event, Ive not been provided with 
anything else that suggests Post Office doing even more would have prevented it from 
lending either.
So overall I dont think that Post Office treated Mrs T unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing her with his loan. And Im not upholding Mrs Ts complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mrs T. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and 
that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding this complaint, Id like remind Post Office of its obligation to 
exercise forbearance and due consideration should it intend to collect on the outstanding 
balance on Mrs Ts loan and it be the case that she is experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Jeshen NarayananOmbudsman