DRN-3244950
The complaint
Mr O complains about the advice given by Pi Financial Ltd trading as PI Financial Dixon 
Sutcliffe & Co (Pi Financial) to transfer the benefits from his preserved defined-benefit 
(DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. He says the advice was 
unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In July 2018 Mr O met with Pi Financial to discuss his pension and retirement needs.
Pi Financial completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Os circumstances and 
objectives. Pi Financial also carried out an assessment of Mr Os attitude to risk, which it 
deemed to be low medium  a score of five on a scale of one to ten. I can see the 
investigator referred to Mr Os attitude to risk as being cautious, but this appears to have 
been a mistake. 
In August 2018, Pi Financial advised Mr O to transfer his pension benefits into a personal 
pension and invest the proceeds in a growth fund deemed to be in-line with Mr Os attitude 
to risk. The suitability report listed nine bullet points, which outlined Mr Os goals, needs and 
priorities that the adviser had considered in making the recommendation. These included Mr 
Os concern about the financial security of his DB scheme and his desire to have flexibility 
and control of his pension and the income he needed. But in summary the advisers reasons 
for this recommendation were:
To enable Mr O to have control over his pension and to provide flexibility;
To provide lump sum death benefits to Mr Os wife and children rather than an 
income; and
To provide with Mr O with the income he needed, which the stress testing of the 
pensions ability to generate over time showed would last beyond his anticipated life 
expectancy.
In 2020 Mr O, through a representative, complained to Pi Financial about the suitability of 
the transfer advice because he said he now realises the advice was flawed  his objectives 
and the implications of transferring werent properly considered. He said that, had they done 
so, he believed the transfer wouldnt have been recommended.
Pi Financial didnt uphold Mr Os complaint. In summary it said there is no evidence that the 
recommendation was unsuitable for Mr O or that it didnt meet his requirements. It disagreed 
with Mr Os representatives argument that the advice paperwork was confusing  it said at 
no time did Mr O say he was confused or didnt understand the suitability report, the risk 
involved or what he was giving up by transferring. It said that Mr Os motivation was to 
ensure his death benefits were passed to his wife and that he wanted flexibility of a personal 
pension over the fixed income provided by his existing DB scheme  both of which the 
transfer provided him with.
Mr O referred his complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint and required 
Pi Financial to pay compensation. In summary they said that while the transfer looked viable 
from a financial point of view because the critical yield wasnt unreasonably high, given Mr 
Os circumstances, they didnt think it was suitable advice to recommend he give up 
guaranteed benefits from his DB scheme, which would have served him later on in life. They 
pointed to the assessment of Mr Os attitude to risk, where hed indicated that the intended 
use for his pension was to meet his essential living costs and that he could only afford to 
suffer a small loss. They said that based on these answers and his cautious attitude to risk 
he should have been advised against transferring. They said they didnt think Mr O was an 
experienced investor or had a high enough capacity for loss to make the transfer suitable. 
Overall they said they didnt think there were good enough reasons for Pi Financial to 
recommend Mr O transfer out of his DB scheme.
Pi Financial disagreed. It said that Mr Os attitude to risk was initially assessed as high 
medium. But after further discussion with Mr O and consideration of his capacity for loss, 
and given the low critical yield required to meet his need, they jointly decided Mr O could 
take a low medium risk to achieve his objectives. It disagreed that Mr O wasnt an 
experienced investor  it said that because he held a personal pension which he had regular 
reviews of with an adviser, he did hold enough knowledge and experience to understand 
investment risk. It went to explain that Mr Os capacity for loss had taken into account all of 
his retirement provisions including his state pension and personal pensions. It explained that 
Mr O would receive 75% of the income he said he needed in retirement from his state 
pension at age 67, with his personal pensions providing the difference. It said his personal 
pensions would also fund his income need from 65-67 before he received his state pension. 
Overall it said that Mr O deemed it a bigger risk to remain in his DB scheme, dying 
prematurely and not having the transfer value to pass down to his beneficiaries.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given by 
the investigator. My reasoning is set out below. 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. 
So, Pi Financial should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that 
the transfer was in Mr Os best interests (COBS 19.1.6). And having looked at all the 
evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interests.
Financial viability The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The critical yield required to match Mr Os benefits at age 65 was 5.61% if he took a full 
pension and 3.72% if he took a tax-free lump sum and a reduced pension.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to, was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 and 
was 4.1% per year for 13 years to retirement. For further comparison, the regulator's upper 
projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection 
rate 2% per year.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Os 
recorded attitude to risk as a low medium and the term to retirement. 
Having done so, the critical yield required to match Mr Os benefits at age 65 was 5.61% if 
he took a full pension. This is higher than the discount rate and marginally above the 
regulators middle projection rate. Based on this, I think Mr O was likely to receive benefits of 
a lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with 
that attitude to risk.
But assuming Mr O opted to take tax-free cash and a reduced pension, the critical yield is 
3.72%. And I accept this is lower than the discount rate. But it is only lower by a very small 
margin. In my view there would be little point in Mr O giving up the guarantees available to 
him through his DB scheme only to achieve at best, the same level of benefits outside the 
scheme. And here because the difference between the two rates was so small, I think its 
likely that, at best Mr O would end up receiving benefits of broadly the same overall value as 
a result of investing in line with a low medium attitude to risk. There of course still remained 
the risk that Mr O might end up with benefits of a lower overall value than his DB scheme at 
retirement.
But even if I accept that the transfer had the potential to be financially viable, crucially I think 
its likely Mr Os income needs in retirement could already be reasonably met by his existing 
pension provision along with his state pension  he didnt need to take on any investment 
risk with his DB scheme benefits. And I think Pi Financials argument in response to the 
investigators findings about Mr Os capacity for loss actually support this.
I say this because Mr O said that his income need in retirement was £12,000, which the 
adviser said would likely equate to just under £17,000 at 65 taking account of inflation. Mr O 
didnt have any significant debts or any mortgage to repay  so given that it appears his 
outgoings were relatively modest, I think his stated income requirement appears reasonable 
in the circumstances. Mr Os state pension age is 67. This would give him an income 
assumed to be worth around £12,000 a year at this time. 
If at age 65 Mr O had chosen to take a reduced pension from his DB scheme and a tax-free 
lump sum, hed be in receipt of just under £8,000 a year. So at 67, Mr Os combined pension 
income from these two sources would more than meet his stated need.
The gap in Mr Os income requirement is between taking his benefits from his DB scheme at 
age 65 and receiving his state pension two years later. I think Mr O could have funded this 
from his tax-free cash entitlement. But Mr O also had two other sources of pension income  a personal pension and a workplace pension. It was recorded that Mr O was contributing 1% 
of his salary to his workplace pension. But importantly its also recorded that Mr O had a 
surplus income of £900 a month.
It strikes me that rather than being advised to transfer his DB scheme benefits in the 
expectation of increasing or providing an adequate pension income, Mr O could have been 
advised to increase his workplace pension contributions instead. And given Mr O still had a 
period of 13 years to retirement, I think it would have been suitable advice to do so. I also 
think this couldve likely provided Mr O with sufficient means coupled with his existing 
personal pension to fund the two-year gap before receipt of his state pension.
Furthermore I dont think this was the limit of the alternatives available to Mr O. Because I 
dont think Mr O had a need for a large cash lump sum on retirement (as I said above he had 
no significant debts to repay for example) he couldve been advised to take his full pension 
from his DB scheme at 65 providing him with a greater guaranteed level of income thereby 
reducing the income needed from his other provision (funded the same as I said above) to 
bridge the gap from 65 to 67. If Mr O did have a requirement for a cash lump sum, this could 
have likely been provided by his workplace pension and/or his existing personal pension.
For these reasons, I dont think it was in Mr Os best interests for Pi Financial to recommend 
that he transfer out of his DB scheme.
I can see that Pi Financial says Mr O was an experienced investor because he had a 
personal pension and workplace pension already  so he was someone who understood 
risk-based investments and had a full understanding of the risks and benefits involved with 
personal pensions. It says Mr O checked the advice paperwork carefully and thought 
carefully before deciding to go ahead.
I dont think Mr Os holding of a personal and workplace pension reasonably classifies him 
as an experienced investor. But in any event, while he might have understood the risks 
involved because Pi Financial disclosed them, this doesnt mean the recommendation was 
suitable. Pi Financial was under a duty to provide suitable advice and to act in Mr Os best 
interests. And for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think Pi Financial should have 
recommended Mr O go ahead with the transfer. 
Pi Financial has also pointed to the cash-flow model it carried out as part of the advice, 
which shows that Mr Os income needs wouldve been able to be have been met beyond his 
expected life expectancy of 82. Ive considered this, but not only is past performance no 
guarantee of future performance, as Ive set out above I dont think it was necessary or 
suitable for Mr O to take the risk of transferring out of his DB scheme when he would likely 
be no better off as a result of doing so. I think his income needs could already have 
reasonably been met by the guaranteed income from his DB scheme coupled with the 
income from his other existing pension provision.
Overall, I think Pi Financial ought to have told Mr O it wasnt in his best interests to transfer 
out of the DB scheme because I think its clear that he would likely be no better off if he did 
so. I think Mr Os retirement income needs could likely be met with careful planning and 
clear advice in relation to his other existing pension provision. 
Because Pi Financial didnt do that and recommended he transfer instead, I dont think this 
was acting in Mr Os best interests.
Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. I accept 
there might be other considerations, which mean a transfer is suitable. Ive considered these 
below.Flexibility
Pi Financial recorded that Mr O wanted flexibility to control the income he needed.
But I dont think Mr O required flexibility in retirement or that this was a suitable reason to 
recommend the transfer. This is because as Ive already set out, the evidence shows that Mr 
O didnt have a need for a variable income throughout his retirement. Im satisfied Mr O 
could have met his income needs in retirement through his DB scheme and the flexibility he 
already had in how he accessed his benefits in the future through his other existing 
provision. Furthermore, if Mr O did in fact have a need for flexibility in retirement, beyond 
that which he already had, I think this couldve been explored closer to his intended 
retirement age, which was at least 13 years away. 
Overall Im not persuaded Mr Os need for flexibility was a real objective  I think it was 
simply a consequence of transferring out to a different arrangement.
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr O. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr O might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr O about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. 
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr O 
was married, so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful to 
his spouse  if Mr O predeceased her. I dont think Pi Financial made the value of this benefit 
clear enough to Mr O. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on 
investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. 
And as the cashflow analysis shows, there may not have been a large sum left particularly if 
Mr O lived a long life.  In any event, Pi Financial should not have encouraged Mr O to 
prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a personal pension over his security 
in retirement.
Furthermore, if Mr O genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his spouse, which didnt depend 
on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think Pi 
Financial shouldve instead explored life insurance. I appreciate that the suitability report 
mentioned term assurance with a sum assured of £229,210 quoted at £34.51 a month. This 
was discounted by Mr O because it says he didnt want a monthly commitment  albeit this 
strikes me as somewhat odd given he had significant disposable income. In any event I dont 
think that this was a balanced way of presenting this option to Mr O.
Basing the quote on this figure essentially assumed that Mr O would die on day one 
following the transfer, and that isnt realistic. Ultimately, Mr O wanted to leave whatever 
remained of his pension to his spouse, which would be a lot less than this if he lived a long 
life and/or if investment returns were poor. 
So, the starting point ought to have been to ask Mr O how much he would ideally like to 
leave  this was likely to be cheaper to provide. Mr Os view about a monthly commitment, 
would in my view have been very different as a result. Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension was a good enough reason to recommend he go ahead. And I dont think that 
insurance was properly put to Mr O as a more suitable alternative.
Concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme and wanting to sever links with employer
While not one of three key reasons recorded on the suitability letter as to why Mr O should 
transfer out of his DB scheme, the advice paperwork from the time records that Mr O had 
some concerns about the financial security of his DB scheme and that he ...wanted to break 
all ties with my previous employer and would prefer to move my funds to an individual plan 
which is under my control.
I think Mr Os desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr O was not in 
my view an experienced investor to the extent that he had an interest in or the knowledge to 
be able to manage his pension funds on his own  the investment fund choice doesnt 
indicate this was the case. So, I dont think that this was a genuine objective for Mr O  it 
was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
The funding of Mr Os employers DB scheme was not in a position such that he should have 
genuinely been concerned about the security of his pension. The suitability letter actually 
explains that whilst the scheme was underfunded at the time of the advice, plans were in 
place to ensure it was fully funded by 2021. So, I think the adviser ought to have reassured 
Mr O that this wasnt as concerning as he thought. In any event, I dont think severing links 
with his previous employer was an objective reason for recommending the transfer to Mr O. 
Summary 
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and the potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr O. But Pi 
Financial wasnt there to just transact what Mr O might have thought he wanted. The 
advisers role was to really understand what Mr O needed and recommend what was in his 
best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr O was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. In my view this income could have met the 
majority of his future retirement income if hed also received suitable advice about how to 
make the best of his other existing pension provision. And in my view this wouldve been far 
preferable to Mr O giving up his only guaranteed retirement income. By transferring, Mr O 
was very likely to obtain at best broadly the same retirement benefits with the risk that they 
might be lower. In my view, there were no other compelling reasons which would justify a 
transfer.
So, I think Pi Financial shouldve advised Mr O to remain in his DB scheme.
I now need to consider whether Mr O wouldve gone ahead anyway, against Pi Financials 
advice. Having done so, I dont think Mr O wouldve insisted on transferring out of his DB 
scheme and gone head in any event. I say this because Mr O was not in my view an 
experienced investor, despite what Pi Financial believes - so I think he relied solely on the 
advice he was given. At the time this pension was the primary source of Mr Os guaranteed 
future retirement provision. 
So, if Pi Financial had provided Mr O with clear advice against transferring out of the DB 
scheme, explaining why it wasnt suitable for him, and if it had explained that he could likely 
achieve his overall retirement income needs from careful planning and advice utilising his 
existing pension provision and not risk his guaranteed pension to do so, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. I think Mr O wouldve accepted that advice; particularly as he 
couldnt access his pension for another four years and didnt intend to retire until age 65.
In light of the above, I think Pi Financial should compensate Mr O for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.  
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr O, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Pi Financials unsuitable advice. I consider Mr O 
would have most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
Pi Financial must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators 
pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised 
Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension 
transfers.
My understanding is that Mr O has not yet retired. So, compensation should be based on his 
normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Os acceptance of the decision.
Pi Financial may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr 
Os contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Os SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Os pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr O as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr O within 90 days of the date Pi Financial receives 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Pi Financial to pay Mr 
O.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
I can see the investigator also recommended an award of £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience the matter has caused Mr O. And taking everything into account, including 
that I consider Mr O is now at the age when his retirement provision is of greater importance, 
I think the unsuitable advice has caused him distress. So I think an award of £300 is fair in 
all the circumstances
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Pi Financial Ltd trading 
as PI Financial Dixon Sutcliffe & Co to pay Mr O the compensation amount as set out in the 
steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000. 
Pi Financial Ltd trading as PI Financial Dixon Sutcliffe & Co should also pay Mr O £300 for 
the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Pi Financial Ltd trading as PI Financial Dixon Sutcliffe & Co to pay Mr O any interest on that 
amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only Pi Financial Ltd 
trading as PI Financial Dixon Sutcliffe & Co to pay Mr O any interest as set out above on the 
sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Pi Financial Ltd trading as PI Financial Dixon Sutcliffe & Co pays Mr O the balance. I would 
additionally recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid 
to Mr O.
If Mr O accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Pi Financial Ltd trading 
as PI Financial Dixon Sutcliffe & Co.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr O can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr O may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman