DRN-3818144
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited (Gallium) were responsible for the 
mis-sale of two bonds by Basset Gold Limited (BG Ltd). Mrs D believes she was misled 
by the promotional material which portrayed these as safe investment bonds with fixed 
interest, which she believed were backed by the FSCS (Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme).
What happened
In May 2017, Mrs D invested £20,000 in a 5 Year Compounding High Yield Bond with
Basset & Gold Plc (B&G Plc), followed by an investment of £12,940 in a 3 Year 
Compounding High Yield IFISA Bond.
Sales of these bonds were dealt with by BG Ltd, a separate business from B&G Plc, the 
issuer of the bond. BG Ltd arranged applications for investments in the bond, through a 
website it operated. And it was responsible for advertising and marketing the bond. Potential 
investors were also able to call BG Ltd, to discuss the bond.
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were both appointed representatives of Gallium. B&G Plc and BG Ltd 
were appointed representatives of Gallium from 17 February 2017 to 28 February 2018.
Mrs Ds investment in the bonds
Mrs D was browsing the internet as she was looking to invest for higher returns than 
her deposit account. She came across BG and made enquiries. She was then 
contacted by an adviser and sent links to their website and a brochure.
Mrs D applied for the 5 year bond via the BG Ltd website and the 3 year IFISA 
bond by a paper application for an ISA transfer.
Ive listened to calls from the time in which Mrs D said she already held 
investments with another provider and had some investment experience, but 
was not really a risk taker. Mrs D went on to explain that as the majority of her 
investments were cautious, but she was prepared to take some risk with these 
investments. There was nothing within the calls to suggest that the level of risk 
was discussed with her and Mrs D says her general risk appetite was low. She 
relied on the adviser who said the returns for each bond were fixed with the 
underlying companies, which was why the returns were so good.
On 8 January 2019, B&G Finance Limited (which by that point had taken on the role of 
BG Ltd), sent an email to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. This referred to the 
fact that nearly all the money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to one short 
term and pay day lender, called Uncle Buck. Following action by the FCA, Uncle Buck 
went into administration in March 2020 - and B&G Plc went into administration shortly 
afterwards. As a result, Mrs D has not had her invested capital returned to her.
The application process
Mrs D applied online for the 5 year bond first and then completed a paper application 
form for an ISA transfer into the 3 year bond.
I have seen screen prints of each stage of the online application process. These show 
the application journey that Mrs D underwent. This consisted of two stages, designed 
to meet the rules restricting who the bond could be promoted to and on how to test 
whether the investment was appropriate for the potential investor. The first was 
certification, where Mrs D was categorised as an everyday investor. The second was 
the appropriateness test. 
I have also seen copies of the paper application transfer form. This was completed by Mrs 
D and signed on 23 May 2017, the same day that the online application was made. In the 
paper application Mrs D completed a section called Understanding the IF ISA, which 
asked (with the options and Mrs Ds answers following):
How much knowledge do you have of investing? (none, some, expert)  some
Do you understand that you may note be able to access your capital before the 
repayment date (yes, no)  yes
Do you understand your capital is at risk? (yes, no)  yes
Do you understand that investments in peer to peer loans are not protected by the 
Financial Service Compensation Scheme? (yes, no)  yes
Are you investing more than 10% of your total wealth? (yes, no)  no
Galliums response to Mrs D complaint
Gallium did not uphold Mrs Ds complaint. It said Mrs D had been given sufficient information 
and risk warnings about the investment. It then made further submissions, once Mrs Ds 
complaint was referred to us. I have considered the submissions in full. I have also 
considered what Gallium described as its position statement, which sets out general 
information on the background to complaints about B&G Plc bonds.Investigators view
One of our investigators considered Mrs Ds complaint and concluded it should be 
upheld. They said, in summary:
The application process  both in terms of the certification of Mrs D as a 
restricted investor and the assessment of the appropriateness of the bond for 
her - was misleading and didnt gather sufficient information to comply with the 
FCAs rules.
Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory 
obligations. Had it done so, Mrs D wouldnt have decided to invest or BG Ltd 
should have concluded that it shouldnt allow Mrs D to invest. For these 
reasons, both cumulatively and individually, it was fair to uphold the complaint 
and for Gallium to compensate Mrs D for the loss she has suffered.
Galliums response to the view
Gallium did not accept the investigators view. In summary: 
Our findings went beyond the scope of Mrs Ds complaint
Regardless of label, Mrs D was required to confirm that she met the 
requirements of a restricted investor and confirmed that she did. It is not fair or 
reasonable to conclude that the use of the word everyday contributed to Mrs D 
giving an incorrect declaration, and it was reasonable for it to rely on the 
declaration. 
The appropriateness test answers and these confirmations were sufficient for 
Gallium to satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient knowledge and 
experience of the bonds to understand the risks those bonds involved, as per the 
relevant rules.
It was reasonable for Gallium to rely on the outcome of this test.
Mrs D made the investment on the understanding it had risk associated with it, 
and did not choose to surrender it when receiving the email in 2019 which 
warned of the concentration risk. So she would have proceeded with the 
investment regardless. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I am satisfied it is appropriate for me to consider all of the acts carried out by BG Ltd, on 
behalf of Gallium, in relation to the sale of the bond. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I 
have taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a 
general statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory 
system (PRIN 1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 (Customers interests) and 7 
(Communications with clients) are relevant here. 
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a 
financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading), which I also consider to be relevant 
here. 
As mentioned, the bonds were non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules 
restricting who they could be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was 
appropriate for the potential investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 
10.1, 10.2 and 10.3. I have considered the relevant rules in full. 
I note Gallium has referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and 
answer sessions with the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have 
considered these too.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I have reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for similar reasons. In summary:
BG Ltd, acting on Galliums behalf, misled Mrs D into certifying herself as 
belonging in a category to which she did not belong (a restricted investor) by 
changing the term used in the rules to everyday investor and describing the 
category as being one anyone could fall into. This was not treating Mrs D fairly 
or acting in her best interests. Had BG Ltd followed the rules and not misled Mrs 
D, it is unlikely she would have certified herself as being a restricted investor.
As previously mentioned Mrs D also completed a paper application as part of her 
ISA transfer. Ive listened to calls from the time and theres nothing to suggest 
that Mrs D was advised that the requirements were any different. The records 
show that the online application form was completed on the same day that Mrs D 
filled in the transfer form, namely 23 May 2017. So, whilst I've taken the paper 
application into account, I don't think it's fair for BG Ltd to rely on the answers 
given the misleading information Mrs D saw when completing the online 
application process. Im also not persuaded that the questions set out in the 
transfer form above were posed for the purpose of classification or 
appropriateness testing or at least werent described in this way. I consider it is 
likely that Mrs D was misled by everyday certfication in the online application 
and by the general reassurances during her contact with BG Ltd. Theres also 
nothing to show that BG Ltd considered the information.The appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, did not 
meet the requirements of the rules. And, had it done so, it would have been 
apparent the bonds were not appropriate investments for Mrs D. In the 
circumstances Mrs D would either not have proceeded or, acting fairly and 
reasonably, BG Ltd should have concluded it should not promote the bonds to Mrs 
D.
For these reasons  individually and cumulatively  my decision is that Mrs Ds complaint 
should be upheld. I am also satisfied Mrs D would either not have proceeded to make the 
investment or would not have been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and 
reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations. And so I am satisfied it is fair to ask Gallium 
to compensate Mrs D for her loss.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mrs 
D as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not invested in the 
bonds.
I take the view that Mrs D would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what she would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is 
fair and reasonable given Mrs D's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What must Gallium do?
To compensate Mrs D fairly, Gallium must:
Compare the performance of each of Mrs D's investments with that of the 
benchmark shown below.
A separate calculation should be carried out for each investment.
Gallium should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Gallium should provide details of its calculation to Mrs D in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
3 Year 
Compounding 
High Yield 
IFISA BondStill exists 
but illiquidFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
Average rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
5 Year 
Compounding 
High Yield 
BondStill exists 
but illiquidFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
Average rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
For each investment:
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mrs D agrees to Gallium taking 
ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Gallium to take 
ownership, then it may request an undertaking from Mrs D that she repays to Gallium any 
amount she may receive from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Gallium 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution paid out of the investments should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Gallium totals all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically. If 
any distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left uninvested, 
they must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not periodically.
The wrapper only exists because of illiquid investments. In order for the wrapper to be 
closed and any further fees that are charged to be prevented, those investments need to be 
removed. Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Gallium taking over the 
investment or if this is something Mrs D can discuss with the wrapper provider directly. But 
I dont know how long that will take.
If third parties are involved, we dont have the power to them what to do. If Gallium is 
unable to purchase the investment, to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that 
Gallium pays Mrs D an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper fees 
(calculated using the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable 
period for the parties to arrange for the wrapper to be closed.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Having listened to the calls from the time, I consider it is likely that Mrs D was looking 
for growth and was willing to accept some small risk to her capital.
The average rate for fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index is made up of diversified 
indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government 
bonds. They would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some 
risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Mrs Ds risk profile was somewhere in between, in the sense that she 
was prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 
50/50 combination would reasonably put Mrs D into that position. It does not mean 
that Mrs D would have invested 50% of her money into a fixed rate bond and 50% 
into some kind of index tracker. Rather, I consider this is a reasonable compromise 
that broadly reflects the sort of return Mrs D could have obtained from investments 
suited to her objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I have decided to uphold the complaint for the reasons given. My decision is that Gallium 
Fund Solutions Limited should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman