DRN-1575445
 
The complaint
Mrs F, as an executrix, complains on behalf of Mr Hs (her fathers) estate. Shes unhappy 
about the information provided by Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (the 
business) regarding payment of her fathers life policies. The business has been unable to 
confirm who the proceeds were paid out to in 1995.  
What happened
Mrs F contacted the business to enquire about a policy that belonged to her father. The 
business said that her father had three policies that were paid out after it was notified of his 
death in 1995. 
Mrs F wanted to know who the money was paid to as neither she nor her brother received 
any money from these policies. 
The business hasnt upheld the complaint. In summary, it says:
Its systems show that a total of £17,132 was paid out, following the death of Mr H. 
As it only holds claim documents for a minimum of six years after the claim has been 
paid, its unable to provide any more documentation as to who the claim was paid to.  
Its systems show that the policies have been closed and no further payment is now 
due. 
Consequently its unable to uphold the complaint regarding the lack of information, as 
its not required to retain information for longer than six years. 
 
Unhappy with the business response, Mrs F referred her complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In summary, 
she said: 
Based on the evidence provided, shes satisfied that the business has carried out the 
relevant checks and there is no further information about who the claim was paid out 
to.
He cant say that the business has done anything unusual or wrong, considering the 
amount of time thats passed.  
For the claim to have been paid the business wouldve received a claim form along 
with a death certificate from the claimant(s). The claimant(s) would also have been 
required to confirm that theyre entitled to the money and discharge the business of 
any liability. 
Whilst she cant say if the process was followed, on balance its unlikely that the 
business wouldve paid out any proceeds without the process being followed. 
Its also important to note that money isnt always paid out to the estate. The 
policyholder can choose to set up the policies in trust so that upon death it pays out 
to a nominated beneficiary. In such circumstances the estate is unlikely to be aware 
of these policies.  Whilst theres no evidence to suggest that this was the case, its possible that it was 
and thats the reason why Mrs F (and her brother) havent received any money from 
their fathers policies. 
 
Mrs F disagreed with the investigators view and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
Because the business cant prove who the funds were paid to shes not satisfied that theyve 
been paid at all. Shes unhappy that the investigators view is based on an assumption that 
the business followed the correct procedure when theres no record that it did.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im unable 
to say that the business has done anything wrong. 
But before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mrs Fs strength of feeling about this matter. 
She has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope she wont take the fact my findings focus on what 
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider the evidence presented by Mrs F and the business, and reach what I think 
is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have 
happened. 
Given the passage of time, I dont think I can blame the business for not being able to 
provide more documentation or clarity about whats happened to Mr Hs policies. Im 
satisfied that it has conducted a reasonably thorough check of its systems and still has no 
answer. 
Im aware that financial businesses arent required to retain information indefinitely, 
especially after a policy has paid out. So in the circumstances  almost 25 years after the 
policies ended  I cant blame the business for not being able to provide a definite answer as 
to who the monies were paid to. 
Whilst I appreciate the points made by Mrs F Ive seen nothing to suggest that the business 
didnt follow its procedures. Of course its possible that procedures werent followed but Ive 
seen nothing to suggest that this was the case. And just because it cant now say who the 
money was paid to in 1995, isnt evidence that it paid out to the wrong person(s) or person(s) 
who werent entitled to the money or didnt pay the monies out at all. Its likely the claimant was someone who was aware of Mr Hs death and had access to his 
policy details and death certificate. In the circumstances I think its unlikely that the business 
wouldve paid out without being provided with the relevant documentation demonstrating a 
legitimate entitlement to the money. In which case Im unable to say its done anything 
wrong. 
Its possible that the policies were set up in trust and thats why Mrs F and her brother knew 
nothing of it until recently, otherwise the money wouldve been automatically paid in to the 
estate. I dont think the investigator was suggesting this is what happened, but that this was 
a possible explanation. Equally the fact that Mrs F and her brother knew nothing about these 
policies suggests thats they/Mr Hs estate probably werent the intended recipient of the 
policies. 
I appreciate Mrs F will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what she wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate her 
frustration, Im not going to ask the business to do anything.  
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give her what 
she wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs 
F to accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2020.
Dara Islam
Ombudsman