DRN-3617933
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC was responsible for the delayed completion of
her property purchase.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here in detail. Instead Ill summarise the main facts that I consider to be fundamental to the
outcome and focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
On 11 August 2020 Mrs S obtained a mortgage offer from Barclays to purchase a property.
A completion date was agreed by her solicitor via certificate of title (COT) for
Friday 28 August 2020.
On Wednesday 26 August 2020 Mrs Ss solicitor sent Barclays a fax notifying it of a 
subsidence claim made against the property in 2012. It asked whether this would affect the 
valuation of the property.
Due to proximity of the query, the funds were released by Barclays as originally agreed on
27 August 2020 but because of the outstanding query, completion could not go ahead. 
Mrs S believes it was Barclays who initiated this query at a late stage in the process and 
blames it for the delayed completion.
The mortgage funds were returned to Barclays and a new completion date was set by
Mrs Ss solicitor for 7 September 2020. Its in dispute whether Barclays requested the funds
back under its delayed completion process or whether the funds were voluntarily sent back
by Mrs Ss solicitor. The mortgage funds were re-released on 4 September 2020 and
Mrs S subsequently completed her purchase thereafter.
Mrs S says that as a result of the delayed completion, her and her family - consisting of her
young son and clinically vulnerable husband - were made homeless during the Covid-19
pandemic. She complained to Barclays seeking compensation for the ongoing distress and
inconvenience caused to her and her family as a result. She also sought reimbursement for
the expenses incurred during the delayed completion period.
Barclays upheld the complaint in part. Whilst it didnt think it was responsible for the delayed
completion, it did offer Mrs S £300 compensation  partly for not answering her complaint
within 40 working days and to also acknowledge having to stay in a hotel for the duration, for
reasons outside of her control.
Unhappy with Barclays response Mrs S brought her complaint to our service. Our
investigator looked into things. He initially thought Barclays wasnt at fault here. After
considering new information, he upheld the complaint because he thought Barclays could 
have replied to Mrs Ss solicitor sooner, in time for the planned completion to go ahead. He 
said Barclays should reimburse Mrs S for her incurred costs and increase the compensation 
award.
This matter was passed to me for a decision. I issued a provisional decision. An extract of 
my provisional findings is below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I fully empathise with the difficult position
Mrs S was left in when the completion of her property purchase couldnt take place on time
and the impact this had on her and her family. But I can only ask Barclays to compensate
her in the circumstances if Im satisfied it was at fault.
Barclays issued Mrs S the relevant mortgage offer on 11 August 2020. A mortgage offer is
only issued after the lender has fully assessed the applicants circumstances and is satisfied
with the valuation of the property. There is no evidence to suggest Barclays raised additional
queries post offer.
Its worth noting that the valuation carried by the appointed surveyor was a desktop
evaluation for Barclays benefit only. This means that the scope was limited and was for the
purpose of checking how much the property was worth. A more rigorous survey such as a
home buyers report or full structural survey can be carried out by the buyer for their own
benefit. Its likely the matter of the subsidence claim was identified through conveyancing
and not something Id expect Barclays evaluation to pick up.
The evidence suggests Mrs Ss solicitor raised the query about the subsidence claim. This
was two days before completion and after it had sent Barclays the COT  suggesting all pre
completion conveyancing was complete in readiness for release of funds.
By this matter arising so close to completion, Barclays position was compromised. It was
required to consider whether the property was still good security in light of this key new
information. This involved referring to the surveyor and obtaining further sign off from the
completions team or an underwriter. All within a very short timeframe.
The fax was sent by Mrs Ss solicitor around 2pm on 26 August 2020 - the day before the
funds were to be released in time for completion on 28 August 2020. The fax wasnt marked
as urgent. It was uploaded to Barclays system the following day and due to the nature of the
enquiry, upon review, Barclays asked for an urgent response from the surveyor. Mrs Ss
solicitor called Barclays a few times for an update between 27-28 August 2020. The last call
on the day of intended completion was around 2pm. Barclays couldnt confirm its position yet
as the matter was still under review. To manage expectations the delayed completion
process to return the funds was discussed. Which I dont consider to be unreasonable in the
circumstances as it was unlikely completion could go ahead as planned.
Mrs Ss solicitor emailed her on the morning of completion to manage her expectations. It
said to expect a response from Barclays by Wednesday 2 September 2020, due to the
upcoming bank holiday. Later that day Barclays was able to respond - sooner than
anticipated. It sent a letter (at around 8pm) to Mrs Ss solicitor confirming it was willing to
proceed with the mortgage.
Our investigator upheld the complaint on the basis that standard post was used to
communicate the response to Mrs Ss solicitor instead of using fax or phone considering the
urgency. Although the surveyor may have provided its response around mid-day, I must
consider reasonable processing times and the fact that final sign off was still required
internally. Whilst in hindsight Barclays could have used a more instant method of
communication, I think its unlikely completion could take place as planned as it was already
too late in the day by that point.
When considering the series of events that took place, Im unable to say that Barclays wasentirely responsible for Mrs Ss delayed completion. If it hadnt been for the subsidence
query, the funds were released by Barclays as agreed on 27 August 2020 and completion
would have taken place in time. Based on everything Ive seen Barclays did what it could in
the circumstances to answer the query in time and it would be unfair for me to hold it
responsible for the untimely query raised which was most likely the fundamental reason why
completion was compromised. As such I wont be asking Barclays to compensate Mrs S for
the impact shes described.
Ive considered Mrs Ss other points about her address being prematurely changed to the
purchase property without her consent. I dont find any failing here as this was done when
the funds were initially released, and the mortgage account initially opened on that day.
Which is usual practise.
Barclays has upheld this complaint in part by offering Mrs S £150 for its delayed response to
her complaint and a further £150 as a goodwill gesture towards her hotel expenses. I think
this is fair, considering its more than Id award in the circumstances. I say this because I
dont find Barclays at fault here and whilst it may have agreed to respond sooner to Mrs Ss
complaint, it was ultimately answered within the required eight weeks from receipt. More
information about the rules relating to this can be found here.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs S, especially as our investigator thought
she should receive more compensation. But for reasons Ive explained Im satisfied the offer
(still available to Mrs S) is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Both parties responded to my provisional decision. Barclays agreed, Mrs S didnt. In 
summary she said:
The available information doesnt evidence her solicitor raising the query of the 
subsidence claim. The fax sent on 26 August 2020 from her solicitor was in response 
to a query raised by Barclays.
It was Barclays, who at the last minute, wanted to check some documents provided 
by the sellers for the underpinning carried out on the property in 2012, even though it 
had already released the funds to her solicitor for completion.
Barclays shouldnt have requested the loan funds back on 28 August 2020, hours 
after releasing the money. Why did Barclays wait until 5 September 2020 to 
re-release the funds. 
The blame is being passed to her solicitor.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also given careful consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my 
decision, including Mrs Ss response to the provisional decision. Having done so, Ive 
reached the same conclusions as set out in my provisional decision and for the same 
reasons. 
Ill now address Mrs Ss response to the provisional decision. When doing so, I must 
courteously point out that a decision is intended to be read and understood in its full 
context. In her responses to my provisional decision, Mrs S has focused on isolated parts, 
disregarding the wider surrounding context that supports the reasoning.  
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely tohave happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I am making no finding in relation to the actions of Mrs Ss solicitor. There may be wider 
circumstances relevant to the conveyancing process that impacted things - that do not form 
part of this complaint and not something Ive considered or have the jurisdiction to either. 
This complaint has been raised against Barclays and I am only looking at whether Barclays 
was a fault here for the delayed completion and whether it can be held responsible for the 
impact on Mrs S and her family as a result.
Ill now turn specifically to Mrs Ss response.
So far as I am aware, from the parties submissions and the evidence provided to me, the 
first time the matter was raised was on 26 August 2020 and that the point was raised by Mrs 
Ss solicitors. I have not been provided with any evidence to demonstrate that the fax was 
sent in response to an enquiry of Barclays. Further communications were sent afterwards to 
attempt to confirm that the purchase could go ahead but it was Mrs Ss solicitors that raised 
the matter. 
I can reassure Mrs S that the content of the email thread she refers to was carefully 
considered when reaching my provisional decision. For clarity, I will expand on my 
considerations whilst explaining how a property transaction works. I will refer to the contents 
of the emails below. 
Email from Solicitor to Mrs S on Friday 28 August 2020 at 08:47
Barclays have released funds to me to complete today, however they are still checking 
over documents provided by the sellers for the underpinning carried out on the rear 
extension in 2012. I will be ringing them later this morning to confirm if they are happy 
for us to complete, they may ask me to return funds and arrange a new completion 
date should they want to check the documents further so please be aware that this 
might happen
Email from Solicitor to Mrs S on Friday 28 August 2020 at 10:30
I have spoken to Barclays, they have had to refer the works to the valuer but expect a 
response by Wednesday next week due to bank holiday. Due to this they have asked 
me to return the funds and we can re-request them as soon as the valuer confirms we 
can proceed. I do apologise for this inconvenience and we will work to get a completion 
date as quickly as possible on receipt of their response
The first email confirms that the information about the subsidence issue was provided by the 
seller. For the avoidance of doubt, I must clarify that during a property transaction the seller 
is not in direct contact with the buyers lender. Information about a property is shared 
through the buyer and sellers solicitors. This happens during the conveyancing process 
which includes the buyers solicitor carrying out the relevant checks and searches on the 
purchase property. 
Ive seen a fax dated 26 August 2020 from Mrs Ss solicitor to Barclays which has been 
shared with Mrs S. The content of the fax is as follows:
Fax from Solicitor to Barclays on Wednesday 26 August 2020 at 13:51
please find attached details of a subsidence claim made for the property in 2012 in 
relation to the rear extension. Works have been completed and registered with the local 
council. Please confirm you are still happy to proceed.Mrs S is adamant that this issue was raised by Barclays in the first instance. She says her 
solicitor was replying to Barclays enquiries on 26 August 2020. This email is the first 
mention Ive seen of the subsidence query in the submissions from both parties. And, Ive 
explained why I think its unlikely that Barclays raised the query. 
But for the avoidance of doubt and in fairness to both parties, I made several attempts to 
obtain information from Mrs S and her solicitor that evidences Barclays raising the query first 
for example in the form of a prior email, fax or system notes. Ive not had a response from 
either Mrs S or her Solicitor. Barclays has however confirmed to me once again that the 
matter was raised with them by Mrs Ss solicitor on 26 August 2020. That leaves me to 
decide what reasonably happened considering the available evidence. As such, Im more 
persuaded this issue was raised for the first time by Mrs Ss solicitor on 26 August 2020. As 
Ive seen no evidence to suggest otherwise.
So, when Mrs S solicitor emailed her on the morning of completion to say Barclays was still 
checking over documents provided by the sellers, Im satisfied the solicitor was referring to 
fax it sent Barclays two days prior.
Its also worth mentioning that its in a buyers best interest to flag any information which may 
affect the mortgage offer  such as a previous subsidence claim which was the case here. 
this is why the solicitor raised the point  because the information had to be disclosed. Its 
unclear when the subsidence claim became known to Mrs S and her solicitor, but had this 
been raised with Barclays sooner, it would have likely had a reasonable amount of time to 
consider the information and provide its response, in time for completion.  
That brings me on to the matter of the funds being returned and a new completion date 
being set. 
In the circumstances it was unlikely completion was going to take place on the 
28 August 2020 as planned, which for reasons Ive explained, wasnt Barclays fault. As 
such, the delayed completion process was discussed which I dont think was unreasonable 
in the circumstances. If the funds were held on account, Mrs S would be liable for interest 
charges until the new completion date. And at this point it was unclear if the purchase would 
go ahead. As the bank holiday weekend followed, that would inevitably mean possible 
completion couldnt take place for at least three days  depending on agreement between 
Mrs S and her seller. 
Regardless of who requested the funds back, Ive explained why this was the reasonable 
thing to do in the circumstances - because on the morning of completion, it was expected by 
both parties that this matter wouldnt reasonably be resolved until after the bank holiday 
weekend. For reasons Ive explained, it was not appropriate for Mrs Ss solicitor to hold on to 
the funds until a new completion date was set. 
It was for the buyer and seller to agree a new completion date. Barclays couldnt reasonably 
be expected to re-release the funds until it was made aware of the new completion date. The 
new COT was issued by Mrs Ss solicitor on Thursday 3 September 2020 for a new 
completion date of 7 September 2020. Its unclear why a new completion wasnt agreed for 
an earlier date, but in any event that decision wasnt for Barclays to make, so I cant 
conclude that it was unfair or unreasonable because of acts or omissions of Barclays for 
completion being unable to take place until then. 
As Ive not seen enough evidence to suggest Barclays was responsible for the delayed 
completion, I wont be asking it to compensate Mrs S for the losses and impact shes explained in the submissions. For the reasons Ive explained in my provisional decision Im 
satisfied Barclays offer of £300 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank PLC to pay Mrs S 
the £300 compensation offered to her in its final response letter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman