DRN-2441741
The complaint
Mrs  F is unhappy with how Nationwide Building Society handled a chargeback claim she 
made for an item she had returned to the seller but not received a refund for.
What happened
Mrs F purchased an item from a music store using her Nationwide Visa card which she 
subsequently returned. However, Mrs F didnt receive a refund from the store, despite 
contacting them several times.
Mrs F asked Nationwide to recover the money for her using the chargeback scheme. But 
Mrs F wasnt happy with how Nationwide handled her request, including that she had to 
contact Nationwide on several occasions about her claim, and that she didnt receive a form 
from Nationwide that was needed to complete her claim. 
Mrs F was also unhappy that Nationwide asked her for information that she had already 
provided to them when first making the claim, and that Nationwide wouldnt speak with her 
when she was driving, even though she was using a hands-free system. So, Mrs F made a 
complaint.
Nationwide looked at Mrs Fs complaint, but they felt that theyd handled Mrs Fs chargeback 
claim appropriately, and they noted that the claim was no longer needed because the store 
had refunded the money directly. So, they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs F wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response, so she referred her complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that Nationwide 
hadnt treated Mrs F unreasonably or unfairly in how theyd handled her claim. So, they 
didnt uphold the complaint either.
Mrs F remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To begin Id like to clarify what a chargeback dispute is. Its a process by which some 
disputes are resolved between the card issuer, in this case Nationwide, and merchants, in 
this case the music store, under the relevant card scheme rules. 
 
These rules are set by the card provider  in this case Visa - whose symbol is on the card. 
Visa has an agreement with banks and building societies as to how its cards are used, and 
this agreement covers when an attempt at a chargeback can be made. The rules are quite 
strict, and Nationwide doesn't have the power to change them. 
Its also important to note that a chargeback claim isnt a right that a customer has  its a 
voluntary act, and this means that Nationwide werent required to ask Visa for the 
transaction to be reversed via the chargeback scheme - although it is considered good 
practice for them to do so, if they think the chargeback claim is likely to succeed. 
 
It follows that a chargeback claim will be likely to succeed if there is sufficient evidence to 
support it, and this means that it was reasonable for Nationwide to have sought to gather 
more information from Mrs F if they felt that this was required.
In this instance I can see that Nationwide submitted the chargeback claim on 25 February 
2020, but that they then required further information as to why Mrs F felt that she needed to 
return the item, and they made several attempts to contact Mrs F because of this. 
The first time that Nationwide were successful in contacting Mrs F was on 10 March 2020, 
but unfortunately at this time Mrs F was driving when she answered the call. I understand 
that Mrs F is unhappy that Nationwide wouldnt speak with her, given that she was using a 
hands-free system. However, a business has no way of confirming whether a customer is 
using a hands-free system when they say they are, and this is one reason why businesses 
are often unwilling to speak with customers if they are driving. So I dont feel that I can fairly 
censure Nationwide for exercising caution in this regard.
Mrs F has also said that she is unhappy that Nationwide asked her for information which she 
had earlier provided by email. I can understand how this might be frustrating for Mrs F, but 
given that Nationwide were also asking Mrs F for information which hadnt been included in 
her original submission, it isnt the case that Nationwide asking for this information delayed 
the submission of the chargeback claim in any way, and so its difficult for me to consider 
that there has been any loss to Mrs F because of this.
Mrs F also wasnt happy with the length of time that it took for a form sent by Nationwide to 
be received. Nationwide have confirmed that the form was sent on 16 February 2020. On 21 
February, Mrs F contacted Nationwide to advise that the form hadnt been received, and 
Nationwide provided Mrs F with an email address so that the information could be provided 
by Mrs F with the minimal delay. 
Because of this, its difficult to conclude that Mrs Fs chargeback claim was delayed because 
of the form not being received, especially when considering that business mail is usually 
sent second class. I can also confirm that this service wouldnt hold a business accountable 
for a sent letter not being delivered by a postal service, as this isnt something over which 
the business has any control. 
Finally, it must be noted that the store did refund the cost of the purchased item to Mrs F, 
which means that there is no material financial loss that needs to be addressed here.
It follows then that its difficult for me to conclude that Nationwide have treated Mrs F unfairly 
or unreasonably here, and because of this I wont be upholding this complaint or asking 
Nationwide to take any further action here. I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mrs F 
was wanting, but I hope that she can understand, based on everything I have explained 
above, why I have arrived at the decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphiold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman