DRN-3261200
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Nationwide Building Society caused them to incur unnecessary 
costs during their mortgage application.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J had a mortgage with Nationwide. They contacted Nationwide to arrange a new 
fixed interest rate and apply to borrow additional funds.
Mr and Mrs J also had a secured loan with another loan provider. Nationwide said that 
Mr and Mrs J would need to speak to their other lender about postponing its charge over the 
property in order for it to lend. It also said that legal work would need to be undertaken to 
complete this process.
Mr and Mrs Js application for further borrowing was submitted for underwriting. In the 
meantime, they contacted a solicitor and began the process of arranging a deed of 
postponement.
The application was subsequently declined by Nationwide. 
Mr and Mrs J complained to Nationwide. They said they were not disputing the lending 
decision but were unhappy that Nationwide had told them to begin the process of arranging 
the deed of postponement, at their own cost. They felt it shouldnt have told them to do this, 
before the mortgage was agreed.
Nationwide said it didnt think it had made an error. It said it had been clear with Mr and 
Mrs J that their application was subject to underwriting. And, while it was satisfied it had 
explained that postponing the other lenders charge would be necessary, it didnt agree that it 
had recommended they instruct solicitors to begin work on this.
Unhappy with this response, Mr and Mrs J asked our service to consider their complaint. 
One of our Investigators looked into matters but didnt think there was enough evidence to 
say that Nationwide had told Mr and Mrs J they needed to start the relevant legal work 
before the decision was made on the application. 
Mr and Mrs J asked for their complaint to be reviewed again as they maintained that 
Nationwide had told them that they needed to begin the relevant legal work. As a result, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from the evidence that has been provided that Mr and Mrs J made Nationwide 
aware from the outset that they had a second charge loan, when applying for the further 
advance. When they called to discuss a decision in principle this was noted. As was that this 
would need to be discussed with a mortgage adviser.
Ive been provided a recording of the conversation between Mr and Mrs J and the mortgage 
adviser, where advice was given and the full mortgage application was commenced. During 
that call, the adviser explained that the second charge loan would mean there were 
additional requirements to what there wouldve been with a more straight forward further 
advance application, not involving another lender. The adviser explained the standard 
requirements around proof of income and expenditure, in order to assess affordability. They 
also explained that, in addition, Mr and Mrs J would need to find out from the second charge 
lender if it would be willing to postpone its charge. And before the mortgage could be 
provided, this would have to be formally confirmed. The adviser explained that Mr and Mrs J 
would need to appoint their own solicitor, to complete the associated necessary legal work.
I dont think Nationwide did anything wrong by explaining this. I think it was correct to make 
Mr and Mrs J aware of what would be required as part of the application.
While Nationwide made Mr and Mrs J aware of these additional requirements during the call, 
it didnt tell them to begin legal work at that stage. I acknowledge it said that theyd need a 
solicitor. But it didnt tell them to pay any legal fees at that stage. Indeed, towards the end of 
the call, when recapping, the adviser suggested that they speak directly to the second 
charge lender themselves, before committing to any legal costs unnecessarily. 
So based on the evidence that has been provided, Im satisfied after the initial conversation 
between the mortgage adviser and Mr and Mrs J, while Nationwide had said they would 
need to instruct a solicitor at some point, it hadnt said that they needed to instruct one 
immediately and start incurring costs.
Mr and Mrs J have said that, in follow up conversations with the adviser they were chased 
for details of their solicitor and for the relevant document, the deed of postponement. And 
that Nationwide did not advise against incurring costs. Only for the application to later be 
declined for other reasons. Nationwide says it would not have told Mr and Mrs J that their 
solicitor had to start the relevant legal work before the mortgage was approved. So, the 
parties disagree about the discussions that took place.
Recordings of the conversations that took place after the first call, in which the application 
was begun, are not available. This is unfortunate. But that doesnt mean that I am required to 
therefore find that Nationwide has done something wrong. Instead I must look at the 
information that is available and reach a decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive been provided email exchanges between Mr and Mrs J and the Nationwide adviser, 
between the application being started and subsequently declined  the time period that 
coincides with the calls that are not available. In the emails Ive seen, I cant see any 
instances of the adviser chasing for solicitors details or the deed of postponement. I can see 
that Mr and Mrs J provided details of their solicitors to Nationwide. And gave updates on the 
status of the deed of postponement. But I havent seen anything to support that Nationwide 
instructed them to start this. If, as Mr and Mrs J have said, Nationwide was chasing them for 
this information, Id have expected to have seen this also mentioned within these emails.
Im also conscious that from the information Ive been provided, Mr and Mrs J were clear 
with Nationwide that they were looking to obtain the further advance promptly. They made 
Nationwide aware that the purpose of the loan was to complete significant renovations to 
their property  for which theyd obtained planning permission and had a contractor in place. 
So, it appears they were keen to proceed as quickly as possible. Which in turn mightve 
prompted them to instruct solicitors, to avoid any additional delays.
The invoice of costs from Mr and Mrs Js solicitors explains that some were incurred dealing 
with requirements set by the second charge lender. It isnt clear when these requirements were set. But I think it is possible that the instruction of solicitors could also have been 
prompted after the initial direct contact with the second charge lender.
Taking all of this into account and considering the evidence that is available, I dont think I 
can reasonably say on balance that Nationwide told Mr and Mrs J they had to begin legal 
work. I am satisfied it said this would be needed at some stage, but I dont think I can fairly 
say it required this to start when it did.
As Ive said, the email exchanges Ive seen show that Mr and Mrs J told Nationwide theyd 
instructed solicitors. And that they were working on a deed of postponement with the second 
charge lender. So, I think at that stage Nationwide was reasonably aware that Mr and Mrs J 
had asked the solicitors to start working for them. And that they were incurring costs. I cant 
see that Nationwide suggested this be paused, pending the mortgage being approved or that 
it suggested they limit the costs they were incurring until underwriting had been completed.
Im satisfied though that it had been made clear to Mr and Mrs J that the mortgage had not 
been granted, the application was still pending approval and the outcome was not 
guaranteed when they instructed solicitors. So, when Mr and Mrs J confirmed legal work had 
begun, and given theyd been clear about their preference for the application to be 
completed promptly, I think it was reasonable of Nationwide to assume that Mr and Mrs J 
were aware of the risk involved  that the mortgage might still not be approved and those 
costs would be lost  and had chosen to proceed.
For these reasons, I dont think I can fairly recommend that Nationwide cover the solicitors 
costs Mr and Mrs J incurred.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman