DRN-1483723
The complaint
 Mr R complains about the interest that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) has 
charged on a Hire Purchase Agreement. He doesnt feel the interest was explained to him at 
the point of sale. And that BMWFS  hasnt responded to his complaint in time. He would like 
to settle his agreement early but with a reduction on the interest charged.
What happened
Mr R says he took out a Hire Purchase Agreement with BMWFS on 12 May 2018. The 
agreement was for 30 months.
Mr R says approximately ten months into the agreement he asked for an early settlement 
figure. He says he isnt happy with the amount of interest he has paid. He feels this wasnt 
fully explained to him at the point of sale. 
He is also not happy that the business didnt respond to his complaint in time.
BMWFS confirmed that interest is in the form of an Annual Percentage Rate (APR) with 
interest being calculated against the capital.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She found the Hire Purchase Agreement 
explained the terms relating to interest. And that she wouldnt expect the detail of the interest 
to be explained to a consumer at the point of sale. Unless the consumer specifically asked 
about this 
She found that BMWFS did respond to Mr Rs complaint within the timescales laid out by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
BMWFS accepted this view but Mr R didnt. He acknowledged the Hire Purchase Agreement 
clearly stated the amount of interest and that it would be payable in monthly instalments but 
not how the interest is calculated. He forwarded some emails to show he had been asking 
for this information. He also said he had never received BMWFSs final response letter 
(FRL).
Our investigator considered these points but didnt change her view . She explained Mr Rs 
agreement was based on borrowing £6,500, with £826 interest giving a total repayment of 
£7,326 at the end of the 30 months agreement. She noted the documents Mr R received 
said that in the case of early repayment  BMWFS was entitled to charge interest in 
accordance with consumer legislation.
She found the FRL had been sent to the correct address. And that BMWFS had responded 
to Mr Rs complaint within the eight-week timescale set by  the FCA.
She said she had requested that BMWFS send Mr R a letter showing the breakdown of 
payments for his agreement.
Mr R didnt accept this second view. He said he didnt feel his complaint had been properly 
understood and asked for an Ombudsmans final decision.
He said he contacted BMWFS to settle his account not to find out about the credit terms. He 
asked for a breakdown of the settlement figure he was given to check it . He wanted to settle 
his account but not before he understood the figures. He said he hadnt received the FRL but 
now he has seen a copy it doesnt break down the figures for him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has helpfully confirmed that he when he wanted to settle his account, he was given a 
different explanation as to how interest was applied to the agreement than he had been 
given at the point of sale.
Also, that he was unable to get a breakdown of the interest and capital repayments for him 
to decide whether to go ahead and pay the agreement off in full or not.
He has confirmed he has now  accepted our investigators explanation of there being an 
industry norm for calculating interest on early settlement of agreements .
He has also confirmed he has now received the information he wanted from BMWFS. But as 
yet has not chosen to end his agreement early.
Mr R would like an apology and a percentage of the interest he has paid refunded. He says 
he intended to pay the agreement off in full but has continued to make monthly payments 
whilst waiting for clarification of the figures from BMWFS
I have no evidence as to what Mr R was told at the point of sale of his agreement. So, I cant 
comment on that. Its unfortunate if he was given misleading information about how interest is 
calculated and paid. But as I have no evidence that this was the case.
I have seen the contract Mr R signed . The amount of the loan including the interest payable 
and the monthly repayments are clearly stated. And In terms of early settlement explanatory 
notes attached to the Agreement state  if a partial or full early repayment is made BMWFS is 
entitled  to charge interest in accordance with consumer credit legislation.  So, I think the 
information was there for Mr R to know what he would pay on a monthly basis. And  that  
interest would be charged according to consumer credit legislation  if Mr R ended the 
agreement early.
Mr R has asked for BMWFS to apologise to him for the way it has handled his complaint. I 
appreciate from the customer notes that Mr R had to chase BMWFS for some responses. I 
also appreciate it taken some time for Mr R to get the breakdown of the figures he wanted. 
But from the customer notes it seems initially he understood  although he might not have 
agreed with  how the interest was calculated but wanted to come to a compromise over 
what he had to pay. He didnt initially seem, from the notes, to be asking for a breakdown of 
the figures.
I am never sure of the value of asking for an apology n behalf of someone else.. And whilst I 
appreciate BMWFS could have responded  more proactively to Mr R it did issue its final 
response letter in the timescale we expect.  And it has now finally provided the information 
that Mr R wanted.Mr R has also asked for a refund of the interest he has paid on the agreement. He has told 
us if he had received the information, he wanted sooner he would have paid off the 
agreement early. But I cant be sure that would have been the case. He might have decided 
that he didnt want to do this. And I understand the agreement is still running with Mr R still 
making the monthly payments despite now having the information he wanted..
I have also  seen no evidence to suggest  that BMWFS figures for settlement were incorrect. 
So, on that basis I dont feel I can reasonably ask BMWFS to refund a percentage of the 
interest Mr R has paid to date.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman