DRN-3538945
The complaint
Mr W complains that H.S.P. Financial Planning Limited contributed to delays which meant he 
didnt start receiving his pension payments when he reached his normal retirement date.
What happened
In 1994 Mr W transferred a pension to a Section 32 pension plan. His normal retirement date 
(NRD) under the pension plan was 1 April 2020.
In November 2019 the pension provider sent a wake up pack to Mr W with details of his 
pension benefits, including his Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) entitlement.
Around the same time Mr W had a meeting with an independent financial adviser to explore 
his options and the pension provider sent some information to them. It was established a 
transfer wouldnt be possible as the transfer value was lower than the cash equivalent of the 
GMP. Mr W didnt pursue that and had no further contact with that adviser.
In February 2020 a further letter was sent reminding Mr W it was time to make a decision 
about his pension. The letter said, you have an important date coming up and youll need to 
think about what you want to do with your pension by then. The date is only a few weeks 
away, so we're writing to you to give you more information. 
In the meantime, Mr W had contacted HSP. At a meeting on 25 February 2020 with HSP, 
Mr W discussed his situation and proposals for the pension, based on the details he had  
about his pension. HSP pointed out the information didnt include details about Mr Ws wife 
and suggested he contact the pension provider to ensure she was included in the quotes for 
the GMP. Mr W called the provider later that day to let them know he was married.
After the meeting, HSP wrote to the pension provider seeking information, which was 
received on 5 March 2020. The adviser at HSP wrote to Mr W on 9 March but didnt hear 
from him until 27 March (due to a bereavement in his family) when Mr W confirmed he 
wanted to go ahead and take an annuity. 
HSP told Mr W its fee for looking at the options for his pension would be £500 and he signed 
a client agreement to this effect. 
HSP emailed the pension provider on 1 April 2020 requesting a retirement options pack and 
the forms to claim the pension. However, there was a delay issuing the Client Information 
Pack (CIP) which was the information needed to claim benefits. The pack was issued on 
18 May.
The CIP was a two page letter explaining how an annuity quotation could be obtained by 
calling the provider. 
A quote was obtained and Mr W signed an application form for the annuity on 2 June 2020. 
HSP issued a suitability report confirming its advice the same day. 
The pension provider didnt pay the pension itself, having entered into an agreement with 
another firm to do that on its behalf. It forwarded the funds to the annuity provider on 18 
June 2020. The annuity was put in place in late July, but was backdated to 15 June, the day 
the application form was received.
Mr W was unhappy about how long it took to get his annuity set up and start receiving 
payments. He complained about both the pension provider and HSP. The complaint about 
the provider is being dealt with separately; in this complaint I am only considering whether 
HSP caused any delay.
Our investigator issued a final view on the other complaint where he said the pension 
provider should have issued the CIP on 1 April 2020 and it was reasonable to conclude that, 
if it had done so, the annuity would have paid been 20 working days later  so on 30 April. 
The pension provider accepted his view and carried out a calculation. It provided details of 
this to Mr W and made an offer of compensation to him but Mr W didnt accept the offer. He 
says his annuity should have been paid from 1 April 2020, and the delays between 1 April 
and 30 April are due to HSP. He would like compensation to run from 1 April.
The investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Mr W had been in 
contact with HSP in early February 2020 but the first time he gave instructions to claim his 
benefits was on 27 March. He said HSP acted promptly after receiving that instruction and 
wasnt responsible for any unnecessary delay.
Mr W disagrees and has requested an ombudsmans decision. Amongst other things, he 
says:
there was never any real option other than to claim his annuity, due to the GMP, so 
HSP should have requested that straightaway rather than wasting time looking at 
other options;
HSP should have told him at their meeting in February 2020 that the pension 
provider needed to know his intentions; and
his NRD had been known all along and arrangements should have been made in 
advance to ensure he received his pension on time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W instructed HSP to help him with obtaining his pension benefits. I would expect HSP to 
provide clear information to him about what was needed and act on his instructions within a 
reasonable time. 
Mr W received information about his pension in November 2019. At that point he was still 
some four months away from being able to take his benefits, but he was aware he needed to 
start thinking about his options. 
He contacted HSP in early February 2020 and had a meeting with them on 25 February. By 
that time he had received a further letter from the pension provider. It was agreed HSP 
would look at his options for him, but it didnt have all the information it needed to proceed. 
After getting further information from the pension provider HSP emailed Mr W on 9 March 
2020 and asked him to confirm next steps. Mr W didnt reply until 27 March. I appreciate that 
was due to his personal circumstances at the time, having had a bereavement in the family. 
But it meant that HSP only had instructions to proceed on 27 March  a few days before the 
NRD on 1 April.The pension provider couldnt start paying Mr Ws pension until it had an instruction from him 
to do that  he needed to confirm which annuity option he wanted, and then formally request 
the benefits options he had chosen by completing an application form.
It would have been possible for Mr W to proceed with the application himself, but he chose 
to instruct HSP to provide advice on the best option for him. HSP was engaged 36 calendar 
days before his NRD. To provide advice, HSP needed to obtain information and then discuss 
the options with him. Of course, Mr W was entitled to seek advice from an independent 
adviser and theres no criticism of him for doing so. But there was only a short space of time 
between HSP being instructed and Mr Ws NRD. 
In addition, HSP couldnt start the process to claim Mr Ws pension benefits until it had a 
specific instruction from him to do so. Mr W confirmed his instructions that he wanted to take 
his benefits on 27 March 2020. At that point, there wasnt enough time to make the 
arrangements for payments to be put in place from 1 April. 
Mr W has said there was never any chance of getting a better deal elsewhere so he was 
always going to seek the annuity from the pension provider. He says HSP (and the pension 
provider) should have been aware of this and acted on it more quickly. But it wouldnt have 
been reasonable for HSP to assume he would take the annuity from 1 April 2020; it needed 
to undertake due diligence to confirm the pension being offered. And the pension provider 
needed to provide a formal quotation and receive confirmation that Mr W accepted the 
quotation. Theres always some paperwork to be completed in these circumstances and the 
annuity couldnt be set up until that had been done.
I do appreciate it was very frustrating for Mr W not to receive his annuity payments from 1 
April 2020. However, taking into account the short amount of time between the meeting on 
25 February and his NRD of 1 April, and the fact he confirmed his instructions on 27 March, I 
dont think HSP was responsible for any avoidable delay during that period. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman