DRN-3703123
The complaint
Mr F complains that Accord Mortgages Limited recorded incorrect and inconsistent 
information on his credit files after it took possession and sold his property. He says this 
affects him being able to move on with his life.
What happened
Mr Fs mortgage account fell into arrears. Accord took possession and sold Mr Fs property 
in May 2018. There was a shortfall debt of about £20,000. Mr F made no payments until 
June 2021 when Accord accepted a partial settlement of the debt. The remaining balance 
was written off.
Mr F says the data recorded by Accord on his credit files is incorrect and keeps changing. 
He says there are errors with his address, default dates, payment history and balance. He 
says this affects his ability to take out credit and his mental health.
Our investigator said Accord updated Mr Fs address in its records when given updated 
information. There were minor inconsistencies with the default date which it corrected.
Mr F didnt agree. He said one of the credit reference agencies is reporting that he made 
payments between May 2018 and June 2021, which wasnt the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lenders have a duty to report accurate and up to date information to the credit reference 
agencies. The purpose is to assist third parties  such as other lenders  gain an 
understanding of an individuals existing obligations before offering them credit. 
When reporting to credit reference agencies, lenders should take into account industry 
standards and the SCOR principles of reciprocity. SCORs governing principle is that data is 
shared only for the prevention of overcommitment, bad debt, fraud and money laundering, 
and to support debt recovery and debtor tracing with the aim of promoting responsible 
lending. It says defaults should be reported in line with the Principles for the Reporting of 
Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies drawn up by the credit 
industry and ICO. The relevant parts of these principles say:
circumstances which may lead to a recording of a default include a property being taken 
into possession. The lender will report the default date and the default amount. 
Accord took Mr Fs property into possession in April 2018. While Mr Fs account was in 
arrears before this, Accord didnt have to record the default earlier.
the default balance should be updated, to reflect payments or charges or as a result of 
the sale of a repossessed asset. 
Mr Fs property was sold in May 2018, leaving a shortfall debt. Accord updated the 
default balance. 
The record should be closed and marked as partially settled if the lender accepts 
settlement of less than the outstanding balance. 
Accord accepted a partial settlement of the debt in June 2021 and recorded the account 
as partially settled.
Accord says it provides the same information to all three credit reference agencies. Some of 
the information Mr F saw when he checked his credit files wasnt consistent. Small variations 
were, most likely, due to each credit reference agency processing and displaying information 
slightly differently. 
However, Mr F says there were more significant differences. He says one credit reference 
agency reported the account since 2018 as up to date, then behind and then defaulted in 
April 2021, immediately before it was settled in mid-2021. I understand Mr Fs concerns 
about this. A default would remain on his credit file for six years. Recording a default at a 
later date means it would remain on his credit file for longer. And its possible a potential 
lender might view a recent default differently from one three years previously. 
Accord said Mr F was providing screen shots of his credit file from a third party which 
sources information from one of the credit reference agencies. It said its possible the errors 
hes concerned about came about when the information was transferred between the credit 
reference agency and the third party. We asked Mr F to provide his full credit report direct 
from the credit reference agency. Mr F did so, and he agrees that this shows correct 
information about his account.
For completeness, I should also mention Mr Fs concern that Accord recorded an out of date 
address for him. Accord says it updated Mr Fs address in its own records in March 2021 
when he contacted it and passed security. Accord says it has no obligation to continue to 
update Mr Fs address with the credit reference agencies for what is now a closed account. 
It's clear from the credit report provided by Mr F that the address is the account address, and 
not intended to be Mr Fs current address. So I think its fair for Accord to say it wont update 
Mr Fs address.
Mr F says he wants to continue his complaint. Hes spent a lot of time contacting Accord and 
the credit reference agencies about the errors and inconsistencies on his credit file. 
Mr F says its likely Accord corrected the information it provided while the complaint has been 
with us, after he pointed out that its payment profile sequence looked incorrect. I agree thats 
possible. But its also possible that the error was in the transfer of information between the 
credit reference agency and the third party that Mr F was sourcing information from. 
When Mr F brought the complaint to us he provided a screen shot which showed a summary 
by a third party of how his account was reported by three credit reference agencies. One 
was correct, one had information missing and the third had incorrect information. Accord 
says it provides the same information to all three credit reference agencies. On this basis, it 
seems unlikely these inconsistencies and errors originated with Accord. 
Mr Fs report from the credit reference agency shows correct information. But the recent 
summary of his report from the third party provider is still incorrect. This could also suggest 
that this is where the errors are occurring. This isnt something Accord can correct.
If Accord was reporting incorrect information I could require it to put matters right. As the credit report provided by Mr F is correct, I dont need to do this. And while I understand 
Mr Fs frustration, the evidence hes provided doesnt show that Accord made errors when 
reporting information about his account to the credit reference agencies. I dont think I can 
fairly find, based on the available evidence, that Accord reported incorrect information. 
Mr F says the incorrect information affected his access to and cost of borrowing. I can 
understand why he says this, but lenders take a variety of factors into account. Mr F hasnt 
provided evidence that the only reason he wasnt provided with loans or zero rate credit card 
accounts was due to Accord reporting incorrect information on his credit file. I do understand 
that this sort of evidence is difficult to provide. But without it, even if I found that Accord 
make errors (and its not clear thats the case), its unlikely Id find it fair and reasonable to 
require it to pay compensation to Mr F for financial loss.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr F. But I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Accord to 
take further steps or pay compensation.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman