DRN-3621306
The complaint
 Mr G complains as trustee of a trust which Ill refer to as M. He says that over a period of 
nine months HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly denied the trustees access to funds that were held 
in Ms account (the Account) which caused significant inconvenience.
What happened
 Mr G, and his mother were joint trustee and signatory on the Account. Mr G was also 
the sole beneficiary. 
In September 2021, following the sad death of his mother, Mr G attended a branch of 
HSBC and asked the bank to amend the mandate on the Account so that hed now 
become the sole signatory. By way of supporting documentation Mr G showed the 
bank his late mothers death certificate. The bank suspended the Account pending 
the completion of the amendment. Around the same time Mr G was diagnosed with a 
major illness which required surgery and subsequent convalescence.  
Believing HSBC had had enough time to carry out his instructions, towards the end of 
October 2021, Mr G wrote a cheque for £60,000 payable to himself as beneficiary 
and deposited it into his personal account with HSBC. However, HSBC declined to 
honour the cheque. Mr G therefore, complained to the bank saying its action meant 
he was unable to access the funds in the Account. 
On 6 December 2021, HSBC wrote to Mr G to say the mandate had been updated 
and that he was now the sole signatory on the Account. The bank apologised for any 
inconvenience it had caused. However, HSBC hadnt made the changes. They had 
sent the letter in error.
On 13 December 2021 Mr G drew another cheque for the same amount of £60,000. 
On this occasion, however, the cheque was paid into a joint account belonging to Mr 
G and his partner. HSBC declined to pay this cheque also. 
On the same day - 13 December 2021, HSBC sent their final response letter to Mr G. 
The bank acknowledged receiving Mr Gs instruction in September 2021 to change 
the mandate and that it had failed to do so. But HSBC said that in order for them to 
change the signatories on the Account as requested, a copy of the trust deed needed 
to accompany Mr Gs instructions, but he hadnt provided one and they couldnt find a 
copy amongst their records. 
HSBC also said the absence of the trust deed had caused delay, which in turn meant 
that the cheques Mr G had written went unpaid. However, to resolve matters and 
enable the bank to amend the mandate, HSBC suggested Mr G should now send 
them a copy of the trust deed. They also offered Mr G £200 compensation for the 
inconvenience that had been caused. 
On 4 January 2022 Mr G sent HSBC a copy of the trust deed as requested, together 
with a copy of a Deed of Retirement in relation to a previous trustee. 
But Mr G didnt think the £200 compensation HSBC had offered went far enough. 
More importantly, since he was still unable to access the funds in the Account, which 
was his primary objective, he didnt think his complaint had been resolved by the 
banks offer. So, Mr G brought the complaint to this service. He told us HSBCs delay 
was causing him significant distress especially as he was scheduled to undergo 
major surgery and needed access to the funds to finance it privately.
In their formal response to us, HSBC largely maintained their position. In other words 
that the trust deed wasnt attached to Mr Gs instructions in September to change the 
signatories on the mandate and the bank needed this document to be able to carry 
out those instructions.  
However, HSBC did accept that they were at fault because they failed to tell Mr G 
what he needed to provide to the bank to enable it to carry out his instructions. So, 
HSBC offered an additional £100 as compensation  meaning altogether the bank 
had offered Mr G £300 as compensation. But HSBC said that access to the Account 
remained restricted whilst they tried to resolve the issue.  
As a first step in our investigation, the investigator set about getting the restriction on 
the Account lifted. To that end, he liaised with the bank to determine what if anything 
further the bank needed to do. 
HSBC explained that the resolution was more complex than at first appeared 
because it now seemed that M was a pension trust for a dissolved limited company 
and furthermore, that the original trust deed which established M in 1994 did not 
name Mr G as trustee. According to HSBC it wasnt obvious to the bank whether any 
of the trustees that were named in 1994 were still alive, and the circumstances in 
which Mr G was appointed as trustee werent clear either. 
To be able to lift the restriction on the Account the bank said the matter had to be 
referred to its legal department for advice and guidance. It asked to see a copy of the 
Deed of Appointment of Mr G as trustee. 
In March 2022 Mr G provided various documents to the investigator  including 
evidence of his appointment as trustee in 1998, correspondence and documents 
evidencing the appointment and removal of other trustees over the preceding years. 
This information was passed to HSBC who in turn referred it to their legal department 
for consideration. In the meantime, the restriction remained on the Account. 
Towards the end of April 2022, based on advice received from their legal department 
HSBC told the investigator there were still concerns that historic changes to the 
trustees of M hadnt been properly documented at all times. The bank said that 
whereas some of the changes had been appropriately documented, in other 
instances the only documents Mr G had produced were death certificates. In 
addition, HSBC explained it was their belief, M required two trustees to be in place 
from time to time and they asked to see a trust deed showing Mr G and his late 
mother as trustee which they said might be enough to lift their restriction.  In May 2022, Mr G arranged the appointment of a new additional trustee to operate 
alongside himself and forwarded a copy the Deed of Appointment to the investigator. 
That was enough to allow the bank in the following month, June 2022 to lift the 
restriction on the Account. HSBC also paid Mr Gs cheque. There being no further 
restrictions Mr G was also able to transfer the proceeds of the Account into his 
personal account.  
Now that the restriction on the Account was lifted, the investigator turned to consider 
whether HSBC were at fault in the way they dealt with the matter. After doing so, he made 
the following observations and conclusions - which I summarise: 
The mandate instruction Mr G submitted in September 2021 needed to be 
accompanied by an up-to-date trust deed. 
The original trust deed was outdated. In particular, because over the years since M 
was set up, there were many changes to the trustees. And although the terms and 
conditions of the trust suggest there may be situations where there could be fewer 
than two trustees, that didnt seem to apply in the circumstances of this case - 
meaning the operation of M required two trustees to be in place. 
HSBCs interpretation of what was required to lift their restriction on the Account 
wasnt unfair or unreasonable. In particular, because their responsibility was to M 
rather than to any specific beneficiary. As such, the bank had to ensure that Ms 
money was safe and to that end, when dealing with the money in the Account to only 
act on fully authorised instructions.
HSBC werent wrong to request the existing trust deed be updated, in the absence of 
which, there werent sufficient trustees to authorise withdrawals from the Account. As 
soon as that happened, HSBC did provide the money to Mr G.
The main cause of the delay in making funds from the Account available to Mr G was 
that the trust deed needed to be brought up to date. That was unavoidable, and so 
much of the inconvenience that arose from that requirement was also unavoidable.
Nonetheless, HSBCs communication with Mr G was poor. In particular, on 6 
December 2021 when they told Mr G wrongly that he now had access to the 
Account. But the bank later corrected the error in their letter to Mr G dated 13 
December 2021.
The consequence of the way the bank acted was that Mr G was unable to quickly 
access the money in the Account. But HSBC could not be held responsible for those 
consequences because they didnt make a mistake other than their initial poor 
communication on 6 December 2021. Overall, and in the circumstances of the case 
the £300 HSBC offered Mr G was fair.
Mr G did not accept the investigators conclusion and has asked for an ombudsmans 
review. Mr G has explained his reasons in considerable detail, but in line with our informal 
procedure, I summarise what I consider to be the key points - as follows: 
HSBC could have carried out their own due diligence checks on the documentation 
they were provided with much sooner than they did in order to satisfy themselves he 
properly represented M. In 2020 for instance M was the subject of a HSBC safeguarding review during which the trust deed was provided to the bank in order for 
that to take place. HSBC at least had a copy since then and that process was 
satisfactorily completed. 
The investigator was wrong to have concluded that the trust deed had been amended 
and a new trustee added which HSBC then accepted in May 2022 as the basis for 
lifting their restriction on the Account. All that happened was that a new trustee was 
appointed and with the help of the investigator, a Deed of Appointment provided to 
HSBC.  
It should be noted the Deed of Appointment was prepared under his - Mr Gs - 
instruction alone. With that in mind it seems clear that HSBC behaved inconsistently 
because they were prepared to accept the Deed of Appointment in the circumstances 
it came about but not in others. 
 
Trust Deeds are not updated periodically in order to maintain their standing. As long 
as the trustees of a Trust can be verified by a proper documentary audit trail, that is all 
that is necessary. To conclude otherwise would mean, unreasonably, that a trust 
would have to produce a new trust deed on a regular basis. HSBC were wrong 
therefore to suggest that accompanying the instructions in September 2021 an up to 
date trust deed had to have been provided alongside.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I start by saying how sorry I am to hear about the death of Mr Gs mother, and I extend my 
belated condolences. I am also sorry to hear about Mr Gs own illness which happened 
around the same time. No doubt this was a difficult time all round. I hope Mr G is on track for 
a full recovery. 
I come now to the substance of my conclusion. 
As trustee, Mr G approached HSBC in September 2021 to change the signing mandate on 
the Account so that going forward it could be operated by him alone as the sole surviving 
trustee. That way hed have been able to access the funds in the Account for distribution to 
himself as the sole beneficiary of the trust funds. That process was eventually completed 
nine months later in June 2022. 
Mr G acknowledges that in the circumstances of this case HSBC owes their duty to M rather 
than to any individual. I agree with him. In particular, the banks duty was not to Mr G 
personally in his capacity as the beneficiary of the trust.
What I have to decide therefore, is whether but for something HSBC did wrong the delay in 
releasing the funds to the trustees of M was avoidable. In that regard there are two periods 
to consider: 
September to December 2021; and 
January to June 2022. 
I start with the first period  September to December 2021. September  December 2021
The change in mandate form that Mr G completed in September 2021 does confirm that the 
form needed to be accompanied by the trust deed. Furthermore, a number of boxes needed 
to be ticked confirming the documents that were being submitted along with the form. All 
boxes were ticked  including the one indicating, incorrectly as it turned out, that the trust 
deed had been submitted. 
Nonetheless. HSBC have acknowledged that during this period they were at fault in that they 
didnt tell Mr G what he needed to provide to them in order for them to be able to amend the 
mandate. And HSBC have also acknowledged but for that omission its likely Mr G would not 
have written the cheques that he did. 
I am satisfied that HSBCs acknowledgement points to poor service, and this was 
compounded in my view by their 6 December 2021 letter to Mr G saying wrongly that he now 
had access to the Account. It wasnt until 13 December that HSBC confirmed the document, 
they needed in order for them to change the signing instructions on the mandate. 
Before then, however, I can see that Mr G had written extensively to the bank to find out the 
position regarding his instruction - including a complaint e-mail dated 26 October 2021 and 
follow up e-mails on 1,5 and 10 November 2021. This illustrates the inconvenience that Mr G 
experienced during that time. 
That being said I bear in mind that HSBC have offered Mr G £300 in compensation. And 
looking at the overall circumstances, I am satisfied the amount the bank has offered fairly 
reflects the level of inconvenience Mr G experienced over that three-month period. 
In saying that I havent ignored Mr G s testimony that in particular, this was also an anxious 
and worrying time for him because of his illness. And hes explained that he wanted to use 
the money held in the Account to pay for a private operation.  
I am sorry to hear about Mr Gs experience. But it is worth noting this is a complaint brought 
by Mr G as trustee of M. This is not a complaint by Mr G as the beneficiary of the trust. So, 
whilst I sympathise with Mr G, I cannot award compensation to him in his capacity as 
beneficiary for the personal distress and inconvenience caused by the banks failure to 
release the funds in the Account so that he could pay for his operation privately. 
January  June 2022  
On 4 January 2022 Mr G gave the bank a copy of the trust deed that HSBC asked for on 13 
December 2021, to enable the bank to carry out his instructions. But as noted above, Mr G 
was given access to the Account in June 2022. In other words, it took a further five months 
for Mr G to be allowed access to the Account. 
So, I next consider whether HSBC were responsible for avoidable delays between January 
2022 when they were given the document theyd requested and the eventual lifting of their 
restriction in June 2022.  To that end Ive looked carefully into the events that took place 
during those months. 
On presentation of the trust deed in January 2022, HSBC noted the previous trustees rather 
than Mr G were named on the document. And since Mr G had represented himself as the 
sole surviving trustee following the death of his mother, HSBC decided they needed to 
understand that journey, particularly what became of the trustees that were named on the document provided. HSBC didnt think that theyd been kept up to date regarding the 
appointment or removal of trustees over previous years since M was set up in 1994. 
HSBC asked for clarification of Mr G position and other associated evidence. In particular, 
HSBC wanted see Mr Gs Deed of Appointment evidencing his actual appointment as 
trustee and further evidence that there were no other trustees of M either because theyd 
retired, replaced, or had died. Against that background, its difficult to conclude HSBC acted 
unreasonably. 
I appreciate it is Mr Gs case that he received confirmation in 2020 that the banks safeguard 
review with which he cooperated was completed successfully. And I note his surprise that 
HSBC could confirm that they had satisfactorily completed that process without, it would 
appear, satisfying themselves of his right to be a trustee based on the document he provided 
at the time. That is not an unreasonable point. But in January 2022, the bank was faced with 
circumstances in which there was a request to release funds from the Account. And, at that 
moment, it seems reasonable, it should ensure it did so based on proper authority. 
And at that point, apart from the 1994 trust deed and Deed of retirement which Mr G 
acknowledged he supplied the bank in 2020 in the course of the safeguard review, HSBC 
explained they also required further documents to satisfy themselves that they had that 
authority - including: 
Confirmation of the deaths of the other trustees
Confirmation of the retirement of an incorporated trustee; and 
Mr Gs appointment as trustee.
Mr G has not shown that he or others in the past had provided the bank with such 
documents. It doesnt appear this took place until 15 March 2022 when Mr G sent to the 
investigator a tranche of documents to be shared with HSBC - which included: 
oDeed of appointment  dated 15 May 1998 replacing a corporate trustee with 
another.
oDeed of appointment  dated 21 September 1998 appointing Mr G as a Trustee.
o A copy of a death certificate of a former trustee from 2001.
oLetters and emails dated in 2008 confirming the corporate trustee was no longer 
acting in that capacity.
.
I note the matter went to the banks legal team in late March 2022 and HSBC warned it 
might take some time to get an answer. But when the banks legal department considered 
the documents, it wasnt satisfied the bank had been given enough information to be able to 
lift the restriction. In particular they observed that apart from the letters and emails in 2008 
there was nothing indicating the removal of the corporate trustee and furthermore they 
concluded from the documents that M needed to be operated by at least two trustees. 
After communicating further with the investigator, on 15 May 2022 Mr G sent a scanned 
copy of a Deed of Appointment evidencing M now had two trustees even though as Mr G 
explained hed been advised this was unnecessary. 
We sent this document to HSBC and on 16 May, they in turn confirmed it had been passed 
to their legal team for consideration. 
We now know that on 8 June 2022 the bank confirmed the restriction on the Account had 
been lifted. Having thought about whether there was avoidable delay between January and June 2022, 
on balance I am not persuaded there was. I say that in light of the chronology of the events 
Ive set out which demonstrate HSBC received all the information they needed to lift the 
restriction on the Account in the middle of May and in early June 2022 HSBC lifted that 
restriction. 
It does appear that HSBC were not in possession of a proper audit trail showing in the 
preceding years the changes in the makeup of the trustees of M. They didnt seem to be 
able to verify from any form of audit trail what the position had been in respect of previous 
trustees of M.  And until provided in March 2022 with the Deed of Appointment of Mr G it 
doesnt appear the bank was in possession of that evidence either. 
It may be the case that HSBC should have paid closer attention to the documents already in 
their possession and to be aware who had authority to act for M from time to time. But 
reasonably it seems to me the trustees have an obligation to keep the bank abreast of such 
developments. 
As noted already, in September 2021, Mr G gave the bank instructions to amend the 
signatories on the Account with potentially far-reaching impact. Regardless of whether in 
respect of documentation generally HSBC were responsible for any historic failings  which 
in any case I have made no findings that they were  it was not unreasonable for HSBC to 
make sure they were acting appropriately and on receipt of instructions from a trustee 
properly able to give those instructions. Im satisfied that is what HSBC sought to do in the 
circumstances of this case. 
I appreciate Mr G has explained that he doesnt understand who HSBC thought they were 
protecting (other than perhaps themselves) as hed become the sole living Trustee on the 
Account, and the only person to whom all funds either directly or indirectly belonged. 
But in light of its legal advice, Im not persuaded the bank could reasonably have carried out 
Gs instruction and in the process properly discharged its obligations until May 2022 
following receipt of the Deed of Appointment of the new additional trustee to act jointly with 
Mr G. 
I appreciate Mr G has a different opinion based as hes told us on legal advice he received 
himself as to whether the bank needed the documents they said they did. It is not for me to 
determine whether or not that advice is correct. Im satisfied HSBC were guided by their own 
lawyers and its difficult for me to conclude they acted unreasonably in doing so. 
But I do agree with Mr Gs observation that the lifting of the restriction on the Account did not 
require any physical amendment to the 1994 trust deed. 
That being said I think these were a complex set of circumstances requiring guidance by the 
banks legal team to achieve the solution Mr G ultimately needed to happen. But given what 
Ive determined to be at the heart of this case, which is whether the bank was responsible for 
avoidable delays in achieving that outcome between January and June 2022, for the 
reasons Ive already explained Ive not been persuaded they were.
 
My final decision
 Given the above, Im satisfied the £300 compensation HSBC Bank UK plc have offered to 
Mr G is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. This should be provided to Mr G, if it hasnt been already. I dont require HSBC UK Bank plc to do anything more than this, 
in respect of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman