DRN-1244830
The complaint and background
Mr T says Uncle Buck Finance LLP lent to him irresponsibly.
I sent Mr T and Uncle Buck my provisional decision on this complaint on 4 November 2019.
In my provisional decision I explained why I intended to uphold Mr T's complaint in part. I've 
summarised the main findings in my provisional decision below:
Uncle Buck carried out proportionate checks before approving Mr T's first two loans 
and hadn't acted unfairly by deciding to lend these to him.
Uncle Buck didn't carry out proportionate checks before approving the third loan but I 
hadn't seen enough evidence to suggest proportionate checks would've likely shown 
the third loan wasn't affordable for Mr T.
For the fourth, fifth and sixth loans I thought the pattern of lending alone ought to 
have caused Uncle Buck to realise Mr T was likely not repaying his loans in a 
sustainable manner. So I proposed to uphold the complaint about those three loans 
and set out what I thought Uncle Buck should do to put things right.
 
Both parties responded to my provisional decision. Mr T said he understood my reasons and 
accepted the proposed outcome. Uncle Buck also accepted the outcome, although it didn't 
agree with everything I had said and made some further points.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding Mr Ts case.
As both parties accepted the outcome of my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart 
from it. So I'm upholding the complaint in part, for the reasons summarised above and set 
out in full in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
Uncle Buck must refund the interest and charges Mr T paid on his fourth, fifth and sixth 
loans. It should add interest at 8% simple per year to the refund, from when the interest and 
charges were paid, until the date of settlement.* Uncle Buck should also remove any 
adverse information from Mr T's credit history if it has recorded such information.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle Buck
must give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr T's complaint in part. Uncle Buck Finance LLP must put things right by taking the 
steps set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2019.
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman