DRN-3261501
The complaint
Mr S complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined his travel insurance claim and 
about its service. My references to Great Lakes include its agents.  
What happened
On 15 January 2020 Mr S bought a single trip travel insurance policy, insured by 
Great Lakes, to cover a trip abroad from 16 March 2020 until 2 April 2020.
On 11 March 2020 the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 to be a global 
pandemic.
On 12 March 2020 the British government issued advice that anyone experiencing 
symptoms of Covid-19 should self-isolate for seven days and shouldnt contact their GP or 
NHS 111 unless concerned about their symptoms.
On 13 March 2020 Mr S says he developed a dry cough and raised temperature, which are 
symptoms of Covid-19. He cancelled his trip. The travel provider refused to refund the 
cancellation cost so Mr S claimed on his travel insurance.
Great Lakes declined the claim on the basis that Mr S didnt have a medical certificate or any 
medical evidence to substantiate his claim.
Mr S complained to us. In summary he said:  
Great Lakes was unfair to require a medical certificate because hed followed the 
government guidance to self-isolate for seven days and not to contact the NHS 
unless he was seriously unwell. He hadnt contacted his GP as his symptoms hadnt 
worsened and he wouldnt have been seen just to get a medical certificate for an 
insurance claim.
Under section 13(1)(c) of the Unfair Contract Terms Act 1977 the policy requirement 
for him to provide a medical certificate was unlawful and there was no legal 
requirement for him to have to provide evidence to support what he was saying.
Great Lakes took five months to send him a claim form, and only after hed chased it.
He wants Great Lakes to pay the £2,925 cost of his cancelled trip.
Our investigator said Great Lakes fairly declined the claim as he thought Mr S could have 
contacted Great Lakes to find out what he needed to provide to support his claim. Our 
investigator also said the travel provider had responsibilities to provide a refund as Mr S had 
a package holiday and the travel providers website said Mr S should be insured for 
cancellation under the travel providers insurance policy.
Mr S disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision. He said:
He wasnt obliged to contact Great Lakes to find out what evidence he needed to 
provide and it should be enough that he followed government advice.
The travel provider had already told him it wouldnt refund the cancellation costs.
We hadnt commented on Great Lakes taking five months to send him a claim form 
or that it hadnt addressed his points about its decline being unfair and unlawful.
Before I made this decision I asked Mr S for the travel providers booking confirmation and 
terms and conditions, but Mr S said he no longer had them.
Also, our investigator had said Mr S should make a separate complaint about Great Lakes 
delay with the claim form. As I thought that issue could be considered within this complaint 
I asked for Great Lakes comments on that matter. I referred to its response in my 
provisional findings below.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision that I was intending to uphold the complaint. I said:
Industry rules say Great Lakes should handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt 
unreasonably reject a claim.
Claim
The policy covers non-refundable cancellation trip costs, up to the policy limit, if cancellation 
is due to a specified insured event listed in the policy. One of those listed insured events is if 
Mr S suffers unforeseen illness. The policy also says:
1. You must obtain a Medical Certificate specifying the unforeseen illness or injury 
from the doctor in attendance to confirm the necessity to cancel your trip...
Mr S says the policy term requiring him to provide a medical certificate is unlawful under the 
Unfair Contract Terms Act 1977. Its for the courts to decide whether or not a policy term is 
lawful, but in my opinion its generally fair and reasonable for an insurer to require a 
policyholder to provide independent medical evidence that it was necessary to cancel their 
trip. However, in deciding whats fair and reasonable I consider that an insurer should take 
into account the policyholders circumstances and in this case Ive considered the wider 
circumstances, given the unprecedented situation Covid-19 presented.
At the time Mr S developed symptoms the WHO had declared Covid-19 to be a global 
pandemic and the government had given advice about what people suffering from symptoms 
of Covid-19 should do. The advice was for people to self-isolate in their homes for seven 
days from the date of onset of the symptoms. The public were advised against seeking 
advice from their GP or from the NHS 111 service unless their symptoms deteriorated. At 
that time there was no widespread testing scheme available.
On this basis I think its understandable that Mr S was unable to provide medical evidence to 
show it was necessary to cancel his trip. He was following the governments advice to self-
isolate so couldnt go to see his GP. As Mr S symptoms didnt worsen he followed 
government advice not to contact NHS 111. As there was no testing scheme for the public at 
that time I wouldnt expect Mr S to be able to provide evidence of a positive Covid-19 test 
result. I accept he might have been able to speak to his GP on the phone to ask for a 
medical certificate. But Mr S would have told the GP the same information about his 
symptoms as he told Great Lakes. And as Mr S had symptoms of Covid-19 I think its highly probable that his GP would have told him to follow government advice and self-isolate for 
seven days which meant he wasnt able to travel. I think Mr S evidence about the timing of 
his symptoms has been consistent and persuasive, so I dont think the lack of a medical 
certificate disadvantages Great Lakes. I accept that he was self-isolating, in line with 
government advice, at the time he would have travelled, and I dont see what other action 
Mr S could reasonably have taken in an attempt to get medical evidence to support his 
claim.
I dont think Mr S acted unreasonably in not contacting Great Lakes at the time of 
cancellation to find out what he needed to support his claim. Even if he had called 
Great Lakes I think its probable Great Lakes would have told him hed need a medical 
certificate so the position would be the same.
Ive also considered the Covid-19 position as it was in Mr S intended destination at the time 
and there's no suggestion that this was disinclination to travel, which isnt covered by the 
policy.
In the particular circumstances of this case I dont think Great Lakes acted fairly in declining 
Mr S claim on the basis that he didnt have a medical certificate or any medical evidence to 
support that his illness meant he had to cancel his trip.
The policy only covers non-refundable costs so if the costs were recoverable from the travel 
provider the costs wouldnt be covered by the policy. Our investigator mentioned the travel 
providers responsibilities to provide a refund to Mr S so Ill address those issues.
From the information Ive seen I think its likely that Mr S trip was a package holiday. But as 
Mr S cancelled the trip the travel provider doesnt appear to have any responsibility to refund 
Mr S under the Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018.
The travel providers website says:
FINACIAL (sic) FAILURE INSURANCE
(travel providers name) are a company committed to customer satisfaction and 
consumer financial protection. We are therefore pleased to announce that, at no 
extra cost to you, and in accordance with ''The Package Travel, Package Tours 
Regulations 1992'' all passengers booking with (travel providers name) are fully 
insured for the initial deposit, and subsequently the balance of monies paid as 
detailed in your booking confirmation form. The policy will also include repatriation if 
required, arising from the cancellation or curtailment of your travel arrangements due 
to the insolvency of (travel providers name).
That means Mr S was insured under the travel providers insurance if it became insolvent or 
had other financial failure which caused it to cancel the trip. The travel providers insurance 
wouldnt cover Mr S for the reason he cancelled the trip.
Ive seen the travel providers letter which says its not refunding Mr S. Although he doesnt 
have the full terms and conditions of the booking the travel providers letter refers to its 
cancellation terms and conditions as saying:
CANCELLATION
To compensate us for the expense of processing your booking and the risk that we 
may not be able to resell the holiday, we charge a cancellation fee on the scale 
shown below. The more notice we receive, the less we charge.
60-0 days -100% of total holiday price.
As Mr S had to cancel the day before he was due to travel there was no refund payable 
under the travel providers terms and conditions. Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen 
that the cancellation cost isnt refundable by the travel provider.
I see no reason, under the remaining policy terms, why Great Lakes shouldnt pay Mr S 
claim up to the policy limit. For the reasons above I think a fair and reasonable outcome 
would be for Great Lakes to pay the claim in line with the remaining policy terms and limits, 
less any applicable excess, plus interest as Ive detailed below.
Service
Mr S says Great Lakes took five months to send him a claim form in the post. When I asked 
for Great Lakes comments on that issue it told me the timescales from when it received the 
claim on 18 August 2020 to when it sent its final response to Mr S on the 5 November 2020. 
I dont think Great Lakes unreasonably delayed from when it received the claim form, but 
Mr S complaint was about the time it took Great Lakes to send him a claim form.
Its not clear why Great Lakes took five months to send Mr S a claim form, which I think was 
too long even taking into account the demands placed on Great Lakes by the Covid-19 
pandemic. Also, Great Lakes didnt respond to Mr S detailed points as to why he thought it 
shouldnt decline the claim. Both would have been frustrating for Mr S and Great Lakes 
service to him could have been better.
But Great Lakes delay and non-response didnt disadvantage Mr S position. He was still 
able to make a claim when he eventually got the form, which I think Great Lakes processed 
with reasonable speed. He was able to make this complaint to us and Ive addressed the 
issues he raised with Great Lakes. I wouldnt generally award compensation for distress and 
inconvenience in such circumstances and theres no reason for me to do so in this case.
Responses to my provisional decision
Great Lakes said it had no further comment. Mr S accepted my provisional decision and 
asked it be noted that Great Lakes hadnt disputed he was unwell when he cancelled the 
trip.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr S accepted, and Great Lakes had no comments on, my provisional decision Ive no 
reason to change my mind. For the reasons Ive given above I think:
Great Lakes unfairly declined the claim and I see no reason, under the remaining 
policy terms, why Great Lakes shouldnt pay Mr S claim up to the policy limit, and 
Great Lakes delay in sending Mr S a claim form and its non-response to his detailed 
points didnt disadvantage Mr S position. 
Putting things rightGreat Lakes must pay Mr S claim in line with the remaining policy terms, conditions and 
limits, less applicable excess, plus interest as Ive detailed below.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Great Lakes Insurance SE to pay Mr S claim in line with the remaining policy 
terms, conditions and limits, less applicable excess. Interest* must be added at 8% simple a 
year from the date of claim to the date of settlement.
*If Great Lakes Insurance SE considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr S a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman