DRN-3427637
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Soteria Insurance Limited (SIL) declined his claim under his contents 
insurance for damage to his personal camera and technology equipment.
Mr M confirmed he is the sole policyholder and his wife is a named authorised contact.
What happened
Mr M bought contents insurance through a broker which renewed each year. In early 2020, 
he made a claim under the policy after he accidentally broke his camera, laptop and hard-
drive. 
The underwriter, SIL, looked into his claim but said he wasn't covered for accidental 
damage. Mr M disputed that because he believed hed paid for accidental damage as 
additional cover. SIL checked with the broker which confirmed that although the policy did 
not include accidental damage cover for contents, it did include personal possessions cover . 
SIL considered Mr Ms claim but, after discussing his use of the equipment, it declined cover 
under the business equipment exclusion.
Mr M complained. He said the equipment was for personal use and SIL had made incorrect 
assumptions that he used his personal equipment for his work. He felt SIL had tricked him 
into saying he used the hard-drive for business use because cover was available for lost 
business data. Mr M was also unhappy with SILs response to some personal comments he 
made during a call.
SIL maintained its decision, explaining that it had enough evidence to suggest the claim was 
for business equipment.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ms complaint. In the absence of call recordings confirming Mr M 
said his claim was for business equipment, he didnt think it was fair that SIL relied on Mr Ms 
online profile to draw conclusions about its purpose. Our investigator recommended that SIL 
pay the claim for all three pieces of equipment. However, he didnt think SIL had responded 
inappropriately to Mr Ms comments and no action was proposed in respect of that issue.
Mr M accepted the proposed outcome but SIL didnt agree. It said agents made notes during 
the calls which indicated Mr Ms equipment was for business use. SIL didnt think it was fair 
to disregard that evidence and asked for a further review.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
The key issue is that Mr M doesnt think it was fair that SIL declined his claim under the 
business equipment exclusion.
Looking at the policy documents, cover was available to Mr M as follows:
Cover Details
Sections of the Home Insurance policy that apply: 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 & 15
11 Personal Possessions
Your insurer will pay for:
Item 1 - loss of or damage to your personal property up to the sum insured shown 
under the personal possessions section on your Schedule of Insurance. The 
maximum amount your insurer will pay for one item, pair or set is £1,500.
Your insurer will not pay for:
Loss or damage listed under section 12 General Exceptions;
Loss or damage to possessions specifically insured under item 3 of this section.
12 General Exceptions Applying to Section 11
Your insurer will not pay for:
4. Loss of or damage to:
i) Personal property, money or pedal cycles held or used for
business purposes;
10. Loss of or damage to business equipment unless specified under item 4 of 
section 11.
Item 4. Under section 11 states:
Your insurer will pay for:
Item 4 - loss of or damage to specified personal property up to the amount shown for 
each item on your Schedule of Insurance.
Im satisfied the policy wording shows that business equipment would only be covered if 
listed as a specified item in the schedule. Looking at Mr Ms policy schedule, no individual 
items are specified. So, assuming Mr Ms equipment was used for business, SIL wouldve 
fairly declined his claim in line with the General Exceptions in the policy terms and 
conditions.
That brings me to the next point, which is that Mr M said he didnt use the camera, laptop or 
hard-drive for business. Therefore, he doesnt think the business equipment exclusion 
applies.
My role, here, is not to decide whether Mr M used his equipment for business purposes: 
instead it is to decide whether SIL declined his claim fairly based on the evidence available. 
When Mr M made his claim, it was his responsibility to show that an insured peril happened. 
That is, he needed to show that his equipment was damaged. Ive seen in the email 
evidence that he offered to send the equipment to SIL, but it declined. I havent seen 
anything to suggest that SIL doubted the equipment was damaged, so I dont think Mr M 
needed to do any more to prove he had a claim.
It then became SILs responsibility to either settle the claim or demonstrate why it wasnt 
covered under the policy. SIL listened to the recording of the call when Mr M first made his 
claim, and considered that alongside his comment that the hard-drive may have held business documents. SIL also looked at Mr Ms professional online profile. Based on this 
evidence, SIL decided the equipment was more than likely used for business purposes.
Unfortunately, the call recordings arent available, so Ive had to rely on the notes made by 
the agents at the time. I see no reason to give the agents notes any less weight than Mr Ms 
recollection of events.
SIL clearly believes Mr M used the equipment for his business. Mr M said he didnt, albeit 
there may have been some work documents on his hard-drive. Having considered the 
evidence, I find that Im not persuaded by SILs position. Thats because:
Mr M said he may have had some work documents on his hard-drive, not that he did. 
If the hard-drive was used for business purposes I think its more likely that he 
wouldve had certainty about this point. 
SILs investigation into Mr Ms online business profile, which Ive also looked at, 
doesnt support its reasons for declining the claim. Thats because the equipment 
damaged was quite different to the type of equipment Mr M used for business 
purposes.
On balance, while its possible Mr M used his equipment in some way for business 
purposes, the evidence suggests it was mainly for personal use and as part of his 
hobby.
I appreciate it would be difficult for Mr M to prove that the equipment wasnt used primarily 
for business, but the onus was on SIL to provide evidence to show that he did. I cant fairly 
say that SIL has shown that it was more likely than not that Mr M used his equipment for 
business.
For these reasons, I dont think SIL treated Mr M fairly when it declined his claim. To put this 
right, SIL should reconsider his claim in line with the remaining terms of the policy without 
relying on the exclusion for business use.
Turning now to the additional points, Mr M was unhappy that SIL asked the police to visit Mr 
M after he made comments of a personal nature on the phone. I understand SIL was 
concerned for his welfare.
Mr M seems to have accepted SILs reasoning for its actions. Looking at the evidence, I 
havent seen any evidence that SIL acted inappropriately. It had concerns for Mr Ms welfare 
and alerted the appropriate authority. I dont think SIL did anything wrong in being cautious.
When Mr M first raised his claim, SIL said he didnt have accidental damage cover, so it 
couldnt consider his claim under that part of the policy. Mr M disputed that and I can 
understand it wouldve caused him concern at the time. Having looked at the policy, it does 
provide cover for loss of or damage to personal possessions. SIL received confirmation from 
the broker about the cover available, and it has since accepted that it made a mistake here. 
As Ive decided that SIL should reconsider Mr Ms claim in line with the policy terms and 
conditions, Im satisfied that this matter hasnt caused him any material loss.
Overall, I think theres sufficient evidence to suggest that SIL declined the claim unfairly 
relying on the business equipment exclusion. Although not conclusive, the evidence does 
lend greater weight to Mr Ms position. Therefore, SIL should reconsider Mr Ms claim in line 
with the remaining policy terms and conditions.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and Soteria 
Insurance Limited must:
reconsider Mr Ms claim in line with the policy terms and conditions without relying on 
the business use exclusion.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman