DRN-3480387
The complaint
Miss B has complained through a representative that Loans 2 Go Limited (Loans 2 Go)
irresponsibly provided her loans which she couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Loans 2 Go provided Miss B with three loans between July 2020 and February 2021. A
summary of her borrowing can be found below;
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(months)monthly 
repayment
1 £250.00 03/07/2020 28/07/2020 18 £57.14
2 £250.00 24/08/2020 22/01/2021 18 £57.14
3 £300.00 05/02/2021 06/04/2021 18 £68.57
Miss B, through her representative complained to Loans 2 Go on 6 October 2021 and 
Loans 2 Go issued a final response letter on 21 October 2021. It explained that it wasnt 
upholding Miss Bs complaint.
Unhappy with this response, Miss Bs representative referred the complaint to the Financial
Ombudsman Service.
Miss Bs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He concluded Loans 2 Go
shouldnt have advanced any of the loans. He outlined the checks that Loans 2 Go carried
out and for each loan and he thought for loans two and three Loans 2 Go needed to have
verified the information Miss B had provided either through payslips or bank statements.
However, notwithstanding his concerns about the level of checks, the adjudicator felt there
was sufficient information in the checks that Loans 2 Go had carried out that ought to have
led it to have declined these loans.
He thought the amount of outstanding debt was substantial and based on the information in
the credit report that these made up a significant portion of her declared income and Miss B
didnt have a reasonable level of disposable income once all her bills, credit commitments
and outgoings were taken into account.
Loans 2 Go didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. In response, it said (in
summary):
Loans 2 Go always makes sure there is disposable income available to a consumer.
Loans 2 Go uses the Office for National Statistics (ONS) to assist it with working out 
what a consumers outgoings may be.
There was no indication in Miss Bs credit checks to indicate she was having financial 
difficulties.
Although Loans 2 Go was aware of other credit commitments these were being 
correctly managed for example there was no adverse credit file data.
Loans 2 Go went onto explain that its affordability assessment is thorough, and loans 
arent issued unless it is satisfied Miss B could sustainably afford these loans.
The adjudicator went back to Loans 2 Go and explained why its points hadnt changed his
mind.
In response to the adjudicators comments, Loans 2 Go reconsidered its view of the
complaint and concluded that loan three should be upheld but it didnt provided details of the
redress it would pay. Its view of loans one and two remained the same. Loans 2 Go also 
said:
While Miss B did have a high level of debt, most of it was in relation to a Hire 
Purchase (HP) agreement but the repayments were being maintained.
There were no other indicators, based on the checks Loans 2 Go carried out, that 
showed it that providing these loans would be detrimental to Miss B.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me and I issued a 
provisional decision partly upholding Miss Bs complaint about loans 2 and 3. 
A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings follow this in italics 
and forms part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the
overarching questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the
circumstances of this complaint are:
Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss B would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Miss B would have been able to do so?
Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Loans 2 Go to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of Miss Bs ability to make the repayments under the loan
agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Loans 2 Go had to think about whether
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Miss B undue difficulty or
significant adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without
failing to make any other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on hers financial situation.In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of it
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss B.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Miss Bs complaint.
Loan 1
For this loan, Loans 2 Go asked Miss B for her monthly income, which she declared as
being £1,600. Loans 2 Go then verified this amount using its online tools. As a result, it was
satisfied that Miss B received a minimum of £1,485.74.
Miss B declared her monthly outgoings came to £350. However, following a review of the
application, which including thinking about ONS data, Loans 2 Go increased Miss Bs
outgoings to £1,258.50. This wouldve left more than sufficient disposable income to be able
to afford the repayments Miss B was committed to making of £57.14.
The adjudicator upheld this loan because in his view, Miss B was already committed to
spending significant amounts on her credit commitments. In order to consider what has
happened, Ive reviewed the credit check results provided to the Financial Ombudsman by
Loans 2 Go. Having done so, Im intending to come to a different outcome to the one
reached by the adjudicator for this loan and Ive explained why below.
The credit check overview shows that Miss B had opened two credit accounts within the last
12 months and there wasnt any evidence of insolvency so for example there are no County
Court Judgements or defaults. Miss B had just over £11,000 of debt, but the majority of this
was as a result of a HP agreement she had.
The credit file showed that Miss B did have a bank loan and a HP agreement that she was
paying, and these were the only other outstanding commitments that she had which cost her
£367 per month.
The HP agreement had been running for around two years and there hadnt been any
repayment problems. The same for the other loan, and given the repayments and the
outstanding balance, it is likely the loan wouldve been fully repaid within the coming months.
I dont think this information wouldve concerned Loans 2 Go or altered its decision to lend.Overall, given this was the first loan, the amount being borrowed, the monthly repayment
and what Loans 2 Go knew about Miss B from the credit file, I think it carried out
proportionate checks which showed that Miss B could afford the monthly repayment she was
committed to making.
Im therefore intending not to uphold Miss Bs complaint about this loan.
Loan 2
Miss B returned around a month after repaying loan one earlier than planned to take the
same amount again. This time, she declared shed had a slight increase to her income  to
£1,700 per month. However, following Loans 2 Gos check it thought Miss B received a
minimum monthly income of £1,310.44.
Miss B also declared a significant reduction in her outgoings, down to only £45 per month 
which included declaring that she had no other credit commitments. However, as with the
income, Loans 2 Gos checks suggested that her outgoings were likely to be around
£1,083.20. The figures that Loans 2 Go obtained suggested that Miss B would be able to
afford the repayment of £57.14 per month.
Miss Bs credit file shows similar information to what was present when loan one was
advanced. There were no signs of financial difficulties such as missed payments. However,
there was a new account opened since loan 1  or at least being reported on the credit file.
This new loan was is classified as a short-term loan account with monthly repayments due of
£123. But even then, based solely on the credit file, Miss B had £490 worth of unsecured
credit commitments  before the repayment for this loan.
But like the adjudicator, I agree that further checks needed to be carried out. Miss B was
committing to repay Loans 2 Go over a not insignificant period of time and had as part of the
application had quite significantly under reported her income and her outgoings. So, I think,
Loans 2 Go wouldve wanted to have verified the information that it was able to obtain.
Miss B has provided the Financial Ombudsman with copies of her bank statements for the
month before this loan was advanced, so I dont consider it unreasonable or unfair to see
what is enclosed to see what Loans 2 Go may have found out.
Miss Bs monthly income appears to be more in line with the amount that Loans 2 Go used
when carrying out the affordability assessment for this loan.
But there is evidence Miss B (within the bank statements) was likely having problems
managing her money because there is evidence of her having at least three outstanding
short-term loans accounts as well as repayments due for a running credit facility.
Overall, her unsecured credit commitments amounted to over £850 per month. Of course,
this sum also doesnt include the amount that Miss B wouldve needed to repay Loans 2 Go
or her other commitments that she had, for example costs for her car and mobile phone or
her other living costs.
In my view, given an income of around £1,400, I dont think further credit shouldve been
advanced to Miss B because she was already committed to spending a significant portion of
her income towards other unsecured creditors. In my view, this portion is too high and made
the loan repayments for this loan to be unsustainable.Loan 3
Loans 2 Go has accepted that this loan should be upheld, so I no longer think I need to
make a finding about this lending. But I have included this loan in the redress below for what
Loans 2 Go needs to do in order to put things right for Miss B.
Response to the provisional decision
Both Loans 2 Go and Miss B were asked to provide any further comments, information or 
evidence as soon as possible, but no later than 13 May 2022. 
Loans 2 Go confirmed receipt of the provisional decision and it told us it had nothing further 
to add. 
No response has been received from either Miss B or her representative. 
As the deadline for response to the provisional decision has now passed, I see no reason 
not to proceed to issuing a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new information or evidence for me to consider I see no 
reason to depart from the findings that I made in the provisional decision and they now form 
part of this final decision. 
I still think Loans 2 Go made a reasonable decision to lend for loan 1. But it needed to have 
carried out further checks before approving loan 2. Had it carried out further checks it 
wouldve likely discovered that this loan wasnt affordable for Miss B. 
Loans 2 Go had already accepted that compensation should to be paid to Miss B for loan 3. 
Ive therefore outlined below what Loans 2 Go should do in order to put things right for 
Miss B. 
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Miss B to repay the principal amount that she borrowed in
respect of loans 2 and 3, because shes had the benefit of that lending. But as I have
concluded Loans 2 Go shouldnt have provided these loans, it should look to remove the
interest and fees from the amounts due under the loan agreement.
Loans 2 Go should:
remove all interest, fees and charges applied to Loans 2 and 3;
treat any payments made by Miss B as payments towards the capital amount;
If and when Miss B has paid more than the capital then any overpayments should be 
refunded to her with 8%* simple interest from the date the overpayments arose to the 
date of settlement; and
remove any negative information about Loans 2 and 3 from Miss Bs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go
should give Miss B a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Miss Bs 
complaint in part.
Loans 2 Go Limited should put things right for Miss B as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman