DRN-4267846
The complaint
Mr C and Mr Hs complaint is about a retirement interest-only (RIO) mortgage they had with 
Nationwide Building Society. They have said that Nationwide failed to disclose information 
they believe was critical to their decision-making and so the mortgage was mis-sold. The 
information  that porting had to be simultaneous between properties  meant they had to 
pay off the mortgage and pay an early repayment charge (ERC). This has meant that they 
cant afford to purchase an equivalent property to the one they wanted in the area they 
wanted to move to.
In settlement of the complaint, Mr C and Mr H want Nationwide to at least refund the ERC 
they paid when they redeemed the mortgage, plus compensation for the anxiety and 
reduced circumstances they now live in. 
What happened
Mr C and Mr H owned their home and in 2020 they applied for a RIO mortgage with 
Nationwide. The mortgage was designed to run until the later death of either Mr C or Mr H. It 
was to be set up on an interest-only basis and attached to it was a five-year fixed interest 
rate product. Mr C and Mr H would need to make monthly payments of the amount of the 
interest accruing.
The mortgage offer issued to Mr C and Mr H on 6 May 2020 confirmed the nature of the 
mortgage. It also confirmed some flexible features that applied in section 8 of the attached 
illustration:
Porting
You have the right to transfer this product to a new mortgage with Nationwide on another 
property. However, your application will be subject to the lending criteria at the time. 
If a new mortgage is agreed, you can keep this product and its existing features, but any 
overpayment reserve you have built up cannot be transferred.
An early repayment charge will not apply if you transfer the remaining balance and terms of 
this product to your new mortgage on the same day as you repay this one.
Mr C and Mr H decided not to go ahead with this mortgage. Instead, they moved home later 
in 2020. In early 2021, they again applied for a RIO mortgage with Nationwide on their new 
home. The money being released was to be used to purchase a holiday home. 
The application was accepted, and a five-year interest rate product was attached to the 
mortgage. The illustration that accompanied the mortgage offer, which was issued on 
30 March 2021, contained the same wording about porting as the 2020 offer. 
Again in 2022 Mr C and Mr H decided they wanted to move. They applied for a new RIO 
mortgage on the property they wanted to buy and asked to port the existing interest rate 
product to the new mortgage. Nationwide accepted the application and issued a mortgage 
offer on 8 July 2022, along with an associated illustration of the same date. This confirmed 
under the main features of the loan that the five-year fixed interest rate product was being 
ported from their existing mortgage. In relation to porting, it repeated the same information 
as the 2020 and 2021 illustrations.
Mr C and Mr H decided not to buy the new property in 2022, but they went ahead with the 
sale of their existing one. 
The redemption statement sent to Mr C and Mr Hs solicitors on 5 August 2022 documented 
the amount Mr C and Mr H needed to pay Nationwide to clear their mortgage. At the end of 
the document there was a section titled Porting your mortgage:
If youre transferring your current mortgage product and rate onto your new property, you 
wont need to pay the Early Repayment Charge or Redemption Expenses shown on the 
redemption statement overleaf as long as you meet both of the below:
complete the sale of your existing property and the purchase of your new property on the 
same day and
transfer the entire remaining balance of your existing product.
Your solicitor will need to take off the Early Repayment Charge and Redemption Expenses 
before sending the funds to us or contact us on 0345 30 20 11.
If theres a delay between the sale of your existing property and the purchase of your new 
one, youll need to pay any applicable Early Repayment Charge and Redemption Expenses. 
Well refund these when you complete the port onto your new property. Nationwide wont 
release their charge on the property at the respective Land Registry until the full outstanding 
amount has been paid.
The mortgage was repaid on 30 August 2022. Mr C and Mr H had to pay an ERC of slightly 
under £3,800. They complained about the lack of information about Nationwides porting 
requirements.
Nationwide responded to the complaint in an email of 15 September 2022. It confirmed that 
it didnt allow non-simultaneous porting on the type of mortgage Mr C and Mr H had taken 
out in 2020 and so non-simultaneous porting would not be raised by its advisers. Had Mr C 
or Mr H said during the fact-finding process this was something they wanted the possibility of 
doing, the issue would have been discussed. In relation to the information contained in the 
redemption statement, Nationwide didnt agree that it was misleading. It was highlighted that 
the document didnt detail the terms and conditions of porting. The complaint was not 
upheld. 
Mr C and Mr H werent satisfied with Nationwides response and referred the complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service. When they did so, they explained their understanding of 
a mortgage being portable involved there being the option for a non-simultaneous sale and 
purchase. They said that if they had known this was not a possibility, they may not have 
proceeded with the mortgage at all, or if they had proceeded, it would have been in the 
knowledge there were restrictions placed on the porting option. Mr C and Mr H believe that 
Nationwide concealed the nature of the porting option deliberately. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend it was upheld. 
She was satisfied that Nationwide had acted in line with its lending criteria at the time.  She 
also explained that she wouldnt expect a mortgage adviser to discuss every eventuality that 
could result from an application  the discussions would be based on the needs and 
circumstances that were established during the fact-finding process. The investigator was satisfied Mr C and Mr Hs queries had been correctly answered and the requirement for 
simultaneous porting was emphasised. She was also satisfied that as soon as Nationwide 
was made aware that Mr C and Mr H intended to complete on their sale, but were not 
progressing with a purchase, that porting the interest rate would not be possible. As such, it 
hadnt been unreasonable for Nationwide to apply the ERC when the mortgage was paid off.
Mr C and Mr H didnt accept the investigators conclusions. They said the investigators view 
failed to address the main part of their complaint, contained a misleading and inaccurate 
statement and was biased toward Nationwide. They explained that the main part of their 
complaint was that Nationwide used a different definition of porting on their mortgage type 
than it did on its other products, but it didnt highlight this in its documentation or during the 
course of discussions. They asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on 30 June 2023, in which I set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
A lender is entitled to decide what types of risk it is willing to take when it lends, and thats 
not something this service would normally look to interfere with. This then translates into 
lending criteria and mortgage terms and conditions. Lenders will have different lending 
criteria for different types of mortgages as they will represent different levels and types of 
risk. There is nothing wrong with this and we would not uphold a complaint simply because 
the lending criteria or the mortgage terms and conditions were different to those applicable 
to a different type of mortgage.
Nationwide has confirmed that it doesnt offer RIO mortgages on new property purchases  
only on properties that are already owned by the prospective borrowers. However, as this 
would prevent existing RIO borrowers from moving without having to pay an ERC, as a 
concession it allows existing RIO borrowers to apply for a RIO mortgage on their new 
property, but this is only allowed if the sale and purchase happen on the same day. If the 
property is acceptable security for the amount of the borrowing, Nationwide then agrees to 
the new mortgage and allows the existing interest rate product to be ported.
Mr C and Mr H have said that it is usual for lenders to allow what is called a porting window. 
This allows, if a new mortgage is taken out within a certain number of months of the old one 
being paid off, the interest rate product that was attached to the old mortgage to be 
transferred to the new mortgage and any ERC that has been paid refunded. However, the 
basic concept of porting involves a simultaneous sale and purchase of properties. While 
many lenders do at times allow porting windows, with most lenders it is a concession made 
outside of the terms of the mortgage. This means it is not something a borrower is entitled 
to. The concession can be added or removed at the lenders discretion and the size of the 
window can also be variable when the option is available.
Nationwide has confirmed that it only allows simultaneous porting on RIO mortgages. It is 
allowed to make that decision. 
Mr C and Mr H have said the documentation was misleading. I have examined the mortgage 
offers sent to them between 2020 and 2022 and I am not persuaded the information about 
porting was misleading. The information set out how and when this could happen. It is 
written on the basis of the sale and purchase being simultaneous and I note that Mr C and 
Mr H have confirmed they understood this positioning. While they believe that the 
information provided should have set out that non-simultaneous porting was not allowed, I 
dont consider that was necessary. A lender is required to tell a customer how a mortgage 
works and what can be done. It would be unreasonable to expect a lender to set out all the 
things that cannot be done under the lending criteria and terms and conditions. The list 
would be exhaustive and in general a lenders lending criteria is considered to be 
commercially sensitive and is not something that a lender would be expected to release 
publicly. If Mr C and Mr H assumed that they could complete a non-simultaneous port if they needed to do so, simply because the mortgage offers didnt say they couldnt, I cant hold 
Nationwide responsible for any consequences of that incorrect assumption.
Mr C and Mr H have commented on the information contained in the redemption statement 
provided to their solicitors. It is correct this is generic information and indicates that a porting 
window may be an option. However, by this point Mr C and Mr H had already decided to 
continue with their sale in the knowledge that a porting window was not available to them. I 
also note the statement was sent to the solicitors, rather than Mr C and Mr H. As such, I 
dont consider that its contents could have influenced their decision about what to do or 
misled them.
As our investigator explained to Mr C and Mr H, Nationwide discussed their needs and 
requirements before it made any recommendation. Again, I wouldnt have expected 
Nationwide to highlight things that the mortgage couldnt do unless something in the 
discussions raised needs or wants from Mr C and Mr H that couldnt be provided for by the 
mortgage. The information Nationwide provided orally was correct and as soon as it 
understood they wanted to do something the mortgage didnt allow for, they were told clearly 
that it was not an option. 
Mr C and Mr H made the decision to continue with their sale, despite knowing they would 
have to pay off the mortgage and pay an ERC in the process. They made an informed 
choice and one that they were entitled to make. However, Nationwide cant be held 
responsible for the consequences of that decision.
I know that this will disappoint Mr C and Mr H, but I cant find that Nationwide misled them 
about the porting option or that it was wrong to not allow them a porting window when they 
wanted one.
Both parties acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision. Nationwide didnt make any 
further comment. 
Mr C and Mr H said they believed I had placed too much weight on Nationwides position 
and had not responded to their reasonable concerns about the way in which Nationwide 
acted against their interests. They went on to say they thought the last sentence of the 
porting section of the illustration (above) was ambiguous and suggested alternative wording, 
which they believe would have made the position clear to them. In addition, Mr C and Mr H 
said that a porting window not being available on this type of mortgage appears to be 
unusual for Nationwides mortgages and so they think it should have been made clear that a 
porting window didnt apply to this specific product.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C and Mr H have said they believe I have placed too much weight on Nationwides 
position. I would firstly explain that we are impartial, and we dont act for either side in a 
dispute. As such, we also dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint or how we weigh the evidence provided. 
When reviewing this complaint, I have considered all of the evidence and comments 
provided by both parties. While I have noted Mr C and Mr Hs comments, I would confirm 
that my conclusions are based on an unbiased review of the facts of the case, which are 
quite basic. I can appreciate that Mr C and Mr H are disappointed with those conclusions, 
but I can assure them that I have reviewed the complaint from an independent and unbiased position and not based on Nationwides opinion about the case.
I have considered all of Mr C and Mr Hs further comments. I have also reviewed the file 
again in its entirety and I have revisited my provisional decision. Having done so, I remain 
satisfied that Nationwide did nothing wrong and that any confusion or concept of ambiguity 
on the part of Mr C and Mr H was due to an assumption a porting window would be available 
to them. As I said in my provisional decision, I cant hold Nationwide responsible for the 
consequences of an incorrect assumption by a customer. 
Mr C and Mr H have said that they dont think that I have responded to their reasonable 
concerns about the way in which Nationwide acted against their interests. A lender doesnt 
have to set aside the terms and conditions of a mortgage simply because a consumer asks it 
to do so. A mortgage is a legal contract, and it is not unreasonable for both parties to the 
contract to expect the other to abide by the terms agreed to. While there are some situations 
we would expect a lender to consider making concessions, in general this would only be 
where a consumer was in financial difficulties and the lender doing so was a reasonable way 
forward. I dont consider Mr C and Mr Hs circumstances would fall to be described as them 
being in financial difficulties. As I pointed out in my provisional decision, they chose to 
continue with the sale of their property in the knowledge that there wasnt a porting window 
available and the consequences of that decision. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr C and Mr H to accept or reject my decision 
before 11 September 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman