DRN-3877810
The complaint
K a limited company complains ERGO Versicherung Aktiengesellschaft trading as ERGO 
UK Branch (ERGO) has unfairly declined a claim under the insolvency section of a new build 
scheme insurance policy.
K is represented by solicitors but for ease Ill refer to their comments or actions as K.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill summarise the key 
points Ive focused on within my decision.
In November 2018. K entered into an agreement with a property developer to buy 
two units (flats) in block C in a residential development Ill refer to as T.
In July 2020, K attempted to make a claim to recover the deposit monies it paid to 
secure the two units under the insolvency section of a new build scheme insurance 
policy that was taken out by the developer (policyholder) on the basis that the 
policyholder had entered insolvency. 
ERGO declined the claim. In summary it said the policy only covered units situated in 
block B of T. It said the proposal form made clear that the policyholder was seeking 
cover for 141 units, for one single structure of a steel frame building over 13 floors. 
The application stated the reinstatement value was £13,288,357. 
ERGO says it was aware that there were ultimately to be three blocks within the 
development, but it never received requests to cover any other blocks and the 
contractor was only looking to develop block B at the time.
K raised a complaint, it said it held a valid certificate to cover the insolvency, and the 
certificate does not differentiate between the blocks and therefore covers the entire 
development of T. As a result, it requested ERGO indemnify it the sum of £22,965 for 
the losses incurred.
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He said ERGO had 
fairly declined the claim.
K didnt agree. The complaint has therefore passed to me, an Ombudsman to issue a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint is about whether Ks units fall within the policy terms.
ERGO has said Ks units are not included within the scope of its policy so there is no claim 
for it to answer.
K has argued the building period certificate doesnt differentiate a block, and it has just the 
address of T, so it presumed that the policy covered the whole site.
So, Ive looked at the available evidence. The proposal form completed by the developer via 
a broker shows it is applying for ERGO to cover a single structure over 13 floors. And the 
planning permission documents refer to block B being over 13 floors (which is different to 
block A and block C which are both under 13 floors).
As a result, Im satisfied ERGO has fairly declined Ks claim as its units in block C are not 
covered by the policy. I will therefore not be directing ERGO to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman