DRN-1665732
 
The complaint
Miss T says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) when she took out a 
store card in January 2000.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer should accept 
responsibility for the complaint. 
What happened
In January 2000 Miss T applied for a store card by completing an application form. At the 
same time she was sold a PPI policy to protect her card payments.
The policy cost was £1.00 per £100 Miss T owed on her store card. The policy would have 
paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each month if Miss T couldnt work 
because she had an accident, was unwell or lost her job. The policy also provided life cover 
as well as price and purchase protection.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Ts complaint. Miss T disagreed so the complaint has 
been passed to me for final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. And having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ts complaint.
Ive looked at the copy of the agreement Miss T signed and I can see that she signed the 
agreement twice  once for the store card and another time for PPI. If she hadnt wanted to 
take out the PPI, I think Miss T couldve chosen not to sign the relevant section of the 
agreement. And Ive noted that two other sections of the application form werent completed 
indicating she didnt want two other optional features  card protection and an additional 
card holder. So I think Miss T knew the policy was optional and chose to take it. And as this 
was a monthly policy and wouldve appeared on her monthly store card statements, Miss T 
couldve cancelled it at any time if she decided she no longer wanted it or if she found it 
unaffordable.
Theres limited information available to me about what happened at the time of sale. So I 
dont know what may or may not have been said. Given the information I do have, Ive not 
seen enough to make me think AXA advised Miss T to take out the PPI. This means AXA 
didnt have to make sure the policy was suitable for Miss Ts circumstances. But it still had to 
provide her with clear information about the policy so she could decide if she wanted to take 
it out - I cant say that AXA did this.
I dont know exactly what information Miss T received about the policy at the time of sale. 
Even if I were to accept that Miss T wasnt given clear enough information about the policy, I dont think this would have affected her decision to take out the PPI for the reasons 
explained below.
Miss T was eligible for the policy and doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations which may have made it difficult for her to make a claim  she told 
us she was employed and in good health. Miss T says she wouldnt have received any sick 
pay if she wasnt working  so I think the policy couldve proved useful to Miss T if she had 
an accident, became ill or lost her job. She could also have benefitted from life cover and 
price and purchase protection.
Im not satisfied that AXA made the cost of the policy clear enough for Miss T to understand 
what the real cost of the policy was for her. But taking everything into account, I think if      
Miss T had properly understood the cost and benefit provided she wouldve thought the 
policy potentially useful. The policy would pay a 15% monthly benefit until the outstanding 
balance was cleared and the monthly cost does not seem to be unaffordable.
Overall, I dont think AXA did everything it needed to when it sold the policy to Miss T. But I 
think she knew she had a choice about taking the PPI and I think she would still have taken 
out the cover if shed been properly informed about it. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman