DRN-2716793
The complaint
M (a limited company) has a complaint against PrePay Technologies Limited (PrePay) 
having lost £4,641.06 to a scam. PrePay couldnt recover the money and declined to refund 
it.
M is represented by Mr S, who carried out the transaction. Ill mostly refer to him throughout 
this decision.
What happened
In February 2020 Mr S was contacted by what he thought was his mother-in-law. He 
received an email which appeared to have come from her genuine email address. But the 
email had actually come from a fraudster who had been able to gain access to Mr S mother-
in-laws emails.
Mr S had genuinely been due to repay his mother-in-law some funds shed lent to support M. 
And the email appeared to be in relation to that repayment. But the fraudster gave details for 
an account they controlled in the email. So when Mr S made what he thought was a genuine 
payment, it actually went to the fraudster. 
Mr S realised what had happened when he contacted his mother-in-law the next day to ask if 
shed received the money. She hadnt and so Mr S contacted PrePay with the scam being 
revealed and reported.
PrePay looked to try and recover the money. But when it heard back from the recipient bank 
it was told the money had already been removed from the account and so there was nothing 
left to return to M. 
Mr S made a complaint on Ms behalf. He said PrePay had acted too slowly in trying to 
retrieve the funds and hadnt updated him soon enough. He also felt PrePay ought to have 
confirmed the name of the recipient account holder when he made the payment and, if it 
didnt match, declined to make it.
PrePay responded to the complaint to say it hadnt done anything wrong in processing the 
payment. It acknowledged it could have acted more quickly and updated Mr S sooner but 
said this had little impact on the outcome of the fraud claim. But in recognising something 
went wrong it offered M £25 compensation.
Unhappy with PrePays response, Ms complaint was brought to our service. One of our 
investigators considered what had happened and, after initially upholding the complaint, said 
there was nothing more PrePay ought to have done. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision as Mr S didnt accept the outcome on 
behalf of M. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S and the other directors of M, but Im not upholding the complaint. 
Ill explain why.
Im sorry to hear of the loss M has suffered and the consequential impact on Mr S and all 
those with an interest in M. Having money stolen in this way is a particularly cruel crime.
But having thought very carefully about PrePays actions, I think it acted fairly and 
reasonably in allowing the money to leave Ms account. And whilst I think it could have acted 
more quickly to recover the funds, Im satisfied there was no prospect of the money being 
recovered.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
Should PrePay have questioned the transaction at the point it was being made?
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. And a customer will then be responsible for those 
transactions that have been properly authorised. And I have taken that into account when 
deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
Theres no doubt that the payment was properly authorised. Mr S made the payment on 
behalf of M using the PrePay app and his security credentials. That remains true even 
though M has been the unwitting victim of a fraudster and where Mr S did not know that the 
funds were going somewhere other than intended. And so, in the first instance, M is 
presumed liable for the payment
But that is not the end of the story. Broadly speaking, the regulatory landscape, along with 
industry best practice, sets out a requirement for account providers to protect its customers 
from fraud and financial harm. That protection extends to the monitoring of accounts and 
looking for indicators that might suggest fraud, such as unusual transactions and account 
activity.
Im satisfied that the payment made here was fairly unremarkable in appearance to PrePay 
and Im not persuaded it ought to have stepped in to question it. 
I acknowledge here that, having looked at the account statements, it wasnt common for M to 
have payments of such a size made from the account. But the amount here isnt so high that 
I would expect PrePay to question it, particularly considering this was activity on a limited 
companys account. I believe its fair and reasonable to say that transactions will often be for 
larger amounts on such accounts. And so even though it may not have been a typical 
payment for M Im satisfied PrePay neednt have flagged it for questioning. 
I cant see that there are other features of the payment or the account activity that would 
lead me to reach a different finding either. I know Mr S has described how M was a relatively 
new company and wasnt yet fully trading. But I dont think that makes a difference to how 
PrePay would be expected to monitor accounts. And it wasnt the case that there had never 
been new payees set up on the account.Should PrePay have checked the account name?
PrePay wasnt required to check the payee name at the point payment was made. Instead, 
the payment was processed using the account number and sort code, in line with the 
Payment Service Regulations 2017. Im not persuaded PrePay would have had the facility to 
check the payee name at the time. 
The Confirmation of Payee system has been referred to over the course of this complaint. 
This is something that is being introduced into the banking system but it is not yet fully rolled 
out and not all providers have the facility to request and provide payee details. 
Did PrePay act quickly enough to recover the funds?
I can see that PrePay did not act quickly enough here. It ought to have made attempts to 
recover the funds immediately. But it appears it delayed for several days and its unclear 
why. So I can understand why Mr S has expressed his disappointment and concern. 
I have, however, seen evidence from the receiving bank that clearly shows that PrePays 
delay didnt actually make any difference to the recovery of funds. Thats because the 
fraudster had moved the money on within an hour of it being received. Mr S didnt report the 
loss until the following day and so, unfortunately, there was no prospect of the money being 
recovered. 
Mr S has been clearly and understandably frustrated by PrePays actions here. But I have to 
keep in mind this is Ms complaint and Mr S is its representative. As M is a limited company 
it cant suffer distress and so I cant make an award for it. I can make an award for 
unnecessary inconvenience caused to M by PrePay and, having considered PrePays 
actions, I think the £25 offered is fair compensation. Thats because the overall impact of the 
delay wasnt particularly significant and the raising of the fraud claim and the complaint 
would always have been necessary, following the actions of the fraudster.
Im aware that Mr S initially rejected this offer on behalf of M. I can see how it offers little 
comfort to him or recompense to M. But I cant fairly award a higher payment. I now leave it 
to the two parties to arrange the payment of the £25, should Ms S now wish to accept it on 
Ms behalf.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman