DRN-4153053
The complaint
Mr A complains that Metro Bank PLC didnt do enough to protect him from losing money to a 
scam.
What happened
Mr A has explained that in July 2021 he made a payment of £4,067.20 from his Metro 
account to a crypto exchange from where he moved the money on to what he thought was a 
legitimate investment platform. 
Mr A later got in touch with Metro to report hed lost the money to a scam. Metro didnt 
reimburse Mr A. Remaining unhappy, Mr A referred his complaint about Metro to our service. 
As our Investigator was unable to resolve the matter informally, the case has been passed to 
me for a decision.
I sent Mr A and Metro my provisional decision on 10 May 2023 explaining why I wasnt 
intending to uphold the complaint. I asked Mr A and Metro to let me know by 24 May 2023 if 
they had any further comments or evidence they wanted to send me before I made my final 
decision. Neither Mr A nor Metro responded to my provisional decision. So Im now ready to 
explain my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to not uphold this complaint, for the same reasons as 
explained in my provisional decision. Ill explain why again.  
Im sorry if Mr A lost this money to a scam but this doesnt automatically entitle him to a 
refund from Metro. It would only be fair for me to tell Metro to reimburse Mr A if I thought it 
reasonably ought to have prevented the payment or it unreasonably hindered recovery of the 
funds.
Prevention
Im satisfied Mr A authorised the relevant payment. Metro would generally be expected to 
process a payment a customer authorises it to make. And under the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the account, Mr A is presumed liable for the 
loss in the first instance, in circumstances where he authorised the payment. That said, as a 
matter of good industry practice Metro should have taken proactive steps to identify and help 
prevent transactions  particularly sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic transactions  that 
could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there are many payments made by 
customers each day and its not realistic or reasonable to expect a bank to stop and check 
every payment instruction. Theres a balance to be struck between identifying payments that 
could potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. 
In this case, Metro did initially block Mr As payment. And Im satisfied Mr A was made aware 
of the fraud and scams warnings relating to payments for crypto in general. In one of his 
calls with Metro he explained that hed been trading for quite some time already from 
Santander in high volumes, but theyd recently stopped allowing any crypto payments, which 
is why he had moved to Metro. He said he would obviously be transacting from Metro 
because he did full-time trading online, buying currencies and stuff. So, he told Metro, he 
was wondering whether Metro could allow him to trade with reasonable amounts, nothing 
crazy.  
I can understand in these circumstances how Santander might have thought Mr A knew 
what he was doing and why it then allowed Mr As payment through, as per his instruction 
and request. 
Ive thought about what most likely would have happened if Metro had been more thorough 
during this call, asking Mr A for more context around the payment, and proceeding 
appropriately from there with the intention to disturb or unearth a potential fraud or scam. 
However, I think if Metro had probed further  assuming Mr A would have been open to 
providing further context  it would have learnt that: Mr A was buying crypto for an 
investment platform recommended by his boss whod been successfully trading and 
withdrawing funds for over five years; Mr A had done his own research about the platform 
that reassured him everything was legitimate; he was also in a messaging group with other 
investors, including his boss, where they would share knowledge and make trades together, 
and Mr A was reassured things were legitimate. 
This payment from Metro was the second smaller part of a fee Mr A had been asked to pay 
(the first part having already been paid from Mr As Santander account), which Mr A had 
been reassured about by his boss. And I havent seen anything that leads me to think Metro 
should reasonably have known for sure Mr A was being scammed. So, even if Metro had 
probed Mr E further about the payment, I think ultimately it would have resulted in a similar 
situation  with Metro warning about fraud and scams relating to crypto payments, but Mr A 
being satisfied everything was in order and that he wanted to go ahead. In circumstances 
like this Im not satisfied I can say Metro ought reasonably to have prevented the payment.
Recovery
After the payment was made, because it was made by debit card the only potential avenue 
for Mr A to recover the money through Metro would have been via the chargeback scheme. 
However, because Mr A made the payment from his Metro debit card to a crypto exchange 
(and not directly to the scammers), this means the merchant here for chargeback purposes 
would be the crypto exchange (and not the scammers). The crypto exchange legitimately 
provided the services intended. The subsequent transfer of the funds onto the scammers 
from there would not give rise to a valid chargeback claim through Metro. So I dont think this 
payment was recoverable through Metro once it had been made. 
I realise this means Mr A is out of pocket. And Im sorry if he lost this money. But I cant 
reasonably ask Metro to reimburse him in circumstances where I dont think it ought 
reasonably to have prevented the payment or been able to recover it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman