DRN-2777560
The complaint
 Mr C, with the help of his representative Ms C, on behalf of the estate of Mr C1 and on his 
own behalf, complains that The Share Centre Limited (TSCL) gave him the wrong advice 
about what he should do with shareholdings in the estate of his late brother, Mr C1. 
What happened
 Mr C1 passed away in the USA in February 2016 and his daughter, Ms C1 was appointed to 
deal with his estate in the USA. In 2018 Mr C was appointed as the sole administrator for Mr 
C1s estate in the UK.
 
Ms C, as well as assisting Mr C with this complaint, has also been helping with the 
administration of Mr C1s estate at Mr Cs request and with the agreement of Ms C1. After 
speaking to TSCL and based on what she had been told, Ms C arranged for the transfer of 
70 shareholdings in Mr C1s estate to be transferred to Mr C into an account he already had 
with TSCL.
Ms C had a subsequent conversation with someone else at TSCL which led her to think that 
it had given her the wrong advice about transferring the shares into Mr Cs account. She 
emailed complaining about the advice she had been given. She told TSCL that ideally they 
would like to move the shares into a separate account at TSCL with Mr C shown as the 
executor of Mr C1s estate.
TSCL then emailed Ms C and suggested four possible options to rectify the situation. But it 
made clear it couldnt advise her and that independent advice should be sought. It also wrote 
separately to Mr C saying it was upholding the complaint and said it had credited his account 
with £100.
In response Ms C said they were seeking independent legal advice. Based on advice 
received from Which, she then emailed to say the options that TSCL had offered werent 
satisfactory and what she and Mr C wanted was for an account to be opened in Mr Cs name 
as executor for the shares to be transferred into. There was then some delay before TSCL 
responded indicated it was looking into this as a complaint.
TSCL then provided transfer forms for 16 shareholdings, with a view to these being put back 
into Mr C1s name. However, Ms C was subsequently told by the three share registrars that 
it wasnt possible to transfer the shares into the name of someone who had passed away. 
Ms C wrote to TSCL expressing her and Mr Cs displeasure at being given the wrong 
information more than once and the fact that the matter hadnt been resolved. She asked for 
a plan and timescale to resolve matters, but this wasnt forthcoming, so the complaint was 
referred to us.
The issue about what to do with the shareholdings continued after referral to us. An 
investigator initially upheld the complaint and set out what he thought TSCL should do which 
included transferring the shareholdings into a new account with Mr C shown as executor and 
paying a further £150 for the trouble and upset caused.
TSCL subsequently obtained legal advice which stated that there was nothing wrong with 
the shareholdings being in Mr Cs name so there was no need to do anything. It offered 
£1,000 as a gesture of goodwill for the time taken to bring matters to a conclusion. Having 
considered the legal advice TSCL had obtained, the investigator provided a further opinion in 
which he said Mr C hadnt incurred any personal tax liabilities and that the offer of £1,000 
was more than we would consider reasonable in the circumstances.
I issued a provisional decision, in which I made the following findings:
The complaint is primarily that of the estate and I can only make an award to the 
estate if I am satisfied it has suffered a loss as a result of something TSCL did wrong.
Mr C does also have a complaint in his own right as the shareholdings were 
transferred into his account and he was concerned that a personal tax liability could 
arise.
Ms C isnt an eligible complainant and I can make no award to her for any personal 
costs or losses.
It is often the case that an administrator/executor will open a separate account to 
deal with an estate but as the legal advice TSCL has obtained shows  and I have 
seen no evidence this is wrong - it isnt necessary to do this.
This means that what Ms C was originally told about putting the shareholdings in Mr 
Cs existing account wasnt wrong and as matters stand nothing needs to happen for 
the administration of the estate to go ahead.
TSCL has undoubtedly caused confusion by informing Ms C after the shareholdings 
had been transferred to Mr C that what she had been told might have been wrong.
TSCL had provided four options in response to the complaint, one of which was to 
leave the shareholdings as they were, but it made clear that it couldnt advise him 
what to do and suggested he obtain independent legal advice.
Given the complexity of the estate the suggestion of getting advice was sensible but 
Mr C didnt obtain advice from a solicitor or probate specialist but instead used 
Which. 
Which appears to have indicated that none of the options put forward by TSCL were 
suitable. Mr C and Ms C relied upon and this has led to ongoing correspondence and 
debate about what to do with the shareholdings.
Im not satisfied that TSCL can be held responsible for what happened after Which 
provided advice.
I have seen no evidence showing that the estate had suffered a loss as a result of a 
drop in the value of the shareholdings and it would be difficult to establish such a loss 
given my finding that TSCL werent responsible for any ongoing debate about what to 
do with the shareholdings after Mr C obtained advice from Which.
I have been provided with no evidence the estate has been charged fees at £360 an 
hour, as claimed, for work necessitated by TSCL providing unclear information.
Mr C has referred to an agreement by Ms C1 for Ms C to charge the estate for her 
time administering it at £20 an hour that was in place before the issue with the 
shareholdings. I have not been provided with a breakdown, but I am not satisfied that 
this could amount  for work directly linked to the confusing information provided by 
TSCL - to anything near the £1,000 offered by TSCL
Mr C does have a complaint in his personal capacity because the shareholdings 
were put into his name and he was concerned about the possibility of a personal tax 
liability arising. Any award I make for this is going to be small and more than 
encompassed by the £1,000 offered by TSCL.
I upheld the complaint and said that TSCL should pay the £1,000 it had offered. I gave 
both parties the opportunity of responding and providing further information they wanted 
me to take into account. TSCL didnt provide a response but Ms C provided a detailed response. I have considered everything she has said but have summarised what I 
consider to be the main points she has raised as follows:
The shareholdings werent transferred into Mr Cs account but into his name.
Just because it has now been determined the advice to transfer the 
shareholdings into Mr Cs name wasnt incorrect doesnt mean the advice was 
good or in the interests of the client.
The complaint has been pursued because TSCL stated in its letters to her and Mr 
C on 27 December 2018 that it had made an error in telling her to transfer the 
shareholdings into Mr Cs name.
The ombudsman has referred to the next thing happening - after TSCL set out its 
four options as to what Mr C could do - was it providing transfer forms for 16 
shareholdings. The covering letter again substantiated that the advice to transfer 
the shareholdings into Mr Cs name was incorrect.
The fact it has taken Mr C referring his complaint to us and TSCL obtaining third 
party advice for it to now say the original advice it gave wasnt incorrect goes a 
long way to show its inability to access, respond and deal effectively with the 
complaint.
Due to the advice from TSCL the estate has been forced to sell the shares, at a 
far lower value than it needed to.
Neither she nor Mr C thinks the offer of £1,000 covers the cost to the estate and 
the detrimental impact on Mr Cs health and wellbeing.
TSCL has said it provides an execution-only service so should it have provided 
advice?
The investigator said that matters could have been resolved without legal 
representation and she agrees but it is through no fault of hers or Mr C that it was 
required.
The estate has incurred extra cost through the money paid to her for 
administering the estate and following up on the complaint and her time including 
the following; contacting Which legal telephone appointments; chasing up TSCL, 
contacting our service; going back through the records to make sure everything 
she has said in response to my provisional decision is correct; work involved with 
the transfer of the shareholdings;
It should not be forgotten that two of the three beneficiaries of the estate wanted 
to keep the shareholdings, but Ms C1 in December 2019 felt she had to sell the 
shares.
They instructed a solicitor in August 2020, partly to advise on where they stood in 
relation to our complaint with TSCL. The hourly rate was £360.
The situation with the estate was complex but it was the actions of TSCL in 
advising that the shares be transferred into Mr Cs name and it subsequently 
saying that this was wrong that led to the complaint and this has added 
complexity.
TSCL said they should seek independent advice, not advice from a solicitor or 
probate specialist.
They sought advice from Which legal which is an independent legal advice 
service and the ombudsman should re-evaluate his finding that TSCL shouldnt 
be held responsible for the ongoing issue over the shareholdings once they had 
taken advice.
She is not able to evaluate the advice from Which but if its advice was incorrect 
this doesnt invalidate the actions of the customer.
We were informed by Which legal not to sell shares until after investigation and 
it is the solicitor that they instructed in 2020 who said they could be sold.
It may be difficult to establish a loss but the impact of incorrectly telling them that 
the original advice to transfer the shares into Mr Cs name was wrong had a massive knock-on effect on the customer which should be taken into account. 
TSCL should be made aware of the consequences of its actions and take 
responsibility for them in a professional and timely manner.
She has spent more than 50 hours dealing with the issues created by TSCL.
 
I note Ms C asked me to use different initials when referring to the various parties to make it 
easier to work out who I am referring to. I appreciate that the way I have identified the parties 
may have caused some confusion, but I have kept the initials the same given I have already 
used these in my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 As I said in my provisional decision, I sympathise with Ms C and Mr C, but I must be 
completely impartial when considering the complaint.
Ms C made various points I have considered but have not set out as I dont think its is 
necessary for me to make any comment on those points in order to reach a fair and 
reasonable decision in this complaint. My role is to decide what if anything a business has 
done wrong and where I find it has done something wrong set out what redress should be 
paid.
I note Ms C has said that in my provisional decision I have referred to the shareholdings 
being transferred into an account in Mr Cs name when there was no transfer into an 
account, just transfer of the shareholdings into his name. I apologise for any 
misunderstanding on my part about this. 
However, whether we are talking about shareholdings transferred into an account in Mr Cs 
name or shareholdings that were simply transferred into his name this doesnt have any 
significant bearing on my findings - where I have referred in my provisional decision to 
transfer of the shareholdings into Mr Cs account this should just be read as being transfer 
into his name.
Based on the information I have seen TSCL provided Ms C with the wrong information when 
it told her that its initial advice to put the shareholdings in Mr Cs name was incorrect. In 
other words, there is nothing wrong with the shareholdings being transferred into Mr Cs 
name as TSCL originally advised Ms C.
Having found that TSCL provided the wrong information to Ms C when it said its original 
advice was incorrect, I then need to decide what redress should be paid by TSCL for 
providing that wrong information.
Ms C has referred to the length of time this issue has been ongoing and the amount of time 
she has spent dealing with issues arising from the misinformation from TSCL. She has said 
this has been over 50 hours. I have seen no breakdown of the time she has spent, but given 
the correspondence I have seen, and the overall period of time over which the issue of what 
to do with the shareholdings has been ongoing, I have no reason to question what she has 
said.
However, I am not satisfied that TSCL is responsible for all the time she has spent dealing 
with this matter. I think that TSCL is responsible only for any costs resulting from it providing 
the wrong information up to around the time Ms C obtained advice from Which legal - in 
January 2019.As I said in my provisional decision, in its email of 27 December 2018 TSCL set out various 
options and this included the option of keeping the shareholdings in Mr Cs name. It also 
explained that as an execution-only broker it couldnt advise which option was the best 
option or of the implications of any of the options. 
It suggested that independent advice be sought and that other options it hadnt listed might 
be available. In my provisional decision I said that it referred to obtaining independent legal 
advice. I acknowledge that the email refers only to independent advice.
 
However, given we are talking about a complex estate  and the shareholdings are in large 
part why there is such complexity  I dont think it was necessary to suggest going to a 
solicitor or a probate specialist. It seems to me these would be the obvious experts to seek 
independent advice from when dealing with an estate.
Ms C has said that she did seek independent legal advice as she sought advice from Which 
legal. This wasnt something I appreciated at the time of my provisional decision as I had 
seen references to Which and Which money. In any event the fact they sought advice from 
Which legal doesnt change my findings significantly. 
From what Ms C has said advice was sought over the telephone, which I think by its nature 
would have been limited. I have seen no written advice from Which legal but this advice 
appears to have been limited to consideration of the options that TSCL put forward - Ms C 
has confirmed she was told by Which legal none of the options were suitable, she has not 
suggested that they advised on what Mr C and Ms C could do instead. And the fact we then 
have around 18 months of ongoing debate about this doesnt suggest such advice was 
provided.
Ms C argues that just because the advice was Which legal was wrong this doesnt 
invalidate the actions she and Mr C then took. I acknowledge that she and Mr C relied on 
what she had been told by Which legal. But this advice was limited to telephone advice and 
didnt tell them what they needed to do to get on with administering the estate, just that the 
options put forward by TSCL werent suitable.
Mr Cs role, and through him Ms Cs role, was the administration of the estate. Based on 
what they had been told by Which legal they werent able to move ahead with this. Simply 
going back to TSCL - which, whilst it may have had a probate department is clearly not an 
expert in the administration of estates - for it to come up with other options was unlikely to 
resolve matters.
 
Instructing solicitors or a probate specialist at this point, to advise on what Mr C needed to 
do to carry out his obligations as administrator, would have made sense. I appreciate that Mr 
C and Ms C had previously had a bad experience with the solicitor who was appointed to 
deal with probate and may also have wanted to avoid the expense of using solicitors. 
However, whilst I understand there may have been some reluctance to seek further 
professional advice this was a complex estate, largely as a result of the shareholdings. 
TSCL had already provided conflicting information to Ms C. It had also come up with various 
options to try and resolve the situation none of which, according to Which legal, were 
suitable. It had also stated clearly it couldnt advise Mr C/Ms C about the options.
I think in the circumstances Ms C/Mr C should have instructed solicitors or a probate 
specialist at this point to provide advice on what Mr C needed to do to move matters on. If they had instructed solicitors in January 2019 instead of in August 2020, as they eventually 
did, it is more likely than not that they would have been made aware in 2019 that the option 
of leaving the shareholdings in Mr Cs name put forward by TSCL was appropriate.
Even if I thought it was reasonable for Mr C and Ms C to have taken no steps to obtain 
further advice after the limited advice from Which legal, I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable to hold TSCL responsible for the ongoing debate as to what to do with the 
shareholdings past January 2019.
 
This is because TSCL had clearly set out the option of the shareholdings remaining in Mr Cs 
name, which option subsequent legal advice has confirmed was suitable. It is the incorrect 
advice from Which legal about this option not being suitable which has led to the ongoing 
issue over the shareholdings and the delay in the estate being administered. I appreciate 
that Ms C relied on want she had been told by Which legal but TSCL isnt responsible for it 
giving her the wrong advice.
Ms C has said that just because it now transpires that the original advice to put the 
shareholdings in Mr Cs name wasnt wrong doesnt mean that advice of itself was good 
advice. However, Im aware that transferring shareholdings into the name of an administrator 
or executor is one of the options open to an administrator/executor and I have been provided 
with no persuasive evidence that it was wrong in this case.
In the circumstances the period of time for which TSCL could reasonably be said to be 
responsible for any additional costs incurred by the estate is limited to the period between 
when Ms C was incorrectly told that the original advice to transfer the shareholdings into Mr 
Cs name was wrong  in December 2018  and the incorrect advice from Which legal that 
the option TSCL had put forward to simply leave the shareholdings in Mr Cs name wasnt 
suitable  in January 2019.
In addition, Mr C will have suffered some distress and inconvenience as a result of concerns 
he had as to a personal tax liability arising from the transfer of the shareholdings into his 
name. But as I said in my provisional decision, any award for that would be small. In the 
circumstances I am satisfied that the offer of £1,000 made by TSCL is more than reasonable 
to cover the likely costs of the estate over the period in question and any award to Mr C. I 
think Mr C as administrator of the estate is well placed to calculate what part of the £1,000 
should go towards costs and what amount he should receive.
Putting things right
  TSCL should pay the estate of Mr C1 the £1,000 it has offered.
My final decision
  I uphold this complaint for the reasons I have set out above and The Share Centre Limited 
must pay the estate of Mr C1 £1,000 in accordance with the offer it has made. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and the 
estate of Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman