DRN-3254611
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited overcharged her for 
damages to a car she returned at the end of the finance agreement.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
Mrs L entered into an agreement under which she agreed to pay for any damage which went 
beyond fair wear and tear. MBFS provides a booklet setting out what is deemed to be fair 
wear and tear. This is broadly in line with the British Vehicle Rental & Leasing Association 
(BVRLA) Fair Wear and Tear Guide. This service relies on the BVRLA guide regardless of 
whether the business makes use of it.
Our investigator reviewed the inspection report and photographs and concluded that the 
damage fell outside what would be regarded as fair wear and tear. She has explained this in 
some detail and I wont repeat that here. I have also reviewed the report and I am in 
agreement with its conclusions. I consider the damage to be chargeable. 
I have noted that this inspection was a second one carried out at the inspections premises 
and this was done in accordance with MBFSs procedures. Mrs L was made aware of these. 
I can understand her concern that some of the damage may have occurred after the car had 
been taken from her, but I have seen nothing that would allow me to reach that conclusion. 
MBFS made an error in recoding the mileage as it hadnt realised the car had been set to 
read kilometres, but it rectified this once it was brought to its attention. I appreciate Mrs L did 
less mileage than she had she was entitled to under the agreement. However, there is 
nothing in the agreement that requires MBFS to reduce any charges in recognition of a lower 
than expected mileage.
I appreciate Mrs L will be disappointed by this decision, but I do not consider I can uphold 
her complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman