DRN-3162410
The complaint
Mr S complained that he was mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
by Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (BoS).
What happened
Mr S applied for a mortgage in August 2000  as far as I can tell, during a meeting at a 
branch of the bank. The mortgage started in December 2000, and the PPI seems to have 
been added slightly later, in January 2001. Mr S said he didnt agree to take the PPI and 
wasnt aware it had been added to the mortgage.
The policy provided accident, sickness and unemployment cover for Mr S. The monthly 
cost was £28.75, and the monthly benefit was £474.55. If Mr S had made a successful 
claim, the policy couldve paid out for up to 24 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr S disagreed, and asked 
that it be referred to an ombudsman for review.
I issued a provisional decision in October 2021. Having reviewed all the evidence and 
information afresh, I said that I disagreed with our adjudicator, and I was minded to uphold 
this complaint. BoS replied to say it had accepted my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
BoS couldnt provide any documentation from the point of sale, other than a single page 
taken from the mortgage application. However, it did send in copies of its computer 
records of Mr Ss mortgage application, mortgage account and PPI policy. One of these 
records is headed Application Summary and shows Mr Ss details, along with those of the 
property and loan, so Im satisfied this is a summary of the mortgage application that Mr S 
made in August 2000. There is a section of this computer record headed Insurance 
Arrangements, under which there are four insurance products listed  three relate to 
buildings and contents insurance, and the fourth is mortgage repayments insurance. Each 
of these insurance products has no alongside it. From this Im satisfied that Mr S did not 
choose to take out PPI when he applied for his mortgage.
We asked BoS for an explanation of how the PPI had been sold. However, BoS has not 
been able to explain why or how the PPI was sold after the mortgage application was 
made, when the application summary clearly shows Mr S did not want it - there is no 
information about why Mr S might have changed his mind, and no evidence such as an 
application form for the policy to suggest that he did.
Overall, from the evidence I have, I am not satisfied that Mr S properly consented to the 
PPI. This is enough, in itself, for me to uphold a complaint, and as a result, I said in my 
provisional decision that my conclusion was that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. BoS 
has accepted this conclusion.
I also said in my provisional decision that I had a further concern, in that Mr S said he had 
had health problems prior to the sale of the PPI. Whilst the policy did not exclude claims for 
pre-existing medical conditions, it did include limitations on cover relating to back and 
mental health conditions, which impose greater evidential requirements when making a 
claim. Given the nature of Mr Ss health problems, I said that I thought these limitations 
wouldve been important to him, but in the absence of any information about how the PPI 
was sold, I couldnt say whether these were drawn to his attention as they shouldve been. 
However, as I have upheld the complaint for the reason shown above, I have not made a 
finding on this point.
Putting things right
BoS should put Mr S in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out the PPI. The 
policy has been cancelled, so BoS should:
Pay Mr S the amount he paid each month for the PPI;
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr S made a successful claim under the PPI policy, BoS can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires BoS to take off tax from this interest. BoS must give Mr S 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Bank of Scotland 
plc should pay him the compensation Ive described.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman