DRN-3707547
The complaint
Mr L complained that British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) unfairly declined his claim 
under his home emergency / home care policy. Mr L had representation during the 
complaint, but for ease and simplicity, Ill only refer to Mr L.
What happened
Mr L experienced an electrical fault in his home which left him without heating and lighting. 
Mr L made a claim under his homecare policy. However, Mr L was left unhappy as British 
Gas were unable to find a fault with his electrics which left him without power for a long 
period of time. 
British Gas electrician inspected the property and he stated in his professional opinion that 
the property required a full re-wire. Mr L disagreed and requested further fault testing to be 
carried out. The electrician returned and confirmed his view that the whole system was faulty 
and required a re-wire. The electrician also pointed out several pre-existing installation 
faults. British Gas decided to decline the claim under the terms and conditions, as it said a 
total re-wire wasnt covered by the policy.
Mr L appointed his own engineer who spent around 20 hours finding the fault and correcting 
it. He also upgraded the fuse box. So, Mr L wants the cost of the repairs refunded and all his 
premiums as he doesnt feel the policy was fit for purpose for his needs. He thinks British 
Gas should do more to check the policy is suitable for the policyholder.
British Gas reviewed the report provided by Mr Ls electrician but didnt change its decision 
to decline the claim. It said we believe a full re-wire of the property is required to bring the 
electrics up to current standards and to prevent any further issues. The work that has been 
undertaken by your third-party is not covered under the HomeCare policy, as the faults that 
were repaired, were pre-existing and upgrades to your system. As per the exclusion on the 
terms and conditions of the policy, page 31 - Pre-existing faults and making any 
improvements. However, British Gas did refund Mr L £74.52 which was his premium for 
2021/2 as a gesture of goodwill  but pointed out its likely future faults may also not be 
covered for the same reasons.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He thought British Gas had been fair to 
decline the claim based upon the evidence provided by its electrician as the claim wasnt 
covered by the terms and conditions. He hadnt seen evidence provided by Mr L that a full 
re-wire wasnt needed. Mr L disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
British Gas declined the claim as it said pre-existing faults and making any improvements 
are excluded from the policy. I can see the policy sets out this exclusion, so for British Gas to 
apply this exclusion it needs to have set out evidence as to why it thinks the exclusion 
should apply.
Mr L was unhappy with the outcome of British Gas first inspection of the property. Im glad 
British Gas visited a second time to make sure its assessment was a fair one. British Gas 
electrician provided a report following his visit. British Gas said in [the electricians 
professional opinion the property requires a full rewire. The report confirms what British Gas 
has said. I can also see the report points out other deficiencies in Mr Ls electrics. British 
Gas summarised these issues in its final response:
32amp radials
No earth on the metal lighting - Unsafe
Metal shrouded cable
Outside joints covered in tape - Unsafe
70% of the house runs off the one radial - This is the faulty one.
British Gas has provided some photographs to support the report provided by its electrician. 
Im not an electrician, but the photographs do suggest the wiring is old. I find the report and 
evidence provided persuasive.
Mr L wanted the costs of his own electrician covered for the work he did. British Gas said 
this wasnt covered by the policy. Mr Ls electrician did a fuse box upgrade. As the policy 
doesnt cover improvements, I think British Gas has been fair in declining this part of the 
claim. British Gas declined the remainder of the costs as it said complete rewires arent 
covered by the policy or pre-existing faults. British Gas electrician has provided evidence of 
the need of a rewire and the existence of pre-existing faults. Therefore, I think it has been 
fair in declining the claim.
Mr L has stated his own electrician managed to fix the fault and a full re-wire wasnt required. 
I dont think that fixing a single fault proves the electrics are in good working order and there 
werent pre-existing faults or the need for a re-wire. So, Id need to see evidence that 
contradicts what British Gas has said. Mr L said the fault took 20 hours to locate  I think this 
supports British Gas evidence that there were issues with the electrics. I wouldnt expect a 
fault to normally take this long to find if the electrics were generally in good order.
Ive looked for further evidence that Mr L may have. Given he had his fuse box upgraded at 
the same time of having the fault fixed, I wouldve expected an electrical installation report. 
This would normally comment on the general condition of the electrics. Unfortunately, I 
havent been provided with this report to review.
So, as I think British Gas has reached a fair conclusion based on its electricians report and 
has declined the claim in line with the policy terms and conditions. I dont uphold this 
complaint. I havent seen any other evidence that persuades me that British Gas has done 
anything wrong.
I can see as a gesture of goodwill British Gas refunded the years premium that was paid. I 
think this is reasonable in the circumstances. British Gas also paid £100 for failed call backs 
by its manager. Whilst I appreciate this wouldve been frustrating, I dont think it impacted 
British Gas decision to decline the claim, so I think the compensation is fair for the distress 
and inconvenience caused.
Mr L said he thinks the policy wasnt fit for purpose so wants all his premiums paid from the 
inception of his insurance cover. I havent seen evidence to support this. The policy terms 
are clear. I wouldnt expect British Gas to have carried out an audit of Mr Ls electrics before 
he took out the policy. I think its reasonably clear that the policy sets the expectation the 
electrics need to be in general good working order (i.e. no requirement of a rewire and no pre-existing faults).
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require British Gas Insurance 
Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman