DRN-3358288
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that East End Fair Finance Limited trading as Fair Finance (FF) provided 
him with a loan that he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In August 2020, Mr W took out a loan with FF of £500, repayable over 12 months. The APR 
was 188%, the monthly repayment amount £64.06 and the total amount repayable (if the 
loan ran to the intended term) £798.72.
According to FF, Mr W settled the loan early after making just one monthly repayment. 
In April 2021, Mr W complained to FF that it shouldnt have provided him with the loan. In 
summary, he said that FF could see his credit score and that he had taken out repeated 
loans with other providers. He said that he had been struggling financially and that the 
granting of this loan made things worse. 
FF didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, it said that it had assessed affordability by 
taking account of information about Mr Ws credit history and outstanding debt. It also said it 
had calculated that Mr W had enough disposable income to meet the loan repayments, 
given his stated income (which it verified by asking for three months worth of bank 
statements) and his stated expenditure. 
Mr W remained unhappy and referred his concerns to this Service. We asked FF for its file 
papers but after not receiving anything, an investigator here reached a view upholding the 
complaint based on the information provided by Mr W only (which included the final 
response letter and bank statements leading up to the loan). 
In summary, she said that FF ought to have known from the information it gathered before 
agreeing to lend, that Mr W was having difficulty managing his finances. The information 
showed that he had missed some payments on existing credit commitments and was 
regularly taking out short term loans. 
The investigator suggested that FF refund the interest and charges Mr W had paid and 
remove any adverse information on his credit file as a result of those interest and charges. 
FF disagreed with the outcome. In summary, it said that it didnt think Mr W had been reliant 
on credit and that the adverse credit file information was largely historical and insignificant. It 
provided us with its file of papers. 
After reviewing this information and considering what FF had said, the investigator still 
thought the complaint should be upheld, for largely the same reasons.  
As the matter couldnt be resolved, it was passed to me to decide. I shared some provisional 
thoughts with both parties. I said:
Im currently minded to reach the same overall outcome that the investigator reached  
which is to say that FF ought to have realised, based on the information it received ahead of 
agreeing to lend, that Mr W would be unlikely to be able to meet the loan repayments on a 
sustainable basis.
I note that it appears the checks FF carried out ahead of granting the loan, were centred 
around an income and expenditure check and having regard to some credit file information. 
FF also appeared to carry out a debt to income calculation. FF says it requested and then 
used three months work of bank statements to verify income. Based on this and Mr Ws 
stated expenditure, it calculated that the £64.06 monthly loan repayment was affordable.
I note that the amount being borrowed wasnt particularly large nor was the duration 
particularly long. But even taking this into account, I think the combination of the 
implausible disposable income figure derived from Mr Ws stated income and expenditure 
(around £800, when he was looking to borrow only £500) and the signs from the credit file 
information FF received about him (fairly recent financial difficulties), should have indicated 
to FF that it probably ought to take a closer look at his actual expenditure, to check that the 
loan repayments would be sustainable. But regardless, based on the information contained 
within Mr Ws bank statements, I think that FF ought to have realised that he would 
struggle to afford the new loan.
I say this because the statements show that Mr W appeared to be reliant on high cost short 
term credit to make ends meet. He had taken on new borrowing in every month leading up 
to this loan application. The statements also indicate that he was spending around 40% of 
his typical net income on loan repayments (factoring in the high cost short term credit 
repayments and what appear to be loan repayments to a family member). In addition, the 
June/July statements showed a returned direct debit payment.
Bearing in mind that the £500 was additional borrowing and not for consolidation, I consider 
that FF ought to have realised that any additional borrowing was unlikely to be sustainable. 
As FF points out, Mr W repaid the loan well within the original intended term. However, 
Mr W says this was from additional borrowing. And, bearing in mind the further difficulties 
he describes having with his finances afterward, I consider that the decision to lend did 
have an adverse impact.
With that being the case, I consider that something has gone wrong that needs to be put 
right. Given the loan was repaid shortly after it was taken out, FF should simply refund the 
interest and any charges paid by Mr W on the loan, plus 8% simple interest per annum. 
And remove any adverse information from Mr Ws credit file, in relation to those interest and 
charges.
I asked FF to let me know if it was prepared to settle the case on that basis and, if not, to re-
supply a document it had provided as part of its file, which wasnt viewable on our systems. 
FF didnt provide a response. The investigator provided a deadline of 16 August, saying that 
if a response wasnt received by then, I would proceed with the case based on what I 
already have. 
I asked Mr W to provide answers to the following questions (the answers in italics were 
provided over the telephone):
Your income was significantly higher (on the July/August statement) than in previous 
months - £2,438.50 instead of £1,588. Why was this? How often did you receive higher 
income like this?
This was overtime and wasnt regular.The bank statements indicate you were repaying a loan from a family member 
(Name). How much was the loan for and how much did you owe at the time of 
taking out the Fair Finance loan?
The loan was for £6,000 and I had around £2,000 to £2,500 still to pay.
The July/August statements show two payment to someone titled (name). What 
were these payments in relation to?
These were payments to a relative, either repaying money borrowed or towards a 
birthday gift for another relative.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on 
what I think is most likely to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Having done all of that, I uphold this complaint, for essentially the same reasons as set out in 
my provisional thoughts, which form part of this decision.
Before I explain why, I want to set out my role as an ombudsman. It isnt to address every 
single point thats been made to date. Instead, its to decide whats fair and reasonable 
given the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, Im only going to refer to 
what I think are the most salient points when I set out my conclusions and my reasons for 
reaching them. But, having read all of the submissions from both sides in full, I will continue 
to keep in mind all of the points that have been made, insofar as they relate to this 
complaint, when doing that.
Under the relevant regulatory framework (the Consumer Credit Sourcebook  CONC), FF 
was obliged to lend responsibly. This meant that it had to reasonably assess whether Mr W 
could afford to meet the loan repayments in a sustainable way over the term of the loan in 
question.
CONC didnt specify what level of detail such an assessment might require  nor did it set 
out how such an assessment needed to be carried out in practice. Instead, it said that the 
necessary level of detail when carrying out a requisite assessment would depend on the 
relevant factors, such as the nature of the lending in question (e.g. size of loan, duration, 
total cost etc) as well as the applicants circumstances. 
CONC defines the notion of sustainably repaying debt as being able to meet the repayments 
of a credit agreement without undue difficulty. And that includes being able to make 
repayments on time and without taking on additional borrowing to do so while also meeting 
other reasonable commitments.
I set out in my provisional thoughts that, notwithstanding the modest loan amount and 
duration. I thought FF probably needed to go further than it did to check Mr W could afford to 
repay the loan. This was due to Mr Ws credit file indicating recent financial difficulties and, in 
conjunction with this, the incongruous nature of his declared disposable income. 
I went on to say that, regardless, FF ought to have realised from the bank statement 
information it requested and that was supplied by Mr W, that he would be unlikely to be able to meet the loan repayments on a sustainable basis. This was mainly due to the statements 
indicating a reliance on credit and that Mr W was using a significant proportion of his typical 
net income, on loan repayments. 
Nothing Mr W has said in response to my questions alters this analysis. Given that FF hasnt 
provided anything further in response to my provisional thoughts, I see no reason to depart 
from them.
Given the difficulty Mr W says he continued to have managing his finances after the loan 
was granted, I think the lending did serve to make things worse. As such, I think something 
went wrong that needs to be put right. 
Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct that business 
as far as its reasonably practicable  to put the complainant in the position they would be in
now if the mistakes it made hadnt happened.
In this case, that would mean putting Mr W in the position he would now be in if he hadnt
been granted the loan.
However, this isnt straightforward when the complaint is about unaffordable lending
because it isnt always possible to undo whats already been done. And with that being the 
case here, I have to consider if theres another way of putting the matter right fairly and 
reasonably given the circumstances of this complaint.
So, heres what FF needs to do:
1. Refund all the interest and charges Mr W has paid to date.
2. It seems the loan was settled shortly after it was taken out. However, if the borrowing is 
still in place, reduce any outstanding capital balance by the amount calculated at step 1.
3. If, after Step 2, any outstanding capital balance remains, ensure that it isnt subject to 
any historic or future interest and/or charges. And agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Mr W. But, if Step 2 leads to a positive balance, the amount in question should be 
given back to Mr W and 8% simple interest should be added to the surplus.
4. Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ws credit file as a result of the interest 
and charges. 
HM Revenue & Customs may require the business to take off tax from this interest. If thats the case, the Business must
provide a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if one is requested.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint about East End Fair Finance Limited  
trading as Fair Finance and I direct it to do what Ive set out above under putting things 
right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman