DRN-1936785
 
The complaint
Mr R complains about how American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) dealt with 
his chargeback.
What happened
Mr R bought flooring in June 2019 for about £1,884 which he says was defective. He says 
he called AESEL in around July 2019 and it told him to raise a complaint with a business I 
will call "P" that handled the purchase. Mr R says he wasn't told about the possibility of 
making a chargeback or a claim under S75 of the Consumer Credit Act. He says he did ask 
AESEL to raise a chargeback on 4 November 2019 but was later told this was outside the 
120 day time limit for doing so. And was told a chargeback couldn't be proceeded with. Mr R 
says he didn't know there was a problem with the flooring until 14 July 2019 and so was 
within the time limit when he brought his complaint to AESEL.
AESEL says the chargeback request was made more than 120 days after the date of 
purchase and says it would have been right to advise Mr R to contact P. It says Mr R raised 
a complaint with P at the end of June 2019 in any event, and says it doesn't have a record of 
a call to it by Mr R in June or July 2019.
Mr R brought his complaint to us but our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator 
explained the chargeback process and didn't think there was evidence of a record of the call 
in or around July 2019. The investigator thought the chargeback was made outside of the 
time limits and thought it likely Mr R had contacted AESEL at the end of June 2019 as that is 
what he told us on his complaint form.
Mr R doesn't accept that view and says he first contacted P about an issue about the 
delivery cost and not about the problem with the flooring. He says he was in time for making 
a chargeback and would like the cost refunded as well as £1,000 compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the 
overall view that AESEL has dealt fairly with this complaint. I appreciate how strongly Mr R 
feels about this complaint and that he will be disappointed by my decision. No doubt he will 
consider alternative ways of pursuing this complaint.
The investigator has explained that a chargeback isn't a legal right unlike for example a S75 
claim. And that the chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme run by the card providers with 
no guarantee of success. We normally expect a business to raise a chargeback if there is a 
reasonable prospect of success.
AESEL has told us the chargeback request was made on 4 November 2019 which is more 
than 120 days after the date the flooring was bought. So I'm satisfied that it didn't make a mistake or act unfairly by telling Mr R that it couldn't continue with the chargeback. And I 
don't think it matters under AESEL's rules that Mr R disputes the date he was aware of the 
potential problem with the flooring, as it has told us its rules are that a chargeback has to be 
made within 120 days of purchase. In any event I can see that Mr R told AESEL the date of 
purchase was at the end of June 2019 but I can't see that he told it the date he became 
aware of the problem when he first made the chargeback request on 4 November 2019. 
I appreciate that Mr R questions why he wasn't told about his chargeback rights when he 
called AESEL in around July 2019. There is no call recording available and so in those 
circumstances it is difficult to be sure what was said. But I don't think AESEL acted unfairly if 
it told Mr R to contact P to see if the dispute could be resolved and I don't think it could know 
if Mr R was aware of the possibility of a chargeback or a claim under S75 or that it was 
under any obligation to advise him about them.
Overall I'm satisfied that the chargeback was made more than 120 days after the date of 
purchase, and so I don't think AESEL could have raised it outside of those time limits. I can 
see that it is processing Mr R's claim under S75 but that is not something I can fairly 
comment on in this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman