DRN-2723786
The complaint
Mrs S complains Lloyds Bank PLC failed to offer her a new fixed interest rate product 
in 2014 and shes had to pay a higher rate of interest than she ought to have paid for 
many years.
 
What happened
In April 2009 Mrs S took out a capital and repayment mortgage for around £230,000 
with Lloyds with a term of 30 years.
She had an initial fixed interest rate product for five years, which was due to finish at the 
end of April 2014.
Mrs S contacted Lloyds a few times in 2014 when her product was coming to an end to 
see if she could get a new one. She says Lloyds told her she could only get a new rate if 
she agreed to add her husband to the mortgage because she wouldnt be eligible 
otherwise due to affordability. Since Mrs S didnt want to add her husband to the 
mortgage, she stayed on Lloyds standard variable rate (SVR) from May 2014.
In 2019 Mrs S borrowed an additional £25,000 and the mortgage was transferred into 
the joint names of her and her husband. They were able to access a fixed interest rate 
product at the time.
Mrs S said she found out from an independent financial adviser at around the time she 
was re-mortgaging that what Lloyds had told her in 2014 was wrong and there was no 
reason why she couldnt have had a new product when the old one expired.
Mrs S complained to Lloyds. It couldnt find any record of Mrs S ever having applied for a 
new rate in 2014 and didnt uphold her complaint but offered her £150 compensation for 
any incorrect information it may have given her as a goodwill gesture. Since Mrs S wasnt 
happy with Lloyds response, she brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator initially upheld Mrs Ss complaint but after further investigation came to 
the view that, on balance, Lloyds hadnt done anything wrong. Mrs S didnt accept our 
investigators revised opinion so the complaint was passed to me for a decision. I 
recently issued a provisional decision an extract of which follows:
From her conversations with this service and the information shes provided, I think Mrs S 
has a very clear recollection of what happened. And I think its important to note Lloyds 
has confirmed its records, which are surprisingly limited, dont appear to show all of the 
contact they had from Mrs S. So, on balance Im persuaded the conversations Mrs S had 
with Lloyds took place as shes described.
Mrs S says she rang Lloyds a few times in 2014 to ask about getting a new fixed rate 
product before her initial product was due to end in May. Ive listened to two calls Lloyds 
has been able to locate, which took place on 24 April 2014.
On the second call, which I understand from Lloyds was probably with its product transfer 
team, Mrs S is told that in asking for a new interest rate product, she is asking for a review 
of her mortgage. She would need to go through a full advice process when details of her 
needs and circumstances would be considered, as a fixed rate product would tie her into 
the mortgage. Shes told this would take an hour either over the phone or at a meeting in 
branch. Mrs S says shed be too busy for that and is told that, alternatively, she could 
apply on line. Her application might be accepted in that way, but if it wasnt, shed have to 
go through a mortgage adviser.
I havent seen any evidence Mrs S made an on-line application. Shes explained that 
was because Lloyds told her an application, made on her own, wouldnt succeed.
Mrs S says she and her husband had made some long-term financial plans. Her husband 
and her father had hoped to be able to get a mortgage to buy a property to do up and 
either let or sell on with a view to making some money as a way of improving Mr and Mrs 
Ss overall financial situation. Mrs S didnt want her husband to be added to the mortgage 
on their home in case it stopped him getting another mortgage and affected their plans.
Mrs S said she told Lloyds, when she was asking about a product switch in April 2014, 
she was about to be made redundant at the end of the month, but she was planning to set 
up her own business. Lloyds told her shed be unable to afford her existing mortgage and 
so wouldnt be eligible for a new rate without adding her husband to the mortgage. For the 
reasons Ive mentioned, she didnt want to do that. So, she didnt take any more action at 
the time. Mrs S said she didnt try and re-mortgage elsewhere as she thought shed get 
the same response. I think it was reasonable for her to think that in the circumstances 
given what Lloyds had told her about affordability.
The mortgage reverted to the standard variable rate (SVR) from the beginning of May 
2014 making it more expensive than it had been and, Mrs S says, ruining their future 
plans.
During 2015 and 2016 Mrs S made some enquiries about borrowing an additional sum 
to make some home improvements. Ive listened to three calls from 2016 and can see 
Mrs S had considerable difficulty in speaking to Lloyds about this  a mortgage adviser 
never seemed to be available and, from what Ive seen, she never had a call back.
On one of the calls Mrs S told the Lloyds staff member she was speaking to shed tried 
around ten times to speak to someone  he tried for almost 40 minutes to get through to 
an adviser for Mrs S to speak to. Eventually he told her hed arranged for a manager to 
ring her back within an hour. I havent seen any record that call took place and Lloyds has 
been unable to find any other calls.
Mrs S has explained she and her husband didnt really want to spend money on 
improving their home but felt this was their only option given their other plans couldnt 
progress. After shed tried to look into the additional borrowing in 2016, she didnt then 
contact Lloyds about it again until 2018.
Lloyds has been able to find only one call from 2018 where, it says, Mrs S asks to apply 
for the additional borrowing and discusses that with a mortgage adviser. Mrs S says she 
also discussed getting a product transfer with Lloyds again in 2018 but was once again 
told she couldnt afford it.
I can understand that the difficulty Mrs S had in speaking to someone about the additional 
borrowing and the reluctance she felt at having to go down that route meant it took some time for her to go ahead with the additional borrowing. Mrs S says the decision to do so 
eventually was a difficult one. Shes described what happened as having ruined her and 
her husbands whole financial prospects and the opportunity to better themselves. So, it 
has clearly had a significant impact on her emotionally as well as affecting her financial 
planning.
Lloyds notes from June 2019 record that the information Mrs S says shed been given 
about a product transfer in 2018 was wrong. Mrs S was eligible, and Lloyds offered, in 
2019, to process an application for a new product which she declined at that time. She 
and her husband decided to go ahead with the additional borrowing at that time instead. 
Lloyds records suggest Mrs S wanted to be reimbursed then for the additional interest 
shed been paying because a product transfer hadnt gone ahead in 2018  although 
Mrs Ss complaint here relates to the earlier years as well.
Lloyds has explained to us that the application process for a new interest rate product 
would have involved a mortgage adviser reviewing Mrs S s circumstances to allow them 
to recommend the product best suited to Mrs Ss needs. It says its unable to say if her 
application would have been successful since it doesnt know what her circumstances 
were at the time. But it says its unable to see any reason now why an application would 
have been declined.
Under the relevant mortgage rules, whilst Lloyds would have been entitled to review 
Mrs Ss financial circumstances if shed gone ahead with an application for a new interest 
rate product in 2014, I dont think it would have been fair for it to have declined it on the 
basis of affordability in Mrs Ss circumstances.
Mrs S wasnt seeking to make any changes to her mortgage in a way that was material to 
affordability. A fixed rate product is likely to have lowered her monthly mortgage 
payments and made it cheaper for her which would have helped given the change that 
was about to happen to her employment situation. Mrs S hadnt had any difficulty in 
making her mortgage payments to that point (or since) and there were no arrears on her 
account. The rules didnt require Lloyds to carry out a detailed review of her mortgage  it 
could have dealt with an application on an execution only basis.
I think, based on the information Mrs S was given in 2014 she was entitled to think her 
application was unlikely to succeed so I think its reasonable she didnt go ahead and 
make one. She was given the same information again in 2018. Even if shed approached 
Lloyds in the meantime to ask again about a product switch, I think its likely she would 
have been given the same information. From her experience of dealing with Lloyds during 
that time to discuss the alternative of borrowing more for home improvements, its 
possible she wouldnt have managed to have the conversation in any event.
Bearing everything in mind, I think Lloyds has treated Mrs S unfairly. To put things right 
I think Lloyds should put Mrs S in the position she would have been in had she applied 
successfully for a new product. To do that Lloyds should provide Mrs S with details of 
products she would have been eligible for to fix her interest for five years from 1 May 
2014 and allow her to choose which of those products she would have taken.
Lloyds should then either rework Mrs Ss mortgage account to reduce the outstanding 
balance by the amount of interest shes overpaid or pay to Mrs S the amount shes 
overpaid with interest  whichever Mrs S prefers.
I think Lloyds should also pay Mrs S compensation of £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience shes suffered as a result of the impact of Lloyds actions on her 
financial planning.Developments
Mrs S has responded to my provisional decision and reminded me that Lloyds 
actions meant she and her husband  and wider family - werent able to put their 
financial plans into operation and lost the opportunity to invest. 
Mrs S also says it cost her and her husband several hundreds of pounds to add her 
husband to the mortgage, which they didnt want to do at all.
So, although Mrs S is happy with the redress Ive proposed, she doesnt think it goes 
far enough. Mrs S argues that to put her back in the position she would have been in, 
but for Lloyds actions, her husband would be free to get a separate mortgage to 
invest in their future and they wouldnt have incurred the costs of adding him to the 
mortgage.
Lloyds hasnt commented on my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about what Mrs S has said in response to my provisional decision.
Firstly, although I accept Mrs Ss evidence about how she and her husband planned to 
organise their financial affairs, it isnt possible to foresee whether or not those plans would 
have been put into effect or  because of that - to know what the financial or other impact of 
Lloyds actions might have been on Mrs S. I dont think it would be fair to speculate on that 
or appropriate to make any kind of award to Mrs S in relation to it. 
Secondly, this is Mrs Ss complaint so I cant consider any costs her husband may have 
incurred, although from what Mrs S has said about their joint financial planning, I 
acknowledge they are likely to have shared the costs relating to their borrowing. I havent 
seen any evidence of the costs Mrs S incurred in adding her husband to the mortgage. I 
think Mrs S is likely to have incurred costs similar to those she incurred in taking out the joint 
mortgage if Mr S had gone ahead and taken out his own separate mortgage. So, I cant say 
Mrs S has incurred costs - over and above those she and her husband were likely to incur in 
going ahead with their investment plans - as a result of taking the joint mortgage with Lloyds.
Bearing everything in mind, I dont find any reason to change the conclusions I reached in 
my provisional decision. So, I uphold Mrs Ss complaint for the reasons I explained in my 
provisional decision and think Lloyds should put things right on the basis I set out below. 
Putting things right
To put things right I think Lloyds should provide Mrs S with details of products she 
would have been eligible for to fix her interest for five years from 1 May 2014 and allow 
her to choose which of those products she would have taken.
Lloyds should then either rework Mrs Ss mortgage account to reduce the outstanding 
balance by the amount of interest shes overpaid or pay to Mrs S the amount shes 
overpaid with interest  whichever Mrs S prefers.
I think Lloyds should also pay Mrs S compensation of £300 for the distress and inconvenience shes suffered as a result of the impact of Lloyds actions on her 
financial planning.
My final decision
I direct Lloyds Bank PLC to 
(1)  provide Mrs S with details of products she would have been eligible for to fix 
her interest rate for five years from 1 May 2014 and allow her to choose which 
of those products she would have taken;
(2) then either rework Mrs Ss mortgage account to reduce the outstanding balance 
by the amount of interest shes overpaid or pay to Mrs S the amount shes 
overpaid with interest at the rate of 8% simple a year  whichever Mrs S prefers; 
and
(3) pay Mrs S compensation of £300 for distress and inconvenience
If Lloyds Bank PLC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs S how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mrs S a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman