DRN-2104855
The complaint
Mr P complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited refused to let him reject a faulty 
car.
What happened
On 30 May 2019 Mr P acquired a second-hand car costing £6,000 funded by a deposit of 
£1,000 and the balance with a conditional sale agreement. It was some six years old and 
had covered 54,077 miles. The car was sold by a main dealer, which I will call T, and came 
with an assured-used status. 
Mr P says he encountered problems from the outset and has listed the following faults:
Major Engine Failure
Brake Pads
Brake Discs
Clutch
Spark Plugs
Ignition Coil
Battery
Aux Belt
Rear Right Tyre
Boot Seal
On 26 June Mr P took the car to a third-party garage I will call D and it sent him an email 
which reads: the inner brake pads are sticking in the housing, the brake discs need 
replacing as they are metal to metal. There is no broken sensor, its the ABS sensor (melted) 
in part of the discs, thats why they are so expensive. With very limited breaking ability and a 
slipping clutch, I advise it should not be driven until essential repairs are completed.
 Mr P says he took the car back to T immediately, though I am not aware of the precise date, 
and requested a repair, but it delayed booking the car in due to a shortage of staff. He says it 
refused to accept the car was faulty and he obtained three independent reports. He says that 
T only then repaired three out of the 10 faults.
Mr P contacted Clydesdale on 2 September 2019 and explained that the car had suffered 
from several faults and had been recently towed back to the dealer. He has submitted a 
copy of a letter date 9 September to Clydesdale in which he asked that he be allowed to 
reject the car. He said he was entitled to automatic rejection even through 30 days had 
passed due to him not having 30 days use of it.
Clydesdale says its records show that Mr P contacted it on 2 September 2019 and sent an 
email on 16 September asking that he be allowed to reject the car. It arranged for the car to 
undergo an independent inspection. The inspector examined the car on 2 October 2019 and 
concluded that the repairs had been successful and the car was fault free. He said the car 
couldnt be driven due to it having no number plates or fuel so he couldnt road test it. 
Clydesdale didnt consider rejection was merited and offered Mr P £50 for the distress and 
inconvenience he had suffered. Mr P brought his complaint to this service where it was 
considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He said that the 
issues appeared to be due to wear and tear and the independent inspection showed they 
had been repaired. 
Mr P didnt agree and said the car was low mileage one owner car with a full-service history 
sold to him by a large franchised dealership. It had been sold to him at a premium price with 
an assured-used status which give him reason to believe it was in reasonable working order. 
He didnt consider that a reasonable person would expect the car to suffer from dangerous 
wear and tear including an undiagnosed engine noise that resulted in total engine failure 
within a few weeks.
He said that he had reported many faults in the first week and he was entitled to reject it. Mr 
P said the bank failed to protect him and its investigation process was neither timely nor 
helpful. He believed T had used delaying tactics to avoid its responsibilities and had been 
very inefficient. He had submitted his notice of rejection within 30 days the car was available 
to him. He referred to three independent garages confirming the faults. T had not properly 
addressed these faults having reluctantly inspected the car on four occasions. 
The complaint was taken over by a new investigator who asked Mr P for copies of the 
independent reports he had referred to and any job cards or details of visits to T. Mr P 
confirmed he had these reports but didnt supply them. He said T had replaced the battery 
on one occasion after the car had had to be recovered three times. T had agreed to replace 
the rear disc pads on 6 August 2019, but then the car had a major engine failure. He had not 
been provided with details of the work done by either T or another garage.
A second view was issued by the new investigator who noted the email from the local 
garage and the report from T which had only one item marked as red, the battery and other 
items, the offside rear tyre, aux belt, rear pads, brake shoes/drums (front discs) and brake 
discs (rear brake discs) were recorded as amber. He said T did eventually agree to minor 
brake repairs, replacing the rear discs and the battery on the car.
He saw no reference to a clutch problem although Mr P had provided an estimate to have it 
replaced date 12 August 2019. He could see no evidence of a major engine failure. He also 
noted Mr P was kept mobile with a courtesy car whenever his was in for repair. The 
independent report had confirmed there were no faults and any repairs which had been 
made were satisfactory.
Our investigator noted that despite the general reassurance provided by T and its 75-point 
pre-sale check the car was six years old wear and tear was to be expected. It had passed its 
MOT on 1 May 2019 and by October 2019 Mr P had been able to cover 2,379 miles. Overall, 
he didnt consider he could recommend the complaint be upheld.
Mr P didnt agree and said his right to reject had not been considered. He maintained the car 
was unsatisfactory and not fit for purpose when he acquired it.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where necessary and / or appropriate, I reach my decision on a balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence 
and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point raised by Mr P or Clydesdale, its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in 
order to reach what I think is the right outcome. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the conditional sale agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Clydesdale is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible 
for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
I asked Mr P for copies of any independent reports he had obtained and a detailed timeline 
of events. No reply was received. I also asked Clydesdale if it had received the letter Mr P 
sent on 9 September 2019. It said it had no record of receiving it. The bank said that the loan 
had been repaid in August 2020 after a hearing in the civil court. 
Having given consideration to the evidence and the arguments put forward by both parties I 
do not consider I can uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr P has made extensive legal arguments in pursuit of his complaint for which I thank him, 
but I lack the supporting evidence to allow me to uphold it. I have the date he acquired the 
car and the date he sent a letter rejecting it which was more than 30 days after acquisition. I 
have taken note that this letter wasnt received by the bank. However, leaving that to one 
side I have no details of when the car was unavailable to Mr P in the first few months which 
would allow me to say whether or not he was in the window of the short term right to reject.
Without this I cannot say if the rejection fell within 30 days. I have noted Mr Ps rejection 
document sent by email on 16 September requesting he be allowed to reject the car, but 
which doesnt refer to his previous letter date 9 September asking for the same thing.  Nor can I say there was a fault which merited rejection. Mr P has told this service about 
various issues, but there is not the evidence to support his claims. I have seen an email from 
a local garage about the brakes, but that contains little detail and doesnt set out the cause 
of the fault. Set against that is the MOT carried out in May 2019 and the report by T. As such 
I cannot say that the email is strong enough to establish there was a fault at the point of sale 
that would merit rejection.
Mr P has mentioned other independent reports, but despite being asked on several 
occasions he has not let this service see them. That is regrettable, but I have to base my 
decision on the evidence as presented to me. 
The only clearly independent report I have seen is the one Clydesdale commissioned. I 
would explain that the fact it was commissioned by Clydesdale does not undermine the 
objectivity of the inspector. He was employed by a reputable company specialising in 
examining and reporting on cars.
His conclusion is that the car had been repaired and was in a fit state. He wrote: We would 
conclude based on the visible evidence we consider the vehicle does appear to have been 
repaired successfully, although we were unable to road test the vehicle at the time of our 
inspection as no number plates were fitted and there was no fuel within the vehicle.
I appreciate he didnt test the car while being driven, but I dont consider he or the bank can 
be held responsible for that. It was open to Mr P to ensure that it was ready to be driven.
In summary, I cannot say that the car was faulty at the point of sale to such an extent that 
would merit rejection and I cannot say that the rejection request was made within 30 days. 
The car was repaired by T and it was established that it was fit for purpose by the 
independent inspector. Therefore, on balance, I do not consider I can uphold this complaint. 
I would add that the bank has paid Mr P £50 which I consider to be reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont think Clydesdale Financial Services Limited needs to do 
anything to settle the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman