DRN-3052123
The complaint
Mr K complains John Lewis Financial Services Limited (John Lewis) delayed in 
communicating with him about a balance on his credit card account.
What happened
Mr K brought his complaint to us after hed been contacted by John Lewis in January 2021 
informing him his debt had been passed to a third party debt collection agency to manage. 
He told us hed tried to call John Lewis a number of times after this but wasnt able to 
discuss the matter with them as they couldnt verify his identity. Mr K said hed had an old 
account with John Lewis a number of years ago and couldnt remember if there was a 
balance. He made a complaint thorough the debt collection agency and in March 2021 
received a cheque from John Lewis who told him they were cancelling some historic fees 
and interest. He contacted us after John Lewiss Final Response Letter (FRL) in June 
2021. He wanted to know why John Lewis were asking for money after so many years had 
passed, how the balance had accrued, why it had been left for so long and the current status 
of his account.
John Lewis told us their position had changed since the FRL. They said as Mr K had 
contacted them in 2016 and 2017 to look at a repayment plan, they thought he was aware 
he owed a debt to them. They said in 2018 a final demand was issued and they and passed 
the matter to their internal debt collector. There was a delay in completing the subsequent 
sale of the debt to the third party debt collection agency and they were happy to offer Mr K 
£100 compensation to reflect this delay. 
In respect of the security questions Mr K was asked when he called after receiving the letter 
John Lewis said it appeared Mr K may have changed address since his debt was passed on 
and, if he had, that would explain the issues with identifying him. They asked for Mr K to 
confirm his current address and they would make sure this was noted on his account. In 
respect of the verification process John Lewis said they were able to ask any suitable 
questions to assure them they were speaking to the correct person and saw no issue in 
asking the question they did of Mr K in those recent calls. But they did think their FRL wasnt 
a thorough response, so were happy to offer a further £50 to reflect this, taking their total 
offer to £150. 
Our investigator didnt uphold complaint. She thought from the contact notes, call recordings 
and letters sent it was reasonable to say Mr K was aware there was a debt outstanding. As 
John Lewis didnt hear from Mr K the investigator thought their referral of his account to 
collections was reasonable. And she didnt think the time that passed - since Mr K last had 
contact with John Lewis and the approach of the third party debt collection agency - meant 
that the debt should be written off as Mr K requested. She thought the £150 John Lewis had 
offered for the trouble and upset caused by their delay in actioning the collections activity on 
his account was a fair way for them to resolve the complaint. So, she didnt think they 
needed to do anything more.
Mr K didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision. He thought the complaint shouldnt have come this far and told us he still didnt 
know the balance outstanding and was unclear what the monies paid to him by John Lewis 
represented. He was concerned that once the balance was known he would have difficulties 
repaying it on his current income.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator has given a full summary of the background to this complaint in her view. 
So, I shant repeat that here. Im afraid theres not a great deal I can add to what shes 
already told Mr K. I think shes covered most points quite clearly and I agree with her 
analysis and conclusions for these reasons:
Mr K now accepts theres a balance owed on the account but if he didnt, the 
statements and the call recordings satisfy me the account existed and had a balance 
outstanding;
John Lewis have recently confirmed in writing to Mr K the correct amount of the 
outstanding balance;
John Lewis are entitled to peruse the outstanding balance so I cant say they were 
unreasonable in referring the matter to collections;
John Lewis accept that between 2018 - when they issued a demand for payment and 
passed it to their internal debt collector - and the debt being sold to a third party debt 
collection agency there was a delay;
John Lewis accept their initial FRL - advising Mr K to call their HRS team and telling 
him they couldnt investigate further as the account was with a third party - wasnt a 
thorough response;
Ive listened to all the call recordings John Lewis have sent. I cant say theyve done 
anything wrong in asking the questions they have in trying to identify Mr K when he 
called them.
I understand it must have been frustrating for Mr K not to be able to get to the bottom of this 
when he called John Lewis after receiving their letter in early 2021. And its hard to disagree 
with the observation that, had he not brought the matter to this service, he may well still have 
been going between John Lewis and the external debt collection agency trying to obtain 
information to resolve the matter. 
But John Lewis have now recalled the debt and confirmed the balance. Theyve offered £100 
compensation for the delays in the process of referring the matter to an external debt 
collector. Theyve also offered a further £50 to reflect that their FRL wasnt a thorough 
response. And I think thats a reasonable response to the failings here. I know Mr K felt a higher amount should be paid for the inconvenience caused here and that 
the delay in pursuing the matter meant that the debt should be written off. But I dont agree. 
Mr Ks had the benefit of the money at the time he was using this account. I think the 
compensation offered by John Lewis is reasonable reflection of the inconvenience here and 
the sort of award Id have suggested had it not already been offered. And none of the failings 
here justifies writing off the balance legally due under the terms and conditions of this 
account. 
I appreciate Mr K feels strongly about whats happened. But my decision brings to an end 
what we - in trying to resolve his dispute with John Lewis informally - can do for him. Ill leave 
it to Mr K to accept the £150 compensation John Lewis have offered if he wishes to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman