DRN-2943482
The complaint
Mr F complains Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money failed to automatically update 
his destination account details on his savings account.
What happened
Mr F arranged a current account switch between Bank T and Bank N. Initially Mr F thought 
the switch completed as hed anticipated however he later discovered that Virgin Money 
hadnt automatically updated his details to his new account with Bank N as he had expected.
Virgin Money say that the details wouldnt automatically update, and Mr F would need to 
amend these details himself as he has an online savings account. Virgin Money wrote to Mr 
F to request he update his details. Mr F updated his account but during the process he had 
to enter a One Time Passcode (OTP) on numerous occasions. Mr F felt this was excessive 
and Virgin Money over complicated the process relating to Strong Customer Authentication 
(SCA). 
Unhappy with this Mr F complained to Virgin Money about the failure to automatically update 
his details and the process he was made to go through to update them himself. Virgin Money 
considered the complaint and didnt uphold it, because it said it hadnt done anything wrong. 
Mr F remained unhappy so referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint either. She felt Virgin Money hadnt done anything wrong in not 
automatically updating his details and its implementation of the SCA was in line with the 
rules set out by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
Mr F disagreed with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision. 
He said Virgin Money had ignored the notification sent by Bank N and it shouldnt be allowed 
to do nothing as this would defeat the purpose of the switch guarantee. He also feels that 
Virgin Money hasnt complied with the FCA regulations on SCA. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of all the evidence and information has led me to reach the same 
overall conclusions as the investigator for largely the same reasons. Ill explain why. 
Ive considered if Virgin Money has acted unreasonably in the way it dealt with Mr Fs 
account after his account switch to Bank N. I must be clear here that the switch guarantee 
applies to switches between current accounts, but here Mr Fs account with Virgin Money is 
a savings account so the responsibilities on Virgin Money are different to what Id expect had 
they been part of the account switch.
One of the guarantees offered by Bank N is will arrange for payments accidentally made 
to your old account to be automatically redirected to your new account.  I can see this 
was done and I must consider this is a guarantee offered by Bank N as part of the switch 
and not something that Virgin Money is expected to do. The terms go on to say We will 
also contact the sender and give them your new account details.  And in the frequently 
asked/common questions it says Some organisations may contact you directly to confirm 
your details have changed.
Having considered this information, I dont think Virgin Money acted unreasonably in not 
automatically updating Mr Fs details and requiring Mr F to securely update them via his 
online account to confirm the change. And I cant see that the current account switch terms 
require that Virgin Money must automatically update these details. 
It is down to each firm to decide how it operates its accounts so whilst other providers may 
have automatically updated the details, thats their individual decision to do so and not 
something required of them as part of the account switch. And as Virgin Money wasnt part 
of the account switch itself it wouldnt be bound by any requirements that the account switch 
places on the switching banks. 
Mr F held online savings accounts and Virgin Money has told us it requires any amendments 
on these accounts to be made online. What Id expect is Virgin Money to contact Mr F to let 
him know it had been informed of the new account and what steps Mr F needed to take to 
update the new account details. Virgin Money sent Mr F a letter on 5 January 2021 to 
confirm what he needed to do, so its done what Id expect, and I dont think it did anything 
wrong here. 
Ive also considered Virgin Moneys application of the SCA. I appreciate that Mr F found it 
frustrating having to re-enter OTP a number of times to update his details. But again, it is 
Virgin Moneys decision on how to implement the rules set out by the FCA. The FCA said 
We expect firms to develop SCA solutions that work for all groups of customers. I think the 
development and implementation of the rules would be down to Virgin Money and what it 
thinks works for its customers. 
Mr F says he can sometimes struggle with his mobile signal so felt using his mobile for the 
OTP could cause him issues. But if Mr F was struggling with the use of the OTP on his 
mobile, he could have spoken to Virgin Money to use another method or find a solution so I 
cant say the implementation of the rules were unfair or unreasonable. I must also be clear 
that the role of this service isnt to regulate or punish businesses for the way they implement 
the rules, thats the role of the FCA. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr F holds a different view and will be disappointed with my decision, I 
dont think that its fair in these circumstances to say Virgin Money did anything wrong in this 
complaint.
 
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint about Clydesdale Bank 
Plc trading as Virgin Money.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman