DRN-1617915
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Ageas Insurance Limited has refused to pay his cosmetic motor 
damage insurance claim following an incident.
What happened
Mr W's car was unfortunately damaged when it was reversed into a wall. There 
were scuffs/scratches to three areas of the bumper. The majority of the damage was in one 
area on the left of the bumper, although there was some further damage towards the middle 
as well.
Ageas declined to pay Mr W's claim as it says the three areas of damage in total, from 
furthermost end to end, exceeded the maximum damaged area diameter of 30cm. Mr W 
disagrees. He says each area of damage should be measured separately and the 
undamaged area in between shouldn't be included. In those circumstances he says the 
damage wouldn't exceed 30cm.
The policy wording defines that 'Minor Cosmetic Damage' is covered as follows:
'Minor Cosmetic Damage: a Chip, Minor Dent, Light Scratch and/or Scuffed Bumper 
caused by a single incident, where the total damaged area is no larger than 30cm in 
diameter or 3mm in depth and, in the case of a Chip(s) is no larger than 1.5 cm in diameter 
or 3mm in depth. Any one claim is limited to one Minor Cosmetic Damage repair, unless in 
the case of multiple damages caused by a single incident where the total end to end size of 
the furthermost points of the combined damaged area is no larger than 30cm in diameter or 
3 mm in depth. [my emphasis] Any repairs which are greater than these limits or are 
estimated to exceed four hours to complete will not be considered to be Minor Cosmetic 
Damage.'
Our investigator didn't recommend that Mr W's complaint be upheld because the damaged 
area was greater than the maximum allowed. Mr W requested an ombudsman's decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I'm sorry, but Mr W will be disappointed to hear that I agree with our investigator. So I won't 
be upholding his complaint. I'll explain why.
I completely appreciate why Mr W is unhappy with the decision made on his claim. He sees 
the damage as being minor and cosmetic, which in ordinary terms it is. But I'm afraid that I 
think that in the circumstances of his complaint, the terms of the policy clearly exclude the 
damage caused. That's because, from furthermost end to end, the entire area of bumper 
damaged is longer than 30cm.
The damage covered by these policies can often be contentious. And I can understand Mr 
W's frustration that his claim was rejected. But these policies are intended more to cover very small areas such as stone chips, minor car park bumper scuffs, etc. Mr W's incident 
sadly involved a wall. And the damage, whilst not significant, did spread across a much 
larger area of the bumper than the 30cm maximum allowed under the policy. That's 
unfortunately the sort of thing that a customer would have to claim for on their 
comprehensive motor insurance policy, if it was economic to do so, rather than a cosmetic 
repair policy such as this.
I know that Mr W has referred me to another decision from one of our ombudsmen that he 
thinks is very similar. In that decision the ombudsman found some almost identical wording 
in another insurer's policy to be ambiguous when applied to the circumstances of that case. 
When looking at individual complaints at this service, we look at the very specific facts of 
each case. And in that other case, the situation looks to have been different to those of Mr 
W's incident - there were a number of damaged areas, in between which there was an 
undamaged light.
In Mr W's case it was one specific area of the car, namely the bumper. And the damage was 
clearly across an area that, when measured in a straight and direct line, was more than 
30cm across. So I'm afraid that I don't think the wording of the policy, when applied to the 
circumstances of Mr W's incident, is ambiguous. It's therefore my finding that Ageas didn't 
act unreasonably when declining to cover the damage caused to Mr W's car.
My final decision
It's my final decision not to uphold this complaint and I don't require that Ageas Insurance 
Limited needs to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2020.
James Kennard
Ombudsman