DRN-2786149
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy that Capital One (Europe) plc wont accept a payment plan on her account 
on an interest free basis.
What happened
Mrs H holds a credit account with Capital One. Over the years, Mrs H has experienced 
periods of financial difficulty and has arranged a series of short-term, interest free repayment 
plans with Capital One because of this.
In November 2020, Capital One wrote to Mrs H to advise that shed completed the most 
recent payment arrangement and as such had cleared all the arrears on her account so that 
the account was up to date. Later that month Capital One wrote to Mrs H again, this time to 
confirm that a new payment plan had been set up to help bring the account out of persistent 
debt.
A few months later, in February 2021, Mrs H received a further letter from Capital One. This 
explained that there had been a miscalculation and that the recently initiated payment plan 
wouldnt bring Mrs Hs account out of persistent debt as planned, and that the payment plan 
would therefore need to be extended. 
Mrs H wasnt happy with this and had also noticed that her account was incurring interest 
despite the payment plan that she was on, which she didnt feel was right. So, she made a 
complaint.
Capital One looked at Mrs Hs complaint. They acknowledged that the letter in February 
2021 shouldnt have been sent because Mrs Hs account was up to date at that time, so they 
apologised to Mrs H and made a payment of £30 as compensation to Mrs H for the 
inconvenience she had incurred. However, Capital One also confirmed that interest was 
chargeable on the payment plan that Mrs H was currently on.
Mrs H wasnt satisfied with Capital Ones response, so she referred her complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Capital 
One were acting unreasonably or unfairly by charging interest on Mrs Hs account while she 
was in the payment plan for persistent debt, and they also felt that Capital Ones response to 
Mrs Hs complaint about the letter she received, including the apology and the compensation 
payment of £30, represented a fair and reasonable resolution to what had happened. So, 
they didnt uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Mrs H remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where a customer is in financial difficulty, such that they are unable to meet the contractual
financial obligations of their account, it would be expected by this service that a business
would treat that customer with a degree of sympathy and positivity so as to help that
customer recover their financial position to the point where they can, once again, meet the
financial obligations of their account.
Its evident that Capital One did that here. They agreed several short-term, interest free 
payment plans with Mrs H to help her recover the position of her account during the periods 
that she was struggling to meet the contractual payment obligations.
However, this service would expect an interest free payment plan to be agreed to by a 
business as a temporary measure only, to enable a customer to recover their financial 
position to such a degree that they are able to continue to meet the financial obligations of 
their credit account - which include that the credit account incurs interest.
And, given that Mrs H had successfully completed her most recent payment plan in 
November 2020, at which time all the arrears on her account had been cleared and the 
account was up to date, its difficult to find issue with Capital Ones conclusion that Mrs H 
had recovered her financial position to such a degree that it was appropriate for her account 
to accrue interest once more.
I understand that Mrs H feels that, because Capital One asked her to enter another payment 
plan, interest shouldnt be charged while she remains on that plan. But its important to 
recognise that Capital One didnt ask Mrs H to enter this most recent plan because her 
account was in arrears  it wasnt  but rather because of new rules and guidance issued by 
the Financial Conduct Authority regarding accounts that can be considered as being in 
persistent debt.
These new rules and guidance define an account as being in persistent debt if its the case 
that the account holder has, over an 18-month period, paid more in interest and fees than 
theyve paid toward clearing the capital balance of the account.
Furthermore, where Capital One identify an account as being in persistent debt, as Mrs Hs 
is considered as being, they have an obligation to ask the account holder to increase their 
payments so that a greater amount is paid toward reducing the capital balance outstanding 
on the account, so that the account no longer meets the definition of being in persistent debt. 
And its important to note that if a customer isnt able or willing to make payments so that the 
account isnt in persistent debt, it can be the case that a business is obliged to suspend or 
close that account at some point in the future.  
This means that, whereas previously Mrs H had always been in payment plans at a time 
when her account was considered as not being up to date and in arrears, such that it was 
appropriate that the payment plan be interest free, its presently the case that Mrs H is in a 
different kind of payment plan  one mandated by the rules and guidance surrounding 
persistent debt. 
Importantly, this means that Mrs H is presently in a payment plan at a time when her account 
is up to date, and when there arent any outstanding arrears on the account, and in these 
circumstances it isnt the case that this service would expect Capital One to offer this 
payment plan to Mrs H on an interest free basis, for the reasons explained above.
Im aware that Mrs H is also unhappy about the letter that Capital One sent which included 
the incorrect information about the monthly payment plan amount not being sufficient. 
Capital One have acknowledged this error, and theyve apologised to Mrs H and made a 
payment of £30 to Mrs H by way of compensation for the inconvenience she incurred. Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered as being fair and 
reasonable by one party not considered as being such by another. But the £30 that Capital 
One have already paid here does feel fair to me, given whats happened. 
This means that Im satisfied that the manner in which Capital One have already responded 
to this aspect of Mrs Hs complaint, including the apology and the payment of £30 
compensation, does represent a fair and reasonable response to this complaint, and so I 
wont be asking Capital One to do anything further in this regard.
All of which means that its difficult for me to conclude that Capital One have acted 
unreasonably or unfairly here, and it follows that I wont be upholding this complaint or 
asking Capital One to take any further action at this time. I hope that Mrs H can understand, 
based on everything I have explained above, why I have made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman