DRN-2852017
The complaint
Mr T complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited trading as Legal and General (Fairmead) 
unfairly declined part of his claim for storm damage under his buildings insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2020 water started to come into Mr Ts house through the roof following a storm.
The leak caused internal damage. Mr T contacted Fairmead to make a claim under his 
buildings insurance policy. 
Fairmead arranged a drone survey of the roof to assess the damage. After that assessment, 
their surveyor reported that the roof was suffering from wear and tear. He said there was 
evidence of previous repairs to the roof. Fairmead declined the claim for the damage to the 
roof as they said it hadnt occurred due to the storm. But they agreed to cover the internal 
damage as they felt this had been caused by the storm.
Unhappy, Mr T complained to Fairmead. But they said theyd correctly declined the claim for 
the roof damage under the general wear and tear exclusion in the policy.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said hed not seen enough evidence to 
conclude that the damage to the roof had been caused by the storm. So he didnt think 
Fairmead had treated Mr T unfairly.
Mr T didnt agree. He felt that the storm had caused the external damage. So his complaint 
has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it for largely the same reasons as our investigator. 
Ill explain why.
Not all damage a home sustains will be covered by a home insurance policy. If it was then
insurance policies would be prohibitively expensive. Only damage caused by one of the
insured perils (or, events) listed in the policy  fire, theft, escape of water, storm etc.  is
covered. If a policyholder can show that the damage he or she is claiming for is caused by
one of the policy perils then the insurer must pay the claim unless the insurer can rely one of
the policy exclusions to defeat it. If the insurer wishes to rely on a policy exclusion it is its
responsibility to prove it can be successfully applied to defeat the claim.
Mr T felt that his roof was damaged by the storm. Fairmead didnt think the storm was the 
main cause of the roof damage. They said their drone assessment of the roof showed it had 
been damaged through normal wear and tear, which isnt covered under the policy.  But they 
accepted Mr Ts claim for the internal damage as storm damage.
As our investigator mentioned, when our service looks at a storm claim complaint, there are
three questions to consider:
1. Did storm conditions occur on or around the date the damage is said to have happened?
2. Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3. Were the storm conditions the dominant cause of the damage?
If the answer to all three of these questions is yes, then a claim should likely succeed.
However, if the answer to any of the questions is no, then its unlikely the claim would be
covered under the storm damage part of the policy.
For 1., theres no dispute that there was a storm around the time of the loss, so I wont 
consider this further.
For 2., the drone assessment of the roof showed several areas of the roof that had failed. 
Based on the drone photos, the surveyors report concluded: There are a number of missing 
slates to the front and rear of the roof. The slates have been out of place for some time. Both 
front and rear roofs have had a number of repairs carried out in the past. The repairs are 
starting to fail also. The chimney has crack on the face of the chimney. The flaunching has 
eroded away around the pots also. No damage can be seen to be from a one-off storm 
event.
The surveyors report also said that the drone photos showed that: the roof has been 
suffering from wear and tear for some time. There are a number of broken/chipped tiles. 
There also are a number of repairs carried with lead tabs. This indicates the roof is suffering 
from nail sickness.
The surveyors report also notes evidence of decayed mortar to the chimney. This is 
something which clearly isnt related to storm damage.
But Mr T said: I have had roofers on the roof that have stated the timbers across the roof 
are absolutely sound with no evidence of previous water ingress other than that which I 
reported following the day of Storm Ciara in February.  The property is old, I have never 
sought to hide that fact and presumably this fact is built into the premium.  The drone 
photographs were far too low resolution to make any meaningful judgement on when tiles 
had slipped, especially as the photos were taken weeks after the event.  The photos I was 
sent didn't even cover the area of the roof that was most damaged by the storm!. 
I acknowledge that Mr T said his roofers told him the roof was in an acceptable condition. 
But I dont have any evidence to support this. So I can only base my decision on the 
available evidence - the surveyors report. Im satisfied that the surveyors conclusions tie in 
with the drone photos of the damage to the roof. Im also satisfied that the drone photos of 
are a high enough quality to fairly assess the state of the roof. So Im persuaded that the roof 
was damaged before the storm hit. And that the storm highlighted existing problems of wear 
and tear rather than causing all the damage to the roof. 
Taking all the evidence into account, Im satisfied that the answer to the second question is 
no  the damage to the roof is not consistent with damage a storm typically causes. So Im 
satisfied that the external damage part of the claim was fairly declined under the storm 
damage part of the policy.
Im also not persuaded that Mr T has shown that the damage to the roof was caused by the 
storm, or any other policy peril. The damage appears to have been caused by wear and tear 
over a prolonged period of time, which isnt covered under Mr Ts policy. Taking everything into account Im not persuaded Fairmead did anything wrong when they 
declined to cover the claim for the external damage. So I wont be asking them to do 
anything more.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman