DRN-4079721
The complaint
Mr P complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) failed to refund transactions 
he didnt recognise.
What happened
Mr P explained that he lived in shared accommodation with several other people. One day 
he left his room to spend time with his partner and forget to take his debit card, which was 
left on his bed. Mr P believes he left the door to his room unlocked and 5-6 days later, he 
received a text on his phone.
Mr P said hed had experience of a scam attempt some months earlier and was cautious 
about messages he received on his phone. He went on to say he was drunk at the time the 
message appeared on his phone, but eventually realised it was from NatWest and referred 
to a payment that had just been attempted on his debit card.
Mr P said that English isnt his first language, and he was confused with the message and 
mistakenly answered yes to the message. By answering yes, the payment (£1,249) was 
released. Mr P later said he thought the question was whether he hadnt done it, which was 
why he answered with yes.
He then realised what had happened and noticed other payments had been made from his 
account during the time he was away from his room. He then found that his computer and 
tablet had also been taken and spoke with NatWest about the situation and told them his 
card had been lost/stolen. Mr P told NatWest that hed written the personal Identification 
Number (PIN) down on his notes app which automatically copied itself to other versions of 
the same app which was on his tablet. He also told NatWest that his housemates knew his 
passcode to his tablet as they used each other rooms to watch films and listen to music.
He believed it was one of them that had entered his unlocked room and taken his belongings 
and card. Because they knew his passcode for the tablet, they were able to get the PIN for 
his card. This explained how theyd been able to use the card and PIN to make transactions 
and withdraw cash while he was with his partner. Mr P also reported the loss to Action 
Fraud.
NatWest received Mr Ps request for a refund after speaking with him following the approval 
to make the large transaction. NatWest investigated the circumstances surrounding the loss 
and didnt think the way the payments had been made followed any typical pattern of how a 
stolen card was used. Thats because there were no wrong PIN attempts, the card was used 
with gaps in between, it wasnt used to take the maximum daily cash withdrawals and they 
stopped once the card was reported lost/stolen.
NatWests data showed Mr P using his online banking app during the time the disputed 
payments were taking place and thought he should have seen them leaving his account.
NatWest believe Mr P authorised the large payment himself and pointed out that it had been 
refunded to his account some weeks later, which would have required contact with the 
merchant.
NatWest noted that the large payment that Mr P had authorised with the text message had 
subsequently been refunded (by the merchant) to his account.
Mr P was unhappy with NatWests refusal to refund him and brought his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review. It was looked into by one of our 
investigators who asked for information from both parties about the complaint. 
Mr P said that he believed the PIN was obtained by one of his housemates because they 
would go out and purchase meals.
NatWest provided details of the account and the disputed transactions. 
After reviewing the evidence, the investigator thought it was likely that Mr P was responsible 
for making these transactions or allowing someone else to do it. His complaint wasnt upheld 
and the main factors raised by the investigator were:
He thought that it was unlikely the PIN could be successfully shoulder surfed and 
used without an incorrect PIN attempt.
The payments werent typical of how stolen cards are usually used.
Mr P was using his banking app throughout the period but failed to notice the 
disputed transactions leaving his account. Considering they amounted to a large 
reduction in the available balance, it was felt this was unlikely to be missed.
Mr P disagreed with the investigators outcome and asked for a further review of his 
complaint. In summary he said:
His PIN was a simple one which would have been easily remembered.
He didnt check his transaction history when using the banking app. This shouldnt be 
evidence that hed authorised the transactions.
Mr P denied making the payments himself.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me and I asked Mr P 
for some more information concerning the circumstances, including:
Question Answer
Did Mr P recognise the refund for the £1249 he 
received back into his account?No I dont recognise it, and I didnt make it.
Was this refund linked to the payment from your 
account that youve disputed?Yes
If not, can you please explain what it was for and 
provide evidence from (G)?I didnt buying anything from (G) , its was 
fraudulently purchased and its refunded 
automatically, I even reported to bank .
In your first conversation with the bank, you said you 
recorded your PIN on your notes which then got 
copied onto your tablet. But, when you wrote to our Its true , When I opened bank with NatWest 
they sent me a PIN number , I wrote it done on 
my not on phone, which apple my Apple ID service about what happened, you denied writing it 
down anywhere.were same to tablet and everything share 
between to gadget,
But later on I remembered, I changed my PIN a 
few days later after I received my card bank and 
my apps setup the mobile app.
Its was my first experience, been this situation,
When I was reporting to the bank, I was thinking 
every possible way to compromise my PIN.
When I checked my note later, I noticed I wrote 
my old and first PIN which bank sent me.
Which those PIN number not working, because I 
changed the PIN but I never wrote the new PIN 
on my phone because was easy PIN number.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that NatWest can hold Mr P liable for the disputed payments if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made them or authorised them.
 
NatWest can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Mr P authorised the 
transactions, but NatWest cannot say that the use of the card and PIN conclusively proves 
that the payments were authorised. 
Unless NatWest can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the 
payment or to debit Mr Ps account and any such transaction must be regarded as 
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed 
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools 
issued to Mr P. Ill now need to consider the information provided by both parties to 
determine whether theres sufficient evidence to hold Mr P responsible for the disputed 
transactions or not.
Mr Ps case is that he left this card in an unlocked room and didnt notice payments leaving 
his account whilst he was with his partner for about 5-6 days. Its also his case that he, whilst 
drunk and not having English as his first language, mistakenly authorised a large payment 
for expensive computer equipment. He initially thought hed written the PIN down but later 
explained he hadnt written his latest PIN down and that it was obtained through his 
housemates when purchasing food.
Mr P doesnt acknowledge making the refund request for the computer equipment. He 
believes NatWest were responsible. Having looked into the payment back into his account 
and asking NatWest about it, they denied contacting the merchant and werent responsible 
for the refund.
In this case, its highly unlikely that the merchant would refund the full price of the equipment without receiving the product back. Its implausible to believe the refund was made without 
contacting the merchant and Id very much doubt that a thief would return an item theyd 
purchased with someone elses card, for that refund to go back to the card holder.
I found it unusual that Mr P continued to request a complete refund when hed already 
received part of it back directly from the merchant. It may be that he was unaware of it, but it 
was for a considerable amount, and I would have thought it was significant enough to have 
been noticed.
Mr Ps testimony has changed during the complaint, particularly with how his PIN could have 
been obtained. I appreciate Mr P was trying to offer suggestions which may have resulted in 
a different explanation once he brought it to our service. He explained the difference 
between the first PIN he had which was written down and the one he changed it to which he 
no longer had to have written down. I accept that this was the reason for the change in his 
testimony.
But, Mr Ps latest belief is that one of his housemates obtained the PIN when out purchasing 
food which they sometimes did together. But here, its not easy to identify when that could 
have happened. I would think that most food purchases were relatively low cost and 
probably only required a contactless payment be made, rather than the PIN. It is possible of 
course the PIN was used at some point  maybe for a cash withdrawal made by Mr P. But, 
that would mean that a housemate deliberately observed the PIN with a view to taking the 
card at some point. To then find the card in an unlocked room sometime later seems an 
unlikely series of events.
Having looked at the pattern of transactions, I agree they dont represent how a thief would 
typically use a stolen card. The payments are spaced out and dont maximise the daily cash 
withdrawal limit. Usually, a thief wont know when its been blocked or reported stolen, so will 
use it to get as much from the card as possible. That didnt happen here and it stopped 
being used once it was reported stolen  which a thief would be unlikely to know. Of course, 
if it was a housemate, they may well have been aware of the date when it was reported, but 
the timing of the disputed transactions doesnt support the case that the card was stolen.
I also have to look at the additional authentication step for the large transaction for the 
computer equipment. Mr P said he was drunk and didnt understand what he was being 
asked. I can appreciate if English isnt the first language, this may have caused some 
confusion, although such messages are typically clear about what the bank wants in 
response. Mr P authorised the payment once he said yes to the text message, but 
ultimately here, Mr P received a refund of the full amount related to this particular payment.
Overall, I think there are a number of factors that conflict with the picture Mr P has 
presented. I take his point that he didnt check his transaction history when opening his 
banking app, but as one of the other payments was for over £870 which left about £1,635 in 
the account, I would have though this drop in available funds would have been noticed. The 
issue of the refund for the computer equipment cant plausibly be explained for anyone other 
than Mr P or someone with his knowledge being involved, otherwise the merchant wouldnt 
be able to return the funds to his card.
Having examined all the available evidence, my objective conclusion is that its more likely 
than not that Mr P, or someone with his authority, was responsible for these transactions and 
it was reasonable for NatWest to hold him liable for them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman