DRN-3767046
The complaint
Mrs A complains Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund her for a cash machine withdrawal.
What happened
Mrs A was out shopping, and her purse was stolen. In Mrs As purse was her Lloyds card 
and cards from two other banks. Mrs As Lloyds card was used to withdraw £200 from a 
cash machine and pay for a bus ticket.
Mrs A reported the fraud to Lloyds but it wouldnt refund her. Mrs A complained and Lloyds 
responded to say it couldnt see how someone else had known Mrs As personal 
identification number (PIN),
Mrs A had told Lloyds she hadnt kept a record of her PIN anywhere.
Lloyds said the bus ticket had been refunded, but it wouldnt refund the cash machine 
withdrawal. Unhappy with this response, Mrs A brought her complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things and didnt think Mrs As complaint should be upheld. The 
investigator thought it was more likely Mrs A had kept a record of her PIN in her purse. 
Because of this, the investigator thought Mrs A had been grossly negligent.
Mrs A responded to say shed been the victim of a crime and had done all she could to catch 
the perpetrators. Mrs A felt being called grossly negligent made this all her fault. Mrs A said 
one of the banks had refunded money taken from its account, so why wouldnt Lloyds.
Mrs A asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a general rule Lloyds can hold Mrs A liable for payments where the technical evidence 
suggests she authorised them. If the evidence suggests Mrs A didnt make or authorise the 
transactions, then Lloyds should be liable, unless Mrs A acted with gross negligence.
Lloyds held Mrs A liable for the cash machine withdrawal because it thinks she authorised 
the payment. Lloyds cant see how someone else could have known Mrs As PIN, so she 
must have made the payments.
Ive seen the technical evidence Lloyds has provided and Im satisfied Mrs As genuine card 
and PIN were used to withdraw money from the cash machine. Im also satisfied Mrs A was 
the victim of a crime, Mrs A reported the theft of her cards to the police.
I dont think Mrs A made or authorised the cash machine withdrawal. I believe Mrs As 
Lloyds card, along with two others, was stolen and used by someone else. But this doesnt 
explain how someone knew Mrs As PIN.
Where evidence is contradictory or unclear, I can make a decision on the balance of 
probabilities, whats more likely to have happened.
Mrs A says she didnt keep a record of her PIN anywhere. But I think its more likely Mrs A 
did keep a record. The PIN isnt recorded anywhere on the card itself, and it was at least a 
fortnight since Mrs A had used her PIN to make a purchase.
This means whoever took her card cant have overseen Mrs A using her card, theyd have to 
either guess it or find a record of it in Mrs As purse. Lloyds has shown evidence there were 
two incorrect PIN attempts before the successful £200 withdrawal.
Mrs A had two other cards in her purse, I think its more likely whoever stole Mrs As purse 
had the three cards and a record of three PINs, and through a process of elimination found 
the correct one for Mrs As Lloyds card.
Mrs A has an obligation to keep her PIN safe, and I dont think she did. I think it would be 
unfair, in the individual circumstances of Mrs As complaint, to hold Lloyds liable for the cash 
machine withdrawal. I dont think Lloyds needs to refund Mrs A.
Mrs A has mentioned one of the other banks refunded money taken from that account. Its 
possible the withdrawal was on a credit card, where slightly different rules apply, or the bank 
decided to refund as a gesture of goodwill.
Whatever the reason, one banks decision to refund doesnt mean other banks have to 
refund as well. And it doesnt mean I have to decide Lloyds needs to refund.
Mrs A felt the investigator was blaming her by saying shed been grossly negligent. Gross 
negligence is a test this service uses to decide if someone has failed to keep their details 
safe, and the investigator didnt think Mrs A did. I dont think there was an intention to blame 
Mrs A, merely explain why Mrs As complaint wasnt being upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2023. 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman