DRN-2608740
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that U K Insurance Limited declined their claim against their travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M have travel insurance as a benefit of a bank account. In December 2019, they 
booked a trip with intended departure and return dates of 11 July 2020 and 25 July 2020 
respectively. They booked flights direct with the airline and accommodation direct with an 
accommodation provider. The accommodation was for Mr and Mrs M and their three young 
children, six other adults and two other children. Mr and Mrs M paid a deposit of over £3,000 
to the accommodation provider by bank transfer. That was approximately half of the cost of 
the accommodation.
On 15 March 2020, the UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all 
but essential travel to Mr and Mrs Ms intended destination due to Covid-19 (coronavirus).
In May 2020, Mrs M asked the accommodation provider if they could transfer their booking 
to 2021. Following the FCO advice about non-essential travel to their intended destination, 
Mr and Mrs M were worried about travelling because of the quarantine requirements on 
return to the UK and said that one of their party was in a high-risk group.
In June 2020, the accommodation provider said that they couldnt transfer Mr and Mrs Ms 
booking to 2021. On 8 June 2020, Mrs M said that she had no option but to cancel the 
booking. Later that day, the airline cancelled Mr and Mrs Ms flights and I understand that it 
refunded the cost of the flights.
The FCOs advice against all but essential travel to Mr and Mrs Ms intended destination 
remained in place until 4 July 2020, when the UK government had an agreement for an air 
corridor with that country. The air corridor agreement for Mr and Mrs Ms intended
destination ended on 25 July 2020.
Mr and Mrs M made a claim against their travel insurance policy in relation to their deposit 
of over £3,000 they had paid to the accommodation provider. UKI declined Mr and Mrs Ms 
claim. It said that as their trip was cancelled more than 28 days before their departure date, 
their claim doesnt come within the terms of the policy.
Mr and Mrs M say that the accommodation provider cancelled their accommodation and 
they didnt cancel anything themselves. They say that UKI told them that they should have 
paid the accommodation provider the remaining balance of over £3,000 and then cancelled 
the booking within 28 days of the departure date, as they would then have been able to 
claim a refund of the whole £6,000, in accordance with the policy terms. Mr and Mrs M say 
they didnt want to do that as it appeared nonsensical, dishonest and risked the loss of 
£6,000, rather than £3,000 if UKI declined their claim for any other reason.
Mr and Mrs M say that UKI hasnt taken into account all relevant factors in these 
unprecedented times. If their flights had been cancelled a few days later, their claim would 
have been covered, which is unfair. They say that UKI should refund their deposit for the 
accommodation. Mr and Mrs M say that theyve found this matter worrying at an already 
stressful time.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that UKI had treated 
Mr and Mrs M unfairly. The investigator said that the policy covers cancellation occurring in 
the 28 days before the departure date. She said that she was unable to ask UKI to act 
outside the terms of the policy.
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree with the investigator. They said:
The £3,000+ they paid for the accommodation was the deposit and the owner 
demanded the remaining £3,000+ to secure the booking.
At the relevant time, they couldnt speak with UKI as it would only take phone calls 
from those due to travel within 48 hours, so they had to proceed without guidance.
On 16 June 2020, the FCO advice was that non-essential travel to their intended 
destination wasnt allowed and thats within 28 days of their departure date of 11 
July 2020.
There was no way to travel to their intended destination, as all airlines had cancelled 
flights.
They are essential workers and couldnt risk needing to self-isolate for two weeks on 
return.
As the accommodation provider cancelled the accommodation and it was out of their 
control, they should be reimbursed.
If the airline had cancelled their flights five days later, they would have been able to 
claim for the accommodation. This seems unfair.
There was further correspondence which I wont set out here. Mr and Mrs M asked that an 
ombudsman consider their complaint, so it was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
On 11 February 2021, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case.  I indicated 
that I intended to uphold the complaint and set out what I thought UKI should do to put 
matters right. I said:
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which 
say as follows:Section A Cancelling Your Trip (before you are due to start your trip) What is 
covered
We will cover you for your:
-unused deposits;
-accommodation and travel costs (including car hire, excursions and activities); and
-unused kennel, cattery, professional pet sitter or car parking charges
that you have paid or legally have to pay if you unavoidably need to cancel your trip for 
one of the following reasons:
[]
The Foreign & Commonwealth Office advising against All Travel or All but 
essential travel to your intended destination, providing the advice came into 
force after you opened your Platinum account or booked your trip (whichever 
was the later) and was in the 28 days before your departure on your trip.
[]
Special Conditions
[]
The amount of any claim will be limited to costs that would have applied at the 
time you first became aware of the need to cancel your trip
[]
What is not covered 
We will not cover:
The excess amount. That is £75 for every claim for each insured person, which 
is reduced to £10 for each insured person for claims solely for lost deposits. []
Any expenses [] that you can recover from elsewhere.[] 
The Policy definitions section of the policy contains the following:
You, your, insured person(s)  the account holder, their partner, any dependent 
child and any guest
Guest  any person who is travelling with the account holder during the period of the 
trip who lives in the UK and for whom the appropriate additional premium has been 
paid.
Other Issues
[]
Guest Travel
This policy provides no cover for any guest. Unless you have bought an extension to 
your policy, any claim for such people will not be covered.
[]
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that UKI has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I dont think that UKI treated Mr and Mrs M fairly in declining the claim and Ill explain 
why.Its important to establish whether Mr and Mrs M cancelled the trip, as their policy 
provides cover for cancellation in certain defined circumstances if they cancelled 
the trip. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs M cancelled the 
trip. On the morning of 8 June 2020, Mrs M e-mailed the accommodation provider 
and said If you are unable to agree to our request to move our holiday plans to 
July 2021 then we have no choice but to cancel. That was before                   
Mr and Mrs M received notification from the airline that it had cancelled their 
flights.
The messages between Mrs M and the accommodation provider before Mrs Ms 
cancellation e-mail on 8 June 2020 show that Mr and Mrs M cancelled the trip 
because the FCO advised against all but essential travel to their destination, the 
quarantine requirements on their return to the UK and the vulnerability of one of 
their party.
UKI has proceeded on the basis that the relevant term of the policy provides that 
the cancellation must be in the 28 days before the intended departure. In this 
case, thats from 13 June 2020 onwards, as the intended departure date was 11 
July 2020. UKI says that as Mr and Mrs M cancelled earlier than 28 days before 
the intended departure date, the cancellation isnt covered under the policy. But 
thats not what the policy says.
The relevant cancellation provision  which Ive set out above - says that UKI will 
cover cancellation costs for unavoidable cancellation if the FCO advises against 
all but essential travel, providing the advice came into force after the account was 
opened or Mr and Mrs M booked their trip, whichever is the later and was in the 
28 days before [the] departure. The FCO advice was in place from                 
15 March 2020 to 3 July 2020. So, the FCO advice was in place 28 days before 
Mr and Mrs Ms departure date.
UKI may have intended to cover cancellation costs following FCO advice against 
all travel or all but essential travel only where the cancellation is within 28 days of 
departure, but thats not what the policy says.
Even if I reached a different conclusion about what the relevant policy terms says 
and proceeded on the basis that it said the cancellation must be within 28 days of 
the intended departure, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for UKI to 
decline Mr and Mrs Ms claim. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs M cancelled the trip 33 days before their intended departure date. 
Based on UKIs interpretation of the relevant policy term, if Mr and Mrs M had 
cancelled the trip between 13 June 2020 and 3 July 2020 (before the UK 
government had an agreement for an air corridor with the destination country), 
UKI would have settled their claim.
In the extraordinary and evolving times Mr and Mrs M found themselves in, I 
dont think its fair and reasonable for UKI to decline the claim on the basis that
Mr and Mrs M cancelled their trip five days too early or that they should have waited     
until 4 July 2020  when the air corridors were first in place - to decide what they 
should do. Mr and Mrs M say that they couldnt get information from UKI. They 
asked the accommodation provider to change their booking to 2021. Mr and Mrs M 
were doing all they could to minimise the loss and I think it was reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case for them come to a decision about whether they could 
travel.Mr and Mrs M say that UKI told them that they should have paid the accommodation 
provider the remaining balance of over £3,000 and then cancelled the booking 
within 28 days of the departure date, as they would then have been able to claim a 
refund of the whole £6,000, in accordance with the policy terms. I dont think thats 
right in terms of what Mr and Mrs M were obliged to pay before arrival at the 
accommodation. The booking terms Ive seen say that where 50% of the price is 
paid as a deposit, the remaining 50% is payable on the day of arrival at the 
accommodation. So, there was no obligation on Mr and Mrs M to pay the balance 
before they arrived at the accommodation.
I intend to direct UKI to deal with Mr and Mrs Ms claim in accordance with the 
remaining terms of the policy. But I dont think that means that UKI must reimburse 
Mr and Mrs M for the whole of the deposit they paid.
The policy says that We will cover you for your: -unused deposits;. You and 
your are defined as  the account holder, their partner, any dependent child 
and any guest. Guest is defined as any person who is travelling with the 
account holder during the period of the trip who lives in the UK and for whom the 
appropriate additional premium has been paid. As far as Im aware, Mr and Mrs M 
didnt pay an additional insurance premium for their guests. The booking 
confirmation shows that the accommodation was booked for Mr and Mrs M and their 
three dependent children, six adult guests and two child guests. The policy covers 
the unused deposit relating to Mr and Mrs M and their dependent children, not the 
deposits paid by or on behalf of the other guests.
The policy provides that the amount of any claim will be limited to costs that would 
have applied at the time Mr and Mrs M first became aware of the need to cancel 
their trip. Mr and Mrs M became aware of the need to cancel their trip more than 30 
days before they should have arrived at the accommodation. The booking terms say 
that the accommodation provider may withhold 20% of the deposit where 
cancellation is more than 30 days before arrival. But its clear from the e-mail 
exchanges between Mrs M and the accommodation provider that the latter withheld 
all the deposit, despite Mrs Ms attempts to either change the trip date or enforce the 
booking terms. I think that a fair and reasonable outcome here requires that UKI 
refund the part of the total unused deposit that relates to Mr and Mrs M and their 
dependent children, not just Mr and Mrs Ms part of the 20% of the deposit due 
under the booking terms.
UKI is also entitled to deduct the excesses due under the policy - £10 for each 
insured person for claims solely for lost deposits.
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained, I intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. I intend to 
direct UKI to put things right by paying Mr and Mrs M their proportion of the total unused 
deposit, subject to the remaining policy terms.
As Ive outlined above, I dont expect UKI to pay the full deposit, as under the terms of the 
policy Mr and Mrs M can only recover the proportion of the deposit that relates to them and 
their dependent children  thats five members of the total party of 11 people (excluding the 
other two children). So, I think that UKI should pay the claim on the basis that Mr and Mrs M 
should be reimbursed for their part of the unused deposit.As Ive mentioned above, Mr and Mrs M should be aware that UKI is entitled to deduct 
policy excesses from the settlement.
UKI should pay Mr and Mrs M interest on any settlement at the simple rate of 8% per year,
from the date they made their claim to the date it makes the payment.
Responses to my provisional decision
UKI accepted my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs M asked whether the other members of 
their party must claim against their own insurance for their part of the deposit. They said 
that they paid the deposit from their account, so assumed they could claim the full amount 
theyd paid.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Mr and Mrs M say that they paid the deposit, so assumed that they could 
claim the full amount but thats not the case. Thats because the policy covers               
Mr and Mrs M and their dependent children but doesnt cover guests, as Mr and Mrs M 
didnt pay an additional premium.
Ive looked at everything again, but I see no reason to depart from the conclusions in my 
provisional decision. So, for the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms 
complaint. 
Putting things right
UKI should put things right by paying Mr and Mrs M their proportion of the total unused 
deposit  5/11 of the amount they paid - subject to the remaining policy terms. It should 
also pay Mr and Mrs M interest on any settlement at the simple rate of 8% per year, from 
the date they made their claim to the date it makes payment. 
My final decision
My final decision is  that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. U K Insurance Limited 
should take the steps Ive set out above. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman