DRN-3453202
The complaint
Mr B, as director of R, complains about the decision of QIC Europe Ltd to decline Rs 
business interruption insurance claim for losses relating to the COVID-19 pandemic. 
What happened
The following is intended only as a brief summary, as both parties to the complaint are 
aware of the circumstances. The circumstances and related communications also involved 
other parties, but I have referred only to R and QIC for the sake of simplicity.
R operates as pub and held an industry specific commercial insurance policy underwritten by 
QIC. In March 2020, R was forced to close as a result of the government-imposed 
restrictions, which had been introduced to control the spread of COVID-19. R contacted QIC 
to claim for the losses it sustained as a result. As well as its lost income, R said that it had 
lost stock as a result of the closure of its premises.
QIC declined the claim. It said the Contents and Refrigerated Stock cover provided by Rs 
policy required there to have been damage at Rs premises that had been caused by an 
insured event. And that COVID-19 was not such an event. It also said that the Business 
Interruption cover either required similar damage or a case of disease at the premises. But 
that there was no suggestion of a confirmed case of COVID-19 at Rs premises. 
Mr B complained about this, and brought Rs complaint to this service. He said that one of 
the causes of damage was political disturbances and he felt this provided cover in the 
circumstances of the claim. And that COVID-19 cases were everywhere across the country 
and that, with testing largely unavailable, it wasnt possible for those who had been on the 
premises to confirm whether they had the disease. 
However, our Investigator did not think Rs complaint should be upheld. He thought QIC had 
applied the terms of the policy correctly. He did not consider R had demonstrated that it was 
more likely than not that there had been an occurrence of COVID-19 at Rs premises. He 
also did not think there had been damage at Rs premises that had caused an insured loss. 
Mr B remained unsatisfied and Rs complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on R, I wont be upholding its complaint. My reasons are substantially 
the same as the Investigators.
I understand that R closed its business in March 2020 due to the government-imposed 
restrictions. The nature of its business was such that it wouldnt have been allowed to stay 
open after this time. So, as well as claiming for lost stock, the type of cover its looking to 
claim under is business interruption insurance. 
There are a range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering 
different risks. For example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, 
whilst others provide cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional 
add-ons. The starting point is to consider the specific policy R took out.
The standard cover provided by the business interruption section of Rs policy, as well as a 
number of the extensions to this cover, is based on an interruption to the business of the 
insured which has been caused by damage to property caused by one of the risks insured 
under the Contents section of the policy. Whilst I appreciate the pandemic has caused 
substantial financial loss, I dont think COVID-19 caused damage to property which has led 
to an interruption of Rs business.
I note that Mr B has referred to there being cover under the Contents section for damage 
caused by:
Riot, civil commotion, strikers, labour or political disturbances, malicious persons or 
vandals
Mr B has suggested that the pandemic, including the government-imposed restrictions, 
amounted to a political disturbance. However, I dont consider that this is the understanding 
a reasonable person would have when reading the policy at the point in time it was taken 
out/renewed  in this case April 2019. Whilst I note Mr Bs reference to a dictionary 
definition, I dont think that a reasonable person reading the policy would consider the 
actions taken by the Government in controlling the pandemic, nor the pandemic itself, would 
be what this wording in the policy was designed to cover. Whilst society in general was 
clearly affected by the pandemic, I dont think this could be reasonably described as a 
political disturbance. In fact, at this point in time most political parties in the UK were largely 
aligned in agreeing with the measures taken, rather than being disturbed. And whilst there 
may have been some public protests at the imposition of these measures, such activity was 
not the cause of those measures nor the cause of damage that interrupted Rs business.
So, I dont think the terms of the business interruption cover that rely on there having been 
damage that led to an interruption, provide cover in the circumstances of Rs claim. And I 
think QIC acted fairly and reasonably in not meeting Rs claim under this area of cover.
R's policy also contains a number of terms in the business interruption section of the policy 
that do not require there to have been damage. I dont consider any of these provide cover 
in the circumstance of Rs claim, but I feel that is worth specifically addressing one of these. 
The relevant term provides cover where there has been an interruption as a result of:  
the occurrence at the Premises of murder, suicide, food or drink poisoning, vermin, 
pests, defective sanitation or any human infections or contagious disease (excluding 
Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) or any AIDS related condition), an 
outbreak of which the Local or Government Authority has stipulated shall be notified 
to them
COVID-19 was added to the list of notifiable diseases prior to Rs closure. As such, it was a 
human infectious or contagious disease that a relevant authority needed to be notified of 
when it occurred. However, in order for this term to provide cover for Rs claim, R needs to 
demonstrate that this disease more likely than not occurred at its premises. I note the comments made by Mr B that the disease was highly prevalent at the time of the 
closure in March 2020. But I do not consider this is enough to demonstrate that it is more 
likely than not that it occurred at its premises. It is the responsibility of the claimant  in this 
case R  to demonstrate that this is most likely the situation. Whilst it might be that someone 
who had sustained COVID-19 was at the premises prior to its closure, it is also strongly 
possible that this did not happen. Mr B has not been able to point to any specific evidence 
that someone with the disease was at the premises. 
I note Mr Bs comments that there was limited access to testing at this point in time. I am 
also conscious of the fact that not everyone would have actually displayed symptoms of the 
disease. But without any specific evidence that there was more likely than not a case of 
COVID-19 at Rs premises, I am unable to conclude that R has demonstrated it has a valid 
claim. It follows that I consider that QICs decision to decline the claim was in line with the 
policy, and in all the circumstances of this case fair and reasonable.
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means QIC should have met Rs claim. I know this decision will be disappointing 
for Mr B and Rs other director, but I hope Ive provided them with a thorough explanation of 
why this policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman