DRN-3025180
The complaint
Miss M complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money she lost when she was the 
victim of a scam.
  
What happened
In September 2020, Miss M was looking for a rental property as the tenancy at her existing 
property was coming to an end. Shed been speaking with an estate agent who had shown 
her a number of properties. But after her applications for several properties were turned 
down due to her poor credit history, the estate agent told Miss M he could refer her to a 
private landlord who dealt with tenants who struggle with credit. The estate agent passed 
Miss Ms details to this private landlord, who then contacted her saying he had a property 
she could move in to.
Miss M sent a £700 payment to the landlord on 22 September 2020 as a holding deposit. 
Then, after exchanging emails, seeing photos of the property and agreeing a move-in date, 
she sent a further £750 payment for the first months rent on 28 September 2020. It was 
agreed she would sign the contract and move in on 29 September 2020 but, on that 
morning, the landlord messaged Miss M saying he had Covid symptoms so had to cancel 
the appointment. He said hed try to get someone else to let her in later in the day but then 
didnt respond to any of Miss Ms further messages. Miss M then received a message the 
following afternoon saying the landlord was in hospital and someone would be in touch later 
that day, but then received no further responses to her messages over the following days. 
Miss M also tried contacting the original estate agent, but didnt get any further contact from 
the landlord, so reported the payments to Monzo as a scam on 14 October 2020.
Monzo isnt a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM code) but has explained it is committed to applying the principles set out in it. The 
CRM code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of authorised 
push payments scams, except in limited circumstances. Monzo investigated Miss Ms case 
but said one or more of the exceptions applied, so it didnt agree to refund her. It said Miss M 
hadnt taken enough steps to check who she was paying and so had made the payments 
without a having a reasonable basis for believing they were legitimate. Monzo also contacted 
the bank the payments had been sent to, but was told there was no money left in the 
recipients account. So there was nothing more it could do to help recover the money. Miss M 
wasnt satisfied with Monzos response, so brought a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at Miss Ms complaint and felt it should be upheld. They 
didnt think any of the exceptions to the CRM code applied, as they didnt think Monzo had 
provided an effective warning when the payments were requested or that Monzo had 
established that Miss M had made the payments without a reasonable basis for believing 
they were legitimate. As Miss M had discussed the move-in date, signing the contract and 
picking up the keys and had been sent photos of the property, the investigator thought she 
did have a reasonable basis for believing the payments were legitimate. So they 
recommended Monzo refund the payments to Miss M, plus interest.
Monzo disagreed, saying Miss M made no effort to verify that the landlord was genuine or 
that the property existed, and had ignored a warning that the registered name on the 
account she was paying didnt match what she had entered. It also said it was unreasonable 
to expect it to tailor the warnings it gave to each individual scam and that Miss M had either 
not read or ignored guidance on scams its warning linked to. So the complaint has been 
passed to me to review.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Monzo should refund the money Miss M lost as a result of this scam. 
Ill explain why below.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though they 
authorised the payment.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether Monzo 
should have reimbursed Miss M under the provisions of the CRM code and whether it ought 
to have done more to protect Miss M from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. The 
CRM code places a level of care on Miss M too, so Ive considered whether she met this.
The CRM code
As I mentioned above, Monzo has committed to follow the Lending Standards Board 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM code) although it isnt a signatory. The CRM 
code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of Authorised Push 
Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances. And it is for the 
firm to establish that a customer failed to meet their requisite level of care under one of the 
listed exceptions set out in the CRM code.
Under the CRM code, a firm may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that:
The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
othe payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
othe payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
othe person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM code, but these dont apply here.
Did Miss M have a reasonable basis for belief?
Under the CRM code, Monzo can choose not to refund Miss M if it doesnt believe she took 
the requisite level of care to ensure she had a reasonable basis for belief that the person she was paying was legitimate and the payment was for genuine goods or services. It isnt 
enough for Miss M to believe she was paying a legitimate person for genuine goods or 
services, she had to have a reasonable basis for that belief.
Miss M was referred to the landlord by an estate agent she had been dealing with. I think its 
understandable that Monzo has questioned how reputable the estate agent was, given that 
they passed Miss Ms details to a landlord we now know to be a scammer. But the estate 
agent had taken Miss M to view several other properties, so I think its reasonable that 
Miss M thought they were legitimate and so, by association, thought the landlord was 
legitimate too.  Im also not aware of any simple checks Miss M could have carried out to 
independently verify the landlord she thought she was dealing with, as she was told they 
were a private landlord and so not connected to any agent or company she could check.
Miss M had exchanged a number of messages with the landlord, through both email and text 
message. Shed been given the address of the property, arranged a time to pick up the keys 
and sign the contract and been asked to provide photo ID and a recent utility bill. And I think 
all of this would have felt like part of a legitimate renting process, particularly one done on 
short notice with a private landlord who may not have as defined processes as a commercial 
estate agent.
Miss M didnt view the property in person before sending either of the payments and Monzo 
has suggested this was unreasonable. But while the government restrictions in place at the 
time in response to the global pandemic didnt prevent property viewings, I dont think it 
would have necessarily felt unusual for viewings to have still been limited. Miss M was sent a 
number of photos of the property and thought it was normal to view a property virtually at the 
time, as other estate agents had been doing this and her sister had recently moved in 
somewhere after only viewing it online. And Miss M was having to find a property at very 
short notice, as her existing tenancy was ending and a property shed found earlier had 
fallen through. So I dont think Miss M not viewing the property before sending the payments 
meant she shouldnt have had a reasonable basis for believing the property was legitimate in 
these circumstances.
Monzo has also sent us evidence showing that, for both payments, Miss M wouldve been 
shown a warning that the details shed entered for the account she was sending money to 
didnt match those registered on that account. Miss M has said she didnt see these 
warnings. But, in any event, I dont think these warnings were clear about the possible 
consequences of the details not matching. And, as Miss M was under pressure to find a 
property at short notice and the rest of the process had seemed legitimate, I dont think its 
unreasonable that these warnings didnt cause her more concern. So I dont think the 
warnings mean that Miss M didnt have a reasonable basis for belief in the payments.
Taking all this into account and considering her individual circumstances, I think Miss M had 
a reasonable basis for believing the landlord was legitimate and the property was genuine.
Did Miss M ignore an effective warning?
Monzo hasnt been clear about whether it thinks Miss M ignored an effective warning. But it 
has made arguments suggesting so, so Ive considered whether I think she did.
The CRM code sets out that an effective warning should enable a customer to understand 
what actions they need to take to address a risk and the consequences of not doing so. As a 
minimum, the CRM code sets out that an effective warning should be understandable, clear, 
impactful, timely and specific.But the new payee warning that Monzo has shown would have been displayed when Miss M 
set up the first payment, focuses on her having doubts about the payment. So it would only 
be effective if Miss M already thought it could be a scam or had pre-existing doubts. And this 
was clearly a sophisticated and convincing scam, and Miss M said she didnt have any 
doubts at the time. So I dont think this warning was effective.
And the other warnings Monzo has shown were displayed were generic and not specific to 
the type of situation and scam Miss M was falling victim to. So I dont think these were 
effective either.
I appreciate that, due to the value of the payments involved here, Monzo likely didnt need to 
provide a warning. But, in any event, I dont think Miss M ignored an effective warning.
So overall, I dont think any of the exceptions to reimbursement under the CRM code apply, 
and Monzo should have refunded the money Miss M lost.
  
Putting things right
Monzo Bank Ltd should:
Refund Miss M the £1,450 she lost
Pay Miss M 8% interest on that amount from 14 October 2020 until the date of 
settlement
  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Miss Ms complaint and require Monzo Bank Ltd to 
put things right by doing what Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 December 2021. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman