DRN-2070313
The complaint
Miss A complains that a used car she acquired under a conditional sale agreement from 
Moneybarn No.1 Limited (Moneybarn) wasnt of satisfactory quality or fit for purpose, 
contrary to the requirements of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). 
What happened
In December 2018, Miss A entered into a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn for a 
used car. It was then just over five years old and had a recorded mileage of 47,061 miles. Its 
cash price was £8,090. Miss A paid an advance payment of £400, and agreed to pay the 
balance plus finance charges by 59 monthly instalments of £304.88 each.
In May 2019, with its recorded mileage at 56,951 miles, the car broke down; its automatic
transmission (CVT) stopped working. Miss A complained to Moneybarn, who arranged for
the car to be inspected by an independent mechanical engineer (IME 1).
IME 1 confirmed the engine cut out whenever a gear was selected. It said:
it is our considered opinion that the vehicle has an underlying issue possibly with the
transmission torque converter or alternatively the transmission has an issue with the valve
block, i.e. if there is an issue with the transmission valve block this can result in incorrect
transmission oil pressure which has potential to cut the engine out, the most likely cause is
that there was an issue with the vehicles torque converter.
It didnt dismantle the gearbox to investigate the cause further. Asked to confirm if the issues
were the result of wear and tear/sudden failure, would have been present at the point of
sale, and would render the car of unsatisfactory quality/unfit for purpose, IME 1 said:
Undoubtedly the current condition could not have been present at the point of purchase as
the vehicle could not have been driven the 10,000 miles or thereby since the point of sale,
bearing this in mind and taking into account the vehicles overall visible condition leads us to
conclusion that the vehicle was road legal and fit for purpose and of satisfactory quality for
the vehicle, the age and reported mileage at the date of purchase.
With the current issue in our opinion having developed after the date of sale with the most
likely cause being in-service wear of the torque converter lock-up clutch which is now known
to give similar symptoms as noted at the time of inspection.
Wear of the clutch is a known issue and would be caused a long-term in-service age-related
general wear and deterioration rather than a manufacturing defect, with we are now having
progressed in service to the point that the transmission requires repairs as a result of routine
maintenance.
On the basis of this report, Moneybarn didnt accept Miss As complaint. It said IME 1
confirmed the car was road legal, fit for purpose and of satisfactory quality at the point of
purchase.
Miss A arranged her own report from another independent motor engineer (IME 2). He
didnt dismantle the gearbox either. He said a number of online forums pointed out that this
make of car and CVT transmission was prone to early failure. He said:
it would not be possible to predict this in normal circumstances. It is therefore an
unforeseen event and other than oil checks there is no way of preventing it if car is driven
sensibly and not abused  no evidence of abuse observable when inspected.
As a relatively short period has elapsed (under 6 months) and mileage is only slightly above
average, we do not agree with the conclusions drawn by [Moneybarn/IME 1] that no
recourse is possible.
Moneybarn wouldnt change its view. It made a contribution of £150 towards Miss As costs
of a hire car, but wouldnt assist further. So Miss A arranged repairs to the CVT at a cost of
£2,700, and complained to us. She wanted Moneybarn to refund all the hire costs she had
incurred, and either pay for the repairs or allow her to reject the car.
Our investigators view
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He accepted what
IME 1 had said  that the fault wasnt present at delivery and was more likely to be the result
of normal wear and tear rather than something which was developing at the point of sale.
Miss A challenged the investigators recommendation on the basis that he had made no
mention of IME 2s report. The investigator said he found IME 2s report unspecific on the
question of whether the faults the car had were present or developing when the car was sold
to Miss A. So he couldnt ask Moneybarn to do anything more.
My provisional findings 
I issued my provisional view to Miss A and to Moneybarn on 25 June 2020. In it I said that 
under the CRA, Moneybarn had a responsibility to supply Miss A with a car which was of
satisfactory quality and fit for purpose. To satisfy this, the CRA said goods must meet the
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, taking account of the
description, the price paid, a number of listed aspects including durability, and all the other
relevant circumstances.
It was clearly relevant that this was a used car, not a new car, and was priced accordingly. It
was over five years old and had covered more than 56,000 miles when it broke down.
However, there was no evidence of ill use, as IME 2s report confirmed.
I said the CVT transmission was a major component of a car. As IME 2 pointed out, a 
replacement CVT would have cost Miss A £7,000, which was more than the car was then 
worth. I thought a reasonable person in Miss As position wouldnt have expected to have to 
replace this component, or carry out major repairs to it, five months after acquiring the car.
As the fault became evident within six months after delivery, the onus was on Moneybarn to
show that the car was of satisfactory quality/fit for purpose when supplied to Miss A. I had
been supplied with two expert reports, one of which said in the circumstances the car was of
satisfactory quality, and the other said it wasnt.
On balance, I concluded that Moneybarn hadnt met the required onus of proof. I thought the 
fact that this major component failed so soon after delivery meant the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when supplied.Moneybarn wouldnt pay for the car to be repaired, and only contributed £150 towards the
hire costs Miss A incurred. Miss A had to pay £2,700 in repair costs, and I thought this
contributed to her getting into arrears with her payments under the conditional sale
agreement. This had affected her credit file.
To compensate Miss A, I thought it was fair and reasonable that Moneybarn should:
reimburse Miss A the £2,700 repair cost she had to pay;
reimburse Miss A the £120 she had to pay IME 2 for his report;
reimburse Miss A one payment under the conditional sale agreement for the month 
of June 2019 when the car was unusable;
pay interest on the items mentioned above at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the 
respective dates they were paid by Miss A until settlement;
pay Miss A a further £250, in addition to the £150 contribution it made towards her 
hire costs, as compensation for the distress and inconvenience Moneybarn had 
caused her; and
remove all adverse information for the period up to the date of settlement about the 
conditional sale agreement, and Miss As conduct of it, from Miss As credit file.
 
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss A said she accepted my provisional decision. Moneybarn didnt respond to it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Miss A nor Moneybarn has provided any fresh information or evidence in 
response to my provisional decision, I find no reason to depart from my earlier conclusions.
Putting things right
I think Moneybarn should pay the money, and take the other steps, set out in my final 
decision below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint, and order Moneybarn No. 1 Limited to:
1. reimburse Miss A the £2,700 repair cost she had to pay;
2. reimburse Miss A the £120 she had to pay IME 2 for his report;
3. reimburse Miss A one payment under the conditional sale agreement for the month 
of June 2019 when the car was unusable;
4. pay interest on the items mentioned in 1. 2. and 3. above at the yearly rate of 8% 
simple from the respective dates they were paid by Miss A until settlement; (1)
5. pay Miss A a further £250, in addition to the £150 contribution it made towards her 
hire costs, as compensation for the distress and inconvenience Moneybarn has 
caused her; and6. remove all adverse information for the period up to the date of settlement about the 
conditional sale agreement, and Miss As conduct of it, from Miss As credit file.
(1) If Moneybarn considers that its required by HM Revenue and Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss A how much its taken off. It 
should also give Miss A a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 September 2020.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman