DRN-2370852
The complaint
H complains that Allianz Insurance Plc has declined its business insurance claim for 
accidental damage to machinery and voided the policy on the grounds that the claim was 
fraudulent.
What happened
H, a producer of toughened and laminated glass, took out a business combined policy, 
through a broker, in mid-March 2019. In late May 2019, H was working on an order to 
produce a fish tank enclosure which required the manufacture of 5 large panels of glass, at 
least two of which weighed approximately 500-600kg. The production process required the 
transportation of one of the large panels to the CNC router (the machine), the intention 
being to lay it flat on the bed of the machine. The panel was transported vertically using a 
forklift truck with a suction-cup attachment. Suction cup spacers were used as supports on 
the bed of the machine but one of them slipped from under the glass panel as the suction 
cup attachment (on the forklift) was detached. The panel fell on the machine causing 
damage. 
H made a claim, through his broker, to Allianz for accidental damage. H said damage had 
been caused to the lead-screw, carriage beam, carriage (specifically the C-drive), carriage 
cover and bed of the machine. Allianz appointed a loss adjuster to investigate and validate 
the claim. The loss adjuster initially made some enquiries about an insolvency related to H. 
H answered the loss adjusters queries and the loss adjuster referred Hs statement to 
Allianz. It also asked about the replacement cost of the machine. 
At the end of July Allianz appointed a forensic investigator. The forensic investigator made 
two site visits for the purposes of investigating the claim and establishing causation; one of 
the visits was with a representative from the machine manufacturer. 
Following its preliminary visit, in early August 2019, the forensic investigator reported to the 
loss adjuster that the damage to the carriage of the machine couldve indeed been caused 
by falling glass. But it also advised that the damage to the lead-screw, carriage-beam and 
bed of the machine wasnt consistent with falling glass. It thought that had been caused by a 
lump hammer/similar tool used to break the glass into moveable pieces so it could be moved 
off the machine after the incident. 
The loss adjuster reported to Allianz that H had been unable to explain how the damage to 
the lead-screw or carriage beam had occurred.
Allianz wrote to Hs broker in mid-September 2019 and set out 12 issues and discrepancies 
itd identified in relation to the claim. It said it sought further clarification from H in order that it 
could consider the claim further but was fully reserving its rights in relation to it. Allianz said it 
appreciated that the loss had occurred in May 2019 but said the discrepancies with the claim 
meant it had not yet been able to validate the claim and form a view on liability. 
 
Amongst other things, Allianz said:
it had seen no evidence of an order for a fish tank; 
that it had seen no evidence relating to the purchase of the machine; 
that it was strange no photographs of the incident had been taken at the time and 
retained; 
that the electricity and air supply to the machine had been disconnected prior to an 
inspection meaning the full extent of the damage was unable to be assessed; 
that the impact damage to the lead-screw was inconsistent with impacting glass and no 
credible explanation had yet been provided about how that damage couldve been 
caused; 
similarly the damage to the carriage beam appeared to be from impact from a lump 
hammer and no explanation had been provided about how that damage had been 
caused; 
a re-enactment of the incident (using a wooden board of identical size) showed it didnt 
strike the carriage-beam or lead-screw when it fell so it didnt think the event, as claimed, 
couldve caused that damage; 
six pieces of plastic from the bed of the machine showed a v-shaped incision had 
occurred that wouldnt have been caused by the impact of glass or lump hammer or 
glass cutter and itd received no explanation about how this damage had been sustained; 
that H had been expressly asked not to reinstate the electricity supply to the machine 
before the forensic investigator was on site so that the electronic information stored in 
the machine could be preserved and this was ignored, meaning Allianzs position was 
prejudiced; 
that H had removed the operator interface computer from the machine before it could be 
inspected prejudicing its position; 
that H uninstalled the relevant software on the interface computer so no historic data 
recording use of the machine was available for inspection. 
Allianz asked for Hs comments on the issues itd identified so that it could consider the claim 
further. H said that the lump hammer had been used to tap the glass after scoring it so it 
could be removed from the machine in manageable sections. It said the carriage bed had 
been damaged by broken glass. H provided invoices for the fish tank. H also said that the 
electricity and air supply to the machine were only disconnected after it was reassured by 
the second loss adjuster that the claim was proceeding, so it prepared the machine for its 
removal and replacement. H said it had no reason to think there would be any issue with the 
claim. And H said that the machine was only reconnected to the electricity supply on the 
morning the forensic investigator attended and it said it hadnt been told about the need to 
preserve information. H said when the forensic investigator first attended he agreed with it 
about what had happened. 
The forensic investigator reviewed Hs comments. It said that if the hammer and glass cutter 
hadnt been used with force (to break the glass into manageable pieces so it could be 
removed from the machine bed) then they cant have been the cause of damage to the 
machine, but that still didnt explain what had damaged the carriage beam, bed, and lead-
screw. The forensic investigator maintained that these three areas of damage hadnt been 
caused by falling glass and that there were numerous areas on the bed to show a tool had 
been driven into it. The forensic investigator maintained that H hadnt explained what had 
caused the damage. The forensic investigator cited accounts and evidence itd obtained 
from others that showed the electricity and air supply had been turned off by H before the 
loss adjusters first visit and not, as claimed, after the second loss adjusters visit.  
The forensic investigator went on to say it had made it clear to H on the first visit that nothing 
about the machine was to be altered until Allianz authorised it. And it denied that it had ever 
said itd agreed with Hs findings on the cause of damage. Allianz wrote to H in early January 2020 to say its concerns about the circumstances of the 
claim had not been alleviated. It said its forensic investigator had carried out further 
investigations into how the carriage bed had been damaged which had confirmed that he 
incisions werent consistent with glass impact but were consistent with having been caused 
by a square-edged blade tool; residue from which was noted to be in situ. Allianz said such 
damage appeared deliberately inflicted. Allianz asked H for further representations in relation 
to this issue and said that unless a credible explanation was forthcoming it continued to 
reserve its rights, including those relating to the policys fraud clause. 
H appointed a loss assessor to assist it with the claim. 
In April 2020, Allianz wrote again to H to say that it still had outstanding concerns for which it 
was satisfied that no credible explanation had been provided. Specifically, it said there was 
still no explanation about how damage had been caused to the lead-screw. It said the 
reconstruction showed there was no contact between the falling glass and lead-screw and it 
said H accepted that no explanation as to what caused the damage could be provided. 
Allianz said microscopic inspection of the plastic pieces from the bed displayed evidence 
that a metal tool had been driven into the bed which suggested the damage hadnt been 
caused by the falling glass. And Allianz said, damage couldnt have been caused to the 
carriage beam in the manner described by H as it showed signs of being damaged by a 
lump hammer as opposed to falling glass. 
Allianz said it thought the damage had been caused deliberately by H. It said itd given H 
every opportunity to provide a credible explanation but none had been received. So, Allianz 
said it viewed Hs claim as fraudulent in that there was no legitimate loss or damage 
because the damage was caused deliberately and, where some of the damage was caused 
by falling glass, H had fraudulently exaggerated that damage to include that which had been 
caused deliberately in order to recover monies that would not otherwise be payable. Allianz 
said it intended to decline the claim, void the policy and retain the premium. Before doing so, 
it gave H one final opportunity to make representations. 
Hs loss assessor responded to say the forensic investigator had agreed with Hs account of 
events when he first visited, only changing his view on his second visit. The loss assessor 
said H doubted the forensic investigators impartiality. He also said the first loss adjuster also 
agreed with H but was now using Hs actions at the time of the incident against him. The loss 
assessor said that H had always stated that it had no idea how the lead-screw was damaged 
and had only discovered it when it pulled back the black fabric gator that covered the screw 
which had been ripped in the incident. 
H said it had explained that the bed of the machine had been damaged by the falling glass 
and that the forensic investigator had agreed with it during the first visit. H also said that the 
carriage-beam was only scratched and that the reconstruction had shown how that had 
occurred but that the investigators report then said something different to what had been 
stated on site. Finally the loss assessor said that H had always been willing to repair rather 
than replace the machine so it failed to see what benefit there wouldve been to H to have 
deliberately damaged the machine itself. The loss assessor said there was no evidence to 
back up that the machine had been deliberately damaged so it asked Allianz to reconsider 
its position. 
Allianz wrote to H in late May 2020 to say it hadnt been persuaded by what it had said. It 
disputed that its forensic investigator had ever agreed or accepted Hs version of events only 
to later change its view. It said, at most, Hs version of events was acknowledged but not 
agreed or disagreed with. Allianz said that it had decided that Hs claim was fraudulent so it declined to pay it and was voiding its policy from the date of the claim and retaining the 
premiums. 
H complained to Allianz. Allianz looked into Hs complaint but said it thought itd reached the 
correct decision about the claim and the policy. Unhappy with the outcome of Allianzs 
investigation, H complained to this service. Our investigator looked into Hs complaint but 
didnt think Allianz had treated it unfairly or unreasonably so he didnt recommend that it was 
upheld. 
The complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not my role to manage an insurance claim. Its my role to decide if, having taken all the 
evidence into account, Allianz has fairly declined Hs claim and if it has fairly invoked the 
policys fraud condition to void the policy and retain the premiums. Unfortunately for H, I 
have to say I think it has. Ill explain why. 
the claim
Its generally the responsibility of the policyholder to show they have a valid claim. In this 
case, H said its CNC router had been damaged accidentally by a glass panel that had 
slipped. Specifically, H claimed for damage to the lead-screw, carriage beam, carriage 
(specifically the C-drive), carriage cover and bed.
Insurers are entitled to validate claims they receive. This was a potentially high value claim 
and, not unreasonably, Allianz wanted to be certain about how the damage had been 
caused (and whether the policy engaged to cover the damage) before accepting the claim. 
So it appointed a forensic investigator to establish causation. Ive read the report prepared 
by the investigator a few days after his first visit. He is clear at that point (early August 2019) 
that the damage to the carriage cover could well have been caused by the fallen panel but 
that the damage H had claimed for to the lead-screw, carriage-beam and bed of the machine 
wasnt. 
The reports of the forensic investigator are the only expert ones available about how the 
different sites of damage have been caused. I cant reasonably ignore what they say; 
particularly as there is no expert evidence submitted by H in support of its contention that all 
the sites of damage were caused by the falling panel. 
I appreciate that H has said that the investigator agreed, during its first visit, with its account 
of what happened to cause the damage and that it subsequently changed its mind (as did 
the first loss adjuster). Unfortunately for H, theres no documentary evidence that the 
investigator did change its mind. Indeed the reports Ive read are consistent about how the 
damage was likely to have been sustained, so I cant fairly ignore them. To do so would not 
be reasonable. 
And Ive thought too about what H has said about the damage and how it was caused  all 
by the falling glass  but I have to take all the evidence into account. And that includes the 
forensics experts view. In the absence of any expert evidence from H to counter the reports 
and conclusions of the forensic investigator I find that I am more persuaded by what he has 
had to say, and the descriptions and analysis of how the different areas of damage were 
sustained, than I have been by Hs account. So, on balance, I think that its more likely than not that only the damage to the carriage was 
caused by the falling glass panel. Having taken all the evidence into account, I cant ignore 
the forensic investigators comments and analysis that the falling glass panel was unlikely to 
have caused the damage H claimed to the carriage-beam, lead-screw and machine bed. 
And in reaching this view, Ive also taken into account the absence of any alternative (to the 
forensic investigators view) account of how the damage to the lead screw, carriage-beam 
and machine bed was actually caused. I appreciate that H doesnt wish to merely speculate 
but, as Ive said above, it must show that the damage it is claiming for is covered by the 
policy and I dont think it has been able to do that.
Allianz has said that the only possible explanation is that the damage was caused 
deliberately. Im not sure that I can reasonably agree with that. That is certainly one 
possibility but there is no evidence that Ive seen that the machine was definitely damaged 
deliberately. There are other possible causes, albeit also speculative.
Fraud
Unfortunately for H, despite there appearing to be some damage to the machine (specifically 
to the carriage) that wouldve been covered by the policy, the fact the other damage claimed 
for appeared to have been caused by means unknown meant Allianz  after itd carried out a 
forensic investigation  formed the view that the claim was exaggerated. This, together with 
the other inconsistencies in Hs account of events, led it to reserve its rights to both the claim 
and to invoke the fraud clause. 
I can see that Allianz gave H multiple opportunities to account for how the damage to the 
lead-screw, carriage beam and machine bed occurred. It set out to H how its forensic expert 
had concluded the damage to these areas hadnt been caused by the accident with the 
falling glass panel and asked H to explain, given the evidence, how the damage couldve 
occurred. Unfortunately H has been unable to do so. Allianzs forensic investigator accepted 
Hs explanation that the machine bed wasnt damaged when H broke up the glass with a 
glass cutter and lump hammer into manageable pieces so it could be moved off the 
machine. But I can see that it asked H to explain, if that was the case, how the damage had 
so occurred. Unfortunately for H, no credible explanation has been forthcoming. 
Taking the evidence into account means its reasonable to conclude that H claimed for areas 
of damage to its CNC router which werent caused by the incident with the falling glass 
panel. Its not my role to decide why that happened or to find what it was that did cause 
those areas of damage. I have to decide whether Allianz, fairly and reasonably in all the 
circumstances, invoked the fraud clause in Hs policy in order to decline the claim and void it. 
And for the reasons Ive set out above, I think it did. 
The relevant term in the policy states: 
7 Fraud
If the insured or anyone acting on the insured behalf;
makes a false or fraudulent claim;
makes any exaggerated claim;
supports a claim by false or fraudulent documents, devices or statements (whether or
not the claim is itself genuine); or
makes a claim for loss or damage which the insured or anyone acting on the
insureds behalf deliberately caused;
the insurer will:refuse to pay the whole of the claim; and
recover from the insured any sums that it has already paid in respect of the claim.
The insurer may also notify the insured that it will be treating the policy as having terminated
with effect from the date of the earliest of any of the acts set out in sub-clauses above.
In that event, the insured will:
have no cover under the policy from the date of the termination; and
not be entitled to any refund of premium.
Where a claim has been fraudulently exaggerated, it means the insured is trying to get 
something to which they arent entitled. This means that an insurer can refuse the entire 
claim, even if other parts of the claim were genuine and not exaggerated. Here, even though 
Im not persuaded that the evidence reasonably allows me to agree with Allianz that the 
damage was caused deliberately (as Ive referred to above), meaning Allianz cant rely on 
the part of the clause above which refers to deliberately caused damage, I do think that 
Allianz has provided enough evidence to show that H has exaggerated its claim. It has 
shown that there are several inconsistencies which may not have individually been enough 
to show fraud but, when taken together are, I think, persuasive. That being the case I think it 
can rely on the fraud clause in the policy which allows it to refuse the claim, terminate the 
policy and retain the premium.
It follows that, having taken all the circumstances into account, Im unable to fairly or 
reasonably uphold Hs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman