DRN-3315735
The complaint
Mr C complains that he was unable to port his mortgage with HSBC UK Bank Plc due to its 
delays, unfair processes and errors. He asks that it refunds the early repayment charge 
(ERC) he paid.
What happened
Mr C had a mortgage with HSBC. In mid-2020 Mr C decided to move to a new house. He 
wanted to port his mortgage product and take out additional borrowing. 
Mr C tried to make a porting application online but found he was unable to do so. HSBC said 
hed need an appointment with a mortgage adviser. This was because the loan to value was 
more than 60%. Mr C made a complaint, hoping this would result in HSBC allowing him to 
make an application online. However he didnt receive a response to his complaint. Mr C 
applied to another lender. He repaid his HSBC mortgage in late November 2020 and paid 
the ERC of about £5,000.
Mr C says:
it was unfair for HSBC to require him to meet with a mortgage adviser. He says he didnt 
need mortgage advice and HSBC should have allowed him to make an application 
online. Mr C says waiting for an appointment with a mortgage adviser would have risked 
his buyer pulling out. And the product he wanted wouldnt have still been available.
HSBC didnt respond to his complaint until February 2021. As a result, he had to apply 
for a mortgage elsewhere.
HSBC took four mortgage payments after hed repaid the mortgage. It only refunded one 
of these payments
Our investigator said HSBC was entitled to make a commercial decision about its application 
process, and how long products were available for. It offered Mr C an appointment with a 
mortgage adviser within about three weeks, which our investigator said wasnt unreasonable 
given the wider circumstances at that time. The investigator said HSBC recognised it didnt 
respond promptly to Mr Cs complaint and offered £200 compensation. Our investigator said 
the outcome would have been the same if it responded sooner. He said Mr C chose to make 
an application elsewhere and HSBC was entitled to apply the ERC. 
Mr C didnt agree. In summary, he said by ignoring its own complaints process HSBC set off 
a chain of events that led to his financial loss. He said HSBC still hadnt addressed his initial 
complaint. 
Mr C said HSBCs decision to restrict online applications breached its regulatory requirement 
to treat customers fairly as it restricted existing customers access and choice. As an existing 
customer he had to either port his product or pay an ERC. Hed hoped when making a 
complaint that HSBC would recognise this and change its policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Refund of the ERC
Mr C took out a fixed interest rate product which included an ERC. This was payable if the 
mortgage was repaid before the end of 2022. Mr C agreed to this when he took out the 
product. Mr C repaid the mortgage in November 2020 and HSBC applied the ERC, as it was 
entitled to do under the mortgage terms and conditions.
Mr C says HSBC should refund the ERC as its unfair application process and failure to 
respond to his complaint meant he had to go elsewhere.
I dont think that its fair and reasonable to require HSBC to refund the ERC. Ive explained 
why below.
The mortgage application process
Mr C wanted to port his existing mortgage product to a new mortgage and take out additional 
borrowing. 
HSBC is entitled to make a commercial decision about its policies and application process. 
At that time, HSBCs policy was that it only allowed online applications where the loan to 
value was below 60%. It applied this policy correctly to Mr Cs application. Mr C says the 
mortgage he wanted had a loan to value of 80%. HSBC required him to meet with a 
mortgage adviser to make an application. 
In early August 2020, HSBC offered Mr C two appointments, one at the end of August 2020 
and one at the beginning of September 2020. I dont think this was unreasonable, taking into 
account the wider circumstances at that time. The Covid-19 pandemic and the UK 
Governments stamp duty holiday meant many lenders were dealing with high numbers of 
applications and customer enquiries. Mr C declined to meet with a mortgage adviser. As a 
result, he didnt make an application to HSBC. 
Mr C says he didnt need mortgage advice and wanted to apply online. He wanted to secure 
a mortgage product that was being withdrawn that day and he was concerned that any delay 
might lead to his buyer pulling out. Of course, many customers would have had similar 
concerns. I dont think its reasonable to say that HSBC should have made an exception 
from its policy for Mr C. 
Due to issues with the property chain, Mr Cs sale and purchase didnt complete until late 
November 2020. Mr C accepts its likely a porting application would have completed in time if 
hed met with HSBCs mortgage adviser at the end of August. I appreciate he didnt know in 
early August there would be these delays with the sale and purchase. 
Mr C is saying, in effect, that HSBCs process was so unfair that he had to apply elsewhere. 
I dont think thats reasonable. I dont think it was unfair for HSBC to have a policy that 
customers had to meet with a mortgage adviser in certain circumstances. And I think HSBC 
offered Mr C an appointment with a mortgage adviser within a reasonable timescale. I dont 
think HSBC treated Mr C unfairly. 
HSBCs complaint handlingComplaint handling isnt something this service can look into. This is because it isnt a 
regulated activity. However, I can consider how HSBC dealt with a complaint if this affected 
the resolution of the underlying problem. Mr C says thats the case here.
Here, the underlying problem was that Mr C couldnt go ahead with his mortgage application 
as quickly as he wanted or in the way he wanted. He had to wait three weeks for an 
appointment with a mortgage adviser. He says he made a complaint hoping this would 
expedite matters, ideally by allowing him to apply online. Mr C says it was reasonable for 
him to expect HSBC to respond either with an uphold (in which case it would allow him to 
apply online) or non-uphold (in which case hed have to make an appointment with a 
mortgage adviser). 
HSBC has eight weeks to respond to a complaint. From what Mr C has said, its likely hes 
familiar with the complaints process. So when he made his complaint its likely he knew he 
might not get a response before the end of September 2020. Mr C says HSBC could have 
sent an interim response arranging an appointment with a mortgage adviser as a 
contingency plan. Equally, Mr C could have accepted one of the appointments HSBC had 
already offered. 
HSBC didnt respond to the complaint Mr C raised in August. HSBC says it wouldnt have 
upheld the complaint or made a policy exception for Mr C. So if HSBC had responded to the 
complaint, Mr C would then have needed to make an appointment with a mortgage adviser.
HSBC accepts that it didnt correctly record or respond to Mr Cs complaint in August. It 
offered £200 compensation as an apology for this. I think this is fair and reasonable, in the 
circumstances. I appreciate Mr Cs frustration that HSBC didnt respond to his complaint. But 
I dont think its reasonable to find that it was HSBCs failure to respond to Mr Cs complaint 
that led to him taking out a mortgage elsewhere and paying the ERC. 
Mr C didnt need to wait for a response to his complaint before making an appointment with 
a mortgage adviser. If HSBC had responded to say he could make an application online, he 
could have cancelled the appointment. It was Mr Cs decision not to meet with a mortgage 
adviser to make an application which meant he couldnt port the mortgage. 
The direct debit payments
Mr C repaid his mortgage on 26 November 2020. His monthly payments were collected by 
direct debit on 1 December, three working days later. HSBC says its automated request for 
direct debit payments was made a few days before Mr Cs mortgage was redeemed. It says 
it refunded the payments within its usual timescale. I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
require HSBC to do anything more about this.
My final decision
My decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay £200 to Mr C, as it offered to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman