DRN-2415096
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy with the investment advice provided by Sesame Limited in 1997.
What happened
In January 1997, Mrs C invested £12,500 into an iinvestment bond. She received a monthly 
income from the bond and surrendered it in July 2002. 
In 2019, Mrs C complained to Sesame via a representative. On her behalf, the 
representative said the bond was unsuitable for Mrs C. They said the funds exposed her to 
unnecessary taxes and that PEP/ISA allowances were available and shouldve been made 
use of. They thought low cost funds shouldve been considered, and that Mrs C wasnt 
informed about any available alternatives to the bond. The representative also complained 
Mrs C wasnt informed of the risk of the investment, and that she was exposed to 
unnecessary costs. 
Sesame responded to the complaint in early 2020. They said they didnt hold much 
information from the point of sale, but from what they did have, they felt the bond had been 
suitable for Mrs C. 
Unhappy with this response, Mrs C referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into it and asked for further information. Their opinion was that the complaint 
shouldnt be upheld. As Mrs C disagreed, the case has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There has been very little information provided by either party on this case, which is 
reasonable and to be expected, given its been about 25 years since the advice was 
provided. This leaves me to decide this complaint based on what Ive been provided with, 
along with what I think is more likely, taking everything Ive seen into account. 
Mrs Cs representative has placed great emphasis on the fact they feel a PEP wouldve been 
more suitable for Mrs C. I appreciate this is a key part of why they feel the advice was 
unsuitable for Mrs C. But the availability of another product on the market which may (or may 
not) have been suitable for Mrs C doesnt make the product she was advised to invest in 
inherently unsuitable. To determine whether Mrs C was misadvised  the complaint thats 
been raised - I have to consider whether the bond was suitable for Mrs C taking into account 
her investment objectives, attitude to risk, capacity for loss, and personal circumstances.   
In order to do that, Ive taken account of everything Ive been provided with from both 
Sesame and from Mrs C via her representative. 
The representative has told us that Mrs C cannot remember her attitude to risk, that she was 
an inexperienced investor and that while she cant recall why she surrendered the bond, she 
suspects it was because she needed the money.
Ive seen a copy of the bond application form. From this, I can see Mrs C was 44 years of 
age in 1997. I can also see that she took out the bond in joint names with her husband Mr C, 
and that they opted to take a regular monthly income from it.  
Ive not been provided with much else. I can see that during their investigation, Sesame 
requested details from Mrs Cs representative about her income, savings, employment and 
investment history. It appears they werent able to gather this information. Our investigator 
also requested information from the representative, asking for Mrs Cs recollections from the 
time of sale. 
In response, the representative spoke to Mrs C. They relayed that Mrs C explained her 
husband had passed away around the time of the sale, and that her daughter had also 
passed away not long afterwards. Understandably, shed tried to forget about that time but 
she believed the funds for the investment had come from her husbands estate.
It seems Mrs C went through a very difficult time, so its completely understandable that her 
recollections from the time arent very clear. However, I must point out that the bond was 
taken out in joint names between Mr and Mrs C and signed for by both of them. On this 
basis, its not possible that Mr C died before the investment was taken out, or that the capital 
invested came from his estate. 
Sesame have explained that in 2000, the bond passed into Mrs Cs sole name. Whilst I 
havent seen their system notes from this time, and Mrs C hasnt confirmed it, I think its 
likely Mr C sadly passed away around that time. The bond application form makes it clear 
that if either of the applicants were to die, the bond would pass into the sole name of the 
other applicant. 
Given the circumstances and taking everything into account, I havent been provided with 
enough information to suggest what Mrs Cs attitude to risk or capacity for loss was in 1997. 
In relation to her circumstances at the time, I know little more than her age and marital 
status. With regard to her investment objectives, the only thing I have been able to establish 
is that she wanted a regular income from her investment. 
Without any further information I can rely on, I simply do not have enough to say that the 
advice provided to Mrs C in 1997 was unsuitable for her. So Im unable to uphold this 
complaint. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022. 
Artemis Pantelides
Ombudsman