DRN-1642109
 
The complaint 
Mr Ws complaint is about the redress Ald Automotive Limited (Ald), trading as Ford Lease, 
provided when they agreed to allow him to return a faulty car he had been financing through 
a hire agreement with them.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr W acquired his car under a hire agreement. The hire agreement is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Ald, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to 
Mr W. The car here was brand new so I would not expect it to have any faults. 
And when we consider whether a car is of satisfactory quality the relevant legislation also 
says we should consider whether it has proven to be suitably durable.
I dont think this car has proven to be of satisfactory quality as I dont think a reasonable 
person would consider it suitably durable. Its clear the business were unable to resolve the 
electrical problem that plagued this vehicle in June 2019. I dont think a reasonable person 
would accept that the car had therefore proven durable if it was to experience an ongoing 
electrical problem for the remainder of the hire period. So I think Ald were right to allow Mr W to reject the car and to terminate his agreement with 
them with nothing more to pay.
They were right to refund some payments because of the lack of use Mr W had experienced. 
Considering the £653.05 they refunded; the time Mr W was off the road and the lack of 
courtesy car provision on occasion, I think that was a reasonable refund to provide.
Ald dont think they should refund Mr Ws advance payment as they say it wasnt a deposit 
but a larger portion of the agreed lease cost that is paid upfront in order to reduce the 
subsequent monthly payments. 
I dont accept that the advance payment/deposit should be considered to be funding the 
whole agreement and that therefore only a portion of it should be repaid. The size of the 
deposit reduces the monthly instalments; its a one off upfront payment and should be 
refunded in full in these circumstances. It will be needed by Mr W to fund the deposit on a 
replacement vehicle and whilst there will be occasions when refunding the deposit is not the 
fairest or most reasonable redress, I think it is the fairest course of action here.
I also think its clear Mr W has experienced some inconvenience. Hes had to take his car 
back for repairs on several occasions; hes not always been provided with a courtesy car 
and hes had to progress his complaint to this service when I think it could have been 
resolved earlier. In those circumstances Ald should provide some compensation and I agree 
with the investigators suggestion that they should pay Mr W £150.
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld. In order to resolve Mr Ws 
complaint, Ald Automotive Limited should, in addition to the measures theyve already 
agreed:
refund Mr Ws deposit/advance payment and add 8% simple interest per year from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mr W £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2020.
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman