DRN-2982001
The complaint
Mr P complains that BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited shouldnt have agreed to lend to
him under a hire purchase agreement on the grounds that it was not affordable.
 
What happened
Mr P entered into a hire purchase agreement with BMW Financial in June 2019 to fund the 
acquisition of a car. The cash price of the car was £39,339. The total amount payable under 
the agreement was £49,740.61 to be repaid over 49 months by way of Mr P paying £704.53 
per month, then an optional final payment of £15,910.17.
In early 2020 Mr P raised a complaint with BMW Financial on the grounds that the 
agreement it gave him was unaffordable. He also raised issue with a number of insurance 
products which had been sold to him at the point of supply. He said that he was not made 
aware that a £1,600 deposit he paid had been used to finance those products rather than 
towards his agreement, and in any case, their term was for 36 months so he wouldnt have 
the benefit of them for the full term of the agreement.
BMW Financial said that Mr Ps application had been manually reviewed by its underwriting 
team which found that Mr Ps employment, credit profile and demographic supported the 
terms of the application, so it was unable to justify declining the request for lending. Overall it 
considered it hadnt done anything wrong in arranging Mr Ps agreement.
Mr P referred his complaint to this service. He said that he wanted BMW Financial to take 
the car back and for him not to be held liable for future payments. He also asked for his 
deposit to be refunded.
Our investigator found that BMW Financial had not carried out an appropriate assessment of 
Mr Ps ability to sustainably repay the borrowing. They said that BMW Financial ought to 
have carried out additional checks, and if it had done so, it wouldve been clear that Mr P 
didnt have sufficient expendable income to cover the monthly payments.
 
In respect of the insurance products sold to Mr P at the point of supply, our investigator said 
that they were not paid for using the hire purchase agreement, so it wasnt fair for BMW 
Financial to be held responsible for a complaint about their sale. They noted that the deposit 
amount noted on Mr Ps agreement was £13, so thats the amount BMW Financial ought to 
be responsible for. Around this time  late October 2020  Mr P stopped using the car and 
recorded it as being off the road. 
Our investigator told BMW Financial to;
- end the finance agreement so that Mr P has nothing further to pay, write off any 
outstanding balance and collect the car without any further cost to Mr P;
- calculate how much Mr P has paid in total, deduct £5,600 (16 payments of £350 per 
month which our investigator thought represented fair usage) and refund the 
difference adding simple interest at 8% per year from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement;
- refund the deposit Mr P paid of £13, plus simple interest at 8% per year from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement; and
- remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ps credit file regarding the 
agreement.
BMW Financial didnt agree with our investigators recommendations. It questioned why Mr 
P chose to agree to the lending if he knew he could not afford it. It reiterated that Mr Ps 
application had met its lending criteria without concerns over affordability.
The case was passed to me and I issued a provisional decision on it. In summary, I said;
Did BMW Financial carry out reasonable and proportionate affordability checks
In considering whats fair and reasonable regarding the affordability of Mr Ps loan, Ill take 
into account relevant law, rules and guidance, codes of practice as well as what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the time. 
BMW Financial has regulatory obligations under the Consumer Credit Sourcebook or 
CONC. It says that lenders need to carry out checks to ensure that any lending it gives is 
affordable and that repayments are sustainable for the borrower.
Applying this to Mr Ps complaint, I need to determine if BMW Financial carried out 
reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr P would be able to repay the 
loan in a sustainable way. If I find that it did not, then I need to consider whether reasonable 
and proportionate checks would have shown that he could sustainably repay the loan. 
Carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks doesnt look the same for every customer. 
Id have expected BMW Financial to take into account a number of factors to determine what 
a reasonable and proportionate check was for Mr Ps circumstances, including (but not 
limited to) Mr Ps financial circumstances, the amount of credit, the total repayable as well as 
the duration of the agreement and size of the regular payments.
BMW Financial has told us that it completed a credit check, including an internal credit score 
and it also asked Mr P for proof of his address. I havent seen that BMW Financial asked Mr 
P any questions about, or for evidence of, his income and expenditure. Even if I were to 
accept that Mr P had a reasonable credit history, taking into account the overall level of the 
lending, as well as an ongoing commitment in excess of £700 per month, I think it wouldve 
been prudent for BMW Financial to have asked Mr P for details about his income and 
expenditure, at the very least.
 
Considering that BMW Financial didnt ask Mr P any details of his income and expenditure, I 
think it had very little understanding of his financial circumstances, or his ability to 
sustainably repay the loan. So, it follows that I dont think BMW Financial carried out 
reasonable and proportionate checks of Mr Ps ability to sustainably repay the borrowing. As 
a result, I need to decide whether reasonable and proportionate checks wouldve shown that 
lending given to Mr P was affordable.
 What reasonable and proportionate checks would have shown
Mr P has given us an overview of his financial position at the time he applied for the lending. 
Hes broken down his income and expenditure and provided bank statements to support 
what hes told us. I dont necessarily think that BMW Financial ought to have asked Mr P for 
all of the evidence hes now provided us. Nonetheless I think the evidence that Mr Ps 
provided this service with is a reasonable and reliable representation of his financial position 
at the time, and also likely representative of what a reasonable and proportionate check 
wouldve found. 
Mr Ps provided wage slips which show that his income was approximately £2,000 per 
month. The bank statements Mr P has given us demonstrate that he received a regular 
payment of around £1,200 from his flatmate in respect of rent payments, making a net 
regular monthly income of around £3,200. Mr P has satisfied me that his monthly regular 
committed expenditure, including things such as rent, food, utility bills, travel, insurances and 
mobile phone payments came to approximately £2,700 per month. This would leave Mr P 
with a total disposable income of around £500 per month, around £200 less than the monthly 
payment required under his agreement.
 
Thats not necessarily all that is represented on the bank statements Mr P has given us. 
Around the time that Mr P applied for the loan with BMW Financial, his bank statements 
show a number of cash transfers to and from what appear to be another account in his 
name. In the months subsequent to his loan with BMW Financial, on occasion the level of  
payments in and out of Mr Ps main current account exceed the income and expenditure he 
told us about. I dont think its unusual that peoples income and expenditure might vary 
though. 
Mr Ps told us that he has another current account as well as a savings account, and has 
given us evidence of the movements of those accounts. At the point Mr P applied for the 
loan on 29 June 2019, I can see that he had £430 in his savings account and (having just 
been paid) approximately £5,000 in his current account. The balance of his other current 
account was £350. Many of the payments made on Mr Ps main current account is between 
his other current and savings account. So, Ive not been persuaded that Mr P had a 
significant amount of savings at the time he applied for the loan with BMW Financial, or at 
least significant enough to suggest he could sustainably repay the loan.
 
Taking all of the above into account, Im therefore satisfied that if BMW Financial had 
completed reasonable and proportionate affordability checks of Mr Ps ability to sustainably 
repay the lending, it ought to have found that it was not affordable for him. As a result, BMW 
Financial needs to do something to put things right for Mr P. 
Putting things right
Putting things right will mainly involve returning the car, ending the agreement and making 
some refunds to Mr P. Ill explain what I intend to require BMW Financial to do in detail.
I think its firstly necessary to address the issue of Mr Ps deposit. He said he was given the 
impression that it would be paid towards the loan. Instead it was used to pay for insurance 
products which he says were mis-sold on the basis they would not run for the duration of the 
loan agreement. 
Our investigator didnt think we should consider asking BMW Financial to refund costs 
associated with those products, but I disagree. Im satisfied that Mr P wouldnt have 
purchase those products if he had not been allowed to enter into an agreement which was not affordable for him. As such, I think this is a consequential cost Mr P incurred due to 
BMW Financial providing him with an unaffordable agreement.
Given the above, I think BMW Financial should refund the £1,600 deposit Mr P paid. I think 
itd be fair for it to make some deductions from that amount though. For example, I think its 
only fair that Mr P pays a sum for the time that hes had the benefit of the cover  between 
July 2019 and October 2020. So, I think its fair that BMW Financial should retain the 
equivalent of 16 payments of the total 36 months cover would be provided. 
Additionally, from whats been said, it seems that the insurance products Mr P complains 
about are underwritten by businesses independent of BMW Financial. I cant therefore ask it 
to cancel them. It might be the case that Mr P can cancel the products and may receive a 
rebate of the premium paid. Id also expect BMW Financial to retain a sum equal to any 
rebate Mr P receives (if he receives one) after the car is returned, because it wouldnt be fair 
for him to benefit from that sum twice.
Lastly, while I agree that BMW Financial should return the payments Mr P made, with 
interest, its clear that Mr P has had reasonable use of the car from July 2019 until he 
declared the car off the road from November 2020, so for 16 months. As a result, I think 
BMW Financial should retain a portion of the payments which reflect Mr Ps use. 
In considering what a fair amount would be, I need to take into account that Mr Ps 
agreement was subject to interest, so the monthly payments required of him would not solely 
have covered the use of the car. Ive also taken into consideration the nature of the car and 
the mileage Mr P covered while the car was in his possession. Additionally, I also need to 
take into account what position Mr P likely wouldve been in, had he not entered into this 
agreement. With particular regard to Mr Ps apparent disposable income at the point he 
applied for the loan, I find that his original budget of around £350 wouldve been a 
reasonable indication of repayments he might be able to afford. Taking all of these 
circumstances into consideration, I agree with our investigator that £350 per month would 
represent a fair amount for Mr P to pay for usage. Therefore, BMW Financial should retain 
16 payments of £350, totalling £5,600.
Lastly, our investigator recommended that BMW Financial ought to remove any adverse 
information about the agreement it may have recorded with credit reference agencies as Mr 
P shouldnt be disadvantaged by its lending decision. As far as Im aware, Mr P is still 
making payments to the loan by borrowing the funds from friends and family. Im not aware 
of any adverse information BMW Financial has recorded, but I agree with the principle here 
and require it to remove any if it has been added.
 
I provisionally concluded that BMW Financial should;
- end Mr Ps finance agreement so that he has nothing further to pay, write of the 
balance and collect the car without cost to Mr P;
- calculate and refund all of the monthly payments Mr P has made to date, deducting a 
total of £5,600 for fair usage. It should add simple interest to any refund at 8% per 
year from the date of each overpayment to the date of settlement;
- refund Mr P the £1,600 deposit he paid, deducting a portion for the time he had the 
benefit of the insurance policies. It should calculate this by dividing the total policy 
costs by 36 and retaining 16 payments. It should also retain the equivalent value of 
any policy rebate Mr P might receive once the car is returned and liaise with Mr P 
regarding this. It should add simple interest to this sum at 8% per year from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement; and- Remove any negative or adverse information from Mr Ps credit file
Both Mr P and BMW Financial responded to my provisional decision. Mr P agreed and 
added that hed been able to cancel the insurance policies referenced above around June or 
July 2020. He said hed received a rebate of £779.14. He said hed like to be paid the 
remainder of his deposit - £820.86. 
BMW Financial made a number of points in relation to my provisional decision. In summary, 
it said;
- Mr Ps application wasnt manually reviewed by its underwriting team. Its underwriting 
system had made an auto accept decision having considered Mr Ps employment 
status, residential status and age. It also considered the data from credit reference 
agencies before the application was accepted.
- Mr P was given ample opportunity to make an informed decision about the lending 
having been given details of the lending and asked to complete a demands and 
needs questionnaire.
- Its not required to force its customers to offer income and expenditure evidence. It 
also questioned why no concerns were raised by its in house scoring system and 
why Mr P agreed to lending he was not comfortable with.
- Mr P requested a six month deferral and subsequently repaid the associated 
payments, totaling £4,227.18, at the end of the deferral. It suggested this wasnt 
indicative of someone unable to make the required payments. 
- Mr P ought to take some responsibility as he wouldve been aware of his financial 
position as well as the requirements of him under the lending before agreeing to it.
Before issuing my provisional decision I gave Mr P the opportunity to comment further on the 
circumstances behind the payment deferral. He said that hed taken advantage of it as itd 
been offered and made a payment at the end of the deferral as his monthly payments might 
have otherwise gone up. He provided further evidence of his financial situation, which Ill 
address in more detail below. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, Im still of the opinion that I reached in my provisional decision. Ill explain 
why. 
In relation to BMW Financials point about whether Mr Ps application was automatically or 
manually underwritten, Im satisfied its previously told us the application was not 
automatically accepted and therefore manually underwritten. In any case, I dont think it 
makes a difference; I think my provisional decision has adequately explained why BMW 
Financial didnt carry out an appropriate assessment of Mr Ps application, regardless of how 
in was assessed. 
A lot of the points BMW Financial made are about whether Mr P was given sufficient 
information about the borrowing and whether he ought to have known the lending was 
unaffordable. I can see why its made those points, but my role isnt to test whether Mr P 
made a reasonable decision in accepting the lending. My role is to determine whether BMW 
Financial met its obligations under relevant legislation and regulations to adequately assess 
Mr Ps ability to repay the lending it gave. My provisional decision explains why it didnt.Mr Ps said that he took the payment deferral because it was offered, he was struggling 
financially, and chose to repay those payments at the end of the deferral to prevent any 
remaining payments increasing. I find Mr Ps given a plausible and reasonable explanation 
behind his choice to accept a payment deferral. Given the explanation, and supporting 
evidence hes provided in the form of bank statements, I dont find that its an indicator that 
Mr P might be able to sustainably afford the payments under the agreement. 
Further, I dont think Mr Ps current financial circumstances are relevant to whether or not the 
lending was affordable at the outset. But, I think the events which have subsequently played 
out only serve to reinforce that the lending was unaffordable at the outset. I say this because 
I think its clear Mr P has only been able to make the payments under the agreement by 
declaring the car off road to limit associated expenses such as tax, insurance and fuel, and 
coming to an arrangement to pay a reduced amount of rent whilst the complaint is ongoing  
which hes provided evidence of.
Given all of the above, I remain of the opinion that BMW Financial did not complete a 
reasonable and proportionate check of Mr Ps ability to sustainably repay the lending, and 
had it done so, it ought to have found that the lending was unaffordable based on Mr Ps 
financial circumstances at the time. 
Lastly, Mr P has said that he believes the remainder of his deposit should be returned to 
him. However, Mr P hasnt said he didnt want the insurance products the deposit was 
mostly used to purchase, simply that he wasnt aware theyd be deducted from his deposit 
rather than added to his lending. Mr P also said that those products were mis-sold because 
they wouldnt run for the duration of his agreement. But, given subsequent events  Mr P 
declaring the car off the road  he hasnt needed the benefit of those products for the 
duration of the agreement and ultimately cancelled them, so theres been no detriment in 
that respect.
On the basis that Mr P seems to have wanted to purchase those products, its only fair that 
he should pay a sum for them whilst he had the benefit of them. As Mr P received a rebate 
before he declared the car off the road, I dont find it necessary to ask BMW Financial to 
repay the remainder that deposit. That being said, Mr P said there were administration 
charges applied to his rebate. BMW Financial should repay any charges, fees or penalties to 
Mr P if he provides it with evidence of those along with the £13 deposit which was added to 
his agreement.
My final decision
 For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and 
require BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited to;
- end Mr Ps finance agreement so that he has nothing further to pay, write of the 
balance and collect the car without cost to Mr P;
- calculate and refund all of the monthly payments Mr P has made to date, deducting a 
total of £5,600 for fair usage. It should add simple interest to any refund at 8% per 
year from the date of each payment to the date of settlement*;
- refund Mr P the £13 deposit added to his agreement, as well as the value of any 
administration charges, fees or penalties applied to the rebate he received relating to 
the insurance products sold to him at the point of supply. It should add simple interest 
at 8% per year from the date of the deposit to the date of settlement*; 
- calculate and pay simple interest at 8% per year on the sum Mr P received in respect 
of a rebate from associated insurance products from the date Mr P paid his deposit to the date of the rebate, evidence of which can be provided by Mr P; and
- remove any negative or adverse information from Mr Ps credit file and mark the 
lending as settled.
Given that Mr Ps financial position seems to have been caused undue stress over the 
period relating to this complaint, BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited needs to take the 
above action as soon as possible.
*If BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr P a tax deduction certificate if he asks/ask for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman