DRN-2757272
The complaint
  Mr G complains about five loans provided to him by Loans 2 Go Limited trading as
Loans 2 Go, which he says were unaffordable.
What happened
 Loans 2 Go provided Mr G with five loans. The details of which are given in this table:
Number Taken Repaid Amount Instalments
1 22/08/2018 03/10/2018 400 18 months
2 03/10/2018 06/10/2018 800 18 months
3 16/11/2018 03/12/2018 300 78 weeks
4 04/12/2018 05/06/2019 1000 18 months
5 05/06/2019 outstanding 1000 18 months
Mr G says he feels that Loans 2 Go have irresponsibly lent the money to him on each 
occasion.
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and recommended that it be partly upheld. He 
thought L2G had carried out proportionate checks for loan 1 and made a fair lending 
decision. He then said he wouldnt assess loan 2 as it was cancelled by Mr G before any 
interest was applied. But he upheld loans 3-5. He concluded that Loans 2 Go should have 
sought further information, but in any case, with the information it already had in front of it, it 
didnt make fair lending decisions when it granted these loans.
Loans 2 Go disagreed with most of our adjudicators view. It said it agreed regarding loan 5. 
But for loans 3 and 4 it felt it had made proportionate checks and a fair decision to lend to Mr 
G on each occasion. It says it can see the debt increased from loan 1 to loan 3 but Mr Gs 
monthly commitments had decreased. It says with the type of loan it offers, it would expect 
to see some adverse information on a credit report. 
As this complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has come to me, as an ombudsman, to 
review and make a decision. As the parties are now not in dispute about loans 1, 2 and 5, I 
will look into loans 3 and 4 only and consider whether Loans 2 Go did anything wrong when 
it agreed to give these two loans to Mr G.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time.
When Loans 2 Go lent to Mr G the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).
Loans 2 Go was entering a regulated credit agreement. So, it had to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of Mr Gs creditworthiness before it entered the agreement. This means that 
Loans 2 Go had to consider both the risk to it that Mr G wouldnt make the repayments under 
the agreement when due, and the risk to Mr G of not being able to make these repayments. 
In particular, Loans 2 Go had to consider Mr Gs ability to make repayments under the 
agreement as they fell due over the life of the agreement, without him having to borrow to 
meet the repayments, without him failing to make any other repayment he had a contractual 
or statutory duty to make, and without the repayments having a significant adverse effect on 
her financial situation.
The rules dont set out any specific checks which must be completed to assess 
creditworthiness. But the lender should take into account the borrowers income (over the full 
term of the loan) and their ongoing expenditure for living expenses and other debts. Whilst it 
is down to the lender to decide what specific checks it wishes to carry out these should be 
reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, the length of 
the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments and the total cost of the credit. So, a 
lenders assessment of creditworthiness would need to be flexible and what is appropriate 
for one person might not be for another. And what might be sufficient for a borrower in one 
circumstance might not be so for the same borrower in other circumstances.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit is likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make repayments 
for an extended period).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Gs case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Gs 
loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable 
way? If it did, did Loans 2 Go then make fair lending decisions?
 If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
Did L2G carry out proportionate checks for loans 3 and 4?
I can see that on each occasion, Loans 2 Go asked Mr G about his income and expenditure. 
It has told our service that it adjusted Mr Gs income and expenditure based on an online 
verification tool for his income, and its own calculations using what it had in front of it for 
expenditure. 
For loan 3, It reduced Mr Gs declared income from £2050 a month to £1577.90 after 
verifying this. It then increased what Mr G says his expenditure was of £540, to £1304.83, based on checks it carried out this included a credit search. It then added a 10% buffer for 
any fluctuations in spend for Mr G. 
Ive carefully considered what Loans 2 Go has said about how it calculated Mr Gs 
disposable income when it agreed to loan 3. I dont think its checks were proportionate for 
this loan because there was a discrepancy between what Mr G said about his income and 
expenditure and what it says it could see through its checks each time. I dont think Loans 2 
Go should have accepted the loan knowing or having reason to suspect Mr G wasnt being 
truthful about his income or expenditure in this case. In this instance the discrepancy 
between what Mr G said his expenditure was and what Loans 2 Go calculated it was, was 
quite wide. So, I think Loans 2 Go should either have carried out further checks to see if 
there were good reasons for this, or its shouldnt have provided Mr G with the loan. This 
leads me to think that Loans 2 Go needed to take steps to verify what Mr Gs actual monthly 
expenditure was. 
As I cant see that this Loans 2 Go did do this, I dont think that the checks it carried out 
before providing Mr G with loan 3 was reasonable and proportionate, bearing in mind Mr G 
would need to meet his loan repayments over 18 months.
Loans 2 Go says it verified Mr Gs income as £2000 and calculated his expenditure as 
£1644.75 when it carried out its checks for loan 4. It says it also added a £60 buffer. I think 
at this stage it should have been carrying out a full review of Mr Gs finances and asking for 
further information about Mr Gs expenditure. This is because this was Mr Gs fourth 
application for a loan in less than 4 months and the amount, he was asking to lend from loan 
1 to loan 4 had more than doubled. I think at this stage it should have started to have 
concerns about Mr Gs reliance on credit and how sustainable his borrowing was, at least 
enough that it should have carried out further checks. So, I dont think it carried out 
proportionate checks for loan 4 either. 
Did Loans 2 Go make a fair lending decision for loans 3 and 4?
Ive concluded the checks Loans 2 Go carried out werent proportionate and that they 
needed to do more. But I dont need to look into what it would have seen if it had carried out 
proportionate checks, because I dont think Loans 2 Go made a fair lending decision when it 
agreed to loans 3 and 4 anyway, based on what it had in front of it. 
I say this because when I look through the credit search Loans 2 Go carried out for each of 
these loans, I can see that it shows Mr G was having problems managing his finances. 
For loan 3, the search that Loans 2 Go would have had in front of it showed that Mr G had 3 
open short-term loans with other lenders. Mr G had applied for two of the short-term loans 
on 9 August 2018 and a further loan on 3 October 2018. He would have been paying all 3 
back at the time he applied for loan 3 with Loans 2 Go. In addition, Mr G had utilised all of 
his limit on his credit card. It should have been clear to Loans 2 Go when it saw all of this, 
that Mr G had become reliant on short term lending and should have raised concerns that he 
was having problems managing his finances.
And, as our adjudicator also described in his view, I dont think his situation improved when 
Loans 2 Go agreed to lend loan 4 either. Mr G applied for this loan only around 3 weeks 
after loan 3 and the credit search that it carried out hadnt changed that much. Mr G still had three open short-term loans giving an indication that he was having problems managing his 
finances. 
So, I conclude that on both of these occasions, based on what Loans 2 Go had in front of it, 
it would have seen Mr G wouldnt have been able to make repayments in a sustainable way.  
As Mr G has been indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on the loans that 
he shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of 
what L2G did wrong.
So, I think Loans 2 Go needs to put things right with loans 3 and 4 for the reasons given 
above and also for loan 5, where it has agreed it shouldnt have given this loan to Mr G.
 
Putting things right
  In line with this Services approach, Mr G shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed for each loan. As Ive already mentioned Mr G has an amount left to repay on loan 
5. With this in mind, Loans 2 Go should:
add up the total amount of money Mr G received as a result of being given loans 3-5. 
The payments Mr G made should be deducted from this amount. Any payments 
made after the total repaid exceeds the amount Mr G was given should be treated as 
overpayments and refunded to him;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments from the date they were 
paid by Mr G to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information placed on Mr Gs credit file because of loans 3-5;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to take off tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
must give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
  My final decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint for the reasons set out above and 
require Loans 2 Go Limited, to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman