DRN-2706224
The complaint
Mr E complains that he was mis-sold a finance agreement by Itc Compliance Limited (Itc). 
He says he wanted a hire agreement but got a hire purchase agreement that was more 
expensive.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
Mr E has been ably represented by his son throughout this complaint. Id like to thank his 
son for his help. For ease, and because Mr E is the person named on the finance 
agreement, I will refer to Mr E in this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr E, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr E acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
If Mr E was told something that was false and that led him to enter into a finance agreement 
he would not otherwise have entered into then I would think the agreement had been 
misrepresented to him and Id ask Itc take some further action.
Mr Es representative has suggested that the dealership should have noted his fathers 
vulnerability and that this led to him being sold a higher purchase agreement with an option 
to purchase the car when all he wanted was a hire agreement. Hes explained that his father 
is elderly and has undergone medical procedures and that he was confused when he had to 
ask his son about what to do when his agreement was coming toward the end of its term. I 
dont think theres sufficient evidence here that Mr E was someone who was especially 
susceptible to detriment at the time he negotiated the finance agreement or that the 
dealership should necessarily have been aware of that. 
As the agreement was reached in 2018 there isnt much in the way of evidence about what 
was said. Mr E says he wanted a hire agreement but was given a PCP and that it turned out 
this was much more expensive. The dealership cant remember the conversations that were 
had at the time and have relied on the documentation that was produced; explaining that   
Mr E signed a Demands and Needs (D&N) document before entering his agreement and 
that within that document he answered Yes to the following question:
If there were the option to make low monthly payments to cover the depreciation of the
vehicle, leaving a pre-agreed amount to the end which you could either pay off to own the
vehicle outright or simply hand the vehicle back to us, subject to you having done no
more than an agreed number of miles and the vehicle being in a condition in accordance
with our fair wear and tear guide, is that something that would be of interest to you?
That question formed part of a decision tree the dealership used to ensure the finance they 
proposed was best suited to Mr Es needs. 
On balance, I dont think I have sufficient evidence to suggest the finance was 
misrepresented to Mr E. Thats because:
Mr E signed the D&N and the decision tree answers suggested the hire purchase 
agreement he was offered would be the best deal for him;
the D&N was provided to Mr E on 15 June 2018 and wasnt signed until 28 June 
2018. I think that suggests Mr E had an appropriate length of time to consider the 
arrangement before making his decision;
Mr E also signed the contract to confirm he accepted the terms of the arrangement. 
The pre contract credit information and the written summary provide unambiguous 
details of the hire purchase arrangement he was entering into.
So, whilst I understand that a hire agreement may have been cheaper, I am not persuaded it 
was best suited to Mr E on the basis of the information he provided to the business in the 
documentation I have seen. And I dont think there is sufficient evidence the finance was 
mis-sold to Mr E.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman