DRN-2974399
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way that Soteria Insurance Limited dealt with drainage repairs as 
part of his home insurance claim for water/sewage damage.  
What happened
In October 2019 Mr and Mrs M reported a claim to Soteria, following a blockage in the main 
drain owned by the water company that had caused sewage to come up into the house. 
Following a video call, Soteria appointed loss adjusters who arranged a site visit to review 
what was necessary. They advised that a drain survey was needed. This took place on 
13 December and it was decided that the pipe needed to be relined. The drainage 
contractors (U) advised that some strip out of tiling was required to enable access to the soil 
pipe. This was carried out in early January.
U came out on 14 January, when the equipment got stuck. They returned the next day and 
installed a patch. They tried to install a second patch but were unsuccessful, in the process 
breaking a bathroom shelf. The following week it was decided that a full liner was needed. 
Over the course of three days U managed, with some difficulty and breaking of cutters and 
equipment getting stuck, to install the new drain liner. 
Mr and Mrs M have explained they only had one (upstairs) toilet in their home, and that they 
were without toilet facilities for over two days. They say that late in the evening of the first 
day without facilities they were offered a hotel stay, but didnt feel they could leave the 
house.
Soteria sent Mr and Mrs M a cheque for £100 compensation, which they didnt cash. It 
explained to us that U wouldnt have left them without toilet facilities and the job sheets refer 
to minimum facilities being left. It asserted that Mr and Mrs M had a fully functioning 
bathroom and toilet upstairs.
On review by our investigator he proposed that Soteria pay a further £250 compensation in 
addition to the £100 already offered.
Soteria didnt agree and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It took seven visits over the course of a couple of months to finally install the drain liner. No 
doubt they were all needed but I would have thought that an experienced drainage 
contractor like U should have been able to complete the work in less time. There are 
references to equipment getting stuck and cutters breaking. There is a reference on one job 
sheet to the contractor having wasted half a days shift to get materials.
Soteria pointed out to us several times that Mr and Mrs M had a bathroom upstairs which 
wasnt affected. That is the case but they only had one toilet which was upstairs and the 
blockage caused by the faulty patch repair was in the soil pipe so affected that toilet. Mr M 
has shown us a timeline which I think is reliable, as the loss adjusters notes dont fully set 
out the various appointments made by U. And despite Soterias contentions otherwise, 
I think Mr and Mrs M were left without toilet facilities over the period 23-25 January. There is 
reference on the job sheets for 23 and 24 January to the toilet being blocked. Whilst there is 
also reference to minimum facilities, Mr and Mrs M understood that to mean they could use 
water.
If toilet facilities were available that doesnt explain why Mr and Mrs M were offered a hotel, 
nor the repeated reference on the job sheets to the toilet being blocked. I dont think that, 
over that period, Mr and Mrs M were told they could use the toilet until the work was 
complete.
Mr and Mrs M have been sent a cheque for £100 which they declined to cash for fear of 
prejudicing their complaint. At the time Soteria agreed with them that the toilet had been 
unusable for the two plus days. Mr and Mrs M had to use their sons facilities as he lived 
nearby, and a bucket. Taking into consideration the inconvenience caused to both of them, 
I think the investigators proposal that Soteria pay a further £250 compensation is 
reasonable. 
As regards the bathroom shelf, I understand that U offered to pay for a new one. Soteria has 
said that offer still stands. Mr and Mrs M should get in touch with Soteria directly if they want 
it to arrange for replacement of the shelf or if they want to be paid a cash settlement for it.
Putting things right
Soteria should pay Mr M a further £250 compensation, in addition to the £100 already 
offered. It should either confirm to Mr M that the £100 cheque sent may be cashed and it will 
send him an additional one for £250, or ask him to destroy it and send a cheque for the total 
due, £350. 
 My final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman