DRN-3700757
The complaint
Miss K, acting as a sole trader in the name of P, complains about the Bank of Scotland plc 
(the BoS) holding her liable for a Bounce Back Loan.
For simplicity, any references about P will be made by referring to Miss K.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In short, Miss K says that a friend of a friend  whom claimed to be working for Halifax  
manipulated her to set up a BoS business account and apply for a Bounce Back Loan 
(BBL) in her name  funds of which (£50,000) were credited to the business account.  Miss 
K says she believed the BBL would help with starting up a new business, and for this 
reason, transferred some of the BBL funds to her Halifax personal account and those held 
by third parties.
Miss Ks personal account was later frozen.  She says, I was told that Id applied for the 
business bounce back retention scheme and that it was a scheme to support existing 
businesses struggling from the coronavirus pandemic, not a startup scheme, and that I had 
no existing business so the money would be retracted, I should not have had the loan, and 
any money spent/transferred would have to be paid back.
Miss K raised a complaint about this matter with the BoS, asking it not to pursue her for the 
outstanding debt on the BBL  particularly given the lack of authentication required to take 
out the BBL.  As the BoS declined this, Miss K referred her complaint to our Service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and did not uphold it.  Miss K did not 
accept the investigators findings and the BoS said it had nothing further to add.  As Miss K 
did not accept the investigators findings, this matter has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less detail than 
the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If there is a 
submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is simply 
because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this complaint.
The first thing I need to consider in this case is whether Miss K consented to the BBL being 
taken out in her name  this includes providing consent to another to do so on her behalf.  
Having considered this carefully, I am satisfied, on balance, that it is more likely than not that 
Miss K did provide consent for the following reasons:
Miss K has not provided any direct evidence to support her testimony.
In response to the investigators findings, Miss K says, amongst other things, that 
she,  was very much manipulated into taking out this bounce back loan, I was led 
to believe it was something entirely different and was defrauded  .
The difficulty I have with the above is that Miss K accepts she received emails about 
the BBL.  I acknowledge she says she did not read the emails as she did not 
understand them and was told to forward them on.  However, this is not something I 
would, objectively speaking, expect from a reasonable person.  I say this in particular 
because one of the emails Miss K received contained a letter which, on the first 
page, clearly sets out in large writing: Bounce Back Loan Scheme Facility Letter.
Even if I accepted Miss K did not read the emails concerned, I have seen evidence 
which suggests she spoke to the BoS about the BBL on 27 July 2020.
Miss K transferred some of the BBL funds from the business account to her personal 
account and those held by third parties.
Miss K argues that in the investigators findings, he did not take into consideration the 
vulnerabilities she has set out in her submissions.  Whilst I sympathise with Miss K, I have 
not seen any evidence to suggest that the BoS was aware of the vulnerabilities Miss K has 
spoken about during the period we are concerned with.  Therefore, I cannot fairly say that 
the BoS should not have approved the BBL on this basis. 
Miss K also argues that the BoS should never have approved the BBL as she was ineligible.  
She argues that had the BoS not approved the loan, she would not have fallen victim to 
fraud.  The BoS have said, As part of the Bounce Back Loan application, there wasn't any 
affordability checks completed, as it was a self-declared agreement linked to the turnover on 
the account.  Notwithstanding this, even if I held that the BoS should not have approved the 
BBL  it does not follow that it should be written off.  I say this because even if the BBL 
should not have been approved, this does not negate the fact that Miss K transferred out 
some of the BBL funds from the business account.  
In any event, as I have already explained, I am satisfied that Miss K consented to the BBL 
being taken out in her name.
Taking all the above points together, it is my judgment that Miss K consented to the BBL 
being taken out in her name and had use of the principal sum of it.  Therefore, I find that the 
BoS is entitled to hold Miss K liable for the outstanding debt on the BBL.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman