DRN-2333274
The complaint
Mr F and Ms R are unhappy that St Andrew's Insurance Plc has declined their claim for flood 
or accidental damage to their drainage system. They are represented by a company, N.
What happened
Mr F and Ms R own a property which is served by a septic tank drainage system. In early 
2018 they had the tank emptied, which usually took place once a year. Over the course of 
the next eleven months the tank had to be emptied five times, and on each occasion it was 
found to be overflowing. The drainage company, G, carried out jetting to the system and a 
CCTV survey. It said that groundwater had come up to the inlet and that the soakaway was 
no longer functioning as intended and was flooding the system. The water from the system 
drained through a distribution chamber and into the soakaway which is under a field to the 
rear of the property. G determined that due to the ground conditions and the failure of a 
percolation test, a new drainage field wasnt viable or possible under current regulations.  It 
recommended the installation of a new 12 person package sewage treatment plant with final 
effluent pump at a cost of around £12,000.
St Andrews also carried out a survey and its engineer reviewed the evidence. It determined 
that the failing in the pipework was a consequence of the ground - arguably at some 
considerable distance from the discharge points - not draining away (evidenced by the large 
area of saturation). It doubted there was a flood, rather it was a wholly expected gradual 
seepage into the ground happening each time the drains were used. 
St Andrews further pointed out that theres an exclusion in the policy for damage caused by 
a gradually operating cause. It said the build up in the soakaway must have been gradual 
eventually causing the pipes in the system to back up. It also said the policy exclusion for 
wear and tear applied.
The investigation also revealed that the septic tank system was installed in 2011, but that it 
was connected to a then existing soakaway. As the soakaway had failed its likely that its 
quite a few years older than the system. The failure to build a new soakaway system meant 
that St Andrews considered it right to apply the exclusion for faulty workmanship, poor 
design, defective or inherently unsuitable materials.
On referral to this service our investigator said that the reason for the loss of function of the 
system was because the drainage wasnt working properly, due to it having been connected 
to the old soakaway that had failed. The flood was a by-product of this rather than the cause. 
He said it was fair to apply the exclusion for faulty workmanship, poor design etc, as Gs 
report showed that the current drainage field wasnt suitable in accordance with building 
regulations.
N disagreed and pointed out that it was for the insurer to show that the exclusion applied 
rather than for Mr F and Ms R to show that it didnt. It further said that in accordance with our 
approach to gradually operating cause, Mr F and Ms R couldnt have known about the 
damage until it appeared. So St Andrews should pay for the repair, which to be fully 
effective means that the new system needs to be installed.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issues I have to decide are 1. whether there was a flood, 2. whether the flood or another 
peril caused the damage to the system and 3. whether it was fair for St Andrews to apply 
the exclusions.
flood peril
Flood isnt defined in the policy so it can include a slow build-up of water such as where, as 
alleged here, theres a rise in the water table. There are two reports, one from G, a firm of 
drainage contractors employed through N, presumably with some input from engineers and 
the other from Sr Andrews loss adjuster, which is supplemented by a desktop review by a 
named chartered building engineer.  
The reason for the flood, according to G is that its engineers reported groundwater had 
come up to the outlet once it had been exposed. It said the soakaway was flooding the 
system and it didnt deem it serviceable. On the other hand St Andrews says that the 
system was backing up due to the soakaway having failed. Im not persuaded that whatever 
the cause, there wasnt a flood at the time. This was clearly shown in the drainage field, 
which I understand has since dried up. 
cause of the damage
The policy says that St Andrews will cover loss or damage to the buildings caused by flood. 
Buildings includes services and as this incudes pipes, drains etc. I think it fair to say that if 
the flood caused damage to any part of the drainage system including the soakaway, (which 
weve previously held to be a drain), it would be covered.
The problem I have here is determining whether the flood caused the damage, or if flood 
was a result of the damage to the system due to some other cause. The flooding of the 
drainage field dried up, so there was no direct damage to it. But its been said that the 
system backed up due to the flood, meaning that the soakaway is no longer serviceable.
My view is that the reason for the damage to the system is the failure of the soakaway. Both 
parties agree with this. G says it didnt notice any damage when it emptied the tank 
previously though Im inclined to agree with St Andrews that a contractor emptying the 
system wouldnt be likely to notice any damage to the soakaway. It appears that the system 
first started flooding in January 2018 when a smell of effluent was noticed and the drains 
blocked. But if there was a flood as G described I cant see that it would have damaged the 
soakaway as to require a complete replacement. Rather I think it most likely that the 
soakaway had itself become damaged over the years so it was no longer functioning 
properly. In other words I think the cause of the flood was the soakaway losing its function 
rather than the soakaway, and the rest of the system being damaged by a flood.
There is cover for accidental damage to underground services. This is defined as:
An accident that causes physical damage, which is caused suddenly by an outside force 
and is not expected and not deliberate.It was suggested that a fallen tree in the field may have damaged the outlet pipe but I 
understand that this happened after the flood so is unlikely to be the cause. And any 
blockage in the pipe was cleared and didnt cause any physical damage. In any event the 
flooding of the system was a slow build up rather than something which was caused 
suddenly.
exclusions
The exclusions which St Andrews has sought to rely on are for:
gradually operating cause
wear and tear
faulty workmanship, poor design or defective or inherently unsuitable materials.
I appreciate that its for St Andrews to show whether it is most likely that an exclusion 
applies. But I think it has shown in my view that all three exclusions apply in this case.
In respect of gradually operating cause, our approach is that where the damage is caused by 
an insured peril e.g. flood or escape of water and the consumers cant have been expected 
to know the damage was happening, then its not fair to apply the exclusion. But in this case 
I dont think the damage, though gradual, was caused by flood, rather it was caused by the 
soakaway no longer functioning and coming to the end of its useful life. In light of that I think 
the soakaway was affected by wear and tear, so this exclusion applies as well.
In respect of alleged faulty workmanship. I understand the septic tank and its system were 
installed during building works in 2011. 
G said in its report on the claim: A new drainage field is not deemed viable or possible 
under current regulations., and went on to recommend that a new sewage treatment plant 
should be installed. 
St Andrews Engineer said: ..building regulations at the time stated, as they still do now, that 
a septic tank outlet must be discharged to a level and contained drainage field with no 
overflow.
I havent seen anything to dispute this conclusion, so I think it likely that the septic tank 
shouldnt have been installed to the existing soakaway, rather it should have been installed 
with the system currently proposed by G. I understand that the building work in 2011 
consisted of a substantial enlargement of the property. So it appears to me to be most likely 
that the soakaway and drainage were not suitable for the property as rebuilt and that would 
come under faulty workmanship and/or poor design. So I think this exclusion applies.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Ms R to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Ray LawleyOmbudsman