DRN-3854697
The complaint
Mr R complains through his representative, L, that Tesco Underwriting Limited has failed to 
provide an adequate settlement in respect of his claim. This was for accidental damage to an 
underground pipe connected to his septic tank.
What happened
Mr R reported a claim to Tesco in October 2020. He had noticed that his toilets and sinks at 
his property were draining slowly. Contractors were appointed by L to investigate the cause 
and it was discovered that a pipe leading from his septic tank to a drainage field on nearby 
land (not part of Mr Rs property) had likely been crushed causing a blockage and not 
allowing the tank to drain properly. It was thought that the famer who owned the land had 
driven his tractor over the pipe.
Tesco initially declined the claim as it said that the pipe was not part of the insured property, 
being on someone elses land. Mr R made a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. As a result, my Ombudsman colleague found that the service pipe was part of the 
septic tank system (which is on Mr Rs land) and thus fell to be considered by Tesco under 
the terms and conditions of the policy.
Tesco made an offer of settlement. It said its drainage specialists had been unable to 
investigate this further because of policy liability considerations, but following the 
Ombudsmans decision, investigations were now necessary to find out why the pipework had 
failed. This would require appropriate excavations on the neighbours land which would 
require the express permission, and consent of the landowner. Tesco said that this process 
may, however, become complicated and time consuming, and potentially require legal 
intervention.
Tesco said that as the septic tank is still functioning, the policy will only consider any 
damage found to have been caused accidentally to the pipework located beneath the 
neighbours field, and the reasonable repair costs. It assessed this to be £7,858.94 
(excluding VAT). This allowed for the cost of installing a new drainage field on Mr Rs land.
L produced the results of percolation tests carried out by its contractor. This established that 
it wasnt viable to install a new drainage field on Mr Rs land. The contractor proposed that a 
new sewage treatment plant be installed on Mr Rs land with discharge to a nearby 
watercourse. The cost would be £19,720.53 plus VAT. Tesco rejected this as it would 
amount to considerable betterment. It didnt oppose the findings of the percolation tests, as 
its expert considered it was likely that the drainage field was sited on the adjoining land 
because it wasnt possible to install one on Mr Rs land.
After further review by the Financial Ombudsman Service, our Investigator said that Tescos 
proposed repair wouldnt be a lasting and effective repair, so it should pay a cash settlement 
equivalent to Mr Rs costs for the installation of a new drainage system.
Tesco said that the cause of the damage to the pipe in the neighbouring field had never 
been established and that the settlement was offered without admission of policy liability. It 
further said that the proposals put forward by L didnt assist with establishing that accidental 
damage had occurred.
The matter has been referred to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In reviewing this matter, I have had regard to the decision made by my Ombudsman 
colleague when considering Tescos initial decline of the claim. I bear in mind that both 
parties are bound by that decision. I think it has been established that the pipe was blocked 
and was likely to have been crushed, which amounts in my view to accidental damage. 
Whilst I recognise that the exact cause of that hasnt been established, I dont think thats 
necessary. The Ombudsman required Tesco to consider Mr Rs claim in line with the other 
policy terms and conditions i.e., the accidental damage claim was to be considered subject 
to what other policy terms and conditions might say.
So, its not open to Tesco in my view to say it doesnt admit liability. The issue that falls to be 
resolved is the amount to be paid in settlement of the claim.
Tescos offer allows for the installation of a new drainage field on Mr Rs land. However, I 
think its already been established, following the results of the percolation tests, that that is 
not possible. And I note that Tesco has accepted the results of the percolation test.
The alternative, without installing a new sewage water treatment plant, would be to repair the 
damaged pipe and allow for the sewage to flow as before into the drainage field on the 
neighbouring land. However, I dont think thats practical because:
As Tesco has pointed out, it would require express consent of the adjoining landowner 
which could become complex and involve legal costs.
If the damage was caused by the farmers use of the land thered be no guarantee that 
repairing the pipe would resolve the claim.
Ive seen no evidence the existing drainage field is fit for purpose, within current 
regulations (and carrying out tests again would involve the consent of the landowner).
Tesco has recognised these difficulties by its proposal to have a new drainage field 
installed on Mr Rs land. But the tests show that this is not a workable option.
In its claims notes Tescos contractors indicate that because of the change in the 
regulations since the septic tank was installed that given that it would be reasonable to 
expect Mr R to be able carry out the work on his own land, the installation of the sewage 
treatment plant would be the only option.
So, whilst I recognise that Tesco regards the settlement proposed as betterment, I think, in 
order to carry out an effective and lasting repair in line with current regulations, it should pay 
the costs put forward by L for the repair as a cash settlement, together with interest* (if paid). 
Putting things right 
Tesco should pay to Mr R a cash settlement of the full costs of having the repairs carried 
out to his septic tank system including the installation of a new sewage treatment plant. If paid, Mr R should produce the necessary invoice(s).
It should pay VAT on production of the invoice(s).
If paid, it should further add simple interest* to the settlement at 8% per year from the 
date Mr R paid any such invoices until reimbursement.
*HM Revenue & Customs may require Tesco to deduct tax from any award of interest. It 
must give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Tesco Underwriting Limited to provide the remedy set out 
under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman