DRN-3880327
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy Santander UK Plc allowed a payment to be taken from his account.
What happened
In August 2022 Mr W noticed a payment for £52.58 had been made from his account to a 
travel insurance provider. He said he didnt authorise the payment so contacted Santander. 
He also complained to the insurer who have since refunded the money. 
Santander advised the payment had been taken as a recurring transaction and as Mr W had 
given the insurer authority to take the payment they didnt feel theyd done anything wrong.
Mr W remained unhappy as he felt Santander should have blocked the payment and sought 
his approval before releasing the funds. So he referred his concerns to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think Santander had done anything wrong so didnt ask them to take 
any further action. Remaining unhappy Mr W asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will be disappointing for 
Mr W but Ive explained my reasoning below.
When Mr W purchased travel insurance the previous year, he says he wasnt aware he had 
agreed to recurring transactions and hadnt authorised the insurer to take the £52.58 from 
his account. Hes also told us hes now aware he didnt opt out of an automatic renewal but 
wasnt aware of it at the time of the payment. 
I understand Mr W feels he didnt authorise the insurer to take the money but by not opting 
out of an automatic renewal hed agreed for the insurer to renew the insurance and collect a 
payment in respect of the insurance.
So without realising it Mr W had authorised the insurer to take the payment. Santander were 
acting in accordance with this instruction by allowing the payment to debit the account. 
Had Mr W become aware of it before the payment was made, Santander mightve been able 
to assist him in cancelling the recurring payment authority. And I can see Mr W had told 
Santander at the time he raised the dispute that the insurer had agreed to refund the 
payment, so I wouldnt have expected Santander to take any further action.
I understand Mr W feels Santander shouldve blocked the payment. But when a recurring 
payment authority is set up the merchant gets a standing authority to take payments as and 
when theyre needed.
There was no way Santander wouldve known at the time that this wasnt a genuine 
transaction Mr W was aware of and consented to, especially as Mr W had made payment to 
the insurer previously. From what I can see there also wasnt anything out of the ordinary to 
raise concern as a payment had been made previously to the insurer and the payment in 
question was a single payment for a relatively small amount of money. 
I understand Mr W feels Santander should provide more protection to its customers by 
adding more security for these types of transactions. But this isnt something I can tell them 
to do as it is an internal process which is for Santander to decide. 
Overall, for the reasons explained I dont think Santander have done anything wrong in 
allowing the payment to debit the account as this had been pre-authorised by Mr W.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman