DRN-3004440
The complaint
Mr L has complained that a refund of interest has been applied to the unsettled portion of 
his credit card debt rather than being paid to him directly.
What happened
Mr L took out a credit card with Santander UK Plc in January 2011 and fell into arrears in 
April 2011. In 2013 a partial settlement was agreed with Mr L and he paid £2,700 of the 
£4,174.61 balance. This left a remaining balance of £1,474.61 which Santander agreed not 
to pursue him for.
Santander discovered that they hadnt been sending some of their customers a notice of 
arrears for every month that an account was in arrears. So, they reviewed those customers 
accounts as part of a rectification project. As a result of the review Santander refunded 
some of their customers the interest and charges that had been added over the period 
when the notices hadnt been sent out. Santander decided that Mr Ls credit card account 
was eligible for a refund of £519.23 and explained how this was calculated in a letter to him 
in 2020. Santander paid this money into Mr Ls credit card account to offset against the 
remaining balance.
Mr L contacted Santander saying he wanted them to pay the money directly to him.
Mr L was unhappy that Santander had applied the £519.23 to his outstanding balance 
rather than paying it directly to him. He explained that when he paid the final partial 
settlement to Santander, he paid the minimum possible which was 65% of the outstanding 
debt.
Mr L has said if Santander had applied this refund of interest at the time he wouldnt have 
had to pay as much as he did to partially settle the account so he thinks the right thing to 
do would be to pay the refund of interest to him rather than reduce the outstanding 
balance. Santander didnt agree.
Our investigator looked at what Mr L and Santander had said and concluded that 
Santander hadnt acted unfairly in using the refund of interest to reduce the remaining 
balance.
Mr L was disappointed with this outcome and so asked for an ombudsman to review the 
case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr L feels strongly about this matter. And I understand that hell be 
disappointed not to receive the refund of interest, but I think the investigator has reached 
the right answer here.
Mr L has argued that his partial settlement figure was calculated incorrectly given 
that interest was charged to his account that shouldnt have been.
Hes argued that the minimum amount Santander would accept as a partial settlement 
was 65% of the overall debt which is what he paid. He believes that if the interest refund 
had been applied at the time this would have reduced his outstanding debt and so 65% of 
this debt would have been significantly less than the £2,700 he paid in partial settlement 
of it.
Ive considered what Mr L has said and although I appreciate his argument, I dont agree 
that he would have necessarily paid less. A partial settlement is based on what the 
customer can afford to pay, and banks often set a minimum threshold for what they will 
accept. So, in this case 65% of the overall debt was a minimum threshold for a partial 
settlement which means where a customer could afford to, they would be expected to pay 
more than this to partially settle the debt.
Ultimately, Mr L was liable to pay the full debt but was able to pay £2,700 in 2013 to 
partially settle, which Santander accepted. So, I think he would have been able to pay this 
regardless of whether it equated to 65% of the overall debt.
As the amount payable under a partial settlement should be based on what the customer 
can afford, I dont think its unreasonable that he paid the £2,700 rather than a potentially 
lower figure. Even if Santander had refunded the interest at that time, as Mr L could pay 
the £2,700 I think its fair that he did this, even if it did equate to more than the minimum of 
65% hes said Santander set out.
Although Mr L made a partial payment to settle his account this doesnt mean any 
remaining balance was written off. That balance remains, but Santander agreed they 
wouldnt pursue Mr L for this sum.
As there is still a balance on the account, I dont think its unreasonable for the refund of 
interest to be off-set against that amount. This is because Mr L was able to pay £2,700 to 
settle the debt regardless of whether this equated to 65% of the debt or more, and the 
refund would always have been applied to the account balance. So, I dont think Mr L is out 
of pocket here given the refund would never have been paid directly to him and in 2013 he 
paid what he was able to, to settle the debt.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman