DRN-4082621
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that QIC Europe Limited declined his claim for storm damage.
What happened
Mr H had buildings insurance with home emergency cover underwritten by QIC. A third-party 
company handled the claim on QICs behalf. QIC is responsible for the actions of its third-
party agents so, for ease of reading, Ill refer only to QIC.
Mr H claimed under his home emergency policy when the roof of his bay window was 
damaged during a storm, allowing water in. He called QIC that night/the early hours of the 
morning to make a claim. QIC didnt have anyone available immediately but agreed to call 
Mr H back later that morning.
In the afternoon, Mr H complained to QIC that no one had called him. He said the bad 
weather continued and he was concerned about further damage. QIC told Mr H it had 
declined his claim because his policy didnt cover drainage problems unless they could be 
fixed by jetting or rodding. It advised him to register a claim under the buildings insurance 
part of his policy and provided him with the contact details.
Mr H was unhappy with QICs response and poor service. He complained that QIC had 
declined his claim using different wording to that in his policy booklet. QIC said it would 
register his complaint and look into it.
Five days later, Mr H registered his buildings insurance claim. He was unhappy about the 
delay because he believed QIC said it would register the claim for him. Mr H told QIC he was 
arranging his roof repairs because he couldnt rely on it accepting his claim and completing 
repairs before further damage occurred. He sent the roofers report to QIC and asked it to 
pay for the permanent repairs, less his policy excess, and for compensation in recognition of 
the shortfalls hed experienced.
QIC responded to Mr H to say it declined his claim under the buildings insurance policy, 
relying on the exclusion for gradual or maintenance related loss or damage, including wear 
and tear and gradual deterioration. It gave the following reasons:
There was no record of heavy rain on the date Mr H reported the damage.
The roofers report says damage was caused by heavy winds, but weather records 
dont support that. 
The roofers photos showed signs of previous damage and repair.
A well-maintained roof should withstand the weather conditions described.
The guttering had been treated with roof sealant, indicating previous issues with the 
joints leaking.
Therefore, QIC declined Mr Hs request for reimbursement and compensation.
Mr H complained to QIC again because he didnt think it had sufficient evidence upon which 
to base its decision, having only reviewed the photos he supplied. Also, he believed it had 
logged his claim so he was waiting for an outcome, during which time the bad weather 
continued causing more damage before he had the repairs done. 
QIC looked into Mr Hs complaint. It agreed thered been occasions when its handling fell 
short of what Mr H could reasonably expect. QIC offered £50 by way of apology.
However, QIC didnt think it had done anything wrong by declining his claim for the reasons 
it gave.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. In summary, he said there was no evidence 
of a storm on the night Mr H reported his claim, so he couldnt say QIC had declined his 
claim unfairly. 
Mr H didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr H will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. I wont 
repeat the detail of his complaint or comment on every piece of evidence, but Ill give the 
reasons and reference the evidence where I think it will help explain how I reached my 
decision.
Storm damage
Mr H is unhappy that QIC declined his claim for storm damage under both the home 
emergency and buildings parts of his policy. QIC said there was no record of storm 
conditions leading up to the claim, and the damage was consistent with wear and tear.
For me to uphold Mr Hs complaint, Id need to see evidence that his roof was damaged by a 
storm and that QIC unfairly declined his claim.
Ive looked at the weather evidence presented, upon which QIC relied to decline the claim. 
The evidence includes reports of weather conditions local to Mr H and trusted online weather 
data sources for the dates of 16th to 29th November. Mr H reported the damage in the very 
early hours of 17th November.
The weather data for 16th November showed little to no rainfall, and a maximum windspeed 
of 11 mph, classed as a gentle breeze. 
The weather data for 17th November showed rainfall and windspeeds up to a maximum of 33 
mph. Thats at the low end of the scale for a near gale, described as wind which can make 
tree branches move. The crucial point here, is that the poor weather conditions happened 
during the daytime after Mr H made his claim to QIC.
Turning to Mr Hs evidence of locally reported weather conditions, the rainfall started on 17th 
November and yellow weather warnings were put in place for that and the following day. 
Again, the poor weather was after Mr H made his claim to QIC.
So, when considering the weather data, Im satisfied QIC reasonably concluded that there 
were no storm conditions at the time of the claim. And, for that reason, Im satisfied QIC 
fairly declined Mr Hs claim under the storm peril terms and conditions of his policy.
Roofers reportIve considered what Mr Hs roofer said after he attended to fix the roof and gutter. The 
report states:
Bay window roof damaged due to high winds cracking the seals also causing the gutters 
to be damaged on the front above roof that has caused water to get inside bay
I have no reason to doubt the roofers report. However, as Ive already said, the evidence 
doesnt show that there was a single storm leading up to Mr Hs claim. The roofer completed 
repairs almost two weeks after the claim, and the evidence confirms poor weather after the 
claim. So I cant fairly say the roofers report confirms high winds caused the original 
damage. Rather, its more likely that the subsequent poor weather exacerbated the damage 
Mr H had already reported. Even Mr H suggested that was the case after QIC used the 
photos to determine the cause of damage.
Service shortfalls
Theres no dispute that QICs handling of Mr Hs claim fell short of what he might reasonably 
have expected. It didnt confirm that it had declined his original claim or call him back as 
agreed. Mr H confirmed there were further missed calls for his buildings insurance claim.
Having listened to the call recording on the day Mr H complained, I didnt hear anything to 
indicate QIC was going to register his buildings insurance claim. QIC gave contact details 
and said it would register his complaint, so I think its more likely than not there was a 
misunderstanding. That said, Im satisfied the evidence shows QIC didnt handle Mr Hs 
claim as well as it shouldve done.
QIC offered Mr H £50 for the service shortfalls, which he declined. He wanted QIC to pay at 
least half of the repair costs because he thought its inaction led to more damage.
To consider an increase in compensation, Id need to see that QIC caused Mr H a loss. Ive 
decided that it fairly declined his claim under the storm peril, so QIC would never have been 
responsible for any repair costs. And theres no evidence that QIC said it would register the 
buildings claim for him. So the delay there is not something QIC couldve prevented. Mr H 
said QIC advised him to go ahead with the repair. Whether or not it advised him to have a 
permanent or temporary repair, he would always have needed to have the work done, so I 
cant reasonably say QIC should contribute to the cost.
While there have been service shortfalls, I havent seen any evidence to show that QIC 
caused Mr H any financial loss. Therefore, Im satisfied QICs offer was fair in the 
circumstances, and I see no reason to ask it to increase its compensation offer. To be clear, 
my decision is based on the understanding that QIC will pay Mr H the £50 it offered if it 
hasnt already done so.
 
Overall, I havent seen anything in the evidence to show that there was a storm leading up to 
Mr Hs claim. So, despite the service shortfalls for which it offered compensation, Im 
satisfied that QIC fairly declined Mr Hs claim for the reasons it gave and in line with the 
policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman