DRN-1686235
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with how Lloyds Bank Plc has treated them whilst theyve been 
struggling to pay their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P have a mortgage with Lloyds. In early 2019 they got into difficulties as Mr P 
was off work sick and then, at about the time he returned to work, Mrs P was made 
redundant. Unfortunately, due to ill health Mrs P has been unable to work since and has told 
us that she wont be able to return to work in the future.
In December 2019 Lloyds was granted an Order for Possession by the courts. Immediately 
following that Mrs P claimed her pension due to her ill health, and the lump sum she 
received from that was enough to clear the mortgage arrears.
Unfortunately, the account went almost immediately back into arrears as the monthly 
repayments werent affordable.
Throughout this time Mr and Mrs P discussed matters with Lloyds. At various times they 
asked for payment holidays, a term extension and a switch to interest-only. All those 
requests were turned down.
Although I know things have moved on since then, I can only consider matters up until 
February 2020 when this complaint was referred to us. Anything that has happened, or new 
matters Mr and Mrs P have raised, since then need to go through Lloyds complaints 
procedure first. If Mr and Mrs P remain unhappy once theyve received a final response from 
Lloyds then they can refer those to us as new complaints at the time (subject to all our usual 
rules, of course).
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. Mr and Mrs P didnt agree and so 
its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be 
the crux of the complaint. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not 
considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right 
outcome.
Wed expect a lender to look at offering help to consumers going through financial 
difficulties. The problem here is that Mr and Mrs Ps financial difficulties werent going to be 
temporary as Mrs P wasnt able to return to work. Theres no doubt theyve gone through 
very difficult times and continue to do so. Mrs P has been very frank about her health, and I 
thank her for that honesty. Ive not gone into detail about Mr Ps ill-health to respect her 
privacy, but Ive read and understood everything shes told us.
The pressure to make their mortgage payments against such a backdrop must have been 
immense for Mr and Mrs P. But my impartiality means I must also have regard for Lloyds 
point of view. Mr and Mrs P have, as I said, been very frank about their circumstances. But 
from Lloyds position, Mr and Mrs P owed it money and they hadnt met all their contractual 
repayments.
Mr and Mrs Ps contractual monthly payment was £1,360 and theyd last paid that in full in 
March 2019. They paid £700 in April and £700 in June 2019, and before that even for the 
payments they did make, their direct debit bounced on the first attempt of collection in 
December 2018, January 2019 and March 2019.
Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage was already on a preferential fixed interest rate at 2.31% which 
was competitive even for someone without mortgage arrears. So this wasnt a case where 
Lloyds could have helped by moving Mr and Mrs P onto a lower interest rate; they were 
already on a good rate. Lloyds was unable to offer payment holidays as the loan to value on 
Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage was too high. In addition, payment holidays would mean the 
monthly payment would increase once the holiday was over, so whilst it may have helped for 
a couple of months, it just would have made things worse long term. 
I understand Mr and Mrs P feel a change to interest-only would help them, but interest-only 
would normally only be considered as a short-term measure, for example for a consumer 
that was briefly out of work just to give them a month or so breathing space. Its not normally 
considered a long-term option for financial difficulties, as it just moves the problem further 
down the line. Mr and Mrs P have no way of repaying an interest-only mortgage at the end of 
the term, and a temporary switch to interest-only would mean their payments would be even 
higher by the time the mortgage was switched back to capital repayment, so would make 
things worse in the longer term
Lloyds looked at extending the mortgage term but due to Mr and Mrs Ps ages it could only 
extend the term by a couple of years which wouldnt have reduced the payments by any 
significant amount.
Mr and Mrs P said they could afford £300 a month to the mortgage. But even if the mortgage 
was switched to interest-only, their payments would still be around £500 a month (and thats 
not taking into account that at some point theyd have to change back to repayment, which 
would increase their payments even more).
Whilst Ive great deal of sympathy for the situation Mr and Mrs P were in, Lloyds didnt act 
inappropriately in taking the legal action it did which led to the Possession Order being 
granted. Nor did it act inappropriately in not agreeing to a payment holiday or a switch to 
interest-only. It couldnt offer a lower rate as Mr and Mrs P were already on a preferential 
fixed rate, and the term extension wouldnt have been of any notable value. All things 
considered I cant see what else Lloyds could have done here.
I understand Mrs P has been in contact with our investigator with some queries about a 
future interest rate, a CCJ and her credit file. As our investigator explained, we can only deal 
with the complaint that was brought to us so we cant consider those issues here as part of 
this complaint. If Mr and Mrs P feel the new rate Lloyds has offered them is unfair, and that a 
CCJ and other markers on their credit files are wrongly recorded then theyll need to make a 
complaint directly to Lloyds about those matters. They can then refer those matters to us as 
new complaints if they are unhappy with Lloyds responses (subject, of course, to our usual 
rules).I would, however, say that any credit file markers that are a true reflection of the status of the 
account at the time (such as missed payment markers when payments were missed, and a 
default marker if the account defaulted) wouldnt be removed just because Mr and Mrs P 
want them to be and/or because the account was later brought up to date. Markers would 
only be removed if they are shown to have been incorrectly recorded.
Having considered everything, whilst I have a great deal of sympathy for the situation 
Mr and Mrs P found themselves in, I simply cant uphold this complaint no matter how much 
they may want me to. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs P to accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman