DRN-3147845
The complaint
Mrs T complains about how BUPA Insurance Limited dealt with her claim against her private
medical insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, In April 2020, Mrs T applied to BUPA for membership following 
advice from a broker. BUPA, via Mrs Ts broker, asked Mrs T various questions before it 
agreed to Mrs Ts membership. Ill refer to those questions in more detail below.
Mrs Ts membership with BUPA started on 1 May 2020. Mrs Ts broker said that her 
BUPA membership was on a continuous medical underwriting basis, which means that 
BUPA agreed to continue Mrs Ts cover without the need for fresh underwriting. The 
effective date of underwriting on Mrs Ts membership certificate is 1 May 2004.
In June 2020, Mrs T asked BUPA to cover her appointment for a 24 hour monitor and 
further blood tests. BUPA declined Mrs Ts claim. It said that when she applied for 
membership, she hadnt made it aware that shed recently had high blood pressure. BUPA 
subsequently applied an exclusion relating to high cholesterol to Mrs Ts membership.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She thought that BUPA had acted 
unreasonably in rejecting Mrs Ts claim and in adding an exclusion to the policy. The 
investigator recommended that BUPA pay for Mrs Ts cardiologist appointment and 
subsequent treatment during the term of the policy, subject to the policy terms. She also 
said that it should pay Mrs T interest. The investigator said that BUPA was entitled to 
assess a pre-existing condition at renewal and apply an exclusion.
BUPA didnt agree with the investigator. It said:
A single blood pressure reading is enough to support further checks and possibly an 
underlying cause.
Mrs T should have declared that shed had a high blood pressure reading that could 
relate to a diagnosis of uncontrolled blood pressure.
It underwrites on the basis of treatment that is for, results from or is related to a      
pre-existing condition, medical event or symptom and therefore it feels it acted fairly.
BUPA asked that an ombudsman consider the complaint, so it was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
On 7 October 2021, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case in which I 
indicated that I didnt intend to uphold the complaint. I said:
Mrs T has expressed concern about how BUPA handled her complaint. Our service can 
only consider complaints about financial services. So, I cant consider the additional points 
that Mrs T has raised about the handling of her complaint because it isnt a regulated 
activity. But I can look at her complaint about BUPA declining her claim.
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that BUPA has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I dont intend to 
uphold Mrs Ts complaint because I dont think that BUPA treated her unfairly. I say 
that because:
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance 
contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. If a 
consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. 
For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have 
offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer 
failed to take reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under 
CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or 
reckless, or careless.
BUPA thinks that Mrs T failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when she didnt disclose high blood pressure when she applied 
for membership in April 2020.
Ive looked at the questions Mrs T was asked when she applied for membership 
with BUPA. The relevant ones for the purposes of this complaint are as follows:
2. In the last 5 years have any of the applicants had a heart or circulatory 
condition that is not already excluded on their existing scheme (for example 
coronary artery disease, angina and heart attacks, stroke, abnormal heart 
rhythms, blood clots or aneurysms, heart valve disorders, uncontrolled high 
cholesterol/blood pressure etc)? 
[]
4. Do any of the applicants have any planned or pending investigations, 
treatment or surgery for any condition or symptom that is not already 
excluded on their existing scheme (this applies whether the treatment is 
planned privately or under the NHS)? []
Mrs T answered no to those questions.
Mrs T says that in January and February 2020, she had two high blood pressure 
readings at her GPs practice. She says that in February 2020, her GP referred her 
to hospital for a blood test and 24 hour blood pressure monitor. Mrs T had a blood 
test and an ECG later that month but her appointment for a 24 hour monitor was 
cancelled due to the NHS response to the covid-19 pandemic. Thats why she 
asked BUPA to cover a consultation relating to the 24 hour monitor and further 
blood testsOn Mrs Ts own evidence, when she applied for membership with BUPA in       
April 2020, shed had two high blood pressure readings and been referred by her 
GP and had a blood test and an ECG. Her referral for a 24 hour monitor was 
outstanding. So, that investigation was pending. These are things that BUPA would 
wish to know about before deciding whether to offer Mrs T membership or the terms 
of that membership. Mrs T should have answered yes to the two questions Ive set 
out above. I dont think that BUPA acted unfairly or unreasonably in concluding that 
Mrs T had uncontrolled high blood pressure when she applied for membership. And 
its also the case that one part of the investigations she was having was pending.
If BUPA had known the true position when Mrs T applied for membership, it would 
have excluded any treatment that is for, results from, or is related to, high 
cholesterol. Thats what it did when the information came to light. Im satisfied that 
Mrs Ts misrepresentation was a qualifying one, within the meaning of CIDRA. It 
follows that I dont think that BUPA acted unfairly in declining Mrs Ts claim.
BUPA agreed to continue Mrs Ts membership with an exclusion relating to high 
cholesterol. I dont think thats unfair.
For these reasons, I dont intend to uphold Mrs Ts complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mrs T nor BUPA responded to my provisional decision. As neither party has 
provided any further evidence or arguments in support of their position, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I provisionally reached. So, for the reasons Ive explained, I 
dont think that BUPA acted unfairly in declining Mrs Ts claim or in agreeing to continue      
Mrs Ts membership with an exclusion relating to high cholesterol. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman