DRN-4006406
The complaint
Ms B complains British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) caused damage to a worktop in 
her garage after she made a claim on her home emergency insurance policy. And that the 
cash offer made for repairs was not enough.
There are several parties and representatives of British Gas involved throughout the 
complaint but for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to British Gas.
What happened
Ms B made a claim on her home emergency policy that she held with British Gas after the 
tap in the utility area of her garage became loose and there was low water pressure to it.
A British Gas appointed engineer attended and found the tap was not repairable and it 
needed to be replaced. 
To replace the tap the worktop had to be lifted and whilst doing this it split round the hole 
where the tap came through. A new tap was installed. The split worktop was put back in 
place. At Ms Bs request the engineer put sealant around the broken area by the tap. 
Ms B made a complaint to British Gas about the damaged caused.
British Gas said the worktop had split at the site of the tap hole due to its age and poor 
condition. And in view of the condition of the worktop prior to its engineer attending, it made 
a cash settlement offer of £500 for the damage caused. 
As Ms B was not happy with British Gass offer, she brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. They looked into the case and did not think British 
Gas had done enough to put things right. They said the cash offer made by British Gas was 
not enough for her to replace the worktop. They said British Gas should meet the cost of the 
repair or replace the worktop themselves. 
As British Gas is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me 
for a final decision to be made.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In this case there isnt any dispute over the fact that the worktop snapped when the British 
Gas engineer lifted it to gain access to replace the broken tap. There was no other way for 
the tap repair to be completed without the worktop being lifted. 
I looked at the engineers report. It said the worktop snapped due to the condition of it prior 
to moving it. It said at the time the split occurred Ms B had understood that it was inevitable. 
I saw that the engineer advised a new worktop was needed urgently. 
I looked at the images of the worktop and it is clear that the worktop and cupboards 
underneath were in a poor condition. I saw that the worktop near the sink was made up of 
three different pieces of worktop. One piece was even a different colour to the other pieces. 
The images show multiple chips to the worktop edges around the sink. This will have let 
water in and will have weakened the strength of the worktop which was made of laminate 
chipboard.
I accept that it is possible that a newer worktop may also have snapped when it was put 
under stress when moved. However the evidence provided in the images of the garage, and 
the information from British Gas contractors, persuade me that the condition of the worktop 
at the time the engineer attended attributed to it breaking so easily.
British Gas made an initial cash offer of £250 in respect of the damage caused. This was 
increased to £500. It said this offer was based on the condition of the worktop prior to the 
incident. 
Ms B obtained a quote from a local tradesperson to replace the worktop and realign the 
cabinet below, this came to £1,895, not including VAT. The quote did not include a monetary 
breakdown for labour and materials. In addition the quote does not specify the specific 
worktop material to be used or if this is for a complete or part new worktop.
Despite the condition of the worktops being poor, British Gas did cause the damage and Ms 
B should be put back in the position she was in prior to this. In this case this means the part 
of the worktop that was damaged should be replaced with a new piece in the same material 
 laminate chipboard. I do not consider that all of the pieces of the worktop should be 
replaced.
In this case I think that the £500 offered by British Gas is fair and reasonable. It will enable 
Ms B to get the worktop piece around the sink that was damaged replaced with a similar 
piece of worktop and realign the cabinet underneath. This would put her back in the position 
she was before the worktop snapped.
Therefore, I intend not to uphold Ms Bs complaint and I do not require British Gas to offer 
anything further than the £500 cash settlement it has already offered.
Responses to my provisional decision
Ms B responded to say her units and worktop were not broken or in the condition as 
described. She said the engineer would not have started the work if they were. She said due 
to the worktop breaking this has caused the button cabinet units to be misaligned. 
Ms B also submitted a more detailed invoice from a local supplier which included detail of 
the work to be completed including replacement of the worktop, removing sink, and 
reinstalling and adjusting and aligning the cupboards beneath the worktop. 
British Gas responded to say it had reviewed the document submitted by Ms B. But it 
maintained its position with the offer of £500 to replace the damaged worktop. It said this 
would be the cost for a like for like replacement. It said it did not have any further offers to 
make in this regard.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.In response to Ms Bs comments;
British Gass engineers report says there was no alternative than to lift the worktop to 
replace the broken tap in the garage. I saw in the engineers notes it says the customer 
understood it was inevitable it would split.
I reviewed the pictures of the units and worktop in the garage again and I have not been 
persuaded that the breakage of the worktop by British Gass engineer caused the damage 
and misalignment to the button cabin unit underneath. This is because the worktop above 
this unit was already made up of two pieces of worktop which would have already meant a 
weakness in this area.
The pictures provided by Ms B clearly show the worktop and units against a wall in the 
garage. It shows the worktop in several parts and there is clear sign of wear and tear to both 
the worktop and cupboards.
I reviewed the more detailed quote, and it still did not include a monetary breakdown of 
materials and labour or specify the worktop material. However it did include detail of work 
that I do not think British Gas are responsible for covering, including removing and refitting 
the sink. 
I only require British Gas to cover for the cost of a worktop to be fitted. I think that the offer of 
£500 is enough to replace the worktop in laminate woodchip and adjust the unit below. This 
would put the garage back to the same state it was prior to the worktop breaking. 
Based on the evidence Ive reviewed I maintain my provisional decision and I do not uphold 
Ms Bs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman