DRN-3283403
The complaint
Mrs P complains about British Gas Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim involving a 
washing machine under her home emergency policy.
Mrs P is represented by her daughter Miss P in her complaint. 
Any reference to British Gas includes its agents and contractors. 
What happened
Mrs Ps washing machine developed a fault. She made a claim to British Gas. It was agreed 
her policy would provide for a replacement. 
Mrs P is partially sighted. Miss P explained this to British Gas during the phones calls when 
the replacement was arranged. She says the replacement machine it offered looked like it 
had operating instructions in grey writing on a white background. This would be difficult for 
her mother to read. Miss P suggested alternative models that would be more suitable. British 
Gas couldnt provide these. 
British Gas offered vouchers so Mrs P could put this toward the cost of an alternative 
machine. Miss P says that because of Mrs Ps health condition the washing machine had to 
be replaced immediately. She couldnt wait for vouchers to be provided, and then wait for the 
retailer to deliver the machine. Because of this she accepted the machine British Gas 
offered. Miss P says she was told she could return the machine if there was a problem within 
28 days.
Miss P says the machine cant wash the same amount of laundry as the old one. This means 
additional costs in electricity and water. She also says her mother cant operate the machine 
as she cant see the writing. She contacted British Gas but it wouldnt replace the washing 
machine. It says theres no fault and Miss P was aware of the model, and all its features, 
before she accepted it. It also says the washing capacity is the same 6kg capacity as the old 
one. 
As British Gas wouldnt replace the washing machine Miss P referred the complaint to our 
service. Our investigator didnt uphold her complaint. She says the option to return the 
machine within 28 days was related to faults. Miss P was aware of the model being provided 
and accepted it. She was offered an alternative in the form of a voucher towards a different 
machine but declined this option. Because of this she thought British Gas had been fair. 
Miss P didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
Its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ps complaint. I understand she will be 
disappointed, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Mrs Ps policy includes Kitchen Appliance Cover. The policy terms say this provides, 
unlimited repairs to your selected kitchen appliance(s). In addition, it says:
A contribution toward a replacement appliance if we cant repair it or we decide it will cost 
less to replace than repair.
Miss P says British Gas didnt attempt to repair the machine. She says this would have been 
preferable and probably quicker. 
We asked British Gas why a repair wasnt attempted. It says its process is to ask its 
customer questions and assess whether a repair attempt is worth trying or if a replacement 
is the better option. It says consideration is given to the likely time taken to source parts, 
engineer availability in the locality and how repairable certain makes and models are known 
to be. 
British Gas says the main factor for the decision to replace the machine was engineer 
availability. It says a lot of engineers were off ill with Covid-19 or having to self-isolate at the 
time. This meant long waiting times in Mrs Ps area. British Gas says the washing machine 
had been manufactured from November 2010. It didnt know the exact purchase date but 
was aware it was over three years old. It says its policy terms allow a 30% contribution in 
this scenario, but it uplifted this to the full replacement cost in this instance.
I have read the policy terms, under the section on kitchen appliances. This confirms what 
British Gas says about the 30% contribution allowance for appliances three years and older. 
I have thought about Miss Ps view that a repair wouldve been quicker. I can understand 
Mrs P needed a working machine as soon as possible. But based on the rationale provided I 
think British Gass approach to provide a replacement machine, was reasonable. I dont think 
Miss P has shown that a repair attempt will have been quicker or that a repair was possible.   
Miss P was told she could accept a similar replacement model supplied by British Gas. 
Alternatively, it would provide vouchers for the value of the replacement. Mrs P could then 
put this toward the cost of an alternative. 
Ive listened to two calls Miss P had with British Gas to understand what was discussed. Its 
clear she was aware of the model of washing machine being offered. She was able to look 
this up online. I understand this is why she raised concerns with the size and colour of the 
writing used on the washing machine. Miss P suggested several alternatives which the call 
handler checked. Unfortunately, she confirmed these models couldnt be supplied. The 
option of vouchers as an alternative was discussed several times during the calls. 
During the phone calls Miss P was clear her mother needed the replacement machine 
immediately because of a health condition. She couldnt wait for vouchers, to buy a machine 
elsewhere and then wait for the retailer to deliver. The call handler suggested vouchers 
could be made available within 24 hours. Miss P said it would still take at least seven days 
for a machine to be delivered based on what she could see online.
In the call Miss P agreed to receive the model offered, albeit reluctantly. The call was then 
passed to another call handler where payment was taken to cover the cost of installation and 
disposal of the old machine. It was during this call that Miss P says she was told she could 
return the washing machine if there was a problem.    Having listened to the call I dont think this is what was said. The call handler says Miss P 
should make sure there are no cracks or bumps when the machine is delivered. If she does 
notice a problem, she shouldnt accept the delivery but should send it back. He also says 
she has 28 days to tell us if there is a problem so that we can fix it for you. 
British Gas says it will take back the machine if its faulty, but there isnt a fault here. I think 
this is what its call handler was explaining to Miss P during the call. If a fault was found the 
machine could be returned. But I dont think she was told a return was possible if she 
subsequently found the writing on the machine was unsuitable for her mother.
I acknowledge Miss Ps comments that she proposed alternatives available online, through 
the company British Gas used to supply, deliver and install the replacement machine. We 
asked British Gas for its comments on this point. It says not all appliances on the market are 
available to it from its suppliers. It says it tries its best to accommodate requests from a 
customer, but this isnt always possible. 
During the call its clear the call handler did check to see whether the machines Miss P 
wanted could be supplied. They werent available. I can understand she was disappointed, 
but I dont think she has shown that British Gas failed to offer a machine that was available 
to it from its supplier.   
Miss P has explained the impact of her mothers health condition, and why a washing 
machine is a necessity. I understand why a speedy replacement was important in these 
circumstances. And I can understand that this was a stressful situation for both her and her 
mother. Im sorry they found this upsetting. But I think British Gas behaved reasonably when 
offering to supply a similar model, or the option of vouchers toward the cost of an alternative 
machine of Mrs Ps choice. I accept the replacement machine was needed quickly, but I 
dont think the business couldve done anything more under the terms of Mrs Ps policy to 
arrange this more quickly.     
I have thought about Miss Ps view that the replacement machine is smaller, which reduces 
the laundry load it can handle. Also, her comments that theres no countdown timer or alarm 
like the old one had.
My understanding is the drum capacity of a washing machine is the load measured in 
kilograms. This is how much laundry the machine can handle in one wash. From what Ive 
seen British Gas and Miss P confirm the drum capacity of both machines is 6kg. I 
understand the dimensions of the new machine are slightly smaller. But the load capacity of 
both machines is the same. Based on this I dont agree that British Gas has supplied an 
inferior machine in relation to load capacity.     
Miss P was aware of the model of washing machine being provided. If she wasnt satisfied 
with the features, she had the option of vouchers and putting these toward a different 
machine. From listening to the calls, I think British Gas did try to assist Miss P as best it 
could within the limitations of the policy. Ultimately, it provided a replacement in line with the 
policy terms. Miss P says she had no choice but to accept the replacement offered. But I 
dont think this means British Gas should replace the machine that she agreed to have fitted. 
Miss P says she was promised a call back within 24 hours but had to wait five days for 
British Gas to make contact. We asked British Gas about this. It says its process is to call a 
customer back within five working days once a claim has been made. It says the claim has 
to be validated before its able to contact the customer and confirm next steps. It says its 
records dont show it told Miss P she would be contacted within 24 hours. 
I dont doubt Miss Ps recollection of her initial phone call with British Gas. I understand the pressing need to have a working washing machine in place for her mother. It must have 
been frustrating when this took longer to arrange than she expected, especially given her 
understanding that a call would be received within 24 hours. But based on the evidence 
British Gas followed its established process when handling the claim. On balance I accept 
Miss Ps expectations probably werent managed, with respect to the call back. But I dont 
think it was reasonably possible for the washing machine to have been replaced quicker 
than it was.
One final point Miss P has raised is that on installation the engineer ran a clean cycle 
without asking if this was okay. She says it wasnt then possible to return the machine in an 
unused state. I acknowledge her comments, but there is no indication the machine was 
faulty. So, there was no opportunity to return it regardless of the cycle that was run. 
In summary having considered all of this I dont think British Gas treated Mrs P unfairly in 
how it handled her claim. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman