DRN-3527990
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) reduced 
her credit limit.
What happened
Mrs F had a credit limit of £15,000 on her Barclaycard. This had been in place for many 
years. In April 2021, the limit was reduced to £1,000.
Mrs F complained. She said she needed the limit and was a credit  worthy customer. She 
said she had received confusing text messages about the limit and didnt receive a letter. 
She wants the limit reinstated  as she may need to use it.
Barclaycard said they were sorry that contact couldnt be established. But theyd taken the 
decision to lower Mrs Fs limit and if she wanted to increase it again, she needed to apply 
either through the website or by calling them. They paid compensation of £40 to Mrs F in 
May 2021.
Mrs F brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said Barclaycard acted reasonably. Their 
terms and conditions said they could reduce a customers credit limit if they wished. 
Barclaycard did this as part of their responsible lending policies. And he said our service 
cant challenge how a business lends money. Theyd given 30 days notice and had tried to 
contact Mrs F by text and letter. He said that it didnt appear that Mrs F had been 
disadvantaged by the reduction in the limit.
Mrs F asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint. She couldnt see why her limit had 
been reduced  she said shed always paid the account on time without fail. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see how frustrating this must have been for Mrs F. She says she did get text messages 
 but these were confusing. And she didnt get a letter. She says she had maintained a good 
account over the years  and so cannot see why Barclaycard took the decision they did.
Let me say at the outset that we cant challenge businesses about their lending policies  so 
we are not able to tell Barclaycard to reinstate Mrs Fs limit. But I will look at why Barclaycard 
did what they did, and how they communicated with Mrs F.
Barclaycards terms and conditions say they can reduce a customers credit limit if they wish. 
In Mrs Fs case, I can see that Barclaycard wrote to her on 24 February 2021 to say they 
intended to reduce her limit on 31 March 2021. So - they gave a months notice, which was 
reasonable.
I reviewed the letter and it said that if Mrs F wanted to keep her current limit, she should text 
Barclaycard and they gave instruction as to how she should do that. Mrs F says she didnt 
receive the letter  but Barclaycard showed us the evidence it was sent and in all fairness, 
we cant hold Barclaycard responsible if it wasnt delivered to Mrs F.
I could then see evidence that Barclaycard texted Mrs F to say that weve sent you a letter 
about your Barclaycard. Please read it carefully, it includes important information about your 
credit limit being lowered..  Mrs F says she found that confusing, but I think it is clear  
Barclaycard were highlighting to Mrs F that she should read the letter. And if she hadnt 
received the letter, I think it would be reasonable to have expected her to contact 
Barclaycard at that point to find out what was happening.
We asked Barclaycard why Mrs Fs limit had been reduced. They said it was because she 
hadnt used the account for some months. I looked at her statements and they show the 
account wasnt used between September 2019 and April 2021  and the balance was zero. 
Its an unfortunate fact that in those circumstances, such accounts are likely targets of 
fraudsters  and so in that sense, Barclaycard were trying to protect Mrs F. But also  its fair 
to say that if a customer isnt using a credit limit, it is only reasonable that a firm reduces it - 
its a logical thing to do. 
Mrs F feels disadvantaged by what happened  and I can see and understand that. But 
given that she hadnt used the limit for some time  and she told us that she has sizeable 
credit balances on a savings account and in her current account  it doesnt appear that she 
was financially disadvantaged by what happened.
In their final response, Barclaycard said Mrs F could apply to have the limit reinstated, and 
how to do that. We asked Barclaycard if she had  they said she hasnt. That offer still 
applies, and so she can still re-apply if she wishes to do so.
Mrs F says she no longer wants compensation  but I can see that compensation of £40 was 
paid into her Barclaycard account in May 2021 following her conversation with them.
I can appreciate that Mrs F feels strongly about what happened and will therefore be 
disappointed by my decision.  But having reviewed her case, I think Barclaycard acted 
reasonably and I wont be asking them to do anymore here.
(continued)
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Martin LordOmbudsman