DRN-3043608
The complaint
Mr P and Miss P complain because Great Lakes Insurance SE (hereafter Great Lakes) 
settled their travel insurance claim in part.
What happened
On 12 February 2020 Mr P and Miss P booked a trip to Mexico via the USA. They also 
purchased a premier annual travel insurance policy provided by Great Lakes, which started 
on 7 March 2020 and included Natural Catastrophe/terrorism cover.
On 8 March 2020 Mr P and Miss P flew to Mexico via the USA. They were scheduled to be 
in Mexico until 17 March 2020, at which point they were scheduled to fly back to the USA 
and then on to the UK on 19 March 2020. 
Whilst in Mexico, Mr P and Miss P had hoped to spend some time staying on an island just 
off the mainland. But in view of the evolving Covid-19 situation theyd decided to remain on 
the mainland and booked additional accommodation whilst there to facilitate that.  
On 11 March 2020 the World Health Organisation (WHO) classified Covid-19 as a 
pandemic. And on 14 March 2020 Mr P and Miss P learned that the USA had restricted entry 
into the country for travellers that had been in the UK 14 days prior to arrival. Given they 
would not be able to travel via the USA as planned Mr P and Miss P decided to return home 
and booked another flight back to the UK. 
That flight was scheduled to depart on 17 March 2020 and go via Mexico City. But when 
Mr P and Miss P went to embark, the carrier denied their boarding and said this was 
because theyd been in the UK within the previous 14 days. The carrier then offered Mr P 
and Miss P a voucher. 
Mr P and Miss P purchased another flight to Mexico City, with a different carrier on the same 
day, and stayed in Mexico City for one night before flying back to the UK on 18 March 2020.
Mr P and Miss P made a claim on their travel insurance policy. Great Lakes accepted this in 
part, and settled the following costs under the policys curtailment section: 
Mr P and Miss Ps USA visas
their original return flight from Mexico to USA
their original return flight from USA to the UK
Great Lakes declined the remained of the costs Mr P and Miss P had claimed for and said 
they werent covered under either the cancellation and curtailment or trip disruption cover. 
Those costs were:
coach tickets to take Mr P and Miss P to and from the airport
the additional accommodation after Mr P and Miss P decided not to spend time off 
the mainland 
the additional flights to Mexico City (the first of which Mr P and Miss P were denied 
boarding for) 
the one nights accommodation in Mexico City
the return taxi costs between the airport and accommodation in Mexico City 
Mr P and Miss P complained about the remainder of their claim. They said their additional 
costs should have been settled under their trip disruption cover and theyd had great 
difficulty getting hold of Great Lakes when they were in Mexico.
Great Lakes apologised for the difficulties Mr P and Miss P had experienced when trying to 
make contact and explained it had been deluged with calls, emails and claims because of 
the pandemic. But it maintained its position on the claim and said additional costs were only 
covered under trip disruption if there had been a delay to a scheduled return. 
Unhappy, Mr P and Miss P brought their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator thought Great Lakes had settled the claim fairly. They explained the 
curtailment provisions of the policy covered unused costs and those had already been 
settled by Great Lakes. But the enhanced benefits for trip disruption under the natural 
catastrophe/terrorism cover only applied where a policy holder had been delayed in returning 
home, and Mr P and Miss P had not been delayed.  
Mr P and Miss P disagreed and asked for the matter to be reviewed. They said the policy 
terms were in place pre-pandemic and should have been overridden at the point the 
pandemic was announced and the FCDO issued guidance for UK nationals to return home 
as soon as possible. They said any period after the change in FCDO guidance and in which 
they hadnt returned home should be considered a delay. And the policy should have had a 
clear cause in it if that was not the position Great Lakes wanted to take.  
Mr P and Mrs Ps complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so Ive considered amongst other things the relevant regulators rules and guidance 
which say that a business must handle claims both promptly and fairly, and must not decline 
a claim unreasonably. And the documents relevant to Mr P and Miss Ps cover, namely the 
terms and conditions and the insurance product information document (IPID) which are both 
dated October 2019.
Great Lakes has already settled Mr P and Miss Ps unused costs. This part of the claim is 
not in dispute. For reference those costs were settled under the policys curtailment cover 
provisions which are found on page 24 of the terms and conditions and say:
We will reimburse up to the amount shown in the Schedule of Benefits (for the cover level 
as shown on Your Policy Certificate) in total under this policy for financial loss You suffer, 
being non-refundable deposits and amounts You have paid for travel and accommodation 
You do not use because of Your inability to commence travel or complete the trip.
The costs that remain in dispute are those incurred when Mr P and Miss P made alternative 
travel arrangements to return home. It is these that Mr P and Miss P have said should be 
accepted under the enhanced trip disruption cover they have through the natural 
catastrophe/terrorism additional option.Looking at the terms and conditions document I can see that this cover is set out on page 41 
and says: 
Section P2  Trip Disruption Once Your Trip has started
This section applies if You have already departed from the UK and You are unable to 
undertake complete Your journey as per your pre-booked itinerary to either reach Your 
destination or to return home due to a Natural Catastrophe or Terrorism Event. You can 
claim up to the limit shown in the Schedule of Benefits for each day (24 complete hours) You 
are delayed for additional accommodation and travelling expenses.
Natural Catastrophe is also defined on the same page as:
Pandemic as declared by the World Health Organisation, volcanic activity, volcanic ash, 
earthquake, tsunami, hurricane, cyclone, flooding of more than 50 square km. 
The WHO had declared a pandemic whilst Mr P and Miss P were abroad  it had done so on 
11 March 2020. But in order for Mr P and Miss P additional accommodation and travel costs 
to be considered under this section of the policy, their pre-booked return to the UK would 
had to have been delayed by more than 24 hours because of the pandemic. 
Mr P and Miss Ps pre-booked itinerary shows that they were due to return home on 
19 March 2020, but the alternative flight they returned on departed for the UK on 
18 March 2020. So, I cant conclude that Great Lakes unfairly declined the additional costs 
Mr P and Miss P incurred as their return home was not delayed by more than 24 hours. 
I am aware that Mr P and Miss P have disagreed with the way in which Great Lakes 
interpreted the trip disruption cover. Theyve said that when assessing the claim Great Lakes 
should have overridden their scheduled return date and interpreted it instead to be the date 
the FCDO guidance changed and UK nationals were told to return home. Mr P and Miss P 
have also said that if Great Lakes wasnt intending to look at the claim in this way, it should 
have said so in its terms and conditions.
Ive thought about the points being made by Mr P and Miss P. I think it important to note that 
it wasnt until 23 March 2020 that the UK government advised all UK tourists abroad to 
return home, and by that point Mr and Mr P had already returned to the UK. But in any 
event, I dont think it would be either fair or reasonable of me to direct Great Lakes to accept 
this claim outside of the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Finding themselves abroad in the midst of a pandemic must have been worrying for Mr P 
and Miss P and I can understand why they chose to seek alternative travel and return home. 
However, no insurance policy is designed to cover every eventuality and the cover available 
through Mr P and Miss Ps policy was set out in its terms and conditions. Those stipulated 
how delays in relation to the enhanced trip disruption cover would be calculated, and for the 
reasons I have already given above I dont think Great Lakes applied them unreasonably. 
It is clear that Mr P and Miss P feel very strongly about what has happened. But having 
considered all of the available evidence and arguments I think Great Lakes declined their 
additional costs in line with the terms and conditions of their policy. So, I will not be 
interfering with its decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Great Lakes Insurance SE.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Miss P to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman