DRN-3159980
The complaint
Miss K complains about how AXA Insurance UK Plc administered her motor insurance 
policy. She says it incorrectly placed a total loss marker on her car.
What happened
Miss K went to view replacement cars and the dealers ran checks on her current car which 
she wanted to part exchange. The checks showed that the car had a total loss marker on its 
record, which Miss K knew wasnt right. Miss K said she was treated rudely by the sales staff 
and embarrassed. AXA agreed that it had placed the marker incorrectly on Miss Ks car. It 
offered her £150 compensation. But Miss K was unhappy with this. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought the error 
had occurred because AXA hadnt noted that Miss Ks previous car, which was a total loss, 
had a cherished plate that she had transferred to her current car. So the current car was 
showing as a total loss. He thought AXA corrected this and offered Miss K a fair and 
reasonable amount of compensation. 
Miss K replied that AXAs error had caused her financial losses as the cars value had 
decreased and she wasnt able to take advantage of a special offer for part exchanges.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about Miss Ks experience. I can understand that she must have felt 
embarrassed and stressed at the time. When a business makes a mistake, as AXA accepts 
it has done here, we expect it to restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. 
And we also consider the impact the error had on the consumer. 
I can see that AXA removed the total loss marker from Miss Ks car when it had identified 
that this was due to its technical error. And it confirmed that this would have had no effect on 
her premiums. I think this restores Miss Ks position as far as its possible to do so. And so 
Ill now consider the impact the error had on Miss K: 
Miss K said she was caused embarrassment and was treated rudely at two dealers when 
the total loss marker was identified. I dont doubt this. But I dont understand why Miss K 
proceeded with the second, lengthy viewing after the marker had already been identified.
Miss K said she then had to try and resolve the issue with the seller of her car and AXA 
and this took time and trouble. But I think mistakes happen and fortunately Miss K was 
able to sort this out. 
It took AXA five days from when the problem was reported for it to identify and correct 
the problem. I think that was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Miss K later recalled that she had been unable to take advantage of a special offer from 
a dealer and her car lost value. But I havent seen any evidence to support this. And I 
think Miss K would have raised this with AXA at the time if it had been a concern for her. 
So I think AXAs error caused Miss K avoidable distress and inconvenience. I can see that 
AXA paid Miss K £150 compensation for the impact its error had on her. I think thats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. This is because I think this amount reflects the impact the 
error had on Miss K and its in keeping with our published guidance. So I dont require AXA 
to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman