DRN-4154536
Complaint
Miss J complains that Metro Bank PLC unfairly brought about a hire-purchase agreement for 
her. She says that the finance agreement was unaffordable. 
Background
In September 2018, Miss J wished to purchase a used car after her previous vehicle was 
written off as a result of an accident. Miss J approached a company that Metro Bank PLC is 
now responsible for Ratesetter in order to secure the finance for her purchase. For the 
sake of clarity, I will refer to the respondent firm as Ratesetter throughout the course of this 
decision.
Ratesetter operated the electronic platform in relation to lending which led to Miss J being 
provided with finance to purchase her car. The cash price of the vehicle was £8,558.00.   
Miss J didnt pay a deposit and applied for a loan to cover the entire purchase price.  
The loan had interest, fees and total charges of £6,504.41 (comprising of interest of 
£6,504.40, and an option to purchase fee of 1p), and the total amount to be repaid of 
£15,062.41 was due to be repaid in 59 monthly instalments of £251.04 and a final instalment 
of £251.05. 
Miss Js complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think that Ratesetter 
had done anything wrong or treated Miss J unfairly. So he didnt recommend that Miss Js 
complaint should be upheld. Miss J disagreed with our adjudicator and the complaint was 
passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Js complaint. 
Ratesetter needed to make sure that it didnt bring about Miss Js agreement irresponsibly. 
In practice, what this means is that Ratesetter needed to carry out proportionate checks to 
be able to understand whether Miss J could make her payments in a sustainable manner 
before approving her loan. And if the checks Ratesetter carried out werent sufficient, I then 
need to consider what reasonable and proportionate checks are likely to have shown.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether checks were 
proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for pre-lending checks to be less thorough 
 in terms of how much information is gathered and what is done to verify that information  
in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think a firm needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, 
the amount lent was high, or the information it had  such as a significantly impaired credit 
history  suggested the firm needed to know more about a prospective borrowers ability to 
repay what they were being lent. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Miss Js complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Ratesetter says it agreed to this application after it completed an income and expenditure 
assessment on Miss J. During this assessment, Miss J provided details of her monthly 
income and this was cross referenced against information held by credit reference agencies. 
Ratesetter says it also carried out credit searches on Miss J.
Ive thought about what Miss J and Ratesetter have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that much like our adjudicator, I dont think that the checks 
Ratesetter carried out did go far enough. Ratesetters searches showed that Miss J had had 
previous difficulties with credit. I can see that she had previously defaulted on credit 
commitments  albeit this happened a number of years earlier. 
So, in my view, Ratesetter needed to take further steps to verify Miss Js actual living costs, 
given what the credit search showed in order for its checks to have been proportionate. 
As Ratesetter didnt carry out sufficient checks, Ive gone on to decide what I think 
Ratesetter is more likely than not to have seen had it obtained further information from            
Miss J. Bearing in mind, the length of time of the agreement and the amount of the monthly 
payment, I would have expected Ratesetter to have had a reasonable understanding about 
Miss Js regular living expenses as well as her income and existing credit commitments. 
Ive considered the information Miss J has provided us with  including her bank statements. 
And having done so, this information does appear to show that when Miss Js committed 
regular living expenses and existing credit commitments are deducted from her monthly 
income at the time, she did have the funds, at the time at least, to sustainably make the 
repayments due under this agreement. In my view, the funds in Miss Js account would have 
provided Ratesetter with sufficient confidence to go ahead with this agreement.
I accept that Miss J may have gone on to have difficulty to make her payments. Ive also 
seen what Miss J has said about falling behind and getting into difficulty on her other 
agreement. I really am sorry to hear about this. But given what Miss J has said, it seems to 
me that this has happened as a result of a change in circumstances. 
I understand that Miss J is no longer working but at the time of the application she was 
employed. Miss J has said that she told Ratesetter that she was in receipt of sick pay at this 
time. I dont know if this is the case. It would be odd for an applicant looking for credit in the 
circumstances Miss J says she was to have declared this and there isnt anything in the 
information from the time of the application confirming this was the case. 
In any event, even if I were to give Miss J the benefit of the doubt here and accept that she 
did tell Ratesetter she was receiving sick pay at the time, I dont think that this in itself means 
that Ratesetter would have known Miss J wouldnt return to work. I say this as theres no 
suggestion that this was known at the time.
  
So overall and having carefully considered everything, while I dont think that Ratesetters 
checks before bringing about this hire purchase agreement for Miss J did go far enough, Im 
satisfied that carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks wont have prevented 
Ratesetter from bringing about this agreement for her. Overall Im therefore satisfied that Ratesetter didnt act unfairly towards Miss J in its dealings 
with her and Im therefore not upholding this complaint. I appreciate that this will be very 
disappointing for Miss J. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Miss Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman