DRN-3818841
Complaint
Mrs S is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) closed her account and registered 
a fraud prevention marker against her.
Background
In April 2022, Mrs S account received two payments of £100. The first £100 of the funds 
were immediately transferred elsewhere. Barclays subsequently received a notification from 
another of its customers, responsible for sending one of the payments to Mrs S account, 
stating that theyd been a victim of fraud. This was followed by a further notification from a 
third-party bank stating that its customer had also made a similar report. As a result of these 
notifications, Barclays reviewed Mrs S account and its investigation led it to decide to close 
the account and record a fraud prevention marker.
Mrs S subsequently complained. Barclays looked at Mrs S complaint and didnt uphold it. As 
Mrs S remained dissatisfied she referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mrs S concerns. She didnt think that Barclays had done 
anything wrong or treated Mrs S unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mrs S disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Barclays has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mrs S is guilty of fraud or a 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Barclays must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Mrs S account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Barclays also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mrs S was deliberately dishonest 
in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. 
This can include Mrs S allowing someone else to use her account in order to receive an 
illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mrs S complaint, I need to decide whether I think Barclays had 
enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mrs S account and that her actions 
suggest she was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Barclays did 
have enough to record a fraud prevention marker here. Id like to explain why in a little more 
detail. 
Mrs S disputes that the funds which entered her account in April 2022 were fraudulent. She 
has said that the funds in question were transferred to her as a prize for winning a 
competition on social media. She has provided screenshots of messages between her and 
another party confirming her competition win.  
Ive thought about what Mrs S has said. But Im afraid that Im not persuaded by her version 
of events. The screenshots provided indicate suggest that Mrs S thought she won a prize for 
£400. So this doesnt explain why Mrs S would believe that these two payments of £100 
would correspond with this. Furthermore, these transfers came from people with completely 
different names to the person named in the messages Mrs S has provided. Given the 
discrepancies between the amounts and the payees, I would have expected Mrs S to realise 
that these payments werent as a result of winning the competition shes referred to.  
 
Having considered everything, Im afraid that the available evidence simply doesnt support 
what Mrs S has said. And given Barclays received reports of fraud from two different 
customers, one of whom was with a third-party bank, Im satisfied that Barclays did have 
sufficient evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Mrs S account. 
Furthermore, as Mrs S version of events is neither plausible nor persuasive, Im satisfied 
that Barclays was also reasonably entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not that 
Mrs S was complicit in the activity which took place. As this is the case, I dont think that it 
was unfair for Barclays to record a fraud prevention marker in the circumstances that it did. 
I now turn to the closure of Mrs S account. The terms and conditions of Mrs S account state 
Barclays could close an account, without notice, in certain circumstances. These included 
where it had reasonable grounds for thinking a customer commit(ted) (or attempt) fraud 
against us or someone else.
Ive already explained why I think Barclays was reasonably entitled to conclude that Mrs S 
account had been used for fraudulent purposes when explaining why it didnt act unfairly in 
recording the fraud prevention marker. As this is the case, Im also satisfied that, for much 
the same reasons, the terms and conditions permitted Barclays to close Mrs S account too. 
And Im not upholding this part of Mrs S complaint either.
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mrs S  especially in light of the ongoing 
impact shes said the fraud marker is having on her. But I hope shell understand the 
reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to. 
Furthermore, Mrs S might find that shes able to open an account with another bank as long 
as she applies for a Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such 
equivalent. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs S complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman