DRN-4217165
The complaint
Mr T complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) hasnt been transparent about 
which transactions triggered a review of his credit card account.
What happened
Tesco got in touch with Mr T following a review of his account. It said it got in touch as it 
thought some of the transactions being made from the account might have been for 
business purposes  and the account should only be used for personal expenses. It had a 
conversation with Mr T on the phone about some of the transactions on the account. 
Following the discussion, Tesco sent Mr T a letter letting him know that the account 
shouldnt be used for business purposes. And that these types of transactions should be 
stopped  otherwise it might take action to close the account.
On several occasions, Mr T asked Tesco which transactions triggered the review. And which 
transactions he should stop making  which he says he hasnt received a clear or 
transparent response about. Mr T has also sent this service his most recent statements 
which he says shows that he hadnt been using the account for businesses purposes.
An Investigator looked into the complaint, but they didnt think it should be upheld. The 
Investigator didnt explain what transactions triggered the review of Mr Ts account, however 
they thought that Tesco had done enough in explaining that the account shouldnt be used 
for business use.
Mr T didnt agree with the Investigators view. He said that Tesco hadnt explained to him the 
behaviour it wanted him to stop. Mr T explained that there has been no business use, and 
provided copies of his statements to prove this. 
Because an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide 
on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed all of the evidence available to me, I wont be upholding Mr Ts complaint.
The terms and conditions of the account, under the section heading Restrictions on your 
account say, You and any additional cardholder must not use your account for business or 
illegal purposes.
It isnt unfair or unreasonable of Tesco to carry out reviews of accounts to ensure that they 
are being used inline with the terms and conditions. And where it has concerns about how 
the account is being used, it isnt unfair or unreasonable of it to carry out further 
investigations.
It isnt clear which transactions triggered the review of Mr Ts account. However, Tesco has 
provided me with a transcript of the call that it had with Mr T about some of the transactions 
on the account. So, I think it more likely than not that the transactions discussed during the 
call were the ones that triggered the review. These transactions included payments coming 
into the account from a business where Mr T is the director, overseas transactions, and 
transactions relating to property or property management companies. 
During the call, Mr T confirmed that he has a business both abroad and in the UK. And he 
confirmed that he leases properties. The transcript states that Mr T said, so Im not going to 
say I havent made business purchases on it but it is for personal use.
Given that Mr T had implied himself during the call that he might have used the card for 
business purchases, I dont think Tesco did anything wrong in later writing to Mr T to ask him 
to stop using the card for transactions of this nature.
I know Mr T wants an answer from Tesco about which specific transactions he needs to stop 
making. However, I think Tesco have been clear in saying that the card is for personal use 
only, and that it shouldnt be used for businesses purposes. So, Mr T would need to stop 
making transactions that are for the purposes of any of the businesses he is involved in. I 
dont think that Tesco needs to be more specific than this. 
I note that Mr T has said that on reviewing his statements more recently that he hasnt made 
any business purchases using the account, nor has he used it for expenses incurred during 
employment. While I accept that this might be the case, I dont think this was clear from the 
transcript of the conversation Mr T had with Tesco when the review took place. So, I still 
dont find that Tesco did anything wrong in later asking Mr T to use the account inline with 
the terms and conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman