DRN-3149176
The complaint
Mr L complains about London General Insurance Company Limiteds (London) poor 
workmanship following a claim under his gadget insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Ls phone developed a fault. He sent this for repair with London. This was repaired and 
returned to him. For a few months the phone worked without issue, but then developed 
another fault. Mr L took the phone to the phone manufacturer (PM), who found that the 
repairs carried out were poor and resulted in an unsafe and unrepairable phone. They also 
found that non-branded parts were used in the repair.
Mr L had to buy a new phone and complained to London. In its final response, London said 
that it was permitted to use non-branded parts to carry out repairs. It also said that the 
repairs were carried out correctly and that Mr L had used the phone for a few months without 
issue. 
Mr L remained unhappy and referred a complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He thought that the device 
wasnt poorly repaired, especially as it worked without issue for around 15 months, before 
any problems occurred. So, there was nothing further he could reasonably ask London to do.
London accepted the view, Mr L did not. He said the issue wasnt the length of time that the 
phone had been working, but that the quality of the repair was poor. And he had provided 
independent evidence from the PM that supported this. So, he asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint. My findings are broadly the same as our 
investigator, which I expect Mr L will be disappointed with, but I will explain why I think this is 
fair.  
In February 2020, Mr L logged the first fault claim with London. The fault with the phone was 
the volume button wasnt working and the screen had developed lines on it. The phone was 
repaired and returned to Mr L. In June 2021, the phone developed another fault and Mr L 
was ultimately told by the PM, that it was unrepairable. 
I have considered the report from the PM, who advised Mr L that the phone had been 
tampered with and repaired with non-branded parts. They also advised that the quality of the 
repair was poor in that there was a torn cable, loosely connected coil and non-genuine 
battery tabs. 
The main issue that Mr L is complaining about is not the length of time that the phone was 
working (following the first repair) but that when a new issue developed with the phone, the 
phone couldnt be repaired due to the poor workmanship. 
I asked London for its comments on whether the repair carried out on the phone was poor. It 
said that following the repair of the device, it was fully quality checked, including a battery 
evaluation that showed that the battery was in excellent condition. The quality checks 
confirmed the phone to be in full working order. I think that had the device been repaired to a 
poor standard, problems with the phone wouldve manifested much sooner than over a year 
later. London confirmed that there was a warranty on all its repairs. But from the evidence, I 
cant see that Mr L had to use the warranty as the repairs carried out appeared to have been 
stable. 
Additionally, the report from the PM lists one of the issues with the phone was that non-
genuine battery tabs had been used. But London said that at no point was the battery ever 
touched by them and Mr L has provided no evidence to the contrary. In addition, the repairs 
were to the volume button and the screen, so no indication that the battery was at fault or 
needed to be touched. 
Mr L said that the poor workmanship carried out by London caused the phone to be 
unrepairable. But Im not persuaded by this, as I dont think there is evidence to show that 
there had been poor workmanship. Not only had the phone previously passed the quality 
checks. But had there been poor workmanship, I wouldve expected any issues to present 
far sooner. Furthermore, the second fault with the phone (blown battery, lose cables) doesnt 
appear to be the exact same fault as the original fault (lines on screen and poor volume) with 
the phone. So, I dont think London were unreasonable to decline to cover the costs of Mr 
Ls new phone. 
Accordingly, whilst I understand the disappointment Mr L is likely to have with my findings, I 
wont be asking London to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons I explained, I wont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman