DRN-4167032
The complaint
Mr G complains Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) unfairly allowed an unauthorised 
overdraft on his bank account.
What happened
Mr G says he opened a payment card account with another provider (CRV). Mr G says he 
decided the account wasnt right for him, so he closed the account. Mr G says he got a 
message from CRV saying there was a problem with the payment for the card delivery fee. 
Mr G says on 2 November 2022, he realised there was insufficient funds in his Nationwide 
account so assumed it would be declined and he was happy with that. Mr G says when he 
logged onto his account he noticed the payment fee of £4.99 was pending and at that point 
he froze his Nationwide bank card. 
Mr G says he was surprised to find out the following day, when he checked for a large credit 
payment due to his account, that Nationwide had allowed the fee to CRV of £4.99 to be 
debited to his account which would have created an unauthorised overdraft at the time of the 
transaction, something he hadnt agreed to and didnt want. 
Mr G says Nationwide have since advised him incorrectly, the payment was a recurring 
payment which it wasnt and subsequently paid him £50 as an apology for this 
misinformation which he hadnt agreed to. Mr G doesnt feel Nationwide should be allowed to 
put his account into an overdraft position without his consent. 
Nationwide says it hadnt made any errors when authorising the payment as while it wasnt a 
recurring payment as it originally informed Mr G, it was a payment for a service provided by 
CRV, so it was obliged to authorise the payment. Nationwide says the payment had been 
authorised before Mr G froze his debit card. Nationwide have stated the payment of £4.99 
was successfully recalled and credited to Mr Gs bank account on 7 November 2022. 
Nationwide says it has apologised for the earlier misinformation and paid Mr G £50.
Mr G wasnt happy with Nationwides response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt Nationwide had acted fairly when it authorised the CRV payment as it was 
obliged to honour these types of transactions. The investigator pointed out the payment was 
pre -authorised by the merchant on 2 November 2022 at 04.33 and transaction approved at 
04.35, but Mr G didnt freeze his Nationwide debit card until 05.49, which was after the 
payment had been approved. 
The investigator agreed Nationwide initially incorrectly informed Mr G the payment was a 
recurring payment, which it wasnt, but it had fairly compensated him for that when it credited 
his account with £50.  
Mr G didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision.
I can understand it would have been frustrating for Mr G to see a payment debited to his 
Nationwide account creating an overdraft he hadnt authorised, especially when he had 
taken steps to freeze the debit card to prevent it happening. 
The details of this case are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything thats 
already been said or contained earlier in this decision, thats not to say I havent considered 
everything thats been said or provided to this service  I have. But its just that I dont need 
to comment on each individual point here in order to reach a decision on whats fair and 
reasonable. 
Mr Gs complaint centres around the fact Nationwide allowed an overdraft position on his 
account by authorising a payment for an account he held elsewhere, after he had frozen the 
debit card used to authorise the transaction. 
From the information presented to this service Mr G authorised a payment to CRV for a 
delivery fee of £4.99 for a card he had taken out with them. Mr G then decided this account 
wasnt for him so closed the account with CRV and knowing he had insufficient funds in his 
Nationwide account it wouldnt be paid  in addition Mr G froze his debit card with 
Nationwide. 
The sequence of events here show that on 2 November 2022 at 04.33 a payment was pre- 
authorised, and the transaction approved at 04.35, but this was prior to Mr G freezing his 
Nationwide card at 05.49  so here Im satisfied Mr G hadnt frozen his debit card before the 
transaction was approved by Nationwide. The question here is if Nationwide should have 
allowed the transaction to have been debited to Mr Gs account at a time when he hadnt 
sufficient funds to cover it. 
Nationwide have informed this service that while it had incorrectly informed Mr G the £4.99 
transaction was a recurring payment and have apologised for that, this payment was 
presented under a specific code identifying it as a service which can be forced through by 
the merchant (CRV) under Visa regulations. With that in mind I am satisfied Nationwide were 
obliged to honour the payment Mr G had authorised for the CRV card delivery fee. 
Its worth mentioning that there has been no financial loss to Mr G, Nationwide successfully 
completed a payment recall within a few days. Additionally, Nationwide have apologised to 
Mr G for the misinformation regarding the recurring payment and paid him £50 for that, 
which on balance Im satisfied is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
While Mr G will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Nationwide 
here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman