DRN-1659254
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Aviva Insurance Limited hasnt fully paid a cancellation claim 
they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M hold travel insurance as a benefit of their packaged bank account.
In May 2019, Mr and Mrs M booked a fly-cruise holiday. They were due to travel in 
November 2019. They paid deposits for the trip, with the balance due in August 2019.
On 5 August 2019, Mr M visited his GP, because hed developed a lump on his neck. The 
GP immediately referred Mr M for an endoscopy, which didnt detect anything.  He was 
referred for an ultrasound and biopsy. An appointment was scheduled with a consultant for 
16 August 2019. Mr and Mrs M paid the balance of their holiday on 13 August 2019.
Unfortunately, on 16 August 2019, the consultant gave Mr M a possible diagnosis of 
lymphoma. The consultant advised Mr M hed need further tests and that he should cancel 
his trip.
Mr M got in touch with Avivas medical screening line to explain whatd happened. He said if 
he cancelled the trip at that point, hed get a 50% refund of the cruise costs from the 
provider. The call handler suggested to Mr M that the policy didnt cover conditions that were 
known about at the time of booking but explained she couldnt guarantee whether his claim 
would be paid.
Mr and Mrs M cancelled their trip. They were able to get a 50% refund of the cruise costs, so 
their claim was for the remaining cruise balance and flight costs.
Aviva agreed to accept the claim for the costs Mr and Mrs M had incurred up to 5 August 
2019  which were the initial deposit costs. But it didnt agree to cover any costs Mr and Mrs 
M had paid after that date. Thats because the terms of the policy included a medical 
declaration. This said that if a policyholder was referred to a consultant or specialist between 
booking their trip and paying the final balance, they must call the screening line immediately. 
The policy specifically excluded claims in these circumstances unless the screening line had 
accepted cover. Because Mr M hadnt got in touch with medical screening before he paid the 
balance, it said the balance of the trip costs werent covered.
Mr and Mrs M werent happy with Avivas decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint. Mr M said he was only aware of a significant change in his health on 16 August 
2019  once hed seen the consultant. They felt they should be entitled to the full amounts 
theyd paid in May.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. She thought the 
medical declaration made it clear that Mr M had needed to let Aviva know that hed been 
referred to a specialist before paying the balance of his trip. If he had, Aviva wouldve let him 
know that thered been no cover for his undiagnosed condition going forwards.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed. They said theyd only ever got one set of terms and conditions 
from their bank and they werent aware of the need to call. Theyd also been fully intending 
to go on their holiday up until Mr M had seen the consultant on 16 August. Theyd paid the 
full balances because the travel providers had required payment. 
They asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think it was fair for Aviva to only partially settle Mr and Mrs Ms claim. Ill 
explain why.
Aviva didnt sell Mr and Mrs M their travel policy. It was sold by their bank. So Aviva wasnt 
responsible for telling them about significant or unusual terms at the point of sale. It is 
responsible for making sure the terms and conditions are clearly set out and highlighted in 
the policy document though. 
So Ive looked at the terms of Mr and Mrs Ms policy. The page is clearly headed Your 
health and the health of others. Underneath, it states Medical declaration  applicable to 
each insured person. The declaration underneath is set out in a table, with numbered rows. 
Point 4 says:
If you, or anyone upon whose good health your trip depends, is referred to a 
Consultant/Specialist, or is admitted to a hospital, after you have booked your trip but prior 
to paying any final balance due for your trip, you must call the Medical Risk Assessment 
helpline immediately. We will advise you if you will be covered for claims relating to this 
condition.
Please note, if you do not do this, it will affect your claim if you have to cancel your trip 
before the departure date.
In my view, this term is very clearly set out. It makes it clear that if a policyholder whos 
already booked a holiday is referred to a specialist or consultant before theyve paid their 
final balance, they need to get in touch with Aviva to check if its prepared to cover claims 
related to that condition. Im satisfied Aviva met the regulators requirements to set out the 
policy terms in a clear, fair and not misleading way.
I also think Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances falls squarely within this section. Theres no 
dispute that Mr M was referred to the hospital for urgent testing by his GP on 5 August 2019. 
He underwent an endoscopy and was referred for a biopsy and ultrasound. He was also 
scheduled to see a consultant 11 days later. This was eight days before Mr and Mrs M paid 
the final balance for their trip.
Mr and Mrs M have told us that they didnt know about this term and they hadnt been sent a 
new copy of the policy terms since taking out the bank account add-on. Ive thought about 
this. It seems Mr and Mrs M were aware of the need to go through medical screening  
because Mr M called up a couple of days after he saw the consultant. So it seems more 
likely than not that they did have access to the terms of the policy and were aware of the 
screening number.Ive also considered what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Mr M says he 
didnt know he had a significant change in his health until hed seen the consultant and been 
given a likely diagnosis. Thats why he didnt call until that point. 
But Mr M was immediately referred to the hospital by his GP for urgent testing into the cause 
of the lump  including invasive tests and an appointment with a consultant. Theres nothing 
on the medical certificate to suggest the GP told Mr and Mrs M the lump was likely nothing. 
So I think Mr M shouldve been reasonably aware that there might be a serious issue with 
his health and that he might not be able to go on the trip. In these circumstances, I think, 
regardless of any chasing by the travel providers, it wouldve been reasonable for Mr M to 
call Aviva before he paid the final balance to check whether any claim or his investigations 
would be covered.
Ive gone on to think about what Aviva wouldve done if Mr M had called on 5 August or 
before paying the final balance. Aviva wouldve explained to Mr M that it doesnt cover 
undiagnosed conditions or conditions that are undergoing investigations. At this point, Mr 
Ms condition was undiagnosed and was being investigated. So Aviva wouldnt have agreed 
to cover any claims related to that condition going forward. But because the condition had 
developed after Mr and Mrs M had booked their trip; it would cover the costs of cancelling 
their holiday up to that point. This means Aviva wouldve agreed to cover the deposit costs 
whichd already been paid but wouldnt have covered the final balance payment. This is in 
line with the policy terms.
In my view, Aviva has settled this claim fairly. If itd been told about the referral, it wouldve 
excluded any future claims arising from it. It wouldve let Mr and Mrs M know the deposit 
costs would be covered, but their final balance payment wouldnt be if they chose to go 
ahead and pay it. I think the health declaration is clear and Mr M shouldve reasonably been 
prompted to call Aviva before paying the final balance. If he had, hed have known any future 
claims due to his condition wouldnt be covered and he couldve cancelled the trip then 
without incurring any additional costs.
This means that while Im very sorry to hear about Mr Ms ill health, I think it was fair to Aviva 
to limit the settlement it paid to the deposit costs.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 September 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman