DRN-3336779
The complaint
Ms O is unhappy with the outcome of her complaint following a claim she made to 
Shawbrook Bank Limited under Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the 
Act) for some allegedly mis-sold solar panels.
What happened
The parties are aware of the background, so I dont intend to set it out in detail here. But in 
summary, Ms O bought some solar panels in 2014 from a supplier that Ill call S. Ms O was 
told that the panels would pay for themselves and that the £4,500 loan she took from 
Shawbrook wouldnt cost her anything.
Shawbrook said to Ms O that its calculations indicated that the panels were performing as 
predicted and would be self-funding over the 15-year term of her loan. So, it didnt think that 
S had misrepresented the benefits of the system to Ms O. The benefits that she received in 
terms of Feed-in-Tariff (FIT), export payments and electricity savings would more than pay 
for the loan.
Shawbrook also explained to Ms O how the loan worked in terms of interest payable. The 
interest on the loan was 9.9% a year, payable over 15 years. So, Ms O would ultimately end 
up paying £4,413.60 of interest, making a total payment of £8,913.60 at £49.52 a month. 
That means that the principal of her loan (the £4,500 she borrowed) will reduce slowly over 
that 15-year period until at the end its zero. Shawbrook did, however, take some time to 
deal with Ms Os claim and offered her £200 for the distress and inconvenience that this will 
have caused her.
Our investigator looked into Ms Os complaint but struggled to get the information that she 
needed to address it from Shawbrook. When she did finally get the information she required, 
she too concluded that the system would be self-funding and so no compensation was due 
for the alleged misrepresentation by S. She also agreed that £200 compensation for the 
upset caused was a fair offer.
Ms O didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms O will likely be disappointed to hear that I agree with our investigator. Her system does 
appear to be self-funding and I think that £200 compensation is a fair offer for the upset and 
inconvenience she was caused through Shawbrook not considering her claim diligently. 
May I firstly say I completely understand why the benefits of the panels, and how these 
correspond to the cost of the loan, can be quite confusing for customers. Ms Os situation 
isnt unusual. And the explanation given to her by S cant have been very clear. But that 
doesnt mean the benefits she was told about were misrepresented.
Ms O has told us that she thought that the loan would be paid for by the FIT, export 
payments and electricity savings. And it does appear that will be the case. The annual 
generation for her panels is around the amount S predicted (3,453 kWh). Ms Os system 
generated, on average, 3,310 kWh a year during the first 4  years (95% of the predicted 
amount). And from this she earnt around £575 a year in FIT and export payments (S 
predicted shed get £591 a year). Electricity generation can only ever be an estimate, as its 
affected by weather conditions and the amount of sunlight in any given year. So, Im satisfied 
that the generation was within a reasonable margin of that estimated.
By my calculation, Ms O will likely receive around £8,625 over the 15-year term of the loan in 
FIT and export payments. Shell then go on to receive another £2,875 over the remaining 5 
years of the 20-year FIT payment scheme.
Ms O will also be saving electricity through her use of the power generated. Normally wed 
expect a customer, on average, to use 37% of the electricity generated each year. How 
much a customer actually uses will depend on what their consumption is during daylight 
hours when the panels are generating. So, if youre at home more during the day or, for 
example, you set the washing machine or dishwasher to run whilst youre out, then the 
benefits may be greater. 
So, if Ms O uses 37% of the generation, thats 1,225 kWh of electricity savings a year. In 
calculating the money saved, Shawbrook will usually use a figure of 15 pence per kWh. So, 
thats a saving of £184 a year  or £2,760 over the 15 years of the loan  not taking into 
account any electricity cost inflation  which there of course will be.
S estimated Ms O would save £262 a year. So, on the face of it, that looks like an over-
estimation. But back in 2014, when the panels were installed, the average usage was 
commonly thought to be nearer 50% - which would be a saving of £248 a year. So, I can see 
where S got its estimated figures from, particularly considering that Ms Os system has 
performed at 95% of expectations. Therefore, I dont think there was a misrepresentation 
here. And Im afraid that I dont think the estimations that S made were unreasonable at the 
time. I dont have all of Ms Os electricity bills from before and after the panels were fitted. 
So, I cant calculate how much shes actually saved in terms of electricity. But even if I am to 
use the lower figure of £184 electricity savings a year, Ms Os panels still appear to be self-
funding.
Whats important to emphasise is that I can only hold Shawbrook responsible under sections 
56 and 75 of the Act for any representation by S that turns out not to be true or was 
otherwise misleading. And for Ms O, the indications are that the estimates given, within 
acceptable tolerances, have turned out to be correct so far and will likely continue to be. This 
means that if you add it all together, over the 15-year term of the loan, Ms O is likely to earn 
and save at least £11,385. Thats against a loan cost (including interest) of £8,913.60. I 
appreciate that Ms O also paid some of the cost of the panels in cash when she first bought 
the panels. I believe that was around £2,500 to £3,000. So, if you add that to the amount of 
the loan, the savings just about match up to the amount spent.
Its also possible that the amount Ms O saves may well be much more than the estimates if 
she either uses more electricity, or the charge per unit of electricity continues to increase - 
as it has been of late. Most customers, through the energy cost cap, are paying around 21 
pence a kWh at the moment. And this will be going up to 28 pence in April. So, the figure of 
15 pence that Ive used may well be quite an under-estimate.
Its also important to remember that Ms O will continue to earn money from her panels after 
the loan has been paid off. So, shell then get the full benefit of the FIT payments and the 
electricity generated. I can see why Ms O will have thought that shes ended up paying more, given she now has the loan payments to make and the electricity use still to pay for. 
But her bills will include gas use too - which the solar panels would never have reduced  
and her electric use will be lower than it otherwise would have been. You also cant look at 
this long-term investment on a day to day cost basis. 
Ms O has said that it looks like very little has been paid on her loan. Thats because, in the 
early years, interest makes up most of the repayments made. In Ms Os case, around £34 of 
every £49 she pays is interest at the beginning. So, the £4,500 she borrowed will only go 
down by about £15 a month. After the first 5 years, Ms O will therefore still have owed 
around £3,600 on which interest will continue to have been charged. But that interest 
element will reduce over time so that nearer the end of the 15-year term, shell be paying off 
much more of the principal.
I hope my summary above helps explain why I think Ms O is actually likely to receive what 
she was told she would. It may not look like this from day to day as the loan and electricity 
bills still need to be paid. But the solar panels are a long-term investment. For the first 15 
years, Ms O is right that the profit she makes is mostly taken up in paying for the loan. But if 
electricity prices continue to increase as they have been, Ms O could end up making 
significantly higher savings much earlier than was predicted. And if she were able to, paying 
off a proportion of the loan early would see Ms O save a significant amount of interest too  
shed then get the benefit of the profits from the panels much sooner than if she kept the 
loan going for 15 years.
I see Ms O was also worried about some discrepancies in her loan documents. Ive now 
seen the final signed loan document, which was for £4,500, with an interest rate of 9.9% 
over 15 years. So, Ms O is paying for the loan she took out. 
Shawbrook took some time to deal with Ms Os claim. And its offered £200 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience this will have caused her. I think thats a fair offer.    
My final decision
Shawbrook Bank Limited has made an offer to settle this complaint by paying £200 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Ms O. I consider that this 
amounts to fair compensation in all the circumstances. I require that Shawbrook Bank 
Limited pay Ms O £200 if it hasnt already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022. 
James Kennard
Ombudsman