DRN-3472700
The complaint
Mr J complains that Hyundai Capital UK Limited trading as Hyundai Finance (Hyundai) 
irresponsibly granted him a conditional sale agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In January 2019, Mr J acquired a used car financed by a conditional sale from Hyundai Mr J 
was required to make 60 monthly repayments of £529. The total repayable under the 
agreement was £31,738.
Mr J says that Hyundai didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Hyundai didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a full credit assessment including a credit check and that this showed no 
affordability issues. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought Hyundai ought to have 
realised the agreement wasnt affordable to Mr J.
Hyundai didnt agree. It didnt think it was necessary to carry out further checks as its 
assessment at the time showed no affordability issues. It noted that Mr J was able to make 
his repayments for 16 months without notifying it of any issues and that he then explained 
his circumstances had changes which was why he then experienced financial difficulties. 
Hyundai didnt agree that the repayments accounted for over half of Mr Js monthly income 
as it thought the average salary used in our adjudicators assessment was skewed due to 
Mr Js change of employment. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Hyundai will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before providing the finance, Hyundai carried out a credit assessment and has provided a 
copy of the credit check results. These do not raise any immediate concerns regarding 
financial difficulty as no defaults, county court judgments or payday loans are noted. 
However, it does show that Mr J had outstanding debts of over £20,000 with monthly credit 
commitments of £445. While this may not have been an issue, given the term of the 
agreement and the size of the repayments I think Hyundai needed to gather information 
about Mr Js income and expenses prior to lending. Without this Hyundai wouldnt have got a 
reasonable understanding of whether the agreement was affordable or not. It therefore didnt 
complete proportionate checks. 
I think it would have been proportionate for Hyundai to have asked for Mr Js income in some 
way. As I havent seen that this happened, I have looked at the information Mr J has 
provided to see what Hyundai would likely have seen. Looking at Mr Js banks statements it 
appears he changed employment towards the end of 2018. In October 2018, his income was 
around £1,200 and in November it was around £800. Payment from a new employer was 
recorded in December for £1,024. Averaging these payments gives a monthly income of 
around £1,000. 
I note the concerns Hyundai has raised about this approach given the change in Mr Js 
employment. However, Mr J had only received one payment from the new employer before 
the agreement and that was for £1,024. Hyundai noted that Mr J received £1,320 from the 
new employer in January 2019 but this was after the agreement had been entered into and 
so without evidence to show that a higher figure could be used, I think that the income figure 
of £1,024 was reasonable. The monthly repayments therefore account for over 50% of 
Mr Js monthly income. Given this I think further details of Mr Js expenditure should have 
been gathered to understand whether the agreement was affordable.
Ive reviewed three months of bank statements leading up to the lending decision. These 
show that Mr J was paying £445 for a credit commitment and this links to the credit search 
information provided by Hyundai. This appears likely to have been previous car finance so 
may not have been relevant going forward. However, he had other committed living 
expenditure including credit commitments, utility bills, and other living expenses such as 
food and fuel. Excluding the other car finance payments of £445, these costs averaged over 
£800 a month. This shows that Mr J couldnt afford to sustainably repay the new agreement 
and I think Hyundai would likely have found this out too if it had completed proportionate 
checks, it therefore didnt act fairly by approving the finance. 
Putting things right
As I dont think Hyundai ought to have approved the lending, it should therefore refund all 
the payments Mr J has made, including any deposit. However, Mr J did have use of the car 
for around 24 months, so I think its fair he pays for that use. But Im not persuaded that 
monthly repayments of £529 a month are a fair reflection of what fair usage would be. This is 
because a proportion of those repayments went towards repaying interest.
There isnt an exact formula for working out what a fair usage should be. In deciding whats 
fair and reasonable Ive thought about the amount of interest charged on the agreement, 
Mr Js likely overall usage of the car and what his costs to stay mobile would likely have 
been if he didnt have the car. In doing so, I think a fair amount Mr J should pay is £330 for 
each month he had use of the car. This means Hyundai can only ask him to repay a total of 
£7,920. Anything Mr J has paid in excess of this amount should be treated as an 
overpayment. 
To settle Mr Js complaint Hyundai should do the following:
Refund all the payments Mr J has made, less £7,920 for fair usage. 
oIf Mr J has paid more than the fair usage figure, Hyundai should refund any 
overpayments, adding 8% simple interest per year* from the date of each 
overpayment to the date of settlement. Or;
oIf Mr J has paid less than the fair usage figure, Hyundai should arrange an 
affordable and sustainable repayment plan for the outstanding balance. 
Once Hyundai has received the fair usage amount, it should remove any adverse 
information recorded on Mr Js credit file regarding the agreement.*HM Revenue & Customs requires Hyundai to take off tax from this interest. Hyundai must 
give Mr J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mr J asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Hyundai Capital UK Limited trading as Hyundai Finance to 
put things right in the manner set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman