DRN-4371018
The complaint
Mr H complained that ReAssure Limited failed to calculate the tax-free cash he was entitled 
to from his Section-32 buyout policy (S32 policy) correctly, and put obstacles in the way of 
permitting him to draw that sum and transfer the residual fund to his chosen flexi-access 
drawdown provider, who Ill refer to as C. 
Mr H has been assisted in his complaint by his adviser, Mr B. Although Mr H has received 
the correct tax-free cash sum, he considers that the amount (and confirmation of that 
amount) was delayed  which led Mr B to ask C to return the residual funds to ReAssure, 
where they remain. Mr H says the offer of redress ReAssure has made is insufficient to 
cover Mr Bs invoice for the time spent on his case.
What happened
For simplicity, figures in this decision are given in pounds with the pence omitted.
Mr H originally held an Executive Pension Plan (EPP) with Zurich Assurance. This policy 
preserved a scheme-specific tax-free cash sum (which ReAssure terms transitional tax-free 
cash or TTFC) in excess of the usual 25% maximum available. A letter from Zurich to Mr B 
on 10 March 2008 confirmed that the TTFC had been £28,805 on A day (when the tax 
legislation changed on 6 April 2006). 
It went on to say: Therefore the tax-free cash is 80.97% of the A-day fund valuePlease 
note that any tax-free cash protection would be lost on transfer to another registered scheme 
other than to a Section 32 Buy Out or if a block transfer took place. In addition to the 
protected cash lump sum (which will be increased in line with increases in the lifetime 
allowance) [Mr H] will be entitled to 25% of the funds accrued in respect of payments made 
after 6 April 2006.
Mr B appears to have been aware of this as hes said that he arranged a transfer of the 
Zurich plan to the S32 policy with Skandia / Old Mutual in October 2008, specifically in order 
to preserve the TTFC amount. This part of Old Mutuals business has since been acquired 
by ReAssure. 
On 22 March 2022 Mr B contacted ReAssure requesting the form to calculate the maximum 
tax-free cash payable, as Mr H intended to retire in the next 12 months. An automatic 
retirement pack letter was in any event sent by ReAssure to Mr B on 1 April, confirming that 
the fund value was £71,885 and there was £46,176 of TTFC (based on what we now know 
was the correct calculation methodology). 
The letter noted that flexible withdrawals werent an option from the existing plan, and the 
TTFC was only available if Mr H started taking an income with ReAssure from the residual 
fund. In order to make flexible withdrawals, Mr H would need to transfer either to a ReAssure 
Retirement Account or a similar product with another provider. 
On 5 August 2022, Mr B specifically requested that ReAssure pay a 55.67% tax-free cash 
sum to Mr H (even though, at the most recent calculation, the tax-free cash amounted to 
about 64%). He also asked for the necessary form to transfer the residual amount to another 
provider. 
Two attempts to return Mr Bs call on 9 & 10 August were unsuccessful, but there was a 
conversation on 15 August, in which ReAssure explained that an Open Market Option 
(OMO) could be completed without paperwork on the Origo Options system. 
This call seems to have been with Mr H, as its absent from Mr Bs records and I understand 
that Mr B has been reluctant to have any phone conversations with ReAssure because of his 
experience in general with staff he regarded as unqualified. There was again a question of 
how much TTFC was payable, and ReAssure was asked to email confirmation to Mr B.
Traditionally, policies like Mr Hs were written to provide annuity benefits in addition to tax-
free cash. An OMO is where the existing plan pays the tax-free cash but secures the annuity 
with a different provider at the policyholders request (usually because of a more favourable 
rate or format of annuity). The payment of the annuity is in fulfilment of the terms of the 
originating pension scheme, rather than any new scheme. So it isnt the same as a transfer, 
where all rights under the existing scheme are given up on payment of a transfer value to a 
new scheme (which may offer features other than an annuity). Mr B evidently understood 
that an OMO wouldnt achieve the outcome Mr H wanted, so he still believed that paperwork 
would be needed to go down the transfer into flexible drawdown route.
ReAssure didnt provide an up to date calculation of the amount of TTFC to Mr B until 30 
August, explaining that the query had to go to a specialist team. The latest figure (as at 21 
August) was given as £46,170. Mr B immediately responded, questioning the absence of the 
forms hed requested and which hed been promised within 5-10 working days.
ReAssure then issued an alternative paper form for the OMO (the option which was in any 
event available electronically) on 2 September. But Mr B reiterated on 12 September that 
this wasnt the form he required. He explained his request as follows:
[Mr H] wants to take the max TFC in excess of 25% then transfer the residual balance to 
another provider's Flexi-Access Drawdown. SEND ME THE CORRECT FORMS BY 
POST TODAY or yet another formal complaint will be submitted along with costs and 
recompense if there is an investment reduction from the initial request.
Shortly after, ReAssure posted Mr B a key features document and leaflet for a new 
Retirement Account (ReAssures drawdown plan)  noting that this could be applied for 
online. It also phoned Mr B, and then sent a secure message on 20 September stating that 
Mr Hs existing plan didnt offer flexi-access drawdown, so it couldnt put his plan into 
payment in this form in order to then transfer the residual fund elsewhere. It was, however, 
willing to use the Retirement Account to receive the residual funds, without Mr H losing his 
TTFC (which would normally be lost on transfer). This new plan could then be transferred 
elsewhere.
Mr B highlighted to ReAssure that he was unable to open the notification of this secure 
message which had come through to his own email account, and he couldnt see the content 
of the message on the usual website he used to exchange secure messages with ReAssure. 
It appears from Mr Bs records that he was able to view it by 22 September. Mr H then called 
ReAssure directly on 23 September instead. He questioned why his TTFC was now about 
55% of the policys value rather than about 81%.
The following day Mr H signed OMO application forms, amended by hand to show his 
preference for transfer to his existing flexi-access arrangement with C. On 27 September 
ReAssure emailed Mr B asking him to clarify what forms he specifically required and it would send them directly. It apologised that the notifications generated for secure emails were a 
necessary part of the system it used to protect Mr Hs data. 
It appears that Mr B repeated largely the same message to ReAssure on 6, 17, 18, 20 & 25 
October 2022: ordering it to pay 80.97% tax-free cash to Mr H and transfer the residual fund 
to C. However on two other dates during this time, Mr B made more specific requests to 
attempt to resolve the impasse:
On 13 October (chased on 26 October) he asked why the residual fund couldnt just 
be transferred directly to C, negating the need to use ReAssures own drawdown 
product. 
On 21 October he asked ReAssure to send him the contract terms of the S32 policy 
that prevented the method of transfer he was requesting. 
ReAssure responded to the first point by post on 18 October, as Mr B had asked it to do so. 
It explained: it is not possible for ReAssure to pay [TTFC] and then move the remaining 
funds to a drawdown account. The only way we may be able to pay the [TTFC] to [Mr H] is 
either via the Retirement Account option with ReAssure, or to take an annuity [OMO] with 
another provider. We understand that [Mr H] would like the funds to go to [C], if they can 
offer [an OMO] for [Mr H], then we may be able to pay [TTFC] directly to him. Or if they can 
offer a Section 32 Buy out Bond transfer, [Mr H] will keep his [TTFC] value upon transfer, 
then any further payment instruction would be negotiated with [C] directly.
Mr B replied to ReAssure on 31 October noting that the S32 policy contract terms still hadnt 
been supplied  but that in any event, ReAssure hadnt explained why there was a difference 
between doing a drawdown-drawdown transfer (which it could do), and transferring the 
residual funds directly to C (which it couldnt). This crossed in the post with another letter 
from ReAssure to Mr B of the same date, in which it said:
We have explained to you many times that we cannot facilitate a Flexi Access Drawdown 
Transfer as this is not what we do. The only way for [Mr H] to take his TFC is through an 
Open Market Option, Retirement Account, or Transferring to a Section 32 Buy Out Plan. 
Flexi Access Drawdown is not part of our processes hence why we are not able to 
process this transfer as what you have requested.
ReAssure issued a final response on 2 November to the complaint about sending Mr B the 
wrong forms and delaying the transfer. It admitted that it should have told Mr B on 15 August 
that it couldnt make the type of transfer he wanted, rather than referring to an OMO  so it 
provided a cheque for £125 to Mr H for the inconvenience this caused. However it pointed 
out that the options available were clearly outlined in the retirement pack. Confusingly, it 
added, with my emphasis:
We have since confirmed that since the policy migrated to ReAssure we are unable 
to transfer into Flexi Access Drawdown as ReAssure do not offer this option. We have 
explained the options available. Before we can proceed, we need you to confirm which of 
the options available to [Mr H] he wishes to take. We are happy to assess for any 
financial detriment our service errors have caused [Mr H], however, before we can do 
this, we still require confirmation of which option he wishes to take, and evidence of the 
Tax Free Cash value [Mr H] tells us he should receive, as this [~81%] is significantly 
higher than the entitlement our records indicate is available.
Separately, ReAssure sent the S32 policy terms and conditions to Mr B on 10 November 
and rather vaguely said: We will be querying your request to transfer your client's policy into 
a Drawdown, as we have mentioned before we do not process this.By this point Mr B had already responded to ReAssure in a letter dated 9 November (but for 
reasons unclear, this either didnt arrive or wasnt scanned onto ReAssures systems until 23 
November). Amongst other things, the letter:
- enclosed a copy of the 2008 Zurich letter referring to 80.97% tax-free cash; 
- pointed out that the migration of a policy from one provider to another doesnt alter the 
policy terms as ReAssure appeared to suggest; and
- added The option for ReAssure to transfer to a Flexi-Access Drawdown is 
LEGISLATIVE and not contractual. ReAssure cannot prevent a client from doing this.
ReAssure subsequently agreed to undertake Mr Bs requested format of transfer on an 
exceptional basis  i.e. not setting up a Retirement Account at all but seamlessly transferring 
the residual funds to C. This exception was also communicated to C, as ReAssure wanted to 
make clear that it wouldnt routinely allow direct transfers to drawdown given that the terms 
and conditions of Mr Hs plan didnt allow a drawdown option. (ReAssure doesnt agree that 
this option must be permitted under legislation, which Ill address later in this decision.)
ReAssure confirmed in an email to Mr B that it would make the transfer as requested on 22 
November, and Mr B asked it to confirm bank details with Mr H directly. On 30 November 
ReAssure emailed Mr H, also setting out its ID verification requirements. However Mr B 
suggested on 9 December that Mr H wasnt computer literate and would require this by post. 
Mr H then posted the required information back to ReAssure the following day.
An updated TTFC amount of £46,150 was then paid to Mr H on 16 December 2022 with the 
residual fund value of £25,632 paid to C. This resulted in Mr Hs policy being terminated.
On 20 December Mr B informed ReAssure that Mr H had to pay an extra 5 months 
payments at £343 on his car finance due to its delays. And he questioned why Mr H hadnt 
received £58,336, which would have been the 80.97% of the fund he thought should apply. 
He informed ReAssure on 5 January 2023 that hed been promised a response within 5 
working days, so hed instructed C to return the funds  which C then did.
On 11 January ReAssure responded, apologising for the delay due to the need to refer the 
matter to its calculations team again. It explained: The reason why the TFC now is not the 
same percentage as it was when it was first calculated, is due to the fact that this is revalued 
and then any growth after A-Day that has occurred on this value is then applied added on to 
this using the standard rate of 25%. This dilutes the initial percentage as the value would 
have grown during the period, meaning that what was provided was the correct amount for 
the TFC as at the effective date on the request.
Mr B told ReAssure he was again unable to open the notification for this message: I have 
told you REPEATEDLY not to send me those microsoft emails. Send it again using this 
secure website so I can read what you have said. As a result ReAssure resent it to Mr B on 
18 January and relayed Mr H the same message on 23 January.
Mr H called ReAssure on 27 January referring to a need to go to the ombudsman, as he 
pointed out that he hadnt made any further contributions into his policy since it started, and 
couldnt follow why his TTFC had been reduced to about 64% (the sum of £46,150 he 
received). He referred his complaint to our service two days later.
ReAssure didnt respond until 28 February when it provided an elaborated answer to Mr B  
although it was again in a format he reminded ReAssure he would be unable to open. It said:
We can confirm that we re-calculated the TFC and our Manual Calculations team have
confirmed that the reason why the TFC % has changed from around 80% to around 64%
now, is that the TFC has to be recosted taking into account the growth and any premiumsthat happened on the policy post A-Day.
This post A-Day movements are limited to 25%, which will reduce the value of the TFC,
which is what has happened in this instance.
We hope this clarifies your query and can confirm that the amount that we paid out for the
TFC (£46,150.63) is the correct amount.
I have enclosed the original correspondence dated 16 December 2022 to confirm the
transfer completion.
Mr H requested ReAssure provided this answer by letter so that he could bring it to our 
service, which it did on 16 March.
On 20 March Cs platform requested an update from ReAssure on the status of the funds it 
had returned. ReAssure responded on 27 March, Please can you confirm what information 
you are outstanding. The amount which was sent to yourselves originally was correct. We 
have provided an explanation to the client and [Mr B] as to why the value was different. 
Please can you confirm if you will accept the funds which you returned to us. 
Mr Bs records show that C asked him if it should accept the funds back from ReAssure, and 
he replied that it should only do so when ReAssure had paid what he considered to be the 
correct TTFC amount.
Whilst the complaint was with our service ReAssure then issued a new final response on 
25 July 2023 which stated that, Terms stating that [Mr H] can't transfer to another provider's 
Flexi-Access Drawdown don't exist for this plan and the transfer of administration is not a 
trigger for any change in terms and conditions. There are no comparable terms and 
conditions illustrating any change that wouldve prevented the above mentioned transfer 
from going ahead.
ReAssure agreed to send another £125 compensation to Mr Hs bank account for the 
inconvenience caused. It subsequently clarified to Mr B and Mr H in full how the TTFC had 
been calculated, with reference to tax legislation. Mr B used the TTFC calculator of Cs 
technical department and was able to agree with ReAssures calculations to within a few 
pounds. He sent Mr H an email captioned Apology (TFC ONLY) on 1 August saying he 
was now happy that ReAssure was calculating the TTFC correctly. 
ReAssure added on 7 August, In order to progress the payment we need confirmation from 
yourselves or the customer that you are happy for us to send the remaining funds to [C] as 
we did previously. This transaction will be a Drawdown to Drawdown transfer as our first 
payment made to [C] on 15th of December 2022. In order to set this matter right for [Mr H] 
we will pay the returned funds plus an 8% [pa] interest added to be calculated upon 
receiving the transfer request from [C]. Please be aware that this transfer can be requested 
through Origo platform again as long as it is marked as a Drawdown to Drawdown transfer 
from the Receiving Scheme.
At the same time ReAssure told this service that it would increase the amount paid to Mr H 
for the distress and inconvenience caused to £1,000 in total (including payments previously 
made). It confirmed it was willing to carry out a loss assessment for the time Mr Hs residual 
fund had been out of the market (since it was paid to C but returned)  and pay any further 
loss resulting that was in excess of the 8%pa interest it would already pay.
Our Investigator explained to both parties that she thought ReAssures offer to resolve the 
complaint was fair, and why.On 4 September Mr B presented Mr H with an invoice for the work carried out on his file 
which came to £19,012. He recommended that Mr H did not accept ReAssures offer for 
reasons which included:
- it failed to account for the invoiced costs and the impact of the lies/misinfomation/ 
untruths told to me by ReAssure and the excess work they created for me.
- There had been no attempt to refer ReAssure for regulatory action.
- He had requested the TTFC be paid to Mr H on 22 March 2022, not 5 August 2022  
and Mr H had to pay a further five payments on his car finance of £343 each.
- If Mr H was unsuccessful in securing compensation for all of these losses, Mr B was 
prepared to fund a legal action himself based on the admission of fault by ReAssure 
in addition to the agreed faults found by the Financial Ombudsman Service.
- ReAssure was giving unauthorised financial advice by encouraging Mr H to return his 
funds to C.
In response, our Investigator didnt think it would be fair to ask ReAssure to make a payment 
to Mr H in respect of Mr Bs costs, when some work would always have been involved to 
make the type of transfer Mr H was making. Nor she said would we typically make an award 
for professional costs incurred by a representative in bringing a complaint. Instead we would 
consider any distress or inconvenience ReAssures actions had caused Mr H directly, for 
which she thought the £1,000 payment was fair. She also noted that the car loan would have 
been due for repayment in any event.
ReAssure asked for it to be noted that Mr H and Mr B were not responding to its requests to 
confirm that the funds could be returned to C. As it didnt consider the dispute about costs 
should hold up the return of funds to C, it would cap its 8%pa interest offer by 12 October 
2023 at the latest. It said it was prepared to consider a request separately from Mr B for 
direct reimbursement of costs through its financial adviser compensation procedures (which 
doesnt come under the jurisdiction of this service). 
Im aware that Mr B has told Mr H that he will not make his own claim for costs unless 
ReAssure invite him to do so directly, but if successful he will reduce his invoice by a 
corresponding amount. As the Investigator was unable to resolve this dispute informally, its 
been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I shall go on to explain, and ReAssure has already accepted, I think the service it has 
given to Mr H and Mr B (when acting on Mr Hs behalf) has fallen short. But before I consider 
the impact this has had on Mr H, I need to address the fact that a large part of this complaint 
arises from two misunderstandings about:
- Whether ReAssure was required to offer Mr H a direct transfer to another providers 
flexi-access drawdown plan.
- How the TTFC amount was calculated.
Whether direct transfer to Cs flexi-access drawdown had to be made available
Mr B suggested on Mr Hs behalf that the option for ReAssure to transfer to flexi-access 
drawdown was required by legislation rather than in the contract. But as our Investigator 
previously explained, the legislation commonly known as pension freedoms was enabling 
rather than mandatory. It didnt override existing policy terms. So when weve looked at complaints about similar issues, this service hasnt generally 
required providers to offer flexi-access drawdown  by its nature a more complex product  
where the existing policy terms dont require them to do so. One of the reasons is that, for 
most people, a simple transfer to a newer product operating on the appropriate systems to 
process flexible payments is going to be straightforward. (The existing provider isnt required 
to offer that new product either, as it can be bought anywhere in the marketplace.)
However Mr H had a particular difficulty because, as Zurichs 2008 letter explained, a 
transfer to a new pension scheme would normally result in any TTFC being lost and tax-free 
cash instead being limited to the standard 25% of the value of the scheme. Thats a result of 
the legislation set down by HMRC. And from what I can see, Mr H already had other pension 
funds with C and, understandably, wanted to combine them together. 
To overcome this problem a scheme provider can opt to use a permissive override allowed 
by HMRC, effectively permitting it to pay out the higher tax-free cash entitlement and 
designate funds to drawdown outside the schemes rules. Its important to say that a 
policyholder cant compel their provider to offer this solution. And it will likely mean 
processing payments that the existing systems and processes of that provider werent 
designed to accommodate, so it isnt without its difficulties. 
ReAssure suggested that it could only offer the option of TTFC plus direct transfer to 
drawdown with another provider as a concession  whereas Mr B believes that Mr H was 
always entitled to this. So, Ive looked at the original Skandia terms and conditions of his 
policy to understand what the position is. These say the following, with my underlining:
income withdrawals
6.10 This allows you to take income directly from your Policy fund without the need to 
purchase a lifetime annuity.
6.11 The income you can take in any year can be varied between 0% and 120% of the 
Relevant Annuity Rate.
6.12 Income withdrawals can cease at any time with the remaining Policy fund value 
being used to purchase a lifetime annuity, however they must cease on or before your 
75th birthday.
6.13 Access to this facility with us is achieved through movement of your Policy fund 
value to another plan and is therefore subject to additional terms and conditions which 
are available on request.

10 transfers
10.1 On receipt of your written request and on satisfaction of all our requirements, a 
transfer of your Policy fund value may be made directly to any appropriate pension 
scheme as governed by the Act and any relevant regulations.
This tells me several things:
- Mr Hs pension scheme, albeit not the particular S32 policy he held under that 
scheme, allowed the option of capped drawdown (where the income was limited to a 
relevant rate set by the Government Actuarys Department).
- To enable this option, Mr Hs funds had to be moved to a different plan within the 
same scheme (which would have further terms and conditions specific to drawdown).
- This was not described in the same way as a transfer under section 10. That sort of 
transfer takes place scheme-to-scheme, and would result in the restriction of tax-free 
cash to 25% of the scheme value (unless part of a block or buddy transfer).
It seems likely to me that Skandia / Old Mutual would have drafted the policy terms this way 
to make it attractive to applicants, as policyholders had the option to do capped drawdown (the only form of drawdown available at that time), without losing their TTFC. I also agree 
with Mr B that ReAssures takeover of Old Mutual didnt change this contractual position. 
I think what ReAssure had been trying to say (but in a clumsy way) was that its appetite as 
an organisation for allowing non-contractual concessions, since taking over other providers, 
was limited. That was a commercial decision it was entitled to make, but the first question to 
determine is whether permitting Mr H to transfer into its Retirement Account (but keeping his 
TTFC) would ever have involved a concession  and I dont think it would, based on these 
policy terms. I think ReAssure had realised that by the time of its second final response to 
the complaint, judging by what it said at that stage.
But it nevertheless remains the case that Mr H couldnt take TTFC directly from his existing 
scheme without putting the residual funds into payment with ReAssure (either as an annuity, 
OMO or capped drawdown). And the terms and conditions dont suggest he could do flexi-
access drawdown from that scheme at all. So, ReAssures reference to its (limited) appetite 
to allow further concessions remains relevant, to this extent. And these were the very things 
Mr H was looking to do  he wanted direct access to flexi-access drawdown with C, without 
needing to take out a ReAssure Retirement Account as an intermediate step.
I can see why removing the need for Mr H to have a Retirement Account would cause 
ReAssure more difficulties. Ive already mentioned that S32 policies were traditionally 
designed to pay tax-free cash, and then provide an annuity or OMO from the uncrystallised 
funds. It appears that Old Mutual had designed its systems around that, and put the part of 
the process which involved crystallising funds into drawdown under a separate system using 
a new pension plan number. Thats understandable as, amongst other things, theres 
differing tax treatment between uncrystallised and crystallised funds, and how theyre 
reported to HMRC.
How the TTFC amount was calculated
I think some of Mr H (and Mr Bs) concern here might have been prompted by Zurichs 
partial explanation of how this amount is revalued. The amount of TTFC payable at any point 
after A-day isnt fixed at a set percentage of the policys value. Zurich did say that the 
amount of £34,566 as at April 2006 was revalued in line with changes in the governments 
pensions lifetime allowance (LTA), which went from £1.5m to a maximum of £1.8m for the 
purposes of this calculation. 
However, that isnt the only part of the calculation. Mr H is also entitled to the normal tax-free 
cash limit of 25% on any growth on his fund value since A-Day. The growth is calculated by 
how much more his fund grew than when measured in line with changes to the standard 
LTA. It isnt simply 25% of funds from the (zero) contributions Mr H has made since 2006, as 
Zurichs original explanation could be taken to read. 
The change in the LTA wont be the same as the growth on Mr Hs funds (both before and 
after they were moved to the S32 policy in 2008). As Mr H was receiving advice both at the 
time of taking out the S32 policy and subsequently, I dont think he should have expected 
that the amount calculated at 80.97% on A-day would still be that same percentage in 2022.
In any event Mr B originally asked for a form to calculate the tax-free cash, suggesting he 
was aware that there was a formula  and it wasnt simply a case of maintaining the 80.97% 
percentage. He later asked for 55.67% TTFC to be paid. Even though Im not sure where 
that calculation came from (as the effective percentage in Mr Hs retirement pack was about 
64%), it also suggests an awareness that the 80.97% figure wasnt preserved  which would 
run counter to the later claims Mr B made to ReAssure.I wouldnt expect a provider to set out how it had performed this calculation step by step in a 
standard retirement pack. Its understandable that an adviser would want to be satisfied that 
there hadnt been a mistake in the providers calculation. However the calculation 
methodology isnt something unique to ReAssure or the former Zurich policy Mr H held. Its 
laid down by HMRC in its Pension Tax Manual, which has been further distilled into a variety 
of training material for advisers to use in their Continual Professional Development. Mr B has 
since referred to Cs calculator tool, but that is only one source of this information. 
I note Mr B later apologised to Mr H for asserting that the TTFC should be preserved at 
80.97%. Im not considering any complaint about Mr Bs actions here, but when deciding 
what ReAssures contribution was to the overall delays, Im bound to take into account that 
the S32 policy was specifically arranged for the purposes of preserving the TTFC  and with 
a commensurate understanding of how TTFC is revalued, there wouldnt have been a 
reason to question ReAssures calculations. All the figures ReAssure calculated (and paid to 
Mr H) look to have been correct. 
Irrespective of these misunderstandings, what did ReAssure get wrong? 
I now move to the main part of my assessment of what errors ReAssure made, and their 
impact on Mr H. As I said at the beginning, I agree that in some instances ReAssure 
provided poor service to Mr H (and to Mr B when he was acting on Mr Hs behalf). But I have 
to take into account, as the Investigator has done, that ReAssure has now made an overall 
offer of £1,000 for the distress and inconvenience it caused Mr H. This is combined, once 
Mr H decides to return the funds to C, with a payment of interest  to be offset by a full loss 
assessment calculation for the time Mr H has been out of the market.
To require ReAssure to do more than this, I would therefore need to be persuaded that the 
amount of upset caused warranted more than the proposed payment of £1,000; or that the 
interest and loss assessment provides insufficient compensation; or that Mr H is entitled to 
recover the charges for Mr Bs time as he is seeking. Ive reached the following conclusions 
on the key issues argued in the complaint:  
Sending Mr B the forms for an OMO: I find it unlikely Mr B would have said Mr H was 
interested in an OMO, as it involved buying an annuity  which Mr H didnt want to do. 
ReAssure delayed sending Mr B this form, but in any event it wasnt the form he needed. 
ReAssure ought to have understood that Mr H was looking to do a direct drawdown 
external transfer, but that doesnt mean I can fairly say that it should immediately have 
proceeded with this. It wasnt automatically obliged to make the contractual concessions 
to allow this, for the reasons Ive explained above. 
There also wouldnt have been a form for making this sort of transfer from Mr Bs policy, 
which only allowed for annuity, OMO, or movement of funds into another ReAssure 
drawdown plan. And Im not surprised that ReAssure didnt interpret Mr Bs request as a 
full policy-policy transfer (for which I expect another form was available), because Mr B 
had made clear that his client wanted to preserve his TTFC.
Time taken to calculate TTFC amounts: ReAssure had to refer these to a specialist 
team and therefore the time to produce these values, at about two weeks, was around 
twice as long as I would normally expect valuations to take. I dont think thats 
unreasonable in the circumstances. Mr Hs policy was set up to preserve legacy tax-free 
cash entitlements and I dont find it surprising that not all of ReAssures front-line 
customer services staff would be trained to deal with these. 
Whilst ReAssure did take three weeks to check that the TTFC amount was correct after 
Mr B questioned it on 20 December 2022, Ive taken into account that this was over the Christmas holidays, which would have extended that two-week period. And Ive also 
taken into account that there shouldnt have been a reason to question it.
Timing of when ReAssure made various concessions to Mr H: Ive taken into 
account that the first concession ReAssure offered  a transfer to its Retirement 
Account  was something Mr H was already entitled to under the policy terms, for the 
reasons Ive explained above. However, I dont think this materially changes any of the 
timings of what happened subsequently, because Mr H and Mr B were unwilling to take 
up this option. They maintained throughout that they wanted to transfer the residual 
funds directly to C.
ReAssure later made what was properly a concession, avoiding the need to set up a 
Retirement Account at all. This was entirely at ReAssures discretion, and it seems was 
at least in part prompted by the developing nature of the complaint. So I cant fairly say 
that ReAssure should have offered that concession sooner, and it doesnt logically follow 
that it would have offered it sooner even if it hadnt made the mistake of sending OMO 
forms. The options the policy offered had been clearly set out in the retirement pack and 
whilst Mr B was free to try arguing for others, there was no certainty of success.
Im also not persuaded that it was unnecessary for ReAssure to flag up that Mr H could 
transfer to its own Retirement Account, and make an onward transfer after that. Ive 
explained above why an internal transfer is likely to have been easier administratively 
and, for the sake of retaining a large TTFC amount, ReAssure would reasonably have 
expected clients to accept that. 
All of this means Im also not persuaded the impasse of about two months between 
around 22 September (when Mr B was reminded the Retirement Account was available) 
and around 22 November (when he got notice of the further concession), was of 
ReAssures making.
Mr Bs inability to view ReAssures secure email notifications and lack of phone 
contact: I have insufficient evidence on which to conclude that ReAssure was treating 
Mr B, as Mr Hs representative, unfairly here. Secure emails have been put in place to 
protect customers data. I understand why Mr B preferred to view all messages through a 
website rather than clicking on links sent to his own email address, but its not my role in 
considering an individual complaint to mandate the type of system ReAssure must use. 
That is a matter for ReAssure, and it is accountable to the regulator directly for its 
systems and processes. 
Again, as Im looking at each case individually, I think it would have been in Mr Hs 
interests as the client for more of these communications to be attempted by phone. 
There was some potential for the issues to be resolved more effectively than by letters 
crossing in the post. From what I can see ReAssure did attempt to call Mr B without 
success, and Im not satisfied that further attempts would have been successful either. 
ReAssures explanations of why it couldnt offer direct drawdown transfer: I agree 
that some of the references made that this is not what we do and not part of our 
processes were unspecific and unhelpful. At that stage ReAssure should have reiterated 
that Mr H was limited to the options under his policy, which permitted a transfer into a 
ReAssure drawdown plan and this would preserve his TTFC. 
Yet at the same time, as Mr B had set up the policy for Mr H, I think it wouldnt have 
been unreasonable to expect him to be familiar with its terms. Or in the event that he 
wasnt, to ask to see them again. Mr H did ask to see them on 21 October 2022, but this 
was more than six months after the first retirement pack had been issued.I also think ReAssure ought to have appreciated that its comment that it didnt offer this 
option on former Old Mutual policies, was open to being misconstrued as meaning that it 
had removed a direct external drawdown transfer option that Mr H was contractually 
entitled to under OId Mutual. That was never the case, and in my view ReAssure ought 
to have been more precise with its explanations.
Delay in sending contract terms: When Mr B did ask to see the contract terms, it took 
ReAssure nearly three weeks to provide them. Although this time period also included 
ReAssure issuing its first final response to the complaint, that shouldnt have delayed an 
outstanding request. Sending the contract terms promptly after Mr B asked for them 
would also have limited the potential for ReAssures comments about the policy 
migrating from Old Mutual to cause confusion. Equally however, the terms and 
conditions would have been issued when the policy commenced  and if Mr B and/or 
Mr H didnt have these, as Ive noted above there were missed opportunities to ask for 
these so that they could check them much sooner.
Did ReAssures actions cause C to return Mr Hs funds in excess of the TTFC: Im 
satisfied that it was at Mr Bs request that C returned these funds, and that was 
ultimately prompted by a belief that the TTFC had been calculated incorrectly. As Mr B 
has accepted, that belief was incorrect. It would have been possible to leave the funds 
with C (but out of the market) whilst Mr B sought to clarify this with ReAssure  as 
inevitably, this would have taken a while longer over the Christmas holiday. If Mr Bs 
concerns had been proved correct, then I would have viewed this differently.
Should ReAssure have set out its TTFC calculation in detail sooner: Ive already 
taken the view, as set out above, that the TTFC calculations were correct  and there 
shouldnt have been a reason to suspect they were incorrect. The workings of the 
calculation wouldnt routinely be provided to clients, but this had progressed from being a 
routine case. Once ReAssure identified that Mr B, and therefore Mr H, werent familiar 
with how the sum was calculated, I think it would have been helpful nonetheless to show 
the workings involved. 
That could have been done in more detail when ReAssure replied on 11 January 2023, 
alluding to the TTFC being revalued plus 25% of the growth after A-day being added. 
ReAssure missed another opportunity to set out its calculation on 28 February (or 16 
March in writing, if Mr B couldnt see the 28 February reply). It didnt actually provide the 
calculation until after its second final response  and it was only after that point that Mr B 
realised his mistake. Whilst ReAssure isnt responsible for that mistake, I consider it 
could have been more helpful in aiding Mr Bs understanding sooner.
Did ReAssure cause Mr H to pay five more car finance instalments: I take this to 
mean Mr H could have cleared this loan sooner if the TTFC had been paid earlier, but in 
my view this delay was largely caused by Mr H holding out (on advice from Mr B, and 
ultimately successfully) in the hope ReAssure would make a concession of a direct 
external drawdown transfer that it didnt have to make. Its instructive that Mr H doesnt 
actually agree in the complaint submitted to this service that Mr B had asked for the 
TTFC to be paid on 22 March 2022, and I think thats a fair analysis. Mr B was only at 
that stage asking for the paperwork to enable it to be calculated, referring to potential 
retirement within the next 12 months.
Ive weighed up all of the shortcomings that can be attributed to ReAssure against the offer 
made, which includes £1,000 compensation for the distress it has caused. In my view this is 
broadly consistent with the examples on our website of where we award compensation of 
between £750 and £1,500 for substantial distress, upset and worry. I wouldnt have suggested a materially different amount than ReAssure has already offered and, as the 
Investigator has already noted, it could even have been less.
Mr B has argued to Mr H, and he has relayed to us, that the compensation is insufficient 
because ReAssure went to the extent of lying to him. Ive seen evidence of delays and 
confusion on both sides in this dispute, and around a somewhat technical issue some of this 
is understandable. 
As Ive noted, something ReAssure looked to be suggesting as a concession (a transfer into 
its Retirement Account), was something Mr H was already permitted to do under his policy. 
However I think thats a symptom of ReAssure struggling to get to grips with how the policy 
terms and systems it had inherited from a previous provider engaged with the complex rules 
governing the preservation of TTFC. Ultimately ReAssure did have to go further than this 
anyway and make a contractual concession to appease Mr B and Mr H. I dont think any of 
this is evidence of ReAssure setting out to be evasive or untruthful.
I also dont follow why the question of this service referring ReAssure for regulatory action is 
holding up Mr H acting to mitigate any potential loss by moving forward with the residual 
transfer. For the avoidance of any doubt, I wont be commenting on what matters this service 
decides to refer to the regulator, and Im aware that the FCA typically wont provide 
commentary on what action it may take in response to concerns it receives. But Mr H or 
Mr B is in any event entitled to raise concerns with the regulator directly if they have wider 
concerns about ReAssure. This decision is about Mr Hs specific complaint.
I find the suggestion somewhat absurd that ReAssure is providing unauthorised advice by 
encouraging Mr H to complete his aborted transfer to C. He has maintained throughout that 
he wants to transfer to C, no alternative instruction has been given to transfer elsewhere, 
and his contract with ReAssure has been terminated, again at his request  meaning an 
alternative destination for the money is required without further delay. I dont think ReAssure 
has done anything wrong in respect of not making this transfer. It requires a further 
instruction from C and/or Mr H to make it, and the ball is in Mr Hs court to give that 
instruction.
This service has communicated its position separately to both Mr H and Mr B that we wont 
typically cover third-party fees that were involved in seeking to justify or then bringing a 
complaint. And I think its particularly relevant here that significant parts of Mr Bs invoice will 
have been incurred pursuing ReAssure on the basis of a misunderstanding of how the tax-
free cash was calculated, as well as urging it to make concessions it wasnt obliged to make.
We offer a free service to consumers and dont require them to have professional 
representation. Its disappointing to see Mr Bs invoice holding up the settlement of a 
reasonable offer I consider ReAssure has made to resolve the complaint. Notably the 
amount of the invoice significantly exceeds the amount of tax Mr H will have saved by 
preserving his higher TTFC (even if he pays higher-rate tax). 
If that is the sticking point then its a matter for Mr H and Mr B to resolve between them. 
DISP 3.5.2G in the regulators handbook says that I may inform Mr H that it might be 
appropriate to complain against some other respondent, and that is a route open to Mr H to 
consider here.
ReAssures first final response of 2 November 2022 offered to assess whether its delay in 
communicating the available options up to that point had caused Mr H loss. But Im satisfied 
that offer was overtaken by subsequent events, as Mr H still wasnt willing to transfer to a 
Retirement Account and ReAssure agreed to make a further concession instead. The offer 
ReAssure is now making is to pay Mr H interest at 8%pa simple on the funds returned by C, even though they havent been invested. From what I can see a large part of the reason they 
were returned  and particularly why they have remained with ReAssure until now  hasnt 
been ReAssures fault.
I dont think it was therefore unreasonable for ReAssure to cap the interest it would add to 12 
October 2023. I further note that its willing to calculate if the growth in the funds Mr H was 
originally going to invest in with C would have produced a higher return, and also pay the 
difference, which I think is fair. Its also reasonable that ReAssure can only be expected to 
pay the interest and any further loss calculated after the funds are returned to C, as the 
situation wont otherwise be resolved. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr Hs complaint in part, as ReAssure has caused him distress and inconvenience 
in communicating, through his adviser, what options were available to him and how the 
amounts were calculated. However ReAssure has already offered a sufficient sum to put 
right this distress and inconvenience, and in my view made what is a very fair offer to pay 
interest (and further calculate if any financial loss has been suffered) in excess of this on the 
funds that havent been invested following their return from C.
ReAssure must therefore pay Mr H £1,000 for his distress and inconvenience (less the 
previous sums mentioned in its two final responses if they were credited to or banked by Mr 
H). And if Mr Hs residual fund of £25,632 is returned to C, ReAssure must also take the 
following steps:
- add interest at 8%pa simple from the date ReAssure originally received the funds 
from C up to 12 October 2023
- calculate whether any further loss has been suffered (over and above the interest at 
8%pa simple) as a result of these funds being out of the market instead of being 
invested with C, from the date they were returned to ReAssure from C up to the date 
of this Final Decision. If there is any further loss, pay this as additional compensation.
ReAssure will only have to pay these amounts if Mr H accepts this Final Decision, which will 
become legally binding and in full and final settlement of his complaint. As Mr H has 
mentioned taking legal action, that route is open to him if he doesnt accept the Final 
Decision. But he should be aware that the court wont be bound by any part of this decision 
and will come to its own findings. It would be advisable for him to take his own independent 
legal advice.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman