DRN-2437457
The complaint
 Mr C complains that the vehicle he acquired through a hire purchase agreement financed by 
MotoNovo Finance Limited was not of satisfactory quality. He wants to reject the vehicle and 
end the agreement.
What happened
  Mr C is represented in this complaint by Miss D, but for ease of reading Ill just refer to him.
Mr C tells us that he acquired the vehicle in March 2020, from a business Ill refer to as CS. 
He says that it was the third vehicle hed acquired from it as the other two had been returned 
as being unsatisfactory. Mr C explains that the latest vehicle experienced problems from an 
early stage. And that he had arranged for it to be inspected on 26 March for issues with the 
brakes. He says he later tried to contact CS about the vehicle but that it was closed due to 
Covid. Mr C states that the vehicle then broke down on 29 July 2020 and was recovered to 
CS premises where it remains. Mr C reports that the recovery agent suspected a brake 
servo fault as the cause of the breakdown. Mr C also complains that GAP insurance was 
included in the finance agreement costs without his knowledge.
MotoNovo told us that it had arranged for an independent inspection to be carried out on the 
vehicle by a company Ill refer to as A. And that A had confirmed that the issues about 
which Mr C complained were not present at the point of supply. It said it had been unable to 
provide job cards for any work carried out by CS.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She said she didnt 
think a reasonable person would expect the issues which Mr C had experienced with the 
vehicle within such a short time of supply. And as A hadnt inspected the suspected fault with 
the brake servo, she didnt think that MotoNovo had proved the vehicle was of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply.
MotoNovo requested an extension until 11 December in the time allowed for it to respond to 
the investigators view. But as no further reply was received by then the matter has now 
been passed to an ombudsman for a final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 The background to this complaint is quite complex. So I need to make clear that whilst Im 
aware that Mr C has had issues with three vehicles, I am only considering the vehicle 
acquired in March 2020. Ill refer to it as vehicle 3.
Mr Cs hire purchase agreement relating to vehicle 3, is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and our service is able to consider complaints relating to it. MotoNovo supplied 
the vehicle so its responsible for complaints about the quality of the vehicle.
Mr Cs complaint is that vehicle 3 experienced problems with its braking system almost from 
the time he acquired it. He also states that the mileage on the vehicle was misrepresented. 
And that GAP insurance was sold as part of the agreement without his consent.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome
I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. Relevant law here includes the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) and the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
The CCA states that the finance provider is potentially liable for misrepresentations by the 
dealer / broker in antecedent negotiations. So if CS did misrepresent the vehicle or the 
regulated hire purchase agreement then MotoNovo would be equally responsible.
The CRA states that in order to conform to contract goods must be of satisfactory quality 
when supplied. Satisfactory quality is defined being what a reasonable person would 
consider to be satisfactory. And this would include aspects of price, previous use and 
durability.
The CRA contains a presumption that where goods dont conform to contract within six 
months of the date of supply that they didnt do so at that time. This presumption applies 
unless its shown that the goods did conform to contract at that time.
Dealing briefly with the issues of mileage and insurance which Mr C raised. The mileage on 
the March 2020 invoice was recorded as 57,370. Ive seen that the vehicle passed an MOT 
test in January 2020 with an odometer reading recorded as 57,372 miles. So there appears 
to have been an error on the invoice. I believe that CS now states the odometer recording 
should have been 57,711. Although I note that Mr C has referred to the vehicle having an 
odometer reading of 59,847 when inspected on 26 March. With a vehicle of this previous 
mileage I doubt if even the higher difference wouldve affected Mr Cs purchasing decision. 
And as Mr C signed the credit agreement containing the insurance costs its not 
unreasonable to infer that he wouldve checked the document before signing. Im aware that 
checking documents on computer screens is made more difficult by social distancing 
requirements. But it still remains the responsibility of the consumer to check an agreement 
even before signing it electronically.
I dont find that any misrepresentations occurred in respect of these aspects.
Im aware that Mr C has referred to having the vehicle seen by an independent garage on 26 
March. But I havent seen any document containing the details of that. However, I have seen 
that this was referred to in the Final Response Letter (FRL) that MotoNovo sent. And that 
inspection seems to have indicated that there was a probable fault with the brake servo. The 
FRL indicated that as it wasnt a confirmed fault it considered there was insufficient 
evidence. 
Where information is incomplete, unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.On 29 July 2020 the vehicle broke down and had to be recovered. The company which 
attended the breakdown reported that the vehicle was experiencing a suspected brake servo 
fault. This finding appears to be consistent with the issue reportedly found in March. The 
mileage recorded at the time of the July breakdown was 60,125.
Ive viewed the report from A which was carried out on 18 August 2020  within six months 
of the date of supply. As report indicates that it found numerous faults with the brakes.
It concluded:
We would consider that the entire braking system requires checking, servicing overhauling 
and then replacement parts fitting as required. This being most likely the offside front brake 
calliper.
We would consider that the fault would not have been developing or present at finance 
inception.
A also stated that it wasnt able to access the brake servo. Which had been the suspected 
cause of the problem when the vehicle was recovered. So I consider As report to be 
inconclusive in that it wasnt able to fully examine the suspected cause of the breakdown.
As report further indicated that some new front brake discs and pads had recently been 
fitted. Yet also reported they were still binding. The conclusion that this is due to in service 
wear and tear seems inconsistent with the statement regarding recent fitting. Ive not seen 
any information to show exactly when this work was done. No job cards for work done by CA 
have been supplied. And Ive nothing to show that Mr C arranged this work. Its a reasonable 
inference that it was done either just before the vehicle was supplied to Mr C. Or in the 
period after 29 July but before the inspection by A. Either way it seems the work wasnt 
performed to a reasonable standard. 
As report has also not considered the issue of durability which is an element which affects 
whether or not a vehicle was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Viewed as a whole, I find that As report shows that the vehicle didnt conform to contract at 
the date of As inspection. As A failed to investigate a specific issue which had been 
separately identified as the probable cause of the breakdown, I dont consider that 
MotoNovo has shown the vehicle was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. And given 
the low mileage since Mr C acquired the vehicle it shouldnt be experiencing such serious 
issues within this period. The vehicle was also insufficiently durable.
Whilst it might have been reasonable for repairs to have been carried out at around the time 
of As inspection, several months later I dont think thats a reasonable option any longer.
Where goods dont conform to contract within six months of supply but after the first 30 days 
following supply  within which period the short term right to reject usually has to be 
exercised  the supplier / dealer must carry out repairs within a reasonable time and without 
causing significant inconvenience to the consumer. The delay here is self-evident and Mr C 
has apparently had to source another vehicle. So that wouldve amounted to significant 
inconvenience. I find he should be able to reject the vehicle and end the agreement.
Putting things right
  MotoNovo Finance Limited should now take the following action:
1. End the agreement with nothing further for Mr C to pay after 29 July 2020. Payments accruing up to this date may be retained by MotoNovo for fair use;
2. Refund payments made for any period which has accrued after 29 July 2019 up to 
date of termination (any payments accruing in this period which havent been made, 
should be waived). Pro rata calculations should be made if necessary;
3. Arrange collection of the vehicle at no cost to Mr C;
4. Pay £200 to Mr C for distress and inconvenience;
5. Upon proof of payment, refund any road fund licence costs and vehicle insurance 
costs on vehicle 3 which have accrued since 29 July 2020 up to date of termination. 
Pro rata calculations should be made if required.
6. Arrange for any adverse entries in relation to this agreement to be removed from Mr 
Cs credit file. The agreement should be recorded as settled.
Simple interest at the rate of 8% per year should be added to sums arising from items 2 and 
5 above. 
My final decision
 For the reasons given above my final decision is Im upholding the complaint.
I require MotoNovo Finance Limited to take the action Ive stipulated in the immediately 
preceding paragraph. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman