DRN-4146841
The complaint
Ms S is unhappy about the customer service provided by AXA PPP Healthcare Limited when 
she made a claim under her private medical health insurance policy.
What happened
Ms S has a private medical insurance policy underwritten by AXA PPP. The policy provides 
benefit for private medical treatment and Ms S took out extended cover to provide extra 
cover for cancer treatment.
In 2022, Ms S saw a private consultant for a painful spot on her face  this consultation and 
investigations were authorised by AXA PPP. The condition was diagnosed as cancer 
meaning Ms S required further treatment.
In early 2023, Ms S contacted AXA PPP as she had received invoices that it said she 
needed to pay. The adviser explained to her that she didnt have any outpatient allowance 
left. But Ms S said that she had the extra cancer cover and so these invoices should be 
covered. The adviser told Ms S that the claim had been set up with a diagnosis of acne. 
Ms S said she found this insulting and felt that the advisor was rude and didnt believe her 
when she said she had cancer. She complained to AXA PPP.
AXA PPP noted that it had initially set up the claim with the wrong condition, however, it 
should have been picked up when authorisation was provided for the further treatment and 
the invoices showed that the diagnosis was cancer. It also noted that if this had happened, it 
wouldnt have sent the invoices to Ms S to pay as the extra cancer cover she has on the 
policy would have covered this cost. As recognition for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Ms S, AXA PPP offered a sum of £250 as compensation. In relation to the adviser 
who Ms S spoke to, AXA PPP said it has listened to the calls Ms S had with its staff and 
didnt agree that the advisers were rude or unprofessional. 
Unhappy with AXA PPPs response, Ms S brought her complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into the matter but didnt think AXA PPP needed to do anything more. 
She found that AXA PPP had incorrectly entered the condition Ms S was suffering from and 
said it had several opportunities to put this right but hadnt. And if the condition had been 
entered correctly, the correct benefit limit would have been applied and so the invoices 
wouldnt have been sent to Ms S. But she noted that AXA PPP rectified the error as soon as 
it was notified of it. She also listened to the calls Ms S had with AXA PPP and didnt think 
that the adviser had been rude or offensive. She didnt think that there had been any 
indication that the adviser didnt agree that Ms S had cancer. So, while she agreed that Ms S 
had been distressed by this situation, she felt that the sum of £250 offered as compensation 
was reasonable.
Ms S disagreed with the investigators opinion. She said that she felt the advisers were 
adamant she had acne and refused to pay the bills. And she said that the sum of £250 was 
an insult. As no agreement could be reached, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is important to point out that were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free 
alternative to the courts for consumers. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I 
consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on every issue or point made 
in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Ms S. Rather it reflects the informal nature of 
our service, its remit and my role in it.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. And its clear that in this case, AXA PPP 
acknowledges that it didnt handle Ms Ss claim properly. The medical condition initially 
attributed to the claim was incorrect and this wasnt altered when further treatment was 
authorised, and payment made for invoices. If AXA PPP had noted this earlier, and 
amended the condition on the claim, Ms S wouldnt have received invoices to pay as these 
would have been covered by her extended cancer cover. I can appreciate that receiving 
these requests for payment would have been confusing for Ms S and caused her upset. So, I 
think its appropriate for AXA PPP to pay compensation to recognise this.
Ive thought about this carefully and, while I appreciate that this will likely be disappointing for 
Ms S, I think that AXA PPP has made a fair offer to settle this complaint. As soon as it was 
made aware of the error, AXA PPP made the changes to the system and also sent the 
unpaid invoices to be reassessed for payment. AXA PPP also recognised that Ms S was 
entitled to other cash benefits under the policy for which it arranged payment. So, while I 
appreciate it would have been upsetting for Ms S to be asked to make payments for invoices 
when she had the appropriate cover, I do think that AXA PPPs actions following it being 
notified of this error, would have minimised the inconvenience caused. Im satisfied that the 
sum of £250 is fair and reasonable compensation for this situation.
Ms S has said that she feels the compensation of £250 is an insult. She has referred 
generally to finding AXA PPPs staff unhelpful, but she has specifically mentioned one call 
she had with an adviser, who I will refer to as G, who she felt was rude and told her she 
didnt have cancer. This is a very serious allegation of poor customer service and so I have 
listened to all of the calls Ms S had with AXA PPP on the day in question in early 2023. Im 
aware that Ms S has also been sent these calls.
Having listened to the calls, I dont think that G was rude or unprofessional. In the call with 
G, Ms S is querying why she is being asked to pay invoices for treatment. Ms S explains that 
she had additional cancer cover. G then asks Ms S for the diagnosis as she has noted the 
claim has been set up with a diagnosis of acne. Ms S is clearly upset at hearing this, 
understandably so as her diagnosis was for a much more serious condition. But G didnt tell 
Ms S that she didnt have cancer, as Ms S has suggested. Im persuaded that G remained 
professional throughout the conversation. I note Ms S terminated the call soon after hearing 
the incorrect condition had been placed on her claim, which meant G didnt have the 
opportunity to put things right. Ive also listened to the recordings of calls with other advisers 
that Ms S had and again, I havent found any indication of rudeness.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that, while AXA PPP did make a mistake in 
recording the incorrect condition against Ms Ss claim, it rectified this error quickly once it 
became known. And while I appreciate it was upsetting for Ms S to hear that the wrong 
diagnosis had been detailed on her claim, I cannot agree that AXA PPPs advisers were 
rude or unprofessional in their dealings with her. On that basis, Im persuaded that the 
compensation of £250 is appropriate - I dont require AXA PPP to pay anything more.My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman