DRN-2088438
The complaint
Mr B complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) didnt provide 
him with the end of lease charges invoice for many months as it had lost his information.
What happened
In March 2016 Mr B entered into a two-year lease agreement for a car with MBFS, taking 
possession of the car in April 2016. 
In April 2018, when the lease period had ended, Mr B returned the car. It was subject to a 
condition inspection while Mr B was present, and he signed the report. However, Mr B was 
unhappy at the proposed charges for damage found on the car and contacted MBFS the 
next day to complain. During that call to MBFS, Mr B said he would wait to receive the 
invoice.
MBFS says it sent the end of contract charges invoice to Mr B for the damage that had been 
found about 14 days after the car had been inspected.
In May 2018 Mr B sent an email to MBFS setting out why he disagreed with the amount he 
had been charged for the condition of the car when he had handed it back. And in June 2018 
MBFS sent Mr B its final response letter via email. MBFS didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint and 
said the charges were fair. It informed Mr B that if he was unhappy at the outcome, he could 
complain to this service within six months of the date of the letter.
MBFS says that Mr B informed it that he would be complaining to this service and so they 
put his account on hold. However, as no further contact was then made MBFS reactivated 
the account and contacted Mr B about the outstanding balance. MBFS says that Mr B again 
informed it that he would be referring this matter to this service.
Mr B complained to this service in June 2019 about the end of contract charges for the 
damage found and also about the delay in sending out the invoice for those charges as 
he said hed only received it that month. He said MBFS had lost track of his account. 
This service treated Mr Bs complaints as two separate matters. This was because this 
service didnt have jurisdiction to look at whether the charges for the damage found on 
the car were fair. Under our rules (the DISP rules, as set out in the Financial Conduct 
Authority Handbook) there are rules and requirements that must be in place for this 
service to be able to consider a complaint. 
One of these requirements is that a complaint must be brought to this service within 
certain time-limits (see DISP 2.8.2 R and DISP 2.8.7 R). If it isnt brought to us in time, 
then the business needs to consent to us looking at it and if a business doesnt consent 
to a late referral then we arent able investigate. In Mr Bs case, the time-limit was six 
months running from the date of the final response letter sent from MBFS to Mr B in June 
2018. This meant his complaint about the fairness of the end of contract charges had to 
be received by this service in December 2018. It was received in June 2019 and MBFS 
didnt consent to a late referral.  
However, MBFS accepted that the second complaint made by Mr B was a new issue and 
said it would investigate it and issue a response. MBFS sent Mr B its final response letter in 
July 2019 informing him that it wasnt upholding this complaint because it had sent him the 
invoice about two weeks after the car had been inspected in April 2018. It also added that if 
Mr B wanted to dispute the charges then he would need to contact a named department to 
do so.  
Mr B was unhappy at MBFSs response and asked this service to investigate his 
complaints. 
Our investigator didnt recommend Mr Bs complaint should be upheld as he said MBFS 
had sent the invoice within 28 days of the car being inspected in April 2018. He also said 
that as Mr B had been aware of the charges then, if he hadnt received the invoice, it 
would have been reasonable for him to have raised this with MBFS.
Our investigator also said that he couldnt look at the fairness of the charges as this 
service had separately told Mr B this complaint was out of time to be investigated. But he 
said that Mr B was able to dispute the charges directly with the business if he wanted to.
Mr B disagreed with our investigators view. He said the final response letter sent by 
MBFS in July 2019 had inadvertently given him permission to bring his complaint about 
the fairness of the end of contract charges to this service and we did have jurisdiction to 
investigate that and the delay in providing him with a copy of the invoice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid I disagree with Mr Bs interpretation of the final response letter sent to him by 
MBFS in July 2019. Looking at this letter I think it clearly sets out it is responding to Mr Bs 
second complaint. The letter says; My understanding of your complaint is that you are 
unhappy as you say there were delays in us sending out your End of Contract invoice until 
June 2019. The letter doesnt say that it is also responding to Mr Bs original complaint 
about the fairness of the actual charges that had been invoiced.
I think its reasonable to say that Mr B made two distinct complaints to MBFS about the 
invoice, firstly that the charges were unfair and secondly that he hadnt been provided with 
the invoice for several months. MBFS responded to the first complaint in June 2018 and the 
second in July 2019.
I appreciate there is a paragraph in the final response letter, sent in July 2019, saying that if 
Mr B wishes to dispute the charges then he will need to contact a named department. But I 
think this was included to provide information about who he should contact as Mr B could 
seek to further discuss these charges if he wanted. I think it was reasonable for MBFS to 
include this in its letter. I would I expect MBFS to inform Mr B of this option. However, I dont 
think I can reasonably say this paragraph is MBFS agreeing to Mr B making a late referral to 
this service about the fairness of those charges.
So, Im satisfied that, when looking at the contents of the final response letter sent to Mr B in 
July 2019, it isnt re-opening Mr Bs complaint about the charges nor giving him permission 
to bring that particular complaint to this service. The issue about the fairness or otherwise of 
the end of contract charges remains outside this services jurisdiction.Looking at whether the invoice was provided to Mr B in a reasonable time, Ive seen that the 
invoice was sent to his home address around two weeks after the car was inspected. Ive 
also seen that Mr B was in email contact with MBFS in May 2018 but did not raise at that 
point that he hadnt received any invoice for the damage. Ive also seen from a screenshot 
provided by MBFS that Mr B has written at the start of one email Further to my email below 
and my invoice and then sets out why he disputes the charges. This gives the impression 
he had received the end of contract invoice. So, I dont think I can reasonably say MBFS 
would have been aware the invoice hadnt been delivered to Mr B.
I havent seen any evidence that Mr B contacted MBFS in the weeks following the cars 
return to enquire where the invoice was which I think would have been a reasonable thing to 
do. Particularly as Mr B was aware from the time the car was handed back that he would be 
facing end of contract charges which he disagreed with and which he was actively disputing 
with MBFS.
So, I cant reasonably say MBFS didnt provide a copy of the invoice to Mr B in a reasonable 
time of the car being handed back and Im unclear why this invoice wasnt received by him. 
Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2020.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman