DRN-2879741
The complaint
Mrs K complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua irresponsibly allowed her to open a credit 
card account and later increased her credit limit which were both unaffordable.
 What happened
Mrs K says she was in financial difficulties when the credit card account was opened. She 
says she had a gambling problem that Aqua ought to have noticed if it looked at her bank 
statements. Mrs K says the lending was irresponsible and unaffordable and would like all 
charges and interest refunded as well as adverse information removed from her credit file. 
She also says Aqua didnt ask her for evidence of her income or expenditure and shouldnt 
have increased the credit limit. Mrs K says the unfair lending has caused distress.
Aqua says the account was opened in 2014 with a credit limit of £500. It says Mrs K 
declared an income of £25,000 a year and lived with her parents with limited outgoings. 
Aqua says it carried out appropriate credit checks and couldnt have known about the 
gambling problem. It says it increased the credit limit in August 2014 to £1,400 but accepts 
after that point Mrs K started making cash withdrawals. Aqua accepts it shouldnt have 
increased the credit limit in December 2014 and has refunded interest and charges over and 
above the previous limit.
Mrs K brought her complaint to us and our investigator partially upheld it. The investigator 
thought Aqua had carried out appropriate checks on the application and the first credit limit 
increase. And considered Mrs Ks credit file, the lack of adverse information such as defaults 
and her limited debts. The investigator accepted, as Aqua does, that the December 2014 
credit limit shouldnt have been approved and recommended any adverse data be removed 
from Mrs Ks credit file in respect of it.
Aqua accepts the investigators view.
Mrs K doesnt accept that view and maintains the lending was unaffordable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view as the investigator and for the same 
reasons. I appreciate Mrs K will be disappointed by my decision.
Lenders and credit providers should carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any 
borrowing or credit application. Those checks will of course vary depending on the type and 
amount of lending. This was an application for a credit facility and so I wouldnt have 
expected Aquas checks to have been as detailed as for example for a mortgage or loan 
application.
I have looked carefully at Aquas records and can see Mrs K applied for the credit card 
account in 2014 declaring an income of £25,000 with limited outgoings. Im satisfied Mrs Ks 
bank account statements provide further evidence of that income. Im also satisfied Aqua 
correctly carried out credit checks on the application and concluded Mrs K had limited debts 
and no adverse data recorded against her such as defaults or payment arrangements. Aqua 
approved what I think is a relatively modest credit limit of £500.
Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks were carried out by Aqua on Mrs Ks 
credit card account application and that on the face of it the account was affordable. I dont 
think the lending decision was irresponsible and can see that Mrs K managed her account 
appropriately for some months after it was opened which I think provides additional evidence 
the lending was affordable at the time of the account opening.
I appreciate Mrs K says Aqua didnt ask to see her bank account statements or details of her 
expenditure. But I dont think Aqua was required to do so and that it did carry out appropriate 
checks. 
Im also satisfied that Aqua carried out reasonable and proportionate checks on the credit 
limit increase in August 2014 and was entitled to consider Mrs Ks appropriate account 
management. I dont think the increase was unaffordable or irresponsible.
There is no issue here that Aqua shouldnt have applied a further credit limit increase in 
December 2014 as by that stage there was evidence of Mrs K making cash withdrawals and 
using the account for gambling. I think Aqua has acted fairly by refunding interest and by 
agreeing to remove any adverse information caused by that increase from Mrs Ks credit file.
I appreciate Mrs K had a significant gambling problem and I have seen her bank account 
statements, But I dont think Aqua could have known about that problem at the time of the 
account opening or at the time of the first credit limit increase. I also think that it was the 
gambling that caused the financial problems and that on the face of it the lending would have 
been affordable.
Overall, Im satisfied Aqua didnt make a mistake or act unfairly by opening the account or by 
making the first credit limit increase. Im satisfied that the lending was affordable and so it 
would be unfair to order Aqua to refund any interest or charges properly incurred.
Putting things right
Aqua should remove any adverse information from Mrs Ks credit file as agreed but I accept 
it may have fallen off her credit file in any event. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the main part of this complaint but uphold the 
complaint about the credit file. I order NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua to remove any adverse 
information from Mrs Ks credit file related to the credit limit increase in December 2014. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman