DRN-4363766
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as W, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC UK) has 
unfairly deducted charges from payments into its Australian dollar (AUD) foreign currency 
account.
What happened
W has an AUD foreign currency account with HSBC UK. W also has a merchant services 
account with Global Payments (GPUK). The GPUK account is held with HSBC Bank Plc 
(HSBC Bank). Payments (made up of the AUD takings from Ws trading) are sent from the 
GPUK account to the HSBC UK account.
From the end of March 2019, 15 AUD was deducted from each daily payment sent from 
GPUK. No such deductions were made from corresponding transactions involving Ws 
accounts in US dollars or GB pounds.
W complained to HSBC UK but the bank said it wasnt making the deductions.
Our investigator looked into where the charge was being made. He discovered that the 
charge was being made by HSBC Bank Australia (HSBC Aus). Each AUD payment from Ws 
GPUK account to Ws HSBC UK account was routed via HSBC Aus, and it was at that point 
that the charge was applied. 
From the end of February 2023, HSBC Aus stopped applying the charges to the AUD 
transactions. Ws director has said that although hes pleased that the charges have now 
stopped, his company suffered losses during the period when they were deducted, and they 
should be reimbursed. They amounted to over 19,000 AUD in total.
The investigator concluded that HSBC UK wasnt responsible for the charges. All the 
deductions had been made before the AUD funds were received by HSBC UK, which hadnt 
taken any charges of its own. He therefore didnt think HSBC UK had acted unfairly or 
unreasonably.
W didnt accept the investigators conclusions. The companys director made the following 
points, in summary:
At no time had he asked GPUK or HSBC UK to change any of his payment methods. 
W had not employed the services of HSBC Aus and neither had GPUK. The 
Australian banks involvement was the responsibility of HSBC UK.
HSBC Aus had clearly benefited from the daily charge.
HSBC UK has a duty to ensure a customers funds are safe and secure, and the 
bank has failed in that responsibility to W. It should repay the 19,000 AUD, with 
interest.
GPUK and HSBC UK are both UK businesses with a very close relationship. GPUK 
was HSBC Merchant Services before it was split into a separate company. W gave 
its sort code and account number to HSBC Merchant Services long before the split, 
and has given no new instruction since then, so HSBC UK should still be held 
accountable for any errors with transfers of accounts or set up.
HSBCs terms say that any incoming funds received into Ws UK-based AUD foreign 
currency account from another UK-based account in the same currency would be 
received in full.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Ws director, but Ive reached the same conclusions as the 
investigator, and for largely the same reasons.
This complaint is brought against HSBC UK, which is the bank where W has its AUD foreign 
currency account. For clarity, I should repeat here that the full name of this bank is HSBC 
UK Bank Plc. In my decision, I need to determine whether this bank is responsible for the 
charges that W has complained about.
There are two other banks involved in the events in this complaint. One is HSBC Aus. The 
other is HSBC Bank, whose full name is HSBC Bank Plc. Neither of these banks is the 
respondent in the complaint that Im considering here.
Its common ground that the disputed charges were made by HSBC Aus.
Ws GPUK merchant services account is held with HSBC Bank. My understanding is that 
when GPUK makes a payment in AUD from that account to Ws AUD foreign currency 
account, the payment is sent by HSBC Bank via HSBC Aus. In other words, HSBC Bank 
sends the payment to HSBC Aus, which in turn sends the payment to HSBC UK. 
HSBC UK has explained that HSBC Bank sends the payment via the Australian bank in line 
with the industry standards of the SWIFT banking transfer system, which require payments 
in foreign currency to be processed via the currencys domicile country  they cannot be 
made direct between two UK banks. This is also the case with Ws payments in US dollars, 
which are sent by HSBC Bank to Ws HSBC UK account via an American bank. In any 
event, its clear that the decision to send the Ws payment via HSBC Aus isnt made by 
HSBC UK.
HSBC UK plays no part in this process until it receives the funds from HSBC Aus. HSBC 
UKs role is simply to receive the funds into Ws AUD foreign currency account. Im therefore 
satisfied that HSBC UK has no responsibility for any of the disputed charges, which were 
applied earlier in the journey of each of the payments from GPUK. 
Ws director says that arrangements for payments from its merchant services account are 
long-standing, and his company has made no changes and given no new instructions. But 
Im not suggesting that W has done anything that has led to the disputed charges. What I am 
saying is that HSBC UK isnt responsible for them. 
Ws director also says HSBC UK has a duty to keep customers funds safe and secure. I 
agree, but that obligation applies only to funds that have come into its care. HSBC UK has 
lost none of Ws funds that it received and has made no deductions itself.The terms and conditions of the HSBC UK account, along with its fee information document, 
explain the charges that HSBC UK can make for outgoing and incoming payments. But 
those documents dont set out any charges that may be levied by other banks which send 
money to the account, or the circumstances under which the charges will or will not be 
made. I cant see that HSBC UK has given an assurance in those documents that no other 
banks will make charges during the transmission of money to Ws account.
I appreciate that the other banks in the payment chain described above (HSBC Bank and 
HSBC Aus) have HSBC in their name and are ultimately part of the same group. But they 
are companies in their own right, and they are not part of HSBC UK. Ws director points to 
changes in the group structure in 2018. But the deductions that are the subject of this 
complaint started and stopped while W held its AUD bank account with HSBC UK. I cant 
reasonably say that HSBC UK  which is the respondent in this complaint  is responsible 
for any actions by the other banks during this time.
I realise that Ws director will be disappointed by my decision, and I can understand his 
frustration with these events and the outcome. W has paid a substantial amount in charges 
that seem both to have started and to have stopped without notice. However, for the reasons 
given above, I dont find that HSBC UK is responsible for the charges in any way, and 
therefore I dont require it to make any refund to W.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont find that HSBC UK Plc has acted unfairly or unreasonably.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman