DRN-2932929
The complaint
Mr L complains that MBNA Limited irresponsibly lent to him by offering him promotional rates 
of interest from 2018-2021 to increase his debt.
What happened
Mr L was accepted for an MBNA credit card in 2002. Mr L suffered from health issues from 
2018. He says he is struggling financially and is limited in the work he can do. Mr L says 
from 2018-2021, MBNA offered him more and more credit by promotional rates of interest 
ranging from 0%-4.9% Annual Percentage Rate. In 2018, Mr L took a total of five money 
transfers which totalled £16,800.
Mr L says no one from MBNA contacted him in light of his increasing credit card balance or 
the fact he was only able to make the minimum monthly repayments. Mr L says that he 
realised he could not meet the monthly payments when the promotional interest rates ended. 
He said a friend of his agreed to lend him the money to clear the balance and he is making 
payments to her of £200 a month.
Mr L complained to MBNA. They did not uphold his complaint. They said his whole balance 
was on a promotional rate from 2018 until 2021/2022. As Mr L had been managing his 
monthly payments then there was no reason for them to contact Mr L. MBNA said that Mr L 
hadnt let them know of any financial difficulties before he applied for his money transfers 
until he made his complaint, therefore they werent aware of his situation. 
MBNA said they had adhered to the lending code and Mr L was offered promotional rates 
based on his payment history and account conduct. Mr L did not agree with the outcome of 
his complaint so he brought it to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ls complaint. He detailed the money transfers Mr L had 
made and also detailed two 0% balance transfers he made in 2019 and 2020. He said that 
as Mr L had always stayed within his credit limit, made his minimum monthly payments on 
time and sometimes made higher monthly payments exceeding the minimum payment, then 
there would be no reason for MBNA to contact Mr L regarding financial difficulties or 
payment issues. 
Our investigator also highlighted Mr Ls terms and conditions which state that MBNA will 
make him aware of promotional offers if he is eligible for them. Our investigator explained 
these do not have to be accepted by Mr L. He also said it was part of Mr Ls terms and 
conditions that Mr L should let MBNA if his circumstances changed and he was suffering 
financially or was off work with long term sickness, but Mr L didnt let MBNA know this. 
Mr L asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary he said MBNA didnt need him to tell them he was in financial difficulty as they 
would have been able to see his outstanding balance over the last three years, yet despite 
this they continued to offer him cheap credit each month for him to go deeper into debt. He 
says that MBNA did not check to see if he had the means to pay the debt after the 
promotional rates had ended. Mr L said he didnt contact MBNA as he would face 
embarrassment and shame for the position he found himself in, and fear of retributive action 
taken by them if his situation was made clear.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L has made a number of points to both MBNA and this service and Ive considered and 
read everything hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and 
informal body, Ill be focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and 
reasonable here.
Mr L has told us that his health issues and financial difficulty started in 2018. This coincided 
with when he took MBNAs promotional interest rates for money transfers. Mr L was in credit 
on his MBNA card in January 2018. But he did ask for five money transfers to be paid to him 
totalling £16,800 over a period of seven months.
The first thing to say is that all the borrowing Mr L did was within his agreed credit limit on 
the account. So Ive thought about that  even though Mr L hasnt actually made a specific 
reference to it in his complaint. I need to be careful not to stray beyond what Mr L has 
complained about. But it is important to think about the context within which the borrowing at 
promotional rates could take place.
I can see Mr Ls credit limit was £22,700 throughout the period of the promotional rates hes 
complaining about. The last time his limit was increased was in November 2015. And that 
was only relatively marginally  from £20,200 to £22,700. So it seems to me that both Mr L 
and MBNA were content with the amount of credit Mr L was able to support during the time 
that he is complaining about  because it was in place well before Mr L says his difficulties 
started.
I need to be clear that I have not directly considered the merits of any complaint Mr L might 
have about the overall level of credit MBNA gave him. Thats because he hasnt raised the 
matter  as such. And we can normally only consider matters from the last six years. As Mr L 
first complained to MBNA in February 2021, that means its unlikely wed be able to look at 
anything going back further than February 2015. By then Mr Ls credit limit was already 
£20,200. So there hasnt been a great change since then. And it seems Mr L was managing 
his account within this limit up to 2018, when he says he started to have problems.
In light of this, I dont think any detailed assessment of the credit limit Mr L was given by 
MBNA is needed for me to look at his issues over the promotional rates he was offered.
I know Mr L has said that he didnt contact MBNA to explain his financial situation because 
he felt embarrassed and feared retribution from MBNA. But he could have spoken to a debt 
charity if he would have preferred. When Mr L agreed to the terms and conditions he agreed 
to let them know if his financial circumstances changed due to financial difficulties or ill 
health. Mr L says he has suffered from both of these. As Mr L did not make MBNA aware of 
this then they were unable to help him find a solution to help ease the pressure on him.
Ive thought about what Mr L has said about MBNA regarding they should know that he was 
in financial difficulties based on his balance and minimum payments being made. But Im not 
persuaded by this. I say this as his statements showed that his balance was decreasing 
each month after the money transfers had been made from September 2018 until he made a 
0% promotional balance transfer in October 2019. After this balance transfer his outstanding balance decreased until he made another 0% balance transfer in August 2020 and then his 
statement balance decreases again each month until his balance was paid off.
His account activity during 2018-2021 was fairly similar to 2016/2017, prior to Mr Ls health 
issues and financial difficulties. Here, Mr L had completed a money transfer in 2016 on a 0% 
promotional rate and then paid the outstanding balance before the promotional rate had 
ended. 
So MBNA would be familiar with a pattern of how Mr L used his account. Mr L says that 
MBNA didnt check he had the means to make the payments after the promotional rate had 
ended, but he had cleared his balance before the promotional rate had ended. In addition, 
they will have used information he gave them previously to assess his affordability. But 
because Mr L had not made them aware he was suffering financial difficulties, then it would 
be reasonable for them to believe Mr Ls circumstances would be similar to the past. MBNA 
have had a long relationship with Mr L, since 2002 so would have been able to see how he 
had been managing his account previously.
I asked Mr L more details about his financial difficulties and he disclosed that he had to 
borrow from two friends. But as MBNA wouldnt be aware of this information, then I cant say 
that offering promotional interest rates was irresponsible as the previous term of his account 
said as soon as possible, you must let us know if your circumstances change in a way that 
we may not otherwise know about and that is likely to change our assessment of your 
financial standing. Im persuaded that it would have changed MBNAs assessment of his 
financial standing if he disclosed this information to them.
The terms and conditions for the account also shows that MBNA may make promotional 
offers available to you in the future if you are eligible for them. So as Mr L wasnt over his 
credit limit, didnt use his card to withdraw cash during 2018-2021 or use his card for 
gambling transactions then I dont think its unreasonable that MBNA offered Mr L 
promotional rates of interest.
In summary, Im not persuaded MBNA were unreasonable for offering Mr L promotional 
rates or for failing to spot he had financial difficulties for the reasons Ive already given. So I 
wont be asking MBNA to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman