DRN-2695941
The complaint
 Mrs and Mr L complain that Astrenska Insurance Limited declined their travel insurance 
claim. My references to Astrenska include its agents.
What happened
Mrs and Mr L and their two teenage children were due to travel to a ski resort in France from 
5 to 12 April 2020. They booked their trip in May 2019 with individual arrangements for 
flights and chalet accommodation. The family had an annual travel insurance policy to cover 
from 1 August 2019. Astrenska is the insurer.
On 15 March 2020 the accommodation provider wrote to Mrs and Mr L to say the ski resort 
was closing and it had to cancel their chalet booking due to the Covid-19 situation. On 
16 March the French government announced a nationwide lockdown and advised against all 
but essential travel in France from 17 March 2020. On 17 March the UK Foreign 
Commonwealth Office (FCO) also advised against all but essential travel. Mrs and Mr L 
cancelled their holiday that day.
Mrs and Mr L received a refund from the airline for their flights. But their accommodation 
provider wouldnt refund the accommodation cost Mrs and Mr L paid as its booking terms 
and conditions said it will not be held liable for any changes caused by actions outside our 
control or by force majeure. So Mrs and Mr L claimed on their travel insurance.  
Astrenska declined the claim. It accepted the original reason it declined the claim  that the 
Package Travel Regulations 2018 applied  was wrong and paid Mrs and Mr L £50 
compensation for their inconvenience at the delay due to its error. Astrenska then declined 
the claim as it said it had taken legal advice and thought it unlikely that the accommodation 
provider could legally rely on the Force Majeure' clause in its booking conditions to refuse 
the refund.
Mrs and Mr L complained to us. They said their travel policy covered cancellation of a 
holiday following a government directive prohibiting travel due to an epidemic so Astrenska 
should pay the claim.
Our investigator said Astrenska unfairly declined the claim. It should reassess the claim in 
line with the remaining policy terms.
Astrenska disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision. It said Mrs and Mr L should 
make reasonable attempts to make the accommodation provider pay the refund. It didnt 
expect Mrs and Mr L to take the accommodation provider to court to get payment but they 
should put Astrenskas legal argument to the provider as to why the provider should pay.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision that I was intending to uphold the complaint and say Astrenska 
should pay the claim. I said:
Our service is an informal alternative to the courts which settles disputes informally taking 
into account what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. The relevant rules and 
industry guidelines say that Astrenska has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and 
fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I have to decide whether Astrenska fairly and reasonably declined the claim and I dont think 
it did for the reasons Ill go on to explain.
The travel insurance policy cancellation section says Mrs and Mr L are covered:
Up to the amount shown in the policy documentation for your proportion of costs only 
if your travel, accommodation and pre-booked excursions up to 250 are cancelled 
before your departure from your country of residence (including ski hire, ski school 
and lift passes for winter sports trips where the appropriate premium has been paid), 
which have not been used and which you have paid, or are contracted to pay, 
providing the cancellation is necessary and unavoidable due to..
7. a government directive prohibiting all travel to the country or area you were 
planning to visit, as a result of a natural disaster (e.g. earthquake, fire, flood, 
hurricane or epidemic)
I think the French Government and FCO advising against all but essential travel due to 
Covid-19 falls within that policy term for cover.
Astrenska relied on the general policy exclusion that it wont cover any costs recoverable 
from another source.
Theres no evidence that the Package Travel Regulations (PTR) 2018 apply or that the 
accommodation provider is a member of a trade body or association that offers to refund 
unrecoverable costs. So Mrs and Mr L dont have the option to go through a trade body 
scheme or other dispute resolution schemes.
The accommodation provider refused to refund the costs relying on the following booking 
terms and conditions:
If we have to change your holiday we will let you know as soon as we can. If this 
change does not suit you, we will refund all amounts you have paid. We will not be 
held liable for any changes caused by actions outside our control or by force 
majeure.
Ive seen Astrenskas detailed legal argument as to why it thinks the accommodation 
provider cant rely on the above clause to refuse the refund.
In summary Astrenskas view is that the courts are likely to say the accommodation provider 
couldnt rely on the clause to say that Covid-19 was a Force Majeure' or action outside of its 
control so the contract between Mrs and Mr L and the accommodation provider had been 
frustrated. That meant Mrs and Mr L may be able to claim the refund under relevant 
legislation, which it detailed, from the accommodation provider.
I cant comment on whether I think the legal advice Astrenska received is correct as 
ultimately that would be for the courts to decide. On the legal advice Astrenska relied on 
there is no certainty that Mrs and Mr L could recover the costs against the accommodation 
provider. And the legal advice Astrenska relied on acknowledges that the outcome would be 
down to the courts interpretation of the specific contract terms so Astrenska accept theres 
no guarantee that the costs would be recoverable if Mrs and Mr L took legal action.The policy covers losses that arent recoverable from any other source. Astrenska has also 
highlighted guidance from the regulator and the Competitions and Market Authority (CMA) in 
relation to consumers impacted by changes in their travel plans as a result of Covid-19. 
Bearing in mind that guidance, the terms of booking, the specific policy terms, and the facts 
of this case, I think the key issue for me to decide is whether Mrs and Mr L have made 
reasonable attempts to recover their costs from the accommodation provider.
The provider has been clear to Mrs and Mr L that it doesnt intend to refund the cost and 
why. Astrenska doesnt agree with the legal position the provider has taken. But Mrs and 
Mr L are left in a position where they are caught between the two, through no fault of their 
own. I bear in mind that the PTR 2018 doesnt apply to this booking. This means that Mrs 
and Mr L have more limited options to take steps to recover the money directly from the 
provider. And the provider has also highlighted a specific contract term in support of their 
position.
I dont think its reasonable for Astrenska to expect Mrs and Mr L to return to the provider to 
put further detailed legal argument as to why Astrenska thinks the provider should pay when 
Mrs and Mr L paid for an insurance policy that clearly covers the event they are claiming for 
and it seems unlikely to me that the providers stance is likely to change. This is likely to 
mean that Mrs and Mr Ls only likely method of recovery is to take the provider to court 
themselves or instruct solicitors on their behalf in order to get to the bottom of the contractual 
dispute. And, as Ive outlined above, its unclear whether that would be successful. 
Astrenska has not offered Mrs and Mr L any practical assistance or support with this beyond 
referring them to its own internal legal advice.
Taking all of the above into account I dont think it is reasonable in the circumstances of this 
case for Astrenska to decline the claim on the basis that the costs are recoverable from the 
accommodation provider. The fair and reasonable outcome is for Astrenska to pay the claim 
in line with the remaining policy terms, minus the policy excess, plus interest as Ive detailed 
below.
The holiday booking information shows that 11 people were sharing the accommodation. 
Mrs and Mr L have clarified to us that the total cost of the chalet was £8,750 and the cost 
was divided per person. Mrs and Mr L have claimed for four elevenths of the total cost, about 
£3,000, which is the proportion of costs claimable for Mrs and Mr L and their children.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs and Mr L accepted my provisional decision. Astrenska didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mrs and Mr L accepted, and Astrenska didnt respond to, my provisional decision Ive no 
reason to change my mind. For the reasons given in my provisional findings and these 
findings I uphold the complaint.
Putting things right
Astrenska must pay the claim in line with the remaining policy terms, minus the policy 
excess, plus interest as Ive detailed below.  
My final decisionI uphold the complaint.
I require Astrenska Insurance Limited to pay Mrs and Mr Ls claim in line with the remaining 
policy terms, minus the policy excess, plus interest* at 8% simple a year from the date of 
claim to the date of settlement.
*If Astrenska Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income tax from that interest it should tell Mrs and Mr L how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mrs and Mr L a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman