DRN-4366443
The complaint
Mr M complains Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim on his motor home 
insurance policy.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, I will focus on the reasons for my decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M had a motor home. He insured it with Aviva. As part of the disclosure process, Mr M 
said the vehicle would usually be kept on his drive at his home address (Property 1). The 
motor home was stolen from another property (Property 2). Aviva declined Mr Ms claim on 
the basis the motor home hadnt been stored at Property 1. 
The policy says, amongst other things:
If your motorhome is in storage, this policy section will continue to apply when
a) Your motorhome is stored at your private address; or
b) Your motorhome is stored on the private driveway of a close friend or relative, 
provided that it forms part of their property (subject to acceptance of postcode)
It goes on to say, under exclusions:
Loss or damage covered under section 1 if your moterhome is stored for a period in
excess of 48 hours anywhere other than the storage location disclosed to us in your
statement of fact.
The policy defines storage as:
Your motorhome will be considered to be stored or in storage when it is not in use for the 
purposes of travel or other day-to-day activity.
And storage location as:
The address recorded on your statement of fact of where your motorhome is kept when not 
in use.
Mr M has said he was going abroad. He had arranged for some works to be done at 
Property 1 while he was away, including to his driveway. Mr M decided to store his motor 
home at Property 2, which is about a mile away. This was to ensure it wasnt damaged by 
the works. Mr M has shown Property 2 was being rented to a friend, who was also going 
abroad with him. The motor home was stolen while they were away.
Mr M argues, broadly, that its unfair for Aviva not to accept his claim. He says the terms 
arent clear, that he stored the motor home nearby on the private driveway of a close friend 
and points out his policy terms list changes to inform Aviva of, and storage location isnt one 
of them. Hes also provided some evidence to show its cheaper to insure the motor home at 
Property 2 than Property 1.
The Investigator was persuaded by Mr Ms arguments. She was satisfied the motor home 
had been stored at the property of his close friend and the acceptance of the postcode 
seemed unlikely to have been a barrier. She recommended Aviva reassess the claim within 
the remaining terms of the policy. Avivas main counter argument was that Property 2 is a 
business address, which it wouldnt have accepted. The Investigator wasnt persuaded a 
rented property is a business address. 
While Im mindful of Mr Ms arguments around why he didnt tell Aviva he would be storing 
the motor home at Property 2, and I find his reasons for storing it there understandable, Im 
satisfied he ought reasonably to have known it was information Aviva would have wanted to 
know. He was, after all, storing the motor home at a property Aviva wasnt aware of, for an 
extended period. By not informing Aviva, it wasnt able to decide whether it would continue to 
offer cover on the same or different terms, or not all. I have therefore thought about what I 
think is most likely to have happened had Mr M informed Aviva of his plans. 
Aviva has said it wouldnt have offered cover at Property 2 because it was a business 
address. I dont find this argument compelling as I dont accept Property 2 is a business 
address. Its a residential house, in a residential area. Theres no suggestion it was being 
used for business by Mr Ms close friend. The risk, it seems to me, is no different to his friend 
renting the property from a stranger. Im also persuaded by Mr Ms evidence in the form of 
quotes which suggest the premium at Property 2 would have been lower than for Property 1, 
indicating had Aviva been able to decide what cover, if any, to provide, it wouldnt have been 
impacted by a perceived increase in risk. 
On balance, based on the information available to me, Aviva would more likely than not have 
- or ought reasonably to have - continued to cover Mr M on the same or similar terms if hed 
informed it of his plans. It follows I dont find Aviva treated Mr M fairly and reasonably when it 
declined his claim, and I require it to reassess the claim in line with the remaining policy 
terms. 
Mr M, Aviva and the Investigator agree there were some customer service failings on the 
part of Aviva. For completeness, I agree too. Being led to believe the claim would be settled 
in full, to then be told it would be declined in full, must have been very disappointing and 
frustrating for Mr M. Aviva apologised to Mr M and offered him £300 compensation. I find this 
was a fair and reasonable resolution to the customer service part of Mr Ms complaint. 
 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Aviva Insurance Limited to reassess Mr Ms claim in line 
with the remaining policy terms and pay him the £300 compensation it offered him (if it hasnt 
already done so).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman