DRN-3139964
The complaint
Ms S complaints that British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) the insurer of her home 
emergency insurance  hadnt carried out an annual service on her boiler for 28 months. 
What happened
Ms S has HomeCare Two  Boiler, controls and central heating cover including an annual 
service with British Gas. British Gas serviced Ms Ss boiler in respect of her 2017-2018 
policy year in August 2018. But hadnt serviced Ms Ss boiler since then which Ms S 
complained about in April 2020. And because of this and another matter, British Gas waived 
Ms Ss remaining premium for her 2019-2020 policy year of £129.10. 
Ms S booked her annual service for her 2019-2020 policy year during September 2020 and 
in October 2020, cancelled her cover. British Gas said it would still carry out the service 
shed booked which was due to take place on the 5 November 2020.
Ms S said shed received a confirmation text on 2 November 2020 that the engineer would 
attend on 5 November 2020 between 8am and 1pm.  She said British Gas then called her at 
around 9.55am saying it needed to cancel her appointment. Ms S said she asked the call 
handler to find out why and the call handler agreed to call Ms S back at midday. Ms S says 
she never received a call. Ms S then received two texts on 5 November 2020 from around 
12pm saying the engineer was on schedule and would contact her when Ms S was the next 
appointment. Ms S received another text at 12.30pm saying the engineer might be late. The 
engineer didnt arrive so Ms S called British Gas and complained. She told British Gas shed 
moved furniture in preparation for the service and had hurt her knee in doing so. British Gas 
rearranged the appointment for 3 December 2020. Ms S received a text the following day 
confirming that an engineer would attend on 3 December 2020 between 12pm and 6pm.
  
A few days later, Ms S says British Gas called her about her complaint. Ms S says British 
Gas told her it had no idea why the contractor never came or why shed received two text 
messages saying the engineer was on his way. British Gas agreed to pay Ms S £85 
compensation and to put a note on its system saying that her rescheduled appointment 
wasnt to be cancelled.
 
On 3 December 2020, when the re-arranged visit was due to the place, Ms S received a text 
at about 7.30am confirming that the engineer would visit between 12pm and 6pm. At about 
5pm, Ms S says she called British Gas because no-one had arrived and British Gas said the 
engineer had until 6pm to attend. At around 5.30pm, Ms S said she received two texts 
saying the engineer might be later than 6pm. But the engineer never arrived. 
 
The following day, Ms S contacted British Gas to complain about the second missed 
appointment. She said all correspondence should be emailed to her. She asked British Gas 
to add her new email address to its systems, which it said it couldnt do because she no 
longer had an active account.
 
British Gas said, a few days later, it spoke to Ms S about the missed appointment and that 
Ms S declined its offer to rebook her service.
Ms S brought her complaint to us. She was not only concerned that her boiler hadnt been 
serviced for 28 months, but also that shed now need to pay an engineer to carry out a 
service and fix any damage which she couldnt afford. She was concerned about the safety 
of her boiler and had no other way of getting hot water and heating into her home should the 
boiler fail. She said that British Gas poor service was causing her worry and stress. Ms S 
told us she wanted compensation from British Gas. Ms S also told us British Gas closed 
complaints made just after the cancelled November 2020 appointment before she felt it 
should have and before the rescheduled service had actually taken place.
British Gas told us that the terms and conditions of Ms Ss policy are that no cash will be 
offered to customers in lieu of annual services and that it felt it had fulfilled the terms of Ms 
Ss contract because it had covered her for home emergencies. British Gas said it had 
suffered a backlog because of Covid-19 which was exacerbated later due to the time of the 
year. But it said Ms Ss terms and conditions state that where there is high demand (i.e. 
during cold weather) British Gas may need to prioritise breakdowns and vulnerable 
customers. It also said annual services can be more than 12 months apart.
British Gas told us that the 3 December 2020 service had been assigned to a contractor, but 
that the contractor instead tried to carry out the service on 15 December 2020 but couldnt 
locate the property or make contact with Ms S. British Gas told us it wasnt sure why the 
agent attended on 15 December 2020 and not on the 3 December 2020. British Gas said it 
felt the £85 Ms S had been sent for her November 2020 appointment and the £129.10 
discount shed received on her cover totalling £214.10 could be used to offset the cost of Ms 
S arranging her own engineer. 
Ms S advised us that her boiler had been examined and no issues were found. But felt she 
should still be compensated for British Gas poor service and her time. 
Our investigator upheld Ms Ss complaint and said Ms S should be given a further £80 
compensation in addition to what British Gas had already paid her. But Ms S said she didnt 
feel this was enough given British Gas poor service. She said shed told British Gas 
numerous times that she wanted postal correspondence rather than operating her account 
online and that it takes 90 minutes to make an appointment with British Gas on the phone. 
She says she told British Gas she feels vulnerable and that she had constant worries about 
her boiler breaking down because it runs all of her heating and hot water. Ms S felt £350 
compensation would be more appropriate given British Gas poor service. Ms S also said 
shed made her own enquiries with the third parties British Gas used to arrange and carry 
out its services, which she thought showed British Gas was lying about why the 
appointments didnt take place. 
In May 2020, British Gas sent Ms S a cheque for £65, which Ms S contacted us about 
because she was unhappy it wasnt for the amount our investigator had set out in her view. 
British Gas told us that the cheque had been automatically issued because Ms S hadnt 
received her 2019-2020 service.
After Id considered all the available evidence to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint, I reached a different outcome to our investigator. Because 
the outcome was different, I issued a provisional decision giving both parties a further 
chance to comment on my findings ahead of issuing my final decision. My provisional decision
My provisional decision was that I was minded to uphold Ms Ss complaint by requiring 
British Gas to pay Ms S a further £120 in addition to the £65 and £85 it had already offered 
her. 
I explained my provisional findings to both parties as follows:
 
Ms S has raised additional points with this service about the pricing of her cover. I 
understand that these are being considered separately to her complaint points about her 
boiler services.
  
Ms S has also said now she believes she was being ripped off when she took out the initial 
cover in October 2014. I cant see that this matter has been raised with British Gas. If Ms S 
wants us to pursue this matter further, shell need to raise it with British Gas first. 
Ms S says British Gas hadnt serviced her boiler for 28 months and I can see that the last 
time British Gas serviced her boiler was in August 2018, which was the service due to her 
under the terms of the cover for her 2017-2018 policy year.
I can see as well that British Gas didnt carry out a service for her 2018-2019 policy year. But 
that that in April 2020, British Gas reduced Ms Ss annual premium for the following policy 
year by £129.40 in recognition that shed not had her boiler serviced since 2018 and 
because it failed to apply a discount it had agreed to make to her annual premium of 
£309.89 a few weeks earlier. Ms S accepted this compensation, so I cant say British Gas 
have acted unfairly by not also carrying out a service for her 2018-2019 policy year in 
addition to the compensation.
  
In her view, our investigator considered whether Ms S received the reminders to book her 
services. If Ms S hadnt received the reminders for her 2018-2019 service, the effect would 
perhaps have been that she may not have booked it. But British Gas has already awarded 
her compensation for her missed 2018-2019 service. And Ms S did manage to book her 
2019-2020 service.
  
Ive considered whether British Gas treated Ms S fairly and reasonably in relation to the 
service due to her under the terms of her policy wording for her 2019-2020 policy year. 
Ms S says either British Gas or the third parties it uses to carry out its services isnt being 
honest about why her two visits never happened. And I can see this is something Ms S feels 
very strongly about. Its not my role to assess the adequacy of a businesss internal 
procedures and decide whether or not it operates them as it should. This is the role of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. But what I can decide is whether it was fair and reasonable for 
British Gas to have cancelled Ms Ss November 2020 appointment and fail to attend her 
December 2020 appointment. And whether it was then reasonable for Ms S to refuse British 
Gas offer of a third appointment, so she didnt receive the service she was entitled to under 
the terms of her 2019-2020 policy wording.
 
Ms Ss policy terms for the 2019-2020 policy year say that:
In periods of local or national high demand for our services (such as cold weather), we 
prioritise breakdowns and may need to rearrange your annual service and that Well carry 
out any visits youre entitled to within a reasonable time, unless something beyond our 
control makes that impossible, in which case well let you know as soon as possible and give 
you another time when we can visit.
Its not unreasonable for British Gas to need to cancel services at short notice because of 
emergencies. And I cant see that there werent any particular issues with Ms Ss boiler on the day of the service which wouldve meant her visit shouldve been prioritised as an 
emergency. So I dont think British Gas acted unfairly by cancelling her appointment on 5 
November 2020.
But British Gas sent Ms S text messages on 5 November 2020 after it had called to cancel 
her appointment saying that the engineer would be arriving. Its reasonable that Ms S would 
have found this confusing. So I think its fair and reasonable that Ms S is compensated for 
the distress and inconvenience its poor service here caused her. 
British Gas said that backlogs caused by Covid-19 and cold weather impacted on its ability 
to carry out Ms Ss rescheduled service on 3 December 2020. But the terms of Ms Ss policy 
say that British Gas will let her know if it needs to cancel a visit. British Gas didnt let Ms S 
know and in fact led her to believe throughout the day and into the evening of 3 December 
2020 that the visit would take place. So I think Ms S should be awarded compensation for 
the trouble and upset this caused her, especially given that - by this time  British Gas knew 
she had an injured knee and would need to move furniture to accommodate the visit and itd 
provided Ms S with assurances that the 3 December 2020 appointment wouldnt be 
cancelled.
  
British Gas terms and conditions state that if it cant attend a visit it will arrange another time 
when it can visit. I can see British Gas tried to arrange a third appointment with Ms S. But  
given her knee and that two earlier appointments hadnt gone ahead I cant say Ms S was 
being unreasonable in declining it and finding another company to carry out her annual 
service. And because I think its not unreasonable for Ms S to have declined BGs offer of a 
third appointment, I think its reasonable British Gas compensate her for not receiving her 
annual service for her 2019-2020 policy year. 
British Gas said it arranged another appointment for 15 December 2020. But this was after 
Ms S had declined British Gas offer to reschedule the 3 December 2020 appointment. Ms S 
says she didnt accept the appointment. So I dont think this appointment is material to Ms 
Ss distress and inconvenience here because she wouldnt have waited in for it. 
Ms S also told us that British Gas held an incorrect email address and had told us BG 
wanted her to go paperless but that she didnt want to operate her account online. But I can 
see from Ms Ss diary log that she received a number of letters from British Gas  including 
a letter saying that it had experienced trouble contacting her by email and her renewal 
documents for her 2019-2020 policy year. Also, a business is free to decide whether it wants 
to operate through online channels and Ive not seen any evidence to suggest that Ms S 
suffered vulnerabilities that would make her unable to operate her account with British Gas 
online. So I cant say on balance that British Gas have acted unreasonably here.
  
I intend to uphold Ms Ss complaint. But I am minded to award her more compensation than 
the amount set out in our investigators view.
Ms S accepted a reduction in her 2019-2020 annual premium as compensation for British 
Gas not carrying out her 2018-2019 service. So it wouldnt be fair for me to award Ms S 
further compensation for her 2018-2019 service.
 
British Gas says it already sent Ms S a cheque for £65 in May of this year because it didnt 
carry out her 2019-2020 service, which I think is fair because - as Ive already said above  I 
think it was reasonable for Ms S to find another company to carry out her 2019-2020 service.
But I dont think the additional £85 British Gas has already paid Ms S is enough to 
compensate her for the distress and inconvenience its poor service in relation to her 2019-
2020 service caused her.British Gas told us that it wrote to Ms S in August and September 2020 to remind her to book 
her 2019-2020 service appointment. So I dont think it was unreasonable that Ms S didnt 
book her appointment until after the second reminder and towards the end of her 2019-2020 
policy year  - especially when British Gas said services couldnt have been carried out for 
some of 2020 because of Covid-19. And because British Gas booked the appointment, its 
not unreasonable for her to have expected to receive her 2019-2020 service.
British Gas said that Covid-19 caused backlogs which affected it being able to attend Ms Ss 
service visits. But I dont think it communicated with Ms S as well as it could have on the 
days of her appointments. British Gas sent Ms S conflicting and confusing communications 
on the day of her November 2020 appointment causing her to wait in for an engineer when 
she didnt need to. And it failed to tell Ms S on the day of her December 2020 appointment 
that the engineer wouldnt be attending after shed waited in all day and instead led her to 
believe the appointment would still go ahead. So I think Ms S should receive more than the 
£85 compensation British Gas says it has already paid her.
So I am minded to award Ms S a further £120 in addition to the £65 and £85 amounts British 
Gas says it has already paid Ms S. So her total compensation would be £270. I appreciate 
this isnt as much compensation as Ms S was seeking, but I think is fair and reasonable 
given the missed 2019-2020 service, poor communication and the other incidences of poor 
service Ms S felt shed received.
Responses to my provisional decision
British Gas has accepted my provisional decision.
Ms S hadnt provided a response by the date Id requested one in my provisional decision. 
So I asked our investigator to contact Ms S to ask her to confirm whether or not she wanted 
to provide a response. Ms S confirmed that she would. 
In her response, Ms S said she said she didnt think Id considered all of the information 
shed sent this service. In particular, she mentioned her reply to an email wed sent to her on 
19 October 2021. 
Ms S also included a letter with her response, which her covering email said set out all of her 
concerns. But the letter appeared unfinished. So our investigator asked Ms S on 17 
November 2021 to provide the letter in full by 23 November 2021. But weve not received it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also considered the responses of both parties to my provisional decision.
 
British Gas have accepted the findings of my provisional decision with no further comment, 
information or arguments.
Ms S didnt think Id considered all of the information shed sent this service. As Ive said 
above, Ive considered all the available evidence weve received from Ms S held on file. And 
Ms Ss response doesnt specify which information she feels I havent considered. Ms Ss response mentioned her reply to an email we sent her on 19 October 2021. But I 
cant see that this service emailed her on 19 October 2021. Or that we received any emails 
from Ms S during October 2021.
  
Weve not received a copy of Ms Ss letter in its entirety, despite giving Ms S a reasonable 
timeframe within which to provide it.  Its been almost a month from the date by which Id 
asked for responses to my provisional decision. So I think its reasonable now for me to give 
both parties my final decision based on the information Ms S has provided so far.
The information Ms S has provided in her response hasnt persuaded me to depart from my 
provisional findings. So I shall be upholding Ms Ss complaint in line with my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
 I uphold Ms Ss complaint. 
I instruct British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Ms S a total of £270 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience it has caused her. British Gas Insurance Limited is free to deduct 
the £85 and £65 compensation payments it has already offered Ms S from this amount if 
these payments have already been paid into Ms Ss bank account.
 
British Gas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Ms S accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Ruth Peek
Ombudsman