DRN-3655793
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the excess mileage charge he had to pay when his hire agreement 
with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) ended.
What happened
In March 2018, Mr M took out a hire agreement with VWFS for a new car. The agreement 
was due to last three years and included an annual limit of 10,000 miles after which extra 
charges would become payable. After around two years, Mr M had done quite a few miles 
less than this. So, he got in touch with VWFS to ask for a quote to reduce his allowable 
annual mileage for the last year of his agreement which, in turn, would lower his remaining 
monthly payments.
Mr M told us he wanted to reduce the mileage allowance from 10,000 to 5,000 for the final 
year of his agreement. But the revised agreement VWFS sent to him reduced his allowance 
by 5,000 for each year of his agreement instead of just the last one. This reduced the 
monthly payment by about £25 per month. It seems Mr M didnt realise VWFS had 
misunderstood what he wanted, and he duly signed the modifying agreement. 
Then, in early 2021, Mr M decided to end his agreement a couple of months early. VWFS 
then told him there was an excess mileage charge to pay of just over £450 as Mr M had 
gone over the revised, lower limit. He reluctantly paid this and complained. Briefly, VWFS 
said hed signed the modifying agreement, he was bound by the new terms, and the excess 
mileage charge had been applied correctly. 
Mr M wasnt happy with this, so he brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into this case. In brief, she said Mr M had asked for the mileage 
reduction in good faith and VWFS should have done more to reflect this. She suggested 
redress based on Mr M getting a refund of the excess mileage charge but making a 
deduction to reflect that the payments hed been making over the last part of the agreement 
were less than they otherwise would have been. 
VWFS accepted our investigators view. But Mr M didnt. Again, in brief, he said he should 
never have been charged the excess fee, and he also questioned the accuracy of the fee. 
As the matter remains unresolved, its been passed to me for a decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on 9 August 2022. In it I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I think this complaint should be upheld. But my suggested redress is slightly 
different to that of our investigator. Ill explain why. But first, Im very aware Ive summarised 
this complaint very briefly, in less detail than has been provided, and largely in my own 
words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think is the heart 
of the matter here: was it fair and reasonable for VWFS to ask Mr M to pay an excess 
mileage charge? 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, I havent ignored it. Ive not commented on every 
individual detail. Ive focussed on the details that are central to me reaching what I think is 
the right outcome. This reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts. 
Ive looked at the email trail between Mr M and VWFS from April/May 2020. I can see what 
he wanted to do was reduce his total mileage allowance by 5,000 miles for the last year of 
his agreement - that is, from the originally agreed 30,000 to 25,000. Instead, VWFS reduced 
his allowance by 5,000 miles for each of the three years, rather than just the last one  so, 
from 30,000 to 15,000. 
I accept Mr M did sign the modifying agreement. But Im satisfied this was a genuine 
oversight on his part. I think it was fair and reasonable for him to assume VWFS has 
understood what he wanted from the emails, especially the one he sent on 4 May 2020. This 
makes it clear he was looking to reduce his total allowable mileage under the agreement to 
25,000, not 15,000. Indeed, when he made the request, hed already driven nearly 16,000 
miles and he told VWFS this at the time. 
Taking all this into account, Im satisfied VWFS should have done more to understand 
Mr Ms request and he then wouldnt have gone over the milage limit. So, Im also satisfied 
its not fair and reasonable to expect him to pay the excess mileage charge. This means I 
need to decide what VWFS should do to put things right.
Our usual approach would be to put Mr M back in the position he would have been in, as far 
as possible, if VWFS hadnt misunderstood what he wanted. I can see Mr M wanted to 
reduce his mileage allowance for the last part of his agreement to lower his remaining 
monthly payments. 
Based on the wrong allowance of 15,000 miles in total, VWFS reduce the payment by 
£25.08 to £216.11. Mr M made seven payment for this amount before ending his agreement 
early. But if VWFS, had correctly reduced his allowance to a total of 25,000, his remaining 
payments would have been slightly higher than this. 
Its unfortunate that when we asked VWFS, it said it wasnt possible to tell us what the new 
payment would have been if Mr Ms agreement had been correctly modified to a total 
allowance of 25,000 miles. So, Ive used what I think is a fair and reasonable estimate. 
The original monthly payment was £241.19. This was then reduced by £25.08 due to the 
15,000-mile allowance reduction. But Mr M only wanted to reduce his allowance by 5,000. It 
seems that VWFS wouldnt have been able to do this as the total mileage allowance would 
need to be divisible by three to reflect the term of the agreement. 
But I can see it could have reduced it by 6,000 to a total of 24,000  40% of what it did 
actually reduce by. So, I think its fair to estimate his new monthly payment would only have 
reduced by around 40% of £25.08, that is £10.03. I appreciate its unlikely this would have 
been a linear calculation, but Im satisfied its a fair and reasonable estimate in the 
circumstances here. 
This means Mr M would have been paying £231.16 a month for the seven payments he 
made up to when the agreement ended. Thats £15.05 more than he actually paid. So, to put 
things right, I think VWFS needs to give Mr M a refund of the £454.32 excess mileage 
charge he paid, but it should deduct £105.35 (7 x £15.05) from this. This leaves £348.97. VWFS should add 8% annual simple interest to this amount, calculated 
from the date he paid the excess mileage charge to the date of settlement. If VWFS thinks 
its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from the interest amount, it 
should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction certificate if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate. 
For completeness, Ill now turn to Mr Ms query over the actual calculation of the excess 
mileage charge. I can see that Mr M has based his calculation on excess mileage of 4,699 at 
6.98 pence per mile. His figure of 4,699 is based on a 15,000-mile limit. But as Mr M ended 
his agreement early, the 15,000 limit is reduced on a proportional basis to reflect this. So, 
the excess milage was actually more than his calculations. Also, the 6.98 pence per mile 
charge was subject to VAT as set out in the hire agreement. 
Taking the above into account, Im satisfied VWFS calculations are in-line with what I would 
expect. But, given that Im asking VWFS to refund the excess mileage charge, this is now a 
somewhat moot point.
I gave both parties time to reply to my provisional decision. Mr M said he was minded to 
accept my decision. But he did ask me to consider some additional points. Briefly, Mr M said 
it was clear to him that VWFSs conduct, systems and controls didnt meet the required 
regulatory standard. He also said the 8% interest only provides a very limited amount of 
compensation for the financial loss, distress and inconvenience hes experienced in dealing 
with this matter. He asked that I consider if additional compensation is fair and reasonable 
here. 
VWFS replied saying it had no further evidence or information to send.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has commented on VWFSs conduct, systems and controls. The systems and controls 
VWFS has in place are internal matters for it to decide. I have no remit to direct VWFS to 
change any of these. Thats a matter for the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority.
 
But what I can look at is if those systems and controls, along with VWFSs conduct, have 
meant Mr M has been treated unfairly and unreasonably. Here, as set out above, Im 
satisfied he was treated unfairly and reasonably. Thats why Ive upheld this complaint.
 
I would also confirm that both here and in my provisional decision, Ive considered at length 
if additional compensation should be paid. Ive decided it shouldnt. I fully appreciate the time 
its taken to resolve things. Ive also taken into account that using financial services isnt 
always problem free and, to a certain extent, dealing with such problems is a necessary part 
of everyday life. Also, in very general terms, complaint handling as a stand-alone activity 
isnt a regulated activity and doesnt fall within the remit of this service  its not something 
we would usually award compensation for
. 
Im satisfied Mr M experienced a financial loss. My decision compensates him for that loss. 
Theres nothing in the available evidence to indicate he suffered any financial difficulties due 
to this loss. My award of 8% annual simple interest does take into account the time that has 
passed.
 In summary, having considered afresh all the available evidence and arguments, including 
the responses to my provisional decision, I see no reason to change the outcome I reached 
in that provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited should pay Mr M £348.97 
together with 8% annual simple interest on this amount, calculated from the date he paid the 
excess mileage charge to the date of settlement. 
If VWFS thinks its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from the 
interest amount, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate. 
This final decision marks the end of the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this
complaint. This means we are unable to consider the merits of it any further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022. 
John Miles
Ombudsman