DRN-4036246
The complaint
Miss T complains through a representative that Evergreen Finance London Limited trading 
as MoneyBoat.co.uk (MoneyBoat) gave her loans she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Miss T was advanced two loans by MoneyBoat, and a summary of her borrowing follows in 
the table below. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
instalmentsinstalment 
amount
1 £250.00 04/04/2019 19/06/2019 3 £117.79
2 £1,500.00 22/07/2019 18/11/2020 6 £490.44
In response to Miss Ts representatives complaint, MoneyBoat wrote to it explaining why it 
wasnt going to uphold her complaint. The representative didnt agree, and instead referred 
the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
The complaint was reviewed by an adjudicator, and he didnt uphold Miss Ts complaint 
about loan 1. But he thought loan 2 shouldnt have been granted because the repayment of 
this loan  along with the other payday loans Miss T had outstanding - represented a 
significant portion of her declared income. And so, the loan ought to not have been granted. 
Miss Ts representative acknowledged the assessment and didnt have anything further to 
add.  
MoneyBoat didnt agree because the adjudicator considered the loan to be affordable and it 
said Miss T lived at home with parents which would naturally lead to more disposable 
income. 
As no agreement was reached, the case has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat had to assess the lending to check if Miss T could afford to pay back the 
amounts shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. MoneyBoats checks couldve taken into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Miss Ts income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MoneyBoat should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss T. These factors include:
Miss T having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss T having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss T coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss T. The adjudicator didnt think this 
applied to Miss Ts complaint. 
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Miss T could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss T was able to 
repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Ts complaint.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint about loan 1 and neither Miss T, nor her 
representative nor MoneyBoat appear to disagree with this outcome. To me, it seems that 
this loan is no longer in dispute, so I say no more about it. Instead, this decision will focus on 
whether MoneyBoat was right or wrong to have advanced loan 2. 
Loan 2
For this loan, Miss T declared she had a monthly income of £2,700. MoneyBoat says this 
figure was checked with a credit reference agency for its accuracy, but it hasnt provided the 
results of this check. It also says it confirmed her employment details with her employer.  
Miss T declared her expenditure to be £120 per month  this only covered her food. She 
declared no other living costs. However, as part of the affordability check MoneyBoat said it 
did the following.
On your loan applications we increased the monthly expenditure that you input, on 
the basis that your credit report highlighted different expenditure than you had 
disclosed, and/or to bring you in line with the average expenditure listed on the 
Common Financial Statement.
As a result of these additional checks, MoneyBoat increased Miss Ts monthly expenditure 
by £680, giving her total monthly outgoings of £800. This left £1,900 per month of disposable income to meet the repayments Miss T was committed to making. Based solely on the 
income and expenditure information the loan looked affordable.  
MoneyBoat says Miss T declared she lived at home with parents and that would explain why 
she firstly wouldve had minimum living costs and secondly, why this could lead her to 
having such a large disposable income. But I would add, that for loan 2, she only declared 
£120 which I really dont think was believable or could have been relied upon as being 
anyway accurate. 
In addition, and only because it doesnt change the outcome I am reaching, MoneyBoat 
knew of a couple of declined loan applications between loans 1 and 2. And for two of these 
applications Miss T had declared she was a private tenant. Which is further evidence for 
MoneyBoat to have questioned what Miss T was telling it. 
MoneyBoat increased her living costs by £680 - but Miss T had declared £0 for credit 
commitments when her credit file results showed outstanding credit. I do think, this alone 
either needed to have prompted MoneyBoat to have carried out further checks to see 
whether Miss T did in fact have other living costs or whether there was something else that 
needed to be considered. I only say this as an aside because it doesnt affect the outcome I 
am intending to reach. But is something that MoneyBoat ought to have considered before it 
approved the loan. 
MoneyBoat says a credit check was carried out before this loan was granted, and a copy of 
the results have been provided to us. It is entirely reasonable to consider these results to 
see what MoneyBoat knew about Miss Ts other credit commitments (and credit history) at 
the time it advanced this loan. 
MoneyBoat, just from the initial summary page knew Miss Ts had debts of just over £11,000 
spread across 13 active credit accounts. Miss T was also using 106% of her revolving credit 
/ budget accounts  which suggests that she was over her agreed limit on one or more of 
those accounts. This is a significant increase since her first loan, where Miss T was only 
using 6% of her available credit. Which to me, indicates a worsening financial position, even 
though this loan was only taken out three months later. 
In addition, she had now taken 13 new credit facilities within the last six months. Which is 
again a significant increase on the 9 new credit facilities she opened in the six months before 
loan 1. 
Based solely on the initial summary page, I think its fair to say MoneyBoat ought to have 
been on notice that Miss Ts finances were potentially deteriorating. I say this because she 
was demonstrating she was above her limits on one or more account(s), and she was also 
averaging taking more than two new credit facility per month which in my view isnt 
sustainable and is in my view an indication of financial difficulties. 
The adjudicator upheld this loan because in his view, with this loan repayment, Miss T would 
have to pay a significant portion of her income towards her outstanding payday 
commitments.  
Having looked at everything, I agree with him. Miss T owed other payday and home credit 
providers (when this loan was included) nearly £900 per month in commitments, which is 
over 30% of her declared income. On top of those commitments to the payday providers, 
Miss T also needed to service three credit cards and at least two telecommunication 
contracts. So, her existing credit commitments were greater still. In this situation, I do think this loan was unsustainable, especially in light of the other factors 
that I mention below which support that the payment for this loan wouldnt be suitable 
because she was clearly having problems managing her existing credit commitments. 
The reason above, is enough on its one to uphold this loan. However, MoneyBoat was given 
further information which reinforces why this loan was unsustainable for Miss T and Ive 
gone on to explain why below. 
Miss T had several current / building societies accounts and on one of them she had 
exceeded her overdraft limit and her bank was reporting a 6 for the payment status. At a 
payment status at 6  it had reached the point, where if the bank may have defaulted the 
account. I accept MoneyBoat wasnt responsible for this process, but it does indicate that 
Miss Ts financial position wasnt great and hadnt been for some time. 
MoneyBoat was also on notice that Miss T had three credit card accounts, all of them above 
the agreed credit limit and with one account having been over its credit limit for at least six 
months and was showing a 2 for the payment status. This indicated Miss T hadnt made 
any payments at all within the last two months. To me this is a sign of someone struggling to 
keep on top of their existing credit commitments. 
Finally in the six weeks before this loan was approved, Miss T had repaid seven loan 
accounts, when considering the amounts borrowed and the term it is likely these were 
payday loans  indeed one of these she had adverse payment markers recorded against her 
for April 2019. So, Miss T had demonstrated that she was taking out multiple credit 
commitments each month, repaying them and then returning for further funds. Clearly, this 
isnt sustainable in the long term. 
Overall, taking account of what the credit check results showed, MoneyBoat ought to have 
concluded that firstly, the loan wasnt sustainable for Miss T given her existing credit 
commitments to what was likely a combination of high-cost credit and payday loans. And 
secondly, there was enough other evidence within the checks to indicate that Miss T was 
likely having financial difficulties given the number of missed payments and the fact she had 
several accounts over their prescribed credit limits.
I am therefore upholding Miss Ts complaint about loan 2.  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it not lent loan 2 to Miss T, as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Miss T may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, she may 
have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Miss T in a compliant way at this time.Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Miss T would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce MoneyBoats liability in this case for what 
Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
MoneyBoat shouldnt have given Miss T loan 2. 
A. MoneyBoat should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss T towards 
interest, fees and charges on loan 2 including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything MoneyBoat has already refunded. 
B. MoneyBoat should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Miss T which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss T 
originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled. 
C. MoneyBoat should pay Miss T the total of A plus B. 
D. MoneyBoat should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ts credit file in 
relation to loan 2. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to deduct tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
should give Miss T a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted, if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Miss Ts complaint in part.
Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk should put things right for 
Miss T as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman