DRN-4440993
The complaint
Miss B complains that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans (EDL) 
irresponsibly agreed a loan for her.
What happened
EDL agreed a loan of £2,500 for Miss B in April 2021. The total amount owed was £4,393 to 
be repaid at £183 a month over 24 months (figures rounded).  
Miss B complained to EDL that the loan was unaffordable and it had been irresponsible to 
have agreed it. EDL didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint. It said that it carried out a reasonable 
and proportionate affordability check before lending to Miss B and found that the loan would 
be sustainable over the term as she had sufficient disposable income to meet the 
repayments. I understand that Miss B met her repayments at least up until February of this 
year when EDL provided her with its final response to her complaint. 
Miss B referred her complaint to us. She shared that her personal circumstances at the time 
were very difficult as a close family member had serious health concerns. She also told us 
that since taking out the loan shes had to rely on short term lending several times. Miss B 
said shes worked with a debt charity who helped her set up repayment plans with her 
creditors but EDL didnt agree to put one in place. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. They concluded that EDL had carried out 
a proportionate check before lending to Miss B which didnt raise any concerns. They found 
EDL hadnt been irresponsible to lend to Miss B on the basis of the information it gathered 
and so didnt recommend that her complaint be upheld.  
Miss B didnt agree with this recommendation and asked for the complaint to come to an 
ombudsman to review and resolve. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also had regard to the regulators rules and guidance on responsible lending (set out in 
its consumer credit handbook  CONC) which lenders, such as EDL, need to abide by. EDL 
will be aware of these, and our approach to this type of lending is set out on our website, so I 
wont refer to the regulations in detail here but will summarise them. 
Before entering into a credit agreement, EDL needed to check that Miss B could afford to 
meet her repayments out of her usual means for the term of the loan, without having to 
borrow further and without experiencing financial difficulty or other adverse consequences. 
The checks needed to be proportionate to the nature of the credit (the amount borrowed, for 
example) and take into consideration Miss Bs circumstances. EDL needed to pay proper 
regard to the outcome of its checks in respect of affordability risk. 
Ultimately, EDL needed to treat Miss B fairly and take full account of her interests when 
making its lending decision. It would not be lending fairly if it targeted customers with 
regulated credit agreements which are unsuitable for them, by virtue of their indebtedness, 
poor credit history, age, health, disability or any other reason. 
The questions Ive considered are whether or not EDL carried out a proportionate 
affordability check before lending to Miss B? If not, what would a proportionate check have 
shown? Did the checks EDL carried out show anything of concern and ultimately, did EDL 
treat Miss B fairly and with due regard to her interests when it offered her the loan? 
Ill begin by saying that I am sorry to hear about the very difficult circumstances Miss B and 
her family were in around the time she took out her EDL loan. I appreciate that this will be 
disappointing for Miss B but I am not upholding her complaint. Im sorry I cant provide the 
outcome she wanted and I hope my explanation clearly sets out how Ive reached my 
decision.
EDL said that it relied on information from Miss B which included her payslips, two months 
bank statements and information from her credit file. Miss B said she had a net monthly 
income of around £3,117 including child benefit and maintenance payments and her rent 
was £400. EDL estimated Miss Bs monthly expenses using national statistical datasets. It 
estimated that altogether Miss B spent around £2,261 a month leaving her with a disposable 
income of £673 after taking into account the loan repayments of £183. EDL concluded that 
the loan repayments would be affordable for Miss B and sustainable over the term.
It seems to me that EDL gathered sufficient information to carry out a reasonable 
assessment. Miss B provided her bank statements from the account her wages were paid 
into and statements for her top-up debit card account. She also provided a recent copy of 
her credit file. Ive reviewed everything to understand what EDL knew about Miss Bs 
finances from its checks and to consider whether it made a fair lending decision. 
The statements confirm Miss Bs income and rent payments. Ive estimated a slightly higher 
figure for Miss Bs regular expenses but, as I dont have the breakdown of EDLs expense 
figure, I cant say how our estimates differ. In either case however, it does seem that Miss B 
would have enough money left over each month to meet the loan repayments and Ive found 
that the loan was affordable on a pounds and pence basis at least.
I can see from the bank statements that Miss B was repaying a hire purchase agreement, 
loans from high street banks, credit cards and mail order accounts and buy now pay later 
agreements. Altogether, she was spending about £1,000 on debt a month, almost a third of 
her income. This was a sizeable amount and I think might have raised concerns for EDL had 
Miss B been struggling to meet her repayments. 
Ive looked at Miss Bs credit file to understand what debts she had at the time and how she 
was managing these. Her credit report doesnt list all of these debts and most of the debts it 
does list were shown as being repaid on time at the time of taking out this loan. I think its 
likely EDL would have seen that Miss B had an arrangement to pay on two mail order 
accounts. However, given that everything else seemed to be in order, I cant say that these 
alone would or should have been enough for EDL to have declined to lend to Miss B at that 
time. 
The credit report shows that Miss B defaulted on two accounts later in 2021 and another in 
2022, and that she borrowed from short term lenders in 2022. I can see that Miss B 
struggled with her debts and, as mentioned, she worked with a debt charity to help manage 
her repayments with her creditors. I understand that Miss B met her repayments for this loan on time up to February of this year and so has at most a few months left to pay if she didnt 
keep up her repayments. 
Id remind EDL of its obligation to treat Miss B with forbearance and due consideration if her 
account is in arrears, which may mean putting in place an affordable repayment plan for the 
balance. I havent found that EDL was irresponsible to enter into the agreement and so I am 
not directing it to take any further steps in this matter. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I am not upholding Miss Bs complaint against 
Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans and dont require it to pay any 
compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman