DRN-3566560
The complaint
Mr A says Brightside (his broker) and its agent provided poor service that caused him 
financial loss when he called for assistance on his motor breakdown policy. 
What happened
Mr As car broke down late on a Saturday night in August 2021. He called a number for 
Brightside and wasnt aware that the call was answered by its agent (firm S). An advisor 
confirmed he had valid breakdown cover and put him through to firm C. Firm C told Mr A he 
didnt have cover. Mr A disputed that, but he was told if he wanted help, hed have to pay 
firm C £183. Mr A felt he had no option, given that he was stranded with the car. 
Mr A called Brightside two days later about a refund, as advised by firm C. Brightsides 
advisor told him his breakdown cover was with firm R, not firm C. Mr A said if so, then firm 
S had made an error in referring him to firm C. He said that as firm S was acting as 
Brightsides agent in dealing with its calls, Brightside was responsible for that error. 
Brightside said the policy documents it had sent to Mr A made it clear his breakdown cover 
was with firm R, so he should have called firm R for assistance. It said firm S only dealt with 
claims that could be made on the motor insurance policy hed bought through Brightside 
(such as collisions) not claims on the breakdown policy. It said it had referred the matter to 
firm S for investigation. It also said it would ask firm R whether it would refund the sum Mr A 
had paid to firm C. But firm S didnt resolve the issue, so Mr A was left out of pocket.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr As complaint. The investigator noted that Brightside 
thought Mr A was at fault, partly it seems because in its view he should have called firm R, 
not Brightside, and partly because when he called Brightsides number, he chose the wrong 
option (claims). The investigator thought Mr A should have called firm R and said that had 
the policy documents been available to him at the time, he would no doubt have done so. 
The investigator also noted that when Mr A called Brightsides number, firm Ss advisor 
could see he had breakdown cover, but put him through to the wrong breakdown firm. In the 
investigators opinion, firm S was acting as Brightsides agent, so Brightside was responsible 
for its actions. The investigator said Brightside should refund Mr A half the charge made by 
firm C and pay him £75 for distress and inconvenience.
 
Brightside said firm S had made the error, which firm S had investigated before issuing a 
final response letter to Mr A. It asked for a review of the complaint by an ombudsman. I 
issued a provisional decision, also upholding Mr As complaint, but changing the remedies 
slightly, as follows:
I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr A to call Brightside when his car broke down. Many 
consumers wouldnt be able to recall which breakdown service they were with. But  
Brightside had arranged Mr As motor, legal and breakdown policies, so he knew it would 
have a record of them. I think it was fair enough for Mr A to have a reasonable expectation of 
Brightside being able to connect him to his breakdown service, or at least supply its number.
 
In my opinion, an average consumer, given the option of claims by a brokers answering 
service, would think that option appropriate when asking for help on a breakdown policy. I 
think most consumers would think they were making a claim on that policy. I note that 
Brightside hasnt told us what option it thinks would have been more suitable, but it seems 
Mr A didnt have the option to choose breakdown cover. So I dont think he was at fault.
 
In my opinion, theres no doubt that firm S made the error that led directly to Mr A having to 
pay again for breakdown cover when hed already bought a breakdown policy. So the 
question is whether firm S was acting as Brightsides agent at the time.
 
Brightside says it wasnt, as firm S only deals with the sort of queries arising from claims on 
the motor insurance policy. But whatever its remit was supposed to be, it seems firm Ss 
access to Brightsides records wasnt limited to the motor insurance policy. Otherwise, I cant 
see how its advisor was able to confirm to Mr A that he had breakdown cover and refer him 
on for assistance (albeit to the wrong firm). It seems the advisor wasnt aware that she 
shouldnt have dealt with Mr As request - and that Brightside hadnt put in place a system or 
guidance to prevent her from doing so. 
Mr A hasnt received a response from firm S following its investigation of the matter (despite 
it having told Brightside a letter was issued) so we dont know what its findings were. But 
from the limited information available to me, Im minded to conclude that firm S was acting 
as Brightsides agent in dealing with Mr As call, whether it was supposed to do that or not. 
Mr A has told us about the significant financial impact on him and his family of having to pay 
£183 unexpectedly in order to get his car home. I think he was very distressed and worried, 
as well as inconvenienced, by the consequences of what happened. Im minded to conclude 
that it would be fair and reasonable for Brightside to refund to him the full amount charged by 
firm C, plus interest. I also think it should pay him £100 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.  
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings. Mr A accepted them, and 
Brightside didnt comment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As there were no objections to my provisional findings, there are no other points to consider, 
so - for the reasons stated above - I think it would be fair and reasonable for Brightside to 
reimburse Mr A £183, with interest, plus £100 compensation .
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Brightside Insurance Services 
Limited to do the following:
Reimburse Mr A for the £183 he was charged by firm C
Add interest to that sum, at the simple yearly rate of 8%, from the date Mr A paid it to 
the date of settlement
Pay Mr A £100 compensation for distress and inconvenienceIf Brightside thinks its required by HM Revenue and Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest, it should tell Mr A how much it has taken off. It should also provide a tax 
deduction certificate if required, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman