DRN-3555835
The complaint
I complains about THINK BUSINESS FINANCE LTD (TBF) and their failure to refund them 
the admin fee they paid when they asked them to arrange a business loan which was 
withdrawn by the lender.
For ease of reference, I will refer to I as ILE to prevent any confusion throughout the 
decision.
What happened
In November 2021, ILE approached TBF and instructed them to arrange a business loan on 
its behalf. TBF sourced offers from suitable lenders and put these forwards to ILE, who 
selected a loan that included an admin fee of £3,750 that was payable to ILE for their role as 
the loan broker.
ILE paid this admin fee, and the loan process moved towards the final stage with ID checks 
to be completed before the loan could be drawn down. To confirm this, the lender spoke to 
ILE directly. And when they did so, they discovered the loan had been applied for by the 
director of ILEs son, acting as the director of ILE himself. Because of this, the lender 
withdraw the loan offer.
TBF offered to source another loan for ILE. But this offer was turned down and instead, ILE 
requested that the admin fee they paid to ILE to be refunded. But TBF refused to do so. ILE 
was unhappy about this, so it raised a complaint.
ILE didnt think TBF were fair to keep the admin fee as payment for a loan that was never 
received. ILE explained it was in financial difficulty and that is why a loan was needed. So, 
by TBF refusing to refund the admin fee, it explained it was left in an even more difficult 
financial position that when it began which it didnt think was fair.
TBF responded and didnt agree. They explained they werent made aware by ILE that the 
application was being made by a directors son, rather than the director himself. So, they 
thought they had progressed the application fairly. And they thought they had completed all 
of the work necessary to obtain the loan and that the loan offer was withdrew after this due 
to lender not being able to verify the applicant representing ILE, which they were unable to 
control. So, on this basis, they didnt think they had any duty to refund the admin fee they 
had received. ILE remained unhappy with this response, so it referred its complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They recognised ILE 
accepted the directors son had applied for the loan, acting as if he were the director himself. 
And they were satisfied TBF had no way of knowing this. So, they didnt think TBF were 
responsible for the loan being withdrawn. And our investigator explained they were satisfied 
TBF had completed all of the work necessary for the loan to be obtained, so they thought 
TBF were fair to keep the admin fee they had been paid for this work. Because of this, they 
didnt think TBF needed to do anything more.
ILE didnt agree. And it didnt think it was made clear to them that the admin fee they paid 
was non-refundable. Nor did it think TBFs terms and conditions allowed for them to keep an 
admin fee where a loan wasnt received by its client. So, it maintained its belief the admin 
fee should be refunded. As ILE didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on ILE. I recognise it instructed 
TBF to secure a business loan as it was experiencing financial difficulty and sought short 
term financial help to address this. So, I can understand the financial impact it was caused 
when this loan offer with withdrawn and TBF refused to refund the admin fee it had paid.
But for me to say TBF should refund this fee, Id need to be satisfied that they acted unfairly 
when refusing to do so. So, Id need to be satisfied that TBF failed to complete the work Id 
have expect them to do to warrant this fee in the first instance. Or, if I think they did, that 
they failed to act fairly, or in accordance with their terms and conditions, when refusing to 
refund the admin fee. And on this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think its important for me to explain exactly 
what Ive considered. This complaint is about TBF, and not the lender. So, I havent 
considered the lenders decision to withdraw the loan or whether it was fair for them to do so. 
My decision has instead focused solely on the actions TBF have taken.
And I also want to recognise it isnt in dispute that the loan was applied for, on behalf of ILE, 
by a directors son, rather than the director himself. And its also been accepted that during 
the application process, the directors son acted as the director, answering security 
questions as if he were the director. So, I dont think TBF wouldve had any way of knowing 
this was the case or been able to take action to prevent the impact this may have on the loan 
application.
So, there is no suggestion that TBF did anything wrong that led to the withdrawal of the loan. 
And so, I dont think the withdrawal of the loan means TBF had an automatic obligation to 
refund the admin fee ILE paid. But I would expect the admin fee ILE paid to be comparable 
to the work TBF completed.
TBF have provided me with a detailed process map of how a loan application is progressed. 
And they have confirmed an admin fee is only charged for and paid once the full loan 
application process has been completed. Ive see in this situation, the loan offers had been 
obtained by TBF, and agree by ILE. And the only process left was ID confirmations before 
the loan could be withdrawn, which needed to be completed between ILE and the lender 
directly.
So, I think at this point TBF had completed all of the work Id have expected them to have 
done. And crucially, I dont think they couldve done anything more for the loan to have been 
drawn down and completed. So, I think TBF completed the work necessary to justify the 
admin fee ILE paid. And as the loan was withdrawn through no fault of TBFs, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to say TBF should refund this. Otherwise, I would be asking 
TBF to have completed this work for free and I dont think thats fair.
ILE have asked where in the terms and conditions it explains an admin fee is non-
refundable. And there isnt a specific term that states this. But the terms also dont explain an 
admin fee would be refundable in the situation where a loan offer is withdrawn. And the 
terms do explain an admin fee is payable on acceptance of a formal loan offer, which ILE did 
do. The terms also explain TBF have the right charge a one-off admin fee for any work 
carried out. And I think they carried out the full work required for the loan to be drawn down 
by ILE. So, I think TBF are fair to charge the full admin fee and to keep this after the loan 
offer was withdrawn. So, I dont think I can say TBF have acted unfairly or unreasonably 
when refusing to refund this fee to ILE and because of this, I dont think they need to do 
anything more.
I recognise this isnt the outcome ILE was hoping for. And I appreciate this wont help 
address its short-term financial situation. But for me to say TBF should refund the fee, I need 
to be satisfied they have done something wrong. And I dont think they have on this 
occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Is complaint about THINK BUSINESS 
FINANCE LTD. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask I to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman