DRN-3266245
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Metro Bank PLC wont refund him for disputed transactions he
says he didnt make or authorise.
What happened
Mr G has a current account with Metro. On 18 January 2021 Mr G went to his local branch to 
say that a faster payment of £100 had been taken from his account without his permission, 
he says he asked for a new card and to reset his security details as the individual who made 
the payment was known to him and appeared to have access to Mr Gs account via the 
banking app.
Later that day Mr G called Metro as a card payment of £9.80 had been made from his 
account, some other payments had also been attempted but had been blocked by Metro. 
The £9.80 was subsequently refunded to Mr G. In several phone calls with Metro that day 
Mr G was able to eventually get a block put in place on his account, his existing card 
cancelled, and a new card issued which he was told he would need to go to his local branch 
to collect the next day.
On 19 February 2021 Mr G called Metro to ask for an update on his fraud claim. But Metro 
advised that no formal fraud claim had been raised for the initial £100 faster payment that 
had been taken on the morning of 18 January 2021. A fraud claim was ultimately raised 
regarding this payment on 3 March 2021.
Metro then decided not to refund the disputed payment for £100. It concluded that Mr G had 
allowed the payment to be made by installing the banking app on his carers phone, and 
noted that many payments had previously been made to the same individual which Mr G 
was not disputing. 
Mr G disagreed with Metros decision. So, he brought his complaint to this service where one 
of our investigators looked into the matter. Based on the evidence they thought Mr G had 
allowed the payment for £100 to be made as he had given his carer apparent authority to 
make payments from his account. They agreed that Metro should have logged Mr Gs fraud 
claim about the £100 earlier  on 19 February  but didnt think that overall this would have 
made a difference to the outcome of the complaint.
Mr G disagreed, he maintained that he had raised the claim about the £100 faster payment 
on 18 January 2021, and he felt Metro had let him down  particularly in light of his personal 
circumstances which meant he was vulnerable  so the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, and for largely the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
Generally speaking, if the evidence suggests its more likely than not that Mr G authorised 
the payment, Metro is entitled to hold him liable. The relevant regulations, to this effect, are 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017. Mr G says he didnt make the disputed transaction, 
so my primary concern is to come to a decision about whether or not I think Mr G authorised 
the transaction by making it himself or allowing someone else to make it on his behalf.
Having reviewed Metros technical evidence, Im satisfied that the disputed payment of £100 
was authenticated using the banking app. But, the regulations relevant to this case say that 
this is not on its own enough to enable Metro to hold Mr G liable for them. So, I also need to 
think about whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr G consented 
to the transaction being made.
Im satisfied from what Ive seen and heard that its likely Mr Gs ex-carer did make the 
payment that is in dispute here. Mr Gs explanation for what has happened here  that he 
installed the app on his carers phone so that he could still make payments when he lost his 
own phone  does seem plausible. But theres a concept of apparent authority which relates 
to the Payment Services Regulations. 
Under the Payment Services Regulations, we consider the issue of the relationship between 
the account-holder, formally Mr G, and the person making the transactions. In this case 
thats his ex-carer. I think, taking into account all the circumstances of this case, Mr G 
authorised his ex-carer to act as his agent: to make transactions on his behalf. He may not 
have thought about it in this way of course. He wouldnt necessarily have considered that by 
giving the carer access to the app by installing it on his phone, he could therefore go on to 
use the app again for payments Mr G hadnt specifically told him he could make. So I dont 
doubt there were individual transactions which Mr G didnt authorise. But because of the 
nature of their relationship, he was giving his carer apparent authority to carry out those 
transactions that were subsequently disputed. In order to remove his apparent authority 
Mr G would have needed to do something to ensure the carer couldnt use the app again, 
which is what he did when he contacted the bank on 18 January 2021  after the £100 had 
been taken  and asked for a block to be put on his account and for his security details to be 
changed. But Ive not seen anything to show that Mr G did that anything similar before the 
£100 faster payment was taken from his account. 
Mr G has also commented that after he contacted Metro on 18 January 2021 further 
transactions were allowed from his account. Specifically, a payment for £9.80 was made 
using Mr Gs card details, it seems this was a contactless payment via the app or apple pay. 
This payment was made using the details of a new card that Mr G says his carer should not 
have been able to have any access to. So its not clear exactly what happened here to allow 
this transaction to be made. But in any case, this payment was refunded to Mr G. And the 
other transactions which were attempted using Mr Gs old card details were stopped before 
they debited his account.
I also need to bear in mind that it sems Mr G had made a previous claim for fraud earlier in 
2020, when he told Metro he did not recognise a payment from his account. Metros notes 
show that on this occasion too Mr G had shared his card details with his carer at that time  
a different individual to the one who made the £100 payment on 18 January 2021  who had 
then gone on to make a payment without Mr Gs permission. On this occasion Metro 
refunded the disputed amount but explained to Mr G that he should not be providing card or 
account details to a third party in this way, and that if he needed someone else to help him 
with his account they would need to be added as a signatory, or otherwise given formal 
access to use Mr Gs banking on his behalf. I acknowledge that Mr Gs personal circumstances mean he does sometimes need help with 
his banking, and that Mr G feels he is being discriminated against because of the way Metro 
has handled his concerns. He feels Metro has failed to make reasonable adjustments for him 
under the Equality Act 2010.
Ive taken the Equality Act 2010 into account when deciding this complaint  given that its 
relevant law  but Ive ultimately decided this complaint based on whats fair and reasonable. 
And, overall, Im satisfied that Metro took reasonable steps to advise Mr G of how he could 
protect his account after the first incidence of fraud, and of how he could arrange for 
someone to help him with his banking without installing the banking app on someone elses 
phone.
Turning to the service Mr G received when he contacted Metro, I cant know what exactly 
was said in branch when Mr G visited on the morning of 18 January 2021, so Ive had to 
base my findings on what I do know, and thats what was discussed during Mr Gs Phone 
calls with Metro. I do think that Metro could have handled these calls better, its clear Mr G 
was distressed and worried, and it did take some time for anyone at the bank to offer to 
block his account so that no further payments could be made. But I also must bear in mind 
that a block was put on Mr Gs account that same day, and that the way Mr G spoke to some 
of the staff members he dealt with could also have contributed to this delay in getting a 
resolution.
Ive also thought about when Metro should have logged the £100 as a potentially fraudulent 
payment, and Ive heard that Mr G did mention this payment in his initial conversations with 
Metro on 18 January 2021. But he only said that he had spoken to the branch about that 
payment in the morning, the bulk of his conversation with the bank on the afternoon of 18 
January 2021 was about the card payments that had since been made/attempted. So I dont 
think it was clear that Mr G wanted to raise a specific fraud claim about the £100 faster 
payment until 19 February 2021. I acknowledge that Metro didnt start a fraud claim until 
March 2021, but I agree with our investigator that this delay is unlikely to have made a 
difference in whether Mr G would get his money back.
Overall, I want to be clear that Im not saying Mr G wasnt the victim of a crime, I understand 
that he has reported what happened to the police and they are looking into it. But taking 
account of the regulations Ive detailed earlier in this decision, I remain satisfied that Metro is 
reasonable to have declined to refund the £100 faster payment on the basis that Mr G gave 
his carer apparent authority to carry out transactions on his account. Im also satisfied that 
while there were some failures in the level of service provided to Mr G, overall Metro has 
acted reasonably here, and so I wont be asking it to do anything more. I know this will be 
very disappointing for Mr G, but I hope he will at least feel that his concerns have been 
listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman