DRN-3310484
The complaint
Mr G complains unwanted and unsolicited calls from Reassured Ltd (Reassured) caused 
him extreme distress. He says the volume of calls constituted harassment.
What happened
Following an online enquiry Mr G had made about obtaining life assurance, 
Reassured contacted him to provide a quote.
Reassured attempted to call Mr G multiple times. Unhappy with the volume of calls 
he was receiving; Mr G complained. 
Reassured said on occasions Mr G had asked for a call back but agreed the volume 
of attempts made was excessive. They upheld Mr Gs complaint and offered £50 
compensation by way of an apology, which he accepted.
Following Reassureds final response letter, Mr G contacted them again. He didnt 
feel the amount of compensation paid reflected the level of distress the calls had 
caused. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was referred to us. 
Mr G says £50 does not reflect the distress the calls have caused me and my father 
and the fact that my complaint has been upheld, means I should be entitled to 
compensation of between £300 to £500.
One of our Investigators looked into things but didnt uphold the complaint. She 
agreed the number of calls were excessive, but she didnt think Reassured needed to 
do anything more.
Because Mr G remained unhappy, the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why:
Its not in dispute Reassureds attempts overall to call Mr G were excessive. All 
parties agree. Its the impact of those calls on Mr G, and Mr G alone, that I have 
considered.
Reassured first attempted to call Mr G on 12 April 2021. After initially getting through 
to Mr G, he asked them to call him back later that afternoon. A further nine attempts 
to call him were made that day. Two of these calls successfully connected but ended 
shortly after.
I acknowledge nine attempts appears a lot, but Reassureds advisor had been asked 
by Mr G to call back so I dont consider his attempts on that day, taking into 
consideration the majority of which didnt connect, were unreasonable in the 
circumstances.
Over the following 12 working days Reassured tried to call Mr G a further 19 times. 
Six of these calls connected with Mr G telling Reassured to email him or that hed call 
them before the calls ended.
Mr G has provided a lot of evidence supporting the impact Reassureds calls had on 
his health. I want to assure Mr G that Ive read and considered everything thats been 
provided even if I dont mention it. What Mr Gs provided is private to him and I dont 
consider it necessary for me to repeat in detail. Im satisfied I understand the crux of 
this complaint.
Im pleased Reassured have acknowledged their persistence was excessive. Im in 
no doubt Mr G receiving the volume of calls he did wouldve been inconvenient for 
him at the least.
Reassured paid Mr G £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Im satisfied this is a fair and reasonable resolution given all the circumstances of this 
complaint, so I wont be asking them to do anything more.
In summary, I agree Reassureds attempts to call Mr G were excessive. But Im satisfied the 
compensation of £50 theyve paid is a fair and reasonable way of resolving the complaint 
and I do not require Reassured to pay Mr G any further compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Reassured Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman