DRN-4152398
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Society of Lloyds increased the price of his premiums for his income 
protection policy.
What happened
Mr M has an income protection policy. Hes unhappy because the price of the premiums 
increased three times during a year. The monthly premium increased from £65.75 to 
£165.20. Mr M complained to Society of Lloyds. 
Society of Lloydss said they were entitled to increase the price of the premiums and 
highlighted the impact of Covid-19 on the market. Unhappy with Society of Lloyds response 
Mr M made a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld the complaint. He thought that 
Society of Lloyds didnt make it clear enough that there could be unlimited and multiple 
increases in the price of the premium. He recommended Society of Lloyds pay Mr M £500 
compensation. 
Mr M accepted the investigators findings, but Society of Lloyds didnt. Mr M then said he 
didnt accept the compensation. He said he wanted Society of Lloyds to reimburse all the 
increased premiums minus inflation and an additional £5000. 
Since then, Society of Lloyds has since agreed to pay the £500 compensation our 
investigator recommended. This offer was communicated to Mr M, but he didnt respond. So, 
the case has been passed to me to make a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator set out the relevant rules and industry guidelines. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations in the circumstances of this case.
Mr M said that his insurer shouldnt be able to increase premiums at will and more than 
once. He didnt think hed been treated fairly. Thats no longer in dispute and I agree the 
policy documentation ought to have made it clear to Mr M that increases in the premiums 
could be unlimited and take place at any time. 
The key issue for me to decide is whether £500 compensation is fair and reasonable. I think 
it is because:
I dont think £5000 compensation would reasonably reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr M. 
I think it would have been upsetting and worrying to face multiple increases in the 
price of the premiums when Mr M didnt expect it, particularly during a time of 
uncertainty due to the Covid-19 pandemic. But, I think £500 compensation more fairly 
reflects the distress and inconvenience caused and Mr Ms loss of expectation. 
Ive thought about whether I should direct Society of Lloyds to refund some of Mr Ms 
premiums as hes suggested. Society of Lloyds was entitled to increase the cost of 
cover and reduce the benefit. It wasnt made adequately clear from the policy 
documentation that there could be unlimited changes to the policy benefits. But Mr M 
still had the benefit of cover and would have been entitled to claim if he needed to. 
So, I dont think Mr M should get a refund of the increased premiums as I dont think 
that leads to a fair and reasonable outcome. I think compensation of £500 more fairly 
reflects what went wrong here rather than a refund of the premiums. 
Putting things right
Society of Lloyds needs to pay Mr M £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Ms complaint and direct Society of Lloyds to put things right in the way 
Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman