DRN-3908257
The complaint
Mr A complains that he was mis-sold a decreasing term assurance (DTA) policy (the 
policy) by Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax, referred to as Halifax or the business.  
In short, he says he was told/led to believe that: 
the policy would help pay his (joint) mortgage payments, if there was a problem; 
the policy would pay out a lump sum at the end of the term. 
Now that the policy has ended, to put things right hed like the business to pay a lump sum 
or refund his premiums.
What happened
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld 
because he didnt think the policy was mis-sold. In summary, he said:
In 2014, the business reviewed Mr As policy after certain concerns were raised 
about its suitability. It found the policy wasnt the most suitable. 
Mr A was offered a refund of premiums, alternatively he was given the option to 
continue with the policy. 
Because the business didnt hear back, the policy continued and ended in March 
2022. It doesnt agree that the premiums should be refunded. 
Mr A was in his mid-50s, married, and in full time employment. He had a joint 
repayment mortgage. In the circumstances the recommendation for cover wasnt 
unreasonable. 
The mortgage in question was £124,996 over a term of 10 years. There was also a 
small mortgage which Mr A paid off sooner. Without the policy, in the event of Mr As 
death the burden of paying off the mortgage wouldve been on Mr As wife. In the 
circumstances the policy was suitable.  
It was recorded that Mr A declined critical illness cover (CIC) and additional 
protection in respect of his smaller mortgage. This shows that Mr A was involved and 
chose the level of cover he wanted. Theres no evidence that he was told or led to 
believe that hed be paid a lump sum at the end of the policy.  
The documentation provided made reasonably clear that the sum assured would 
decrease in line with the term of the policy. 
Mr A disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He 
maintained his position with regards to the mis-sale. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr A says, Im unable to safely 
say that the policy was mis-sold. 
Im aware that the business has consented to us considering the merits of this complaint, 
therefore, its not something I need to consider. 
In short, my findings are as follows:
I note in 2014, the business upheld the complaint  on the basis that the policy 
wasnt the most appropriate for Mr A. Although it didnt offer a final response or 
referral rights, he was offered two options  namely a refund of premiums or to 
continue with the policy. In other words, he was given the option to end the policy 
and take all his money back  to put him back in the position he wouldve been in but 
for the error  or continue with the policy despite any concerns he may have had. 
The business says it never heard back from Mr A, so the policy continued by default. 
I cant blame the business for this. I accept that having upheld the complaint it was  
for some time  waiting to hear back from him. But because Mr A wasnt obliged to 
respond (and didnt) and the business made clear what would happen if it didnt hear 
from him, in the circumstances, and on balance, I dont think it did anything wrong by 
continuing with the policy. In other words, the business was entitled to continue with 
the policy. 
Im mindful that as well as making clear what would happen if it didnt hear back from 
Mr A, it also sent two chaser letters asking for his instructions but didnt receive any 
response.
Despite what Mr A says, on the face of the evidence and on balance, I think he ought 
reasonably to have been aware that the policy would continue if he didnt respond. 
I appreciate Mr A says he didnt receive the letter(s), its possible that he didnt, but 
on the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what he says I think its more 
likely than not that he did. I note the letter was correctly addressed to him at the time, 
and its unlikely that he wouldnt have received at least one of the chasers conveying 
primarily the same message.
The above notwithstanding, I also note that despite initiating the complaint he didnt 
chase the matter at all for all these years, until the end of the term, and thats when 
he raised questions again. That doesnt sound like someone who wasnt prepared to 
go along with the policy. This might also explain why he maintains that hes entitled 
to a lumpsum payment, its arguable thats why he continued with the policy in the 
hope that hed receive some money at the end of it.  
Its possible that there was an issue with the post, although Im not aware of any. As I 
alluded to above, Im satisfied that the letter(s) were correctly addressed and more 
likely than not sent to Mr A. But if they got lost or werent delivered, its not something 
I can blame the business for. In other words, I cant blame the business for the 
actions of a third-party postal service.
Despite what Mr A says, I note that in the event of his death the policy was designed 
to pay off the outstanding balance of the mortgage so that his wife could enjoy the 
property mortgage free. In my opinion and on balance, this is another reason why he 
probably decided to continue with the policy without perusing his earlier complaint, 
and despite any concerns he might have had. I note the business says he continued 
to pay the premiums too and wouldve received annual statements showing that the 
level of cover had decreased. 
The above notwithstanding, on the face of the evidence, it seems that Mr A didnt 
have any cover in place at the time, and even if he had (additional) life cover, it doesnt mean that the recommendation was unsuitable in respect of a repayment 
mortgage on a decreasing basis. Im mindful that these policies were also cheaper 
than a level term assurance policy and were considered suitable because they 
decreased in line with the repayment mortgage.   
Despite what Mr A says, Ive also seen no evidence that he was told or led to believe 
that hed receive a lump sum at the end of the policy  thats just not how a DTA 
policy works. Its possible that he misunderstood this on the basis that the policy 
would pay out in the event of his death, but thats not the same thing.  
I note the business, at the outset, also sent a full report  covering what was and 
wasnt discussed  after the meeting, and before the policy went live. Mr A had an 
opportunity to raise questions but didnt. 
Im satisfied that Mr A was, at the outset, sent documentation that made reasonably 
clear the nature and operation of the policy, including a policy schedule which made 
clear that the sum assured would decrease over time and therefore he wouldnt 
receive a lump sum at the end of the policy. 
What Mr A might be referring to in terms of paying his mortgage is a Payment 
Protection Insurance (PPI). 
Im satisfied this isnt a PPI policy. I appreciate why there may have been some 
confusion, however the DTA policy is a distinct product. In this case the policy 
wouldve paid off the outstanding mortgage balance in the event of Mr As death, 
within the term of the policy. On the other hand, a PPI contract is usually designed to 
provide a monthly benefit equal to the payments made for a financial product in 
specific circumstances where consumers are unable to meet their outgoings.
In other words, a PPI policy was designed to cover mortgage payments in the event 
of unemployment, sickness and disability, unlike a DTA policy which was designed to 
pay a lump sum in the event of death or being diagnosed with a critical illness  I 
note Mr A refused the CIC element  within the term of the policy.
Despite what Mr A says, like the investigator, Im satisfied that the information 
provided was clear, fair, and not misleading.  
If Mr A made a valid claim between 2014 and 2022, the policy wouldve paid out the 
sum assured at the time, therefore I dont think the business is being unreasonable in 
refusing to refund the premiums paid, either from the outset or since 2014. Given the 
history of this case, and notwithstanding the uphold  providing Mr A with options and 
making clear what would happen if it didnt hear back  I dont think the business is 
obliged to refund the premiums or pay a lump sum. In other words, I cant safely say 
the business has done anything wrong by refusing to do so.  
Despite what Mr A says, I dont agree that this recommendation was unsuitable for 
him. 
Despite what Mr A says, Im not persuaded that this is a fraudulent policy or that its 
dangerous. That said, Im sorry to hear that Mr As trust has been lost.  
I appreciate Mr As concerns with the situation and recognise he will be disappointed Ive 
reached the same conclusion as the investigator. But having given the matters careful 
consideration, I dont feel able to conclude that this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 Dara Islam
Ombudsman