DRN-3484694
The complaint
Mrs G complains that John Lewis Financial Services (JLFS) did not refund a number of 
payments made on her credit card.
What happened
Both parties are aware of what happened, so I wont go into too much detail here. The crux 
of the issue is that a series of transactions were made to a gaming console company (GC) 
which Mrs G did not recognise. She later realised her son had made the payments but she 
did not authorise them and felt they should have flagged as suspicious.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and felt JLFS had not acted unreasonably when it 
didnt flag the payments as suspicious and that as Mrs G set up her credit card on the 
games console she effectively gave authority for the payments. 
Mrs G disagreed and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. She also 
provided some additional information; that she did not give her authority for the credit card to 
be added as a payment option to the console. 
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint setting out that I intended to uphold it. My 
reasoning was as follows:
The first thing Ive considered is whether the payments themselves were authorised by     
Mrs G. Generally, the starting point is that JLFS is able to hold Mrs G liable for the disputed 
transactions if the evidence suggests its more likely than not that she made or authorised 
them herself. This position is confirmed in the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs) 
and the terms and conditions of her account.
In this case, the genuine card details were used to make the transactions, and so the 
payments were correctly authenticated, but this alone doesnt mean that Mrs G is liable. She 
also needs to have consented to the payments  either by making them herself or allowing 
someone else to act on her behalf. So I need to consider whether JLFS has acted fairly in 
concluding that she did. Looking at the banks records, I can see that the card details were 
saved onto the digital wallet of the games console. When asked about this, Mrs G has 
confirmed that whilst she had previously given her son her card information for specific 
payments on the console, she was unaware her credit card details had been saved to the 
console. So she likely gave permission for her card to be used to make a purchase on the 
console but did not give permission for it to be added to the console. She says she was 
unaware that purchases on the console could therefore be made using her credit card on 
further occasions without her permission. Ive considered Mrs Gs comments and I find them 
plausible
There were some sporadic payments to GC since Mrs G received her new credit card in 
November 2020, but these were only one or two a month prior to May 2021. Mrs G has said 
she did not notice these on her statements, which I think is understandable. On balance, I 
think its more likely than not that Mrs G did not add her credit card details to the console or 
know that they had been added. Once Mrs G was questioned further around this, she has 
been consistent with her testimony and I have no reason to doubt what she has said.
It therefore follows that I do not think Mrs G gave her authority for her credit card to be 
added to the console and for it to be used to make purchases. Instead, she likely gave 
authority for a specific purchase to be made and then took her credit card back. JLFS 
doesnt appear to have asked for the level of detail we now know, and I think if it had done 
so that it would have (or ought to have) concluded that Mrs G hadnt authorise the disputed 
payments. With this in mind, I do not think JLFS has acted fairly in holding Mrs G liable for 
the transactions made on the credit card account. 
Ive gone on to consider the relevant regulations related to this complaint, including section 
77(4)(d) of the Payment Service Regulations (PSRs). This sets out that, except where a 
payer has acted fraudulently, they arent liable for unauthorised transactions where the 
payment instrument has been used in connection with a distance contract (other than an 
excepted contract). 
A distance contract is a transaction that is completed without the merchant or consumer 
being physically present. Here, the transactions were made via a games console. So, Im 
persuaded that Mrs Gs credit card was used in connection with a distance contract  and 
Ive not seen anything to suggest that its an excepted contract. 
As Ive explained, section 77(4) establishes that Mrs G is only liable for unauthorised 
transactions in connection with a distance contract where shes acted fraudulently. Based on 
what Ive seen, theres no indication that Mrs G has acted fraudulently here. So, taking 
everything into account, my current thinking is that Im satisfied these were unauthorised 
transactions, where Mrs Gs credit card was used in connection with a distance contract (that 
wasnt an excepted contract). 
It follows that shes not liable and Im intending to instruct JLFS to put things right  by 
refunding Mrs Gs losses from these transactions alongside simple interest at 8% per annum 
to compensate her for the time shes been out of pocket and a payment of £100 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs G. This should be from the second payment on 
the games console on 1 December 2020 onwards as I think this is the fairest point.
Mrs G responded to my provisional decision agreeing with my recommendation. 
JLFS responded and said that while they did not agree with my findings, they would accept 
my provisional decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have responded accepting my provisional decision, though I do note that 
JLFS did not agree with my actual findings, and neither party has provided any additional 
comments or evidence for me to consider, I see no reason to deviate from my provisional 
decision. So, for the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Gs complaint. 
Putting things right
John Lewis Financial Services should: 
Refund Mrs G the transactions from 1 December 2020 onwardsEffectively rework the account so that any interest charged on the disputed 
transactions is also refunded.
If this would have resulted in a credit balance, pay 8% interest on that balance.
Pay Mrs G £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.   
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Gs complaint and I instruct John Lewis Financial Services to refund the 
transactions, rework the account and pay 8% simple interest if warranted, as outlined in 
more detail above. And it should pay her £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience the matter has caused.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman