DRN-3218643
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance taken out in 1997. Mr G 
says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold that PPI policy.
What happened
Mr G applied for the credit card and the PPI policy at the same time in 1997. It looks as 
though Mr G ran into some financial difficulties because in or around 2001, the balance of 
his credit card was written off by Lloyds. Practically what that means is that there was still 
an outstanding balance on Mr Gs account, but Lloyds wasnt trying to recover that money 
from Mr G.
Through his representatives, Mr G complained to Lloyds about the sale of PPI. In February 
2018, Lloyds said that it didnt think PPI had been mis-sold, but it did offer to pay back 
some of the cost of the PPI. Thats because it didnt disclose to Mr G a high level of 
commission and profit share it would receive from his PPI premiums. Lloyds agreed that its 
failure to disclose was unfair.
Mr G didnt agree with Lloyds proposed outcome and he complained to this service. Our 
adjudicator didnt think PPI was mis-sold. She also said that Lloyds didnt have to disclose 
the level of commission it received from Mr Gs premiums because his account wasnt still 
running in April 2008.
Through his representative, Mr G disagreed with what our adjudicator said. No additional 
points were made, but the same submissions and complaint points as previously made 
were repeated. 
I then issued a provisional decision because I didnt think what our adjudicators view on 
commission was right. I said: 
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and 
considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in 
order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account 
relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like this. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding 
this complaint.
Having done so, Ive provisionally decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive 
also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission. And my provisional view 
is that Lloyds should have disclosed the commission it received. However, it 
appears to me that the offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the 
unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my reasons for 
each of these provisional conclusions below.
Was PPI mis-sold?
Mr G told us he thought PPI had been sold to him on the telephone. But Ive seen a 
copy of the application form he filled in, and it appears to me most likely that Mr G 
completed this and returned it to Lloyds through the post. He applied for his credit 
card and the PPI policy at the same time on that document. I think Mr G would have 
completed this form in his own time and at his own pace.
The first thing Ive considered in this case is whether Lloyds made it clear Mr G 
didnt have to take out the PPI. I can see Mr G marked the relevant box on the 
application form to indicate he wanted a PPI policy. The section dealing with PPI is 
under a bold heading, which states Optional Features. With that in mind, I think Mr 
G would have seen the cover was optional and he would have known to just leave 
that section blank if he didnt want a policy. 
Lloyds didnt recommend the PPI to Mr G. That means it didnt have to check that 
the PPI was right or suitable. But it did have to provide enough clear and timely 
information about the cover so he could decide if it was a good fit for his needs.
I accept its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it should have been. But that doesnt mean I can automatically uphold the 
complaint.
I can see that if Mr G had to make a claim on the cover, 10% of his credit card 
balance would have been repaid for every month he was off sick or after being 
made redundant up to a maximum of 12 months for each claim. It seems to me 
most likely that this cover would have lasted for longer than his full sick pay from 
work, as well as his redundancy entitlement. I understand Mr G said his family 
would have helped him out if hed run into financial difficulties. And I dont doubt it 
would have been the intention of those family members to assist him in such 
circumstances. But theres no guarantee that help would have been available to Mr 
G as and when he needed it. I can see how PPI could have been helpful to Mr G if 
he wasnt working.
Ive also checked whether any of the limitations or exclusions would have affected 
Mr Gs decision to take the policy out. I understand hed been diagnosed with some 
back problems in 1974, and he took an over the counter gel to assist him to 
manage that condition.
However, this condition was diagnosed 23 years before the PPI was sold. I havent 
been given any information to suggest Mr G still had problems with his back in 
1997. And so I provisionally find it is unlikely that this diagnosis would have affected 
Mr Gs decision to take the PPI out.
A number of submissions were made about what the representative believed to be 
additional exclusions in the policy for back and mental health conditions. But having 
considered the terms and conditions at length, Im satisfied there are no such 
additional limitations or exclusions in this policy.
I havent seen anything unusual about Mr Gs employment circumstances that 
would have stopped him from being able to make a successful claim if he needed 
to. I can see how the policy could have been helpful to Mr G at what would have no 
doubt been difficult time for him if he was out of work. With all of this in mind, I cant 
reasonably say Mr G would have declined the cover had Lloyds given him more or 
better information about it.Mr Gs representative raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators 
rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor 
value because of the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover 
coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Lloyds 
should have disclosed the poor value and explained the significance of the 
limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making a claim.
But the representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of this individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in this particular case. 
But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out 
above I dont uphold the mis- sale element of this complaint.
Subject to any further information I receive from the parties. This means Lloyds 
doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, 
including whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under 
section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation 
would be to remedy that unfairness.
Although Mr Gs account balance had been written off, it appears to me that the 
account was still extant in 2008. So Ive provisionally decided Lloyds should have 
disclosed the commission it received. Im further provisionally satisfied that 
Lloydss offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness 
caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Lloyds didnt tell Mr G about the high levels of commission and profit share he paid in 
this case. So taking into account:
the Supreme Courts judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair 
relationship;
the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-
disclosure of commission and profit share - introduced in light of the 
Supreme Court judgment in Plevin - which requires a business to 
presume that the failure to disclose commission gave rise to an unfair 
relationship where the business expected commission and profit share to 
be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and
the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the 
relationship between Lloyds and Mr G was unfair under section 140A of 
the Consumer Credit Act because Lloyds didnt tell him about the high 
levels of commission and profit share in this caseI dont think Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr G because it 
failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to 
remedy the unfairness I have identified.
Mr Gs representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B 
of the Consumer Credit Act on this complaint.
In summary, it was argued Mr G should get back all the money he paid for the 
policy because: Lloyds failed to tell Mr G about the high commission and profit-
share rates paid; the low claims ratio; and the restrictions and exclusions on 
cover. Because they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that 
Mr G wouldnt have taken out the policy had they known about the level of 
commission and he should receive a refund of all the premiums he paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about 
whether the consumer in that case would or would not have bought the 
PPI policy had the commission been disclosed;
a court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B 
to remedy the unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission 
 it does not follow that a court would automatically order a return of 
all the premiums paid or conclude that a consumer would not have 
purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; and
the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be 
appropriate to merge the considerations about undisclosed commission 
in the existing rules and guidance about mis-selling (hence the two-step 
approach for firms handling PPI complaints) and that the impact of any 
undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it should be 
considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, at this stage, 
my role as an ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair 
compensation for Mr G in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Lloyds not 
disclosing the high level of commission to him before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account:
the FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts 
paid by the consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the 
policys cost, plus interest in order to remedy the unfairness caused by 
the failure to disclose the level of commission; and
refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order 
which, in my view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make 
under section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any 
unfairness.
I am not, as the representative suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Lloydss failure to disclose the level of commission for the reasons Ive given above. Im satisfied it was fair for Lloyds to calculate 
compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and return some of the money Mr G 
paid for the PPI policy.
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it 
leaves Mr G with the policy Ive concluded above he would still have taken out if 
Lloyds had done everything it should have done  but with lower commission 
and profit share levels.
So I consider that Lloydss payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
I understand Lloyds has already paid Mr G compensation on this basis by cheque, 
so I dont intend to tell it to do anything further. 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court 
concluded that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship/
I asked the parties to provide me with any further comments or evidence they wanted me to 
consider before I issued a final decision. Neither party responded to the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party responded to my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from it in 
this final decision.
So for the reasons set out above, I dont uphold the complaint in respect of the mis-sale. And 
Im satisfied the offer Lloyds made to Mr G in respect of commission is a fair way to settle 
this complaint. I dont require Lloyds to take any further action. 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint or make any award for that. 
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Lloyds 
Bank PLC should pay Mr G an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share paid in 
excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable). As Lloyds Bank 
PLC has already paid compensation on this basis, I do not require it to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman