DRN-4355317
The complaint
Miss M complains that Bank of Scotland plc (Bank of Scotland) lent to her irresponsibly 
when it provided her with a number of loans that she says she couldnt afford.
What happened
Miss M took out five unsecured loans with Bank of Scotland during the period October 2018 
to October 2022. 
Miss M isnt specific in her complaint, but she intimates that Bank of Scotland lent to her 
irresponsibly and unaffordably. Miss M says that she was gambling at the time she took out 
the loans and Bank of Scotland shouldnt have continued to allow her to borrow more.
Our investigator didnt think Miss Ms complaint should be upheld. Miss M disagreed, so the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
Miss M also complains about the provision of an overdraft facility. That complaint has been 
dealt with separately
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when I have considered Miss Ms complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as our investigator.
Bank of Scotland needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss M could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. 
Certain factors might point to the fact that Bank of Scotland should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss M. These factors 
include things like understanding Miss Ms income, the total amount Miss M borrowed, and 
the length of time Miss M had been indebted. 
Loans 1 and 2.
I have reviewed what our investigator found, and I cannot see any errors in his assessment. 
Miss M was living at home with no housing costs. She earned around £1,630 net a month. 
Bank of Scotlands credit check showed no negative markers on her credit file  so she had 
no arrears, County Court Judgments or bankruptcies. The first loan was for £2,500 over 18 
months. The second loan, taken three months later was for £1,000, also repayable over 18 
months. Repayments on both combined were around £300 a month. Bank of Scotland had 
assessed Miss M to have disposable income each month of around £1,100. I have seen no 
evidence to suggest this was not the case. On this basis, I think Bank of Scotland conducted 
sufficient checks and I do not think it made an unfair decision to lend to Miss M.
Loan 3.
Miss M took out her third loan in May 2019, about four months after her second loan. She 
used the loan to consolidate her previous two loans at a lower rate of interest. She spread 
the payments over a longer period. After consolidating her existing loans Miss M was left 
with a capital sum, too.
 
Bank of Scotlands checks showed largely the same information as with the first two loans. 
Given this was the third loan in a relatively short period I think it would have been reasonable 
for Bank of Scotland to consider how Miss M was managing her bank account with it, too. 
In the three months leading up to the loan Miss Ms account appears to be well managed. 
Although there was a two day period where there was evidence of gambling, Miss M did so 
within her means, and she remained in credit.
Again, I think Bank of Scotland obtained necessary and proportionate information and I 
consider it acted fairly on the information it had about Miss M. I do not think it was 
unreasonable for it to have lent to Miss M again.
Loan 4
Loan four was taken in April 2021, nearly two years after the third loan. This time it was for a 
total of about £10,000, repayable over 84 months with a monthly repayment of about £208. It 
refinanced Miss Ms existing loans and provided an additional capital sum which Miss M 
appears to have used to pay off external borrowing. 
Again, Bank of Scotland conducted checks which raised no concern. Miss Ms 
circumstances were largely the same. Bank of Scotland assessed Miss Ms monthly 
disposable income to be around £800 a month, which meant Miss M had sufficient 
disposable income to meet the repayments (and, of course, the consolidation meant she 
would pay less on debt elsewhere). Miss M also had an overdraft with Bank of Scotland, 
which is the subject of another complaint, but Miss M appears to have been using the facility 
for discretionary expenditure. There was no evidence of excessive gambling. 
On the basis of this information, I think Bank of Scotland conducted necessary and 
proportionate checks and didnt act unfairly when it provided the fourth loan.
 
Loan 5
This was the final loan and was taken 18 months after the fourth loan, in October 2022. It 
refinanced the fourth loan and provided a lump sum of £1,000. The loan repayments were 
now £272 a month.
 
The only significant change to Miss Ms circumstances was that her income had increased to 
around £2,177 a month. Her expenses were around the same, which meant that she could 
comfortably afford the increased repayment from the increase in her income alone.
 
On the basis of this information, I think Bank of Scotland conducted necessary and 
proportionate checks and didnt act unfairly when it provided the fifth loan.
 
Miss M has explained that she had a gambling addiction. She submits that Bank of Scotland 
ought to have conducted sufficient checks to understand this. She says it would have been 
clear from her bank statements.Having reviewed all Miss Ms bank statements I can see that there are short bursts of 
gambling activity. But there are not sufficient transactions on her statements to suggest Bank 
of Scotland ought to have been alert to Miss Ms difficulties. Miss M has also provided copies 
of some of her credit card statements from around 2017 and 2018. Again, there is some 
evidence of gambling, but not at a level which ought to have suggested an obvious problem 
to Bank of Scotland.
On balance, on the information available to me, I think Bank of Scotland conducted 
necessary and proportionate checks each time it lent to Miss M and I dont think it acted 
unfairly on the outcome of those checks
My final decision
I do not uphold Miss Ms complaint. This means Bank of Scotland plc doesnt have to do 
anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman