DRN-4360311
The complaint
Mr G complains about how Ageas Insurance Limited handled a claim for subsidence on the 
home insurance policy for his property. 
What happened
Mr G owns a property that is covered by a group home insurance policy, underwritten by 
Ageas. 
In August 2020 a claim was made by the property manager of the building after cracks 
started to appear. Ageas accepted the claim and identified the cause of the subsidence to be 
a nearby tree that was owned by a third party organisation, that Ill refer to as T. Ageas 
approached T to ask it to remove the tree, however it wanted more information to show that 
this was the cause of the issues.
Over the months that followed very little progress was made with T. Ageas instructed the 
removal of other trees in the area but this didnt stabilise the building. 
In February 2023 Ageas decided to instruct solicitors in order to get T to remove the tree. 
However Mr M was unhappy with how the claim had progressed up until this point. He said 
the cracks to his property had been worsening and he had to wait a long time with hardly any 
updates about how the claim was progressing from Ageas. He made a complaint.
In response, Ageas accepted it could have moved the claim on more promptly and upheld 
the complaint. However it didnt offer any compensation. Mr G didnt think this was fair and 
brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said he thought Ageas had 
taken reasonable steps to try and get T to remove the tree and as these hadnt worked, it 
was now the right thing for it to instruct solicitors. 
Mr G didnt agree, and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
When the complaint came to me, I didnt agree with our investigators outcome. I wrote to 
each side to explain my provisional decision.
I said I thought Ageas could have done more to move the claim forward more promptly. 
Particularly after August 2022, when T stopped responding to correspondence about the 
tree. 
I said it was unclear why action hadnt been taken sooner to instruct solicitors after this date, 
or in the months before when it became clear that T was not cooperating. Instead Ageas 
took very little action and this had delayed a resolution for Mr G. 
I noted the impact this had had on Mr G, as the damage to his property had been worsening 
and he had no clear idea of what the timescale would be for the tree removal and claim 
progression. And Ageas had done little in order to keep him updated.
I also said that in its final response, Ageas had accepted that it could have moved the claim 
along more promptly. But it didnt offer any action to put things right. Considering the impact 
the matter had on Mr G I thought it should pay £300 compensation to apologise for the 
delay. 
I also said that considering the time that has already elapsed since the claim was raised, I 
now expect Ageas to take prompt action to reach a resolution on the claim. And, should 
court proceedings be lengthy, consider other work that could be done if tree removal isn't 
successful or takes an unreasonable amount of time to secure.
Response to my provisional decision
Both Ageas and Mr G responded to my provisional decision and accepted my findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both sides have accepted the findings I laid out in my provisional decision, I see no 
reason to depart from this for the reasons already given. I therefore require Ageas to pay Mr 
G £300 compensation to apologise for the distress and inconvenience it has caused.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Gs complaint and direct Ageas Insurance Limited to 
pay him £300 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman