DRN-3595234
The complaint
Mr G says HSBC UK Bank Plc closed his credit card without telling him.
What happened
HSBC wrote to Mr G about the pending account closure on 29 September 2021. It sent this 
letter electronically to the My Documents section of his online banking facility but Mr G did 
not receive it. He says HSBC had no valid reason to close his account. He hadnt used it 
recently as he kept it for holiday spend and he hadnt been away due to the pandemic. Mr G 
says important communications like this should be by post. 
He says the closure has affected his credit score and access to credit. He wants HSBC to 
reopen his account, rectify his credit score and compensate him for both the inconvenience 
caused and the adverse impact on his credit history.  
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Gs complaint. He found HSBC had sent the required 
closure notice and made its decision in accordance with the terms of the Mr Gs account.
Unhappy with this assessment Mr G asked for an ombudsmans review. He asked for 
evidence HSBC actually sent correspondence about the closure electronically, and to which 
email address. Also, he said the document he signed confirming how he wished to receive 
correspondence should be reviewed  what had he agreed to? He sent in a screenshot of 
his HSBC alerts that did not show an alert for the closure letter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
HSBC has explained and evidenced how it provided the closure notice to Mr G. It was a 
letter loaded into My Documents on his internet banking facility and he was sent an email 
on 30 September 2021 to let him know he had a new message to read. The letter was 
classed as an action required document which means had the notice remained unopened 
the bank would have sent an email remainder, and as a final stage a letter by post 
(irrespective of his contact preferences given the importance of the letter). As only the first 
step happened here it seems fair to conclude the initial notice was opened. 
Mr G says he did not receive the notice but as HSBC has provided a copy of the letter and 
screenshots showing it was sent electronically in line with Mr Gs contact preferences I cant 
fairly find the bank to be at fault. As Mr G knows the investigator has verified HSBC was 
using the correct email address for him. And I have seen HSBCs record of Mr Gs contact 
preferences, set when he applied for the credit card, that shows he had opted for email and 
phone and text communications, but not post. 
Mr G sent in a screenshot of all the alerts he says he has received from HSBC. They are 
dated March 2014 to March 2019, so I am unsure if it is up-to-date. But nevertheless 
HSBCs evidence shows it was a direct email that it sent to Mr G to alert him to read the 
closure notice in the My Documents section of his online banking.
With regards the decision to close Mr Gs account I have found no failings on the part of the 
bank. It was in line with the terms of the account. And as Mr G had an open line of credit that 
he wasnt using, which creates a degree of risk for both parties, and he hadnt responded to 
the closure notice to confirm he still wanted his card, I think its actions were fair.
It follows as I have not found the bank did anything wrong I will not be instructing it to take 
the actions Mr G requested or to compensate him. 
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman