DRN-2079477
The complaint
Mrs G complains she was badly advised by Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited 
(LV) to take out its Free-Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) plan.
Mrs G is represented in this complaint by a claims management company (CMC) but for 
ease of reading Ill refer mainly to Mrs G.
What happened
The advice was given by a representative from the Teachers Assurance Company which is 
now part of LV. 
Prior to retirement, Mrs G was a teacher and was contributing to her occupational pension 
scheme. In 1991 at age 43 she was advised by a representative from LV to start contributing 
to an FSAVC plan to boost her retirement income. Mrs G started contributing £40 per month 
(£30 net) and in 1995 the advisor recommended she increase her contributions to £86.67 
(£65 net). In 2007 she stopped her contributions and took her benefits, by taking a tax-free 
lump sum and using the remainder to purchase an annuity. 
In 2019 through her CMC Mrs G complained about the advice shed been given. LV 
reviewed the sale and agreed the advisor didnt draw the in-house options to Mrs Gs 
attention so offered redress on a charges only basis. Meaning that LV would compare the 
charges Mrs G would have paid if shed made AVCs in her occupational scheme rather than 
FSAVCs. Mrs G didnt accept the offer as shethought shed have been better off purchasing 
added years in her occupational scheme. So she complained to this service through the 
CMC.
One of our investigators didnt uphold the complaint as he wasnt persuaded Mrs G would 
have committed to purchase the shortfall of six added years. So he felt LVs offer of redress 
was fair. 
Mrs Gs representatives said he had misunderstood their objection. Which wasnt that Mrs G 
would have purchased six added years, but she should have been advised to direct her 
contributions to the added years route. It said LV knew Mrs G would get more redress 
through added years so the charges only redress wasnt sufficient. 
So the case has been passed to me to issue a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it, for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. 
For the complaint to be upheld its not enough that Mrs G might have been able to afford to 
buy added years in 1991 or that she might have chosen to do so. And I cant factor in 
whether shed be better off now if she had. I need to decide if its more likely than not thats 
what shed have done at the time, if the option had been open to her. And I dont think she 
would. Let me explain why.
I should say the advisor who saw Mrs G and her husband (also a teacher) is likely to have 
been a tied advisor so could only provide information about his own firms products. But 
under the LAUTRO code which applied at the time, he was expected to have regard for the 
consumers rights under their occupational scheme. This would include being aware that 
charges for in-house AVCs tend to be lower than FSAVCs, so represent better value for 
money. 
LV admits the advisor didnt refer Mrs G to her employers occupational scheme to find out 
about the in-house options available to her. Had he done so Mrs G would have been able to 
compare the charges of an FSAVC plan with making AVCs to the in-house scheme. And I 
think AVCs are what shes most likely to have chosen. The features of an FSAVC, such as 
portability, are unlikely be have appealed to Mrs G, as teachers generally stay in that 
profession throughout their career. And they can usually remain members of the main 
occupational scheme even if they move between settings.
The CMC has rejected the redress offered by LV as Mrs G is likely to be better off now if 
shed opted to purchase added years. But I think thats with the benefit of hindsight. Im not 
persuaded thats what shed have done at the time of the advice, even if shed known she 
could. 
In 1991 if Mrs G worked to her retirement date shed have completed 34 years service, 
which meant she could purchase a maximum of six added years in her occupational 
scheme. Mrs G opted to make monthly contributions to the FSAVC plan of £40 (£30 net). 
But if shed decided to purchase added years, each year would cost 1.28% of her salary, 
which was just over £18,700 at the time. So buying six added years would require a 
commitment of 7.68% of salary (almost £120 per month), a lot more than she was prepared 
to contribute. Purchasing just one year would cost almost £20 per month, so more than one 
would exceed the amount Mrs G was willing to contribute. And the contributions would rise 
over time as her earnings increased, as they were expected to do. Added years would have 
seemed a relatively expensive way to boost retirement benefits. The cost was determined by 
government actuaries based on quite a conservative set of assumptions as it was intended 
they should be fully borne by the member, with no need for any contribution by the public 
sector scheme. Whereas assumptions about the performance of FSAVCs and money 
purchase AVCs would have been more optimistic. Given this, I dont think the additional cost 
would have appealed to Mrs G, even if she considered the security and spouses pension 
elements. After all Mrs Gs husband was also a teacher and a member of the same 
occupational scheme. 
The CMC admits Mrs G probably wouldnt have purchased the full six added years - three or 
four is more likely. But that would still require an initial monthly financial commitment of 
between around £60 and £80. Im not persuaded shed have done that, given the level she 
was prepared to contribute to the FSAVC. Mrs G only increased her contribution once during 
the term, to £65 which is still lower than the three or four added years the CMC thinks shed 
have bought. And she only did that because the advisor recommended it, even though her 
salary had risen around 23% in that time. So I dont think the evidence shows she was 
prepared (or could afford) to pay more per month or for her contributions to rise each year in 
line with her earnings. 
  
Mrs Gs representatives have described her as cautious and risk-averse which is another 
reason added years would have been more suitable for her. But her attitude to risk was 
recorded in 1991 as 50% low/minimal and 50% medium. Which suggests she was prepared to take some risk to achieve a better return, rather than avoiding any risk at all. 
And in 1991 she was 17 years away from retirement, which is a reasonable time period to 
achieve some investment growth. I bear in mind the bulk of her pension was in a very safe 
public sector scheme, so I think shed have been prepared to take some risk with a relatively 
small proportion of her pension. So Ive no reason to say the ATR recorded by the advisor in 
1991 wasnt correct.
Im not sure her modest monthly contributions of just over £5 to small endowment plan 
started in1981 and which might relate to her joint mortgage, is relevant here, although it 
would involve an element of risk. However in 1995 when the advisor recommended she 
increase her pension contributions, Mrs G also started a ten-year Tax-Exempt Savings Plan 
paying £25 per month, which the fact-find suggests was to assist one of her children with 
higher education costs. I think this is also in line with her recorded ATR. But wanting to put 
money towards her childrens education is another reason to think shed have been less 
likely to wish to commit to pension contributions based on a percentage of her salary. 
So taking everything into consideration Im not persuaded Mrs G is more likely than not to 
have opted to purchase added years rather than make AVCS, even if she knew she could. 
So I dont uphold the complaint, in the sense that LVs offer to calculate the redress on a 
charges only basis is a fair and reasonable outcome. I leave Mrs G to decide if she now 
wishes to accept the offer. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint as the redress offered by Liverpool Victoria Financial Services 
Limited is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. I make no further 
award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman