DRN-1608337
 
The complaint
Mr P complains MotoNovo Finance Limited wont accept his rejection of a car he obtained 
through a hire purchase agreement.
What happened
Mr P entered into a hire purchase agreement on 4 September 2019 for a second-hand car. 
He obtained the car three days later. It was around five years old and had a mileage of 
around 56,000 miles. 
Within a few days he noticed a whining sound coming from the gearbox. He returned the car 
to the supplying garage and told it he wanted to reject the car. The supplying garage couldnt 
find a fault so wouldnt accept his rejection of the car.
Mr P took the car to one of the manufacturers garages and it carried out a diagnostic test. It 
concluded that the turbo was beginning to fail. Mr P complained to MotoNovo who arranged 
an independent report. Based on the findings of the report, MotoNovo concluded that the 
fault wasnt present when the car was supplied, so it didnt uphold his complaint.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld, concluding that there 
was a fault with the car when it was supplied and that Mr P had reported that fault, and told 
MotoNovo he wanted to reject the car, within 30 days. He thought MotoNovo should accept 
his rejection of the car and refund the deposit paid, plus interest, and pay him £150 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
MotoNovo didnt agree. It said, in summary, that:
It arranged for an independent report, even though the onus was on Mr P to do this.
The independent report was carried out by a trained engineer. The investigator hasnt 
agreed with the conclusion of this report, but the investigator is not a qualified mechanic 
or engineer.
The turbo hasnt failed. Mr P is asking to reject a car whose only fault is with the air 
conditioning compressor.
Mr P was able to drive around 2,000 miles before the independent report was completed 
and hes been able to continuously drive the car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such, this 
service can consider complaints relating to it. MotoNovo is the supplier of goods under this 
agreement and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, theres an implied term that the 
quality of goods is satisfactory. As such, in order to uphold this complaint, I would have to 
be persuaded that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and so a breach of contract has 
taken place.
Mr P reported a problem with the car shortly after he obtained it. He said the gearbox made 
a whining sound, until the car warmed up and that hed noticed the noise getting worse. The 
supplying garage couldnt replicate the fault  although this may have been because it didnt 
run the car when the engine was cold. Mr P arranged for a diagnostic check. This concluded: 
Bearings found to have excessive play. New turbo required. 
Mr P sent the diagnostic report to MotoNovo but, because it had conflicting information from 
the supplying garage, it arranged an independent report. I dont know why it now says it 
wasnt its responsibility to do this  it knows that if a fault is found within the first six months 
after a car has been supplied that the assumption is that it was present or developing when 
the car was supplied, unless there is evidence to the contrary. So it was right that it 
arranged, and paid for, the independent report.
The independent report found a fault with the air conditioning compressor. I am not going to 
comment on this further because it makes no difference to the outcome of my decision.
With regard to the fault that Mr P reported, the independent engineer found that:
On start up it was immediately apparent a slight whining could be heard emanating from the 
turbocharger.
We then carried out a 3.5-mile road test where the whining became more apparent on 
overrun with slight throttle response.
So the inspection which was carried out on 30 October 2019 confirmed the noise that Mr P 
had reported within a few days of obtaining the car.
The report concluded that:
In our opinion based on the visible evidence, we would conclude that the vehicle does have 
several faults which require further investigation. Such faults would generally be evident in 
loss of power, a loud hissing and whining noise which would progressively worsen over time.
Taking into consideration the time and mileage elapsed since finance inception, we consider 
on the balance of probability that the faults would not have been present at this time.
Ive considered this very carefully. I acknowledge MotoNovos comments that neither I, nor 
our investigator, are trained mechanics. And this is why I would usually place reliance on the 
findings of a qualified, and independent, engineer. But what the engineer does not seem to 
have taken into account is that the fault he identified is the same as that reported by Mr P 
within a few days of obtaining the car. This persuades me that, on the balance of 
probabilities, the fault was present or developing when the car was supplied. It follows that 
MotoNovo should take responsibility for this.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, a consumer has the right to reject goods that arent of 
satisfactory quality within 30 days.
Mr P contacted the supplying garage and MotoNovo within 30 days of the car being supplied 
to him and said that he wanted to reject the car. In the circumstances, and taking into 
account the absolute right under the Consumer Rights Act to reject goods that arent of satisfactory quality within the first 30 days, I consider Mr P had a right to choose to reject the 
car.
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for MotoNovo to cancel the hire purchase 
agreement with nothing further to pay. Mr P part exchanged a car when he entered into this 
agreement. MotoNovo should refund him the value of that car - £500, plus interest.
I think MotoNovo should be able retain the monthly payments Mr P has made to reflect his 
use of the car. But I agree with our investigator that it should pay him £150 to reflect the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. MotoNovo Finance Limited should:
1. Cancel the hire purchase agreement, with nothing further to pay.
2. Arrange to collect the car, at a mutually convenient time for both parties, and at no 
cost to Mr P.
3. Refund the value of the part exchange car - £500, plus 8% simple interest from the 
date of the agreement to the date of settlement. 
4. Remove all reference to this hire purchase agreement from Mr Ps credit file.
5. Pay Mr P £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MotoNovo Finance Limited to deduct tax from the 
interest payment. MotoNovo Finance Limited must give Mr P a certificate showing how much 
tax its deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman