DRN-3329258
The complaint
Miss B complains that NRAM Limited (NRAM) said it would change the date of the default 
it had recorded on her credit file in relation to her unsecured loan account but didnt do so.
What happened
Miss B had a joint mortgage with her ex-husband. Along with the joint mortgage they also 
borrowed money as an unsecured Together Loan. The Together Loan was stapled to the 
mortgage. 
Miss B separated from her ex-husband, and sometime later she tried to get another 
mortgage. It was declined. At this point she realised that NRAM had reported a default on 
her credit file in relation to the Together Loan.
Miss B complained to NRAM about the default and other issues in 2016. NRAM upheld parts 
of her complaint and offered her £1,000 compensation in a final response letter dated 10 
February 2016. However, NRAM didnt accept it had made a mistake when it recorded the 
default on Miss Bs credit file. It said the default had been reported correctly, so it wouldnt 
remove it. 
Miss B complained about the matter again in mid-2020. She says she looked at her credit 
file after shed been declined credit and saw that the default had been reported in December 
2015. As repayments towards the loan had stopped around August 2014 she asked NRAM 
to amend the default date to August 2014.
In September 2020 NRAM agreed to change the date of the default to August 2014. It did 
this as a gesture of goodwill after Miss B told it about the impact the default was having on 
her. On 22 September 2020 NRAM wrote to Miss B to tell her this. It said that it would take 
up to six weeks for the change to be made.
Miss B complained to us in November 2020. She said NRAM shouldnt have applied the 
default to her credit file in the first place and told us about the impact of the default on her 
finances and her health. In a separate decision I said that the Financial Ombudsman didnt 
have the legal power to consider that complaint as she had complained to us out of time. So 
that issue hasnt been considered by us.  
In November 2020 Miss B also told us that NRAM hadnt changed the default date in the six-
week timeframe it had set out in September 2020. Miss B said shed spoken NRAM on the 
phone and wasnt sure if NRAM was still planning on making the change. She says that 
initially it had told her that there werent any notes on her account to say it had agreed to 
change the default date. Later it said it might have a problem changing the date of default. 
By the time our investigator considered Miss Bs complaint the default wasnt recorded on 
Miss Bs credit file any longer. Thats because NRAM had changed the date of default to 
August 2014 and more than six years had passed since then. However, Miss B didnt think 
the time NRAM had taken to change the default date was reasonable given the impact of the 
default on her. She also complained that NRAM agent she spoke to on the phone was rude.
NRAM accepted thered been a delay changing the date of the default. It wrote to Miss B in 
November 2020 offering her a £150 compensation. In that letter NRAM acknowledged that 
its delay had meant that shed had to complain again, and that on one occasion it hadnt 
phoned her back as promised. It also told us that on one occasion when Miss B had called 
for an update, there was a bad telephone line. That meant Miss B had to repeat herself 
when she was being asked security questions.
Our investigator thought NRAM had acted fairly when it said it would amend the default date 
as a gesture of goodwill. He didnt think NRAM acted unreasonably when it had said it would 
take six weeks for that change to take effect. He said that NRAM wasnt required to change 
the default date on Mis Bs credit file, and it had done so after it had considered how the 
change would help Miss B.
However, our investigator thought that NRAM should have done better after it had agreed to 
change the date of the default. It took more than six weeks for the change to be made. That 
caused Miss B to phone NRAM on 4 November 2020 to find out when the change would be 
made. The NRAM agent Miss B spoke to said that someone would phone her back the next 
to let her know when the change would be made. But NRAM didnt call her back.
On 6 November Miss B phoned NRAM again. Our investigator said it appeared that NRAM 
had located Miss Bs file by then, but there had been an issue changing the default date. 
NRAM told Miss B there had been a problem. It said it would try to resolve the problem and 
would then call her back. On 9 November 2020 NRAM did this, saying that everything had 
been resolved and that the default would be amended that week.
Our investigator thought NRAM shouldve amended her credit file in the six-week period it 
had specified. So he understood why she was unhappy to find out it hadnt. He said it would 
have been clear to NRAM that the situation had caused Miss B a lot of stress. So it should 
have phoned Miss B back when it promised to do so. He thought NRAM did the right thing 
when it was honest that it was experiencing difficulties changing the default date for her as it 
had promised. He noted that NRAM had accepted it couldve done better and offered Miss B 
£150 compensation - £100 as an apology for not amending the default date when it said it 
would and £50 for not phoning her back as promised. He thought that amount was a fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Our investigator also considered whether NRAMs delay caused Miss B a financial loss. 
Miss B had told us shed paid subscription fees to get reports from the credit reference 
agencies (CRAs) so she could keep track of when NRAM updated her credit file. 
Our investigator said he understood Miss Bs position. However, Miss B had told us that 
shed paid to enter into subscriptions with the different CRAs before NRAM had agreed to 
change the default date as a gesture of goodwill. So he didnt think it would be fair for us to 
require NRAM to reimburse her for these subscriptions. Our investigator was also conscious 
that Miss B could get the relevant information without subscribing to CRA services. 
Finally our investigator considered Miss Bs complaint that an NRAM agent had been rude to 
her. He said hed been provided a transcript for the conversation between NRAM and 
Miss B, where she ended the call as she was unhappy with the service she was getting. Our 
investigator said the transcript made it clear that the NRAM agent couldnt hear Miss B 
properly on that phone call. So the agent had asked Miss B to repeat herself a few times. He 
understood why Miss B had been frustrated by that, but he didnt think that NRAM had acted 
unreasonably on this occasion. So he didnt think that it would be fair and reasonable for 
NRAM to be required to compensate her for that.
Miss B remained unhappy. She asked for her complaint was reviewed by an ombudsman. She said that she was unwell and didnt understand everything our investigator said. Our 
investigator tried to contact Miss B after this on a number of occasions to discuss her 
concerns, but unfortunately Miss B didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusion our investigator has reached, for the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
The issue I need to decide is whether NRAM should pay Miss B more than the £150 it has 
offered to compensate her for its actions after it agreed to amend the default date recorded 
on Miss Bs credit file. 
Theres no dispute that NRAM failed to amend the default date in the six-week timeframe it 
had set out in its 22 September 2020 final response. Nor is there any dispute that NRAMs 
delay caused Miss B distress and inconvenience. Thats evident from the number of times 
Miss B contacted NRAM from 4 November 2020 to find out when the change would be 
made, and the fact that when she spoke to NRAM at this time she said shed been checking 
her credit file every day to see if the change had been made. Im also conscious that NRAM 
was aware of the ongoing impact of the default on Miss B. Thats why it agreed to amend the 
default date in September 2020.
However, its clear that NRAM amended the date of default promptly after Miss B contacted 
it in November 2020. NRAM has been open about the fact that this didnt happen 
immediately because of problems it had locating Miss Bs file and making the amendment. I 
appreciate how frustrating these problems were for Miss B, but it wouldnt be appropriate for 
me to punish NRAM for those problems.
In the circumstances, I think the £100 NRAM offered Miss B for its delay amending the 
default date is fair and reasonable. I also think the £50 NRAM offered Miss B for not phoning 
her back as promised is fair and reasonable given the nature of NRAMs mistake and the 
time Miss B was affected. Im conscious that she was able to speak to NRAM on the phone 
after this.
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint NRAM should pay Miss B the £150 it has offered to pay Miss B to 
resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that NRAM Limited should pay Miss B the £150 it has offered Miss B to 
resolve this complaint unless it has already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman