DRN-3280643
The complaint
Mr I complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax unfairly closed his loan account 
and registered a default on his credit file.
What happened
Mr I says Halifax closed his bank account in early 2020 as a result of another bank closing 
his account with it. He says as a result he was unable to make his loan repayments to 
Halifax. Mr I says his loan account was closed and a default was unfairly registered on his 
credit file. He says he thought he was given a payment holiday.
Halifax says Mr I didnt make required loan payments from April 2020 until it closed the 
account in September 2020. It says it correctly registered a default on Mr Is credit file in 
those circumstances. Halifax says it sent Mr I a number of letters about the arrears and says 
Mr I told it in July 2020 that he had lost his job and that is why he couldnt make the required 
payments. It says it agreed to freeze interest for a month and asked Mr I to contact it before 
16 August 2020, but he didnt do so.
Mr I brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator thought 
Halifax didnt make a mistake by closing the account and registering a default when Mr I 
didnt make required payments and didnt contact Halifax as requested. The investigator 
didnt think a payment holiday had been agreed but a one-month interest freeze.
Mr I doesnt accept that view and in summary says his bank account shouldnt have been 
closed. He says he went to the branch to ask about methods of repaying the loan and says 
there was no contact before the default. He also says there have been previous issues.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr I will be disappointed by my decision.
I make clear to Mr I that I appreciate he makes a number of complaints, but I can only look at 
this complaint which is the decision to close his loan account and register a default on his 
credit file.
I appreciate that the closure of Mr Is bank account meant that he had to make alternative 
arrangements for the re-paying of his loan. But I have looked carefully at Halifaxs records 
and can see that Mr I didnt make his required payments from April 2020 until the account 
was closed in September 2020. Im satisfied that Mr I was required under the loan terms and 
conditions to make those required payments and so I dont think Halifax made a mistake or 
acted unfairly by closing the account. Im satisfied that Halifax is under a duty to accurately 
report the position of its customers account to the Credit Reference Agencies and was 
entitled in these circumstances to register a default on Mr Is credit file.
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) provides guidance on the registration of 
defaults and says a default should be registered between three and six months of arrears. 
Im satisfied that Mr I missed about six required payments and that it clear the relationship 
between him and Halifax had broken down.
I appreciate Mr I says he believed a payment holiday had been agreed. But having looked at 
Halifaxs records Im satisfied Mr I told it he had lost his job and was given a one-month 
interest freeze. I can also see that Mr I was told to call Halifax by 16 August 2020, but he 
didnt do so. So, I accept that Halifax ought to have dealt positively and sympathetically with 
Mr I when he eventually made contact with it. And Im satisfied that Halifax did act in such a 
way by agreeing the interest freeze. But I dont think Halifax could have done more to help 
Mr I as I dont think Mr I made contact as he was asked to do.
I have seen copies of about five letters Halifax sent to Mr I about the arrears and I have no 
reason to doubt they were sent. I would have expected Mr I to have contacted Halifax far 
earlier than he did if he was unable to make the payments or had difficulties making manual 
loan payments. And I think it was Mr Is responsibility to make those required payments in 
any event.
Overall, I cant fairly order Halifax remove the default from Mr Is credit file in circumstances 
where I find it was correctly registered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman