DRN-3805124
The complaint
Mrs R has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund a withdrawal where she says the 
cash did not dispense.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with the case, so Ill summarise things in brief.
In September 2021, Mrs R tried to withdraw £250 at a cash machine. She said her card was 
rejected and no money was dispensed. She said she tried a second time right after at the 
same machine, and withdrew £250 successfully that time. But her account was charged 
£500 in total. Shed like £250 to be refunded.
Lloyds looked into this. They found that according to the ATMs records, Mrs R withdrew 
£250 successfully, then tried again but got her PIN wrong, then withdrew a second amount 
of £250 successfully. So they said Mrs R had received the £500 that she was charged.
Our adjudicator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs R 
didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide. She asked for CCTV footage 
and said shed never been told her withdrawal limit was £500.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I understand that Mrs R has been going through a truly tough time more generally, for 
which she has my sympathy. Im grateful to her for being candid and open with our service.
With that said, I need to look at things objectively. Essentially, I can only tell Lloyds to refund 
the disputed £250 if the evidence supports that it was not dispensed to Mrs R.
I can appreciate why Mrs R would like to see CCTV footage of her withdrawal. That kind of 
footage is only kept for a short time  usually less than a month  so Im afraid its much too 
late for me to be able to view it now. And if its any consolation, the footage was very unlikely 
to have been detailed enough to show what the screen said or how much cash did or did not 
come out. Ive looked at all the evidence that is available, and thought carefully about whats 
most likely to have happened.
According to the ATMs electronic records, Mrs R put in her card and PIN and asked to 
withdraw £250. The withdrawal was approved, and £250 was dispensed to her in exactly 
correct notes. She then tried a second withdrawal, but got the PIN wrong, so no money was 
dispensed and Mrs Rs account was not charged. Finally, Mrs R tried a third withdrawal, and 
this time £250 was dispensed to her again  also in exactly correct notes. According to the 
records, the machine did not experience any errors or shut down  the only problem was 
when Mrs R entered the wrong PIN, but her account was not charged for that.
The customers before and after Mrs R were also able to use the machine without any 
issues, and the next customer was only less than a minute afterwards. The cash machine 
does not appear to have had any problems at the time.
If the ATM had not actually dispensed the first lot of £250, then Id expect it to have had 
£250 or so of extra cash in it afterwards. But when the cash machine was checked for 
balancing, the analyst confirmed that it only had a £30 surplus, and this was not from any 
cash getting retracted. This also suggests that Mrs Rs cash was dispensed properly.
Mrs R suggested that someone couldve fitted a device to the ATM and stolen the cash from 
the first withdrawal. And I understand why she thought to raise that possibility. However, if 
Mrs Rs first withdrawal had been blocked by a device, then that would normally be reflected 
in the records. But here, the records show that there was no problem: the first lot of £250 
dispensed just fine, it was not blocked by anything, and the machine did not shut down 
because of any device. Further, Mrs R stayed at that same cash machine after the first 
withdrawal, and she confirmed her second lot of £250 did dispense  so the cash was not 
getting withheld, and there was no opportunity for someone to have removed any device in 
between Mrs Rs first and second withdrawal, as she was still there. So the evidence does 
not support the possibility that any fraudulent device was fitted here. 
Lastly, Mrs R said she was never told by Lloyds that her withdrawal limit was £500. And that 
may well be the case. But Im afraid the fact remains that her withdrawal limit was indeed 
£500, so it was very much possible for her to have withdrawn that much on the day.
So the evidence I have strongly supports that Mrs R asked for £500 in total and that the cash 
machine gave it out. And Ive not seen anything which shows or substantiates that any of the 
cash did not get dispensed. So I dont have a fair basis on which to tell Lloyds to refund the 
disputed £250. This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult message 
for Mrs R to receive. But given the evidence I have and the balance of probabilities, Im 
unable to reasonably reach any other conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint in this case.
This final decision marks the end of our services involvement in the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman