DRN-1786835
The complaint
Mr B has complained about Ageas Insurance Limited. He isnt happy about the way it dealt 
with a claim by a third party under his motor insurance policy and the way it approached him 
for a statement about the incident. 
What happened
Mr Bs insurance company was approached by a third party who alleged that Mr B had 
knocked him off his bicycle. So Ageas asked Mr B about the accident and he said he wasnt 
involved, and he wasnt in the vicinity. He was also approached by the police about the 
accident and the fact that the driver of the car hadnt stopped. 
Ageas had to look into the claim and investigate the circumstances surrounding the accident 
as it was the insurer of the vehicle identified. The cyclist had a number of witnesses that 
identified Mr Bs car as the vehicle involved in the accident and the potential costs involved 
were high. Ageas looked to defend Mr B as he said he wasnt involved in the accident. 
But when it appointed an investigator to interview Mr B he didnt cooperate and ultimately 
said that he wasnt prepared to provide a statement. So it inspected Mr Bs car and decided 
that it couldnt defend the claim and settled. Mr B wasnt happy about this and felt that its 
investigators were overbearing and bullying in looking to contact him. So he complained to 
Ageas and then this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him and partly upheld his complaint. He thought that 
Ageas couldve explained things better to Mr B and that its appointed investigator was a little  
overbearing and thought its service was poor. He suggested that Ageas pay Mr B £100 
compensation for this.
Ageas maintained that its investigation and attempts to gain a statement from Mr B was fair. 
But it agreed to pay £100 compensation as it felt that its communications couldve been 
clearer. However, Mr B didnt agree. He thought that he should be paid thousands more in 
compensation as he felt bullied and intimidated by Ageas. 
So the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think that Ageas offer of £100 compensation is fair. I know this will come 
as a disappointment to Mr B, but Ill explain why. 
I often see cases when Im critical of an insurer for not looking to defend its consumer 
enough. But in this instance Ageas has looked to robustly defend Mr B and yet he has failed 
to cooperate with its investigation. I know Mr B feels that his statement to the police 
shouldve been sufficient for him to have his day in court but that isnt the case. The police 
statement wouldnt have been given to Ageas at that stage and it was taken when the police 
was investigating Mr B leaving the scene of an accident. So this wouldnt help Ageas 
establish liability.
Under the terms of the policy Ageas has the right to take over the settlement of the claim 
and decide whether to proceed to court or to settle. Legal proceedings are time-consuming, 
expensive and the outcome can be uncertain so it isnt always commercially sensible to take 
matters to court and only a court can decide liability. But we look to ensure that insurers act 
fairly and reasonably in deciding whether to settle or pursue matters. 
We expect insurers to make a reasonable assessment, based on a clear understanding of 
the evidence and the circumstances of the accident. To do this Ageas needed to interview 
Mr B and assess his car. But as Mr B wouldnt cooperate with its investigator and there were 
a number of witnesses to the accident (that put Mr Bs car at the scene of the accident and 
leaving the scene) Im satisfied that it carried out a reasonable investigation into the claim. It 
clearly looked to defend Mr B (which he wanted it to do) but without his cooperation and the 
evidence pointing towards his involvement it couldnt. As such, I consider it would be very 
difficult for Ageas to fully defend Mr B in court especially as there was some damage to his 
car that couldve been consistent with knocking a cyclist off his bike. So I think it acted fairly 
in settling the third partys claim. 
Turning to Mr Bs allegations that its investigators were overbearing and bullying I dont think 
there is sufficient evidence to say this. Ageas appointed investigators who tried to contact 
Mr B at his home address and at the static caravan park where Mr B had a caravan that was 
near to the scene of the accident. I understand that Mr B didnt want to be interviewed but he 
had a duty, under his insurance policy, to cooperate with his insurer who was looking to 
defend him. Although it couldve spaced out its attempts to contact him I dont think calling 
Mr B, leaving contact cards and asking Mr B to get in touch was overbearing or would 
amount to bullying. It tried to contact him at his home address and at his caravan and I dont 
think that is unreasonable. Id have expected Mr B to make contact and arrange a 
convenient time to be interviewed if he wanted his insurer to defend the claim and if he 
wasnt involved. 
However, I can see that the communication around all of this couldve been better which 
Ageas acknowledges. So I dont propose to interfere with the £100 compensation it has 
agreed to.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr B, but he had a duty to cooperate with his 
insurer. It was clear that he wanted the claim defending and didnt believe he was involved in 
the accident. Indeed, Mr B complained about the settlement of liability when Ageas accepted 
the fault claim. But he needed to provide a statement and meet with Ageass investigators 
for this to happen.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I partly uphold this complaint. I require Ageas 
Insurance Limited to pay Mr B £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman