DRN-3030945
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2006. Mr D says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax), mis-sold him PPI.
Mr D bought a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP). TMPP is a packaged protection 
plan and consisted of three parts  Mortgage Repayments Cover (the PPI), critical illness 
and life cover. Mr D didnt apply for the critical illness and life cover. I am only looking at the 
PPI part of the policy in this decision. 
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Ds 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr Ds representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ds. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ds complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
Mr D has said the TMPP was included as part of the mortgage package, but I think 
Halifax made it clear to Mr D that he didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take 
it out. I say this because the documents Halifax has been able to give us from the time of 
the sale indicate there was a discussion about the policy and Mr D made a choice.
At the time of the sale Mr D provided personal information and answered questions 
about his circumstances for the demands and needs statement. And the Keyfacts 
about this mortgage document has a section about insurance. I see that there is the 
heading InsuranceInsurance you must take out through Halifax plc. which is followed 
by You do not need to buy any insurance through Halifax plc.  There is a further 
heading Optional insurance followed by TMPP Mortgage Repayments Cover  
provides cover in the event of accident, sickness and unemployment. Ive also seen a 
copy of the welcome letter which starts with Thank you for choosing a Halifax Total 
Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP). The enclosed acceptance terms show the elements 
of cover applied for and if accepted the payments payable The letter has a box to 
show that Mr D accepted the Mortgage Repayments Cover but declined the critical 
illness and life cover. 
So, taking all of this into account, I think its clear the policy was discussed, and Mr D 
decided what elements of the policy would be of most benefit to him. 
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr D, so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. 
And the evidence about Mr Ds circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. For example, Mr D was eligible for the cover 
and although he had existing means he told us about  his savings  he still seems to 
have had a need for cover. 
There was nothing about Mr Ds employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. Although Mr D says he had a medical condition some time 
before the policy was taken out, I dont think it was wrong for Halifax to have 
recommended it. I say this because the condition Mr D told us about was a broken bone 
which occurred nine years before he took the policy. And he didnt tell us of any ongoing 
problems after it had healed. So, I think it unlikely Mr D would have thought he would 
have needed to have made a claim on the policy because of it.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out  so it looks like he wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr D as I concluded above, 
or too dissimilar to what he reasonably thought he was buying from the information he 
was given. Mr D has said he was financially stretched at the time, but I havent seen 
anything it suggest it was unaffordable for him  so it seems like it would have been 
useful for him if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr D would have 
declined the cover had Halifax done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr Ds circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations, 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. So, I think he would have 
still thought he had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mr D would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Ds representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But Mr Ds representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Ds individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Ds particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This means Halifax doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman