DRN-1314482
 
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Ferratum UK Ltd gave her loans irresponsibly.
What happened 
This complaint is about three loans Ferratum provided to Mrs H between February 2017 and 
January 2018. Heres a table showing details of these loans.
 
 
 
Loan 
 
Date taken 
 
Date repaid 
 
Instalments 
 
AmountHighest
monthly
repayment 
1 12/02/2017 26/05/2017 3 £600.00 £304.34
2 28/09/2017 25/01/2018 4 £450.00 £188.29
3 26/01/2018 05/11/2018 4 £900.00 £376.58
 
Mrs H said that if Ferratum had checked her credit file it wouldve seen that shed become 
dependent on getting these loans and the level of borrowing was beyond her means.
When Mrs H first complained to Ferratum it didnt agree that it had lent irresponsibly to to her 
 but it made a goodwill offer of £500 to settle the complaint
Mrs H didnt feel this offer went far enough and so she brought her complaint to us.
Initially our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. But following a review, a different 
decision was reached.
Our adjudicator felt that the complaint should be upheld in part. He didnt feel that hed seen 
enough to say it was unfair for Ferratum to have provided loans 1 and 2 to Mrs H. But he 
thought that by loan 3, proportionate checks wouldve shown that Mrs H had three other 
outstanding short term high cost loans. So Ferratum shouldve realised it was unlikely Mrs H 
wouldve been able to repay loan 3 in a sustainable way.
For these reasons, our adjudicator said Ferratum shouldnt have lent Mrs H loan 3.
Ferratum disagreed. It is concerned that weve changed our minds and told us it still didnt 
believe Ferratum lent irresponsibly. It mainly said that according to the credit report it obtained there were no other short term loans, and it could only go by the information 
provided.
What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ferratum needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs H 
could repay the loans in a sustainable way.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. 
But certain factors might point to the fact that Ferratum should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income)
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ferratum was required to establish whether Mrs H could sustainably repay her loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments.
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make 
their repayments without borrowing further.Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Hs complaint.
Id like to reassure Ferratum that Ive looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive independently 
reached the conclusion Ive come to.
I think, broadly speaking, the checks Ferratum did before agreeing the first two loans were 
proportionate. And Mrs H had paid loan 1 without giving Ferratum any reason to think this 
had been a problem for her and she didn't take loan 2 until around 4 months after she repaid 
loan 1. For both these loans, the amounts that Mrs H needed to repay looked comfortably 
affordable compared with the disposable income shed declared and the information 
Ferratum obtained about her finances.
Given the repayment amounts for loans 1 and 2, what was apparent about Mrs Hs 
circumstances at the time, and her borrowing history with the lender at that early stage in 
their relationship, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Ferratum to ask her for the 
amount of information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before 
agreeing the first two loans.
Mrs H asked Ferratum for her third loan the next day after paying loan 2. And this time she 
asked to borrow significantly more money - twice the amount shed taken out on loan 2 
barely four months earlier.
So I think Ferratum shouldve realised that it was no longer reasonable to base its lending 
decision just on the information Mrs H was providing and the credit information it had 
obtained. I say this because the information Ferratum had recorded for Mrs H appeared to 
be at odds with Mrs Hs actual borrowing record.
I think it would have been proportionate for Ferratum to have taken steps to independently 
check the true state of Mrs Hs finances.
If Ferratum had looked in depth at Mrs Hs finances it likely wouldve been able to see that 
she was facing serious problems managing her money. It should have seen that Mrs H had 
been borrowing regularly from other short term loan providers for some time  and she had 
three other short term high cost loans outstanding when she asked for loan 3 with Ferratum.
I agree with our adjudicator that the number of other loans and the extent of Mrs Hs active 
debt with other payday lenders when she asked Ferratum for loan 3 shouldve made 
Ferratum realise that she was having money problems. And I think its likely that 
proportionate checks would've enabled Ferratum to see that Mrs H was also very 
substantially overdrawn at her bank  not just at the end of the month, but at the start of the 
month too. And she had significant other credit debts.
Bearing in mind Mrs Hs declared income and expenditure, I think it shouldve been apparent 
to Ferratum that Mrs H probably wasnt asking it for a loan just to provide a short term fix for 
her cash flow problems or to cover an unexpected expense.
Instead, to my mind the information Ferratum had available if it had done proportionate 
checks suggested that Mrs H was now reliant on taking out expensive credit. So it was 
unlikely that Mrs H was going to be able to repay loan 3 in a sustainable way.
So Im upholding the complaint about loan 3.In coming to my decision, Ive taken into account everything that Ferratum has said, 
including its response to the adjudicators view. I appreciate that it may still disagree with this 
outcome. But I hope that setting things out as Ive done helps to explain my reasons.
Putting things right  what Ferratum needs to do
A) add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs H towards interest, fees 
and charges on loan 3, but not including anything already refunded.
 
B) calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs H which 
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs H originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
 
C) pay Mrs H the total of A plus B.
 
D) remove any negative information recorded on Mrs Hs credit file in relation to 
loan 3.
 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Ferratum to take off tax from this interest. Ferratum must 
give Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mrs Hs complaint about loan 3. Ferratum UK 
Ltd should take the steps Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman