DRN-2126096
The complaint
Mr J complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) have mishandled the 
maturity of his endowment policy and have also provided him with poor service.
What happened
Mr J held a joint endowment policy with his ex-wife that matured in 2016. Aviva erroneously 
paid 100% of the proceeds to Mr J rather than the 50% they say should have been paid due 
to the policy being jointly held with his ex-wife. 
Mr J complained about this in 2016, when our service determined that it was not a complaint 
we could look into as it had been referred to us too late. 
Mr J subsequently raised a further complaint with Aviva in 2019, reiterating his 
dissatisfaction with the way they handled the payment of the endowment proceeds, but also 
because they had contacted him directly in September 2019 despite clear instructions to 
only correspond through his solicitor. He was also unhappy that Aviva had incorrectly 
addressed a letter to his ex-wife. Aviva apologised for the poor service provided and offered 
£150 compensation, but they declined to comment any further on the events of 2016 given 
that this has already been addressed. 
Our investigator determined that we should not consider the element of Mr Js complaint 
concerning the events of 2016 (i.e. the maturity of the policy and payment of the proceeds) 
because in 2016, we had already determined that this was not a complaint we could look 
into given that it was referred to us too late. In respect of Avivas poor service in 2019, the 
investigator considered that their offer of £150 was fair compensation in the circumstances.
Mr J disagreed, so the matter has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Events of 2016 
The DISP rules allow me to dismiss a complaint in certain circumstances where I consider it 
appropriate. DISP Rule 3.3.4A says:
The Ombudsman may dismiss a complaint referred to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service on or after 9 July 2015 without considering its merits if the Ombudsman 
considers that:
(5) dealing with such a type of complaint would otherwise seriously impair the 
effective operation of the Financial Ombudsman Service.
DISP Guidance 3.3.4B provides non-exhaustive, illustrative examples of the types of 
circumstances that would seriously impair the effective operation of this service, including:
(3) where the subject matter of the complaint has already been considered or 
excluded under the Financial Ombudsman Service (unless material new evidence 
which the Ombudsman considers likely to affect the outcome has subsequently 
become available to the complainant.
My colleague that previously looked into Mr Js complaint in August 2018 considered 
whether it had been referred to us within six months of the final response letter being issued 
by Aviva and determined that it had not  meaning it was time barred under our rules. The 
ombudsman also explained that they had not been made aware of any exceptional 
circumstances for the complaint being referred out of time. 
So, given that part of the subject matter of Mr Js present complaint continues to relate to 
Avivas handling of the maturity and payment of his policy proceed in 2016, I do not think we 
should consider it again given that an ombudsman has already determined that it falls 
outside the jurisdiction of this service by virtue of it being time barred. So I will not be 
commenting any further on the events of 2016 within this decision, because to do so would 
seriously impair the effective operation of this service. Instead, I will focus on the events of 
2019 that caused Mr J to complain again.
Events of 2019
Further to Avivas handling of the policy maturity and the events of 2016, Mr J is also 
unhappy because they wrote to him directly (instead of his solicitor) and also incorrectly sent 
a letter addressed to his ex-wife. Aviva offered £150 in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience caused by their errors, but Mr J does not consider this to be commensurate to 
the experience he has had. 
Ive considered the service J has received, and its clear he has been left concerned and 
upset about the way Aviva have handled their correspondence with him. I understand it 
would have been frustrating to receive a letter from them directly, despite asking for all 
correspondence to be sent to his solicitor. And I appreciate it would have also been 
concerning to see that they had incorrectly addressed a letter to his ex-wife. But I have to 
consider whether, in the circumstances, the £150 compensation offered by Aviva is 
proportionate to the trouble and upset suffered.
The power to make such an award is provided for in DISP Rule 3.7.2 of the Financial 
Conduct Authority Handbook, which sets out that I can award fair compensation for distress 
or inconvenience experienced by a customer. But such an award must be a proportionate 
reflection of the impact that a businesss actions (or inactions) have had. And in order to 
award further compensation to Mr J, I would have to be satisfied that the wrongful actions of 
Aviva have had a greater impact than just moderate inconvenience or upset, which I cant 
say it has in these circumstances.
I appreciate the experience would have been frustrating. But I dont consider the actions of 
Aviva to warrant any further compensation at a higher level, and Im satisfied that their offer 
of £150 is fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited have made an offer to pay £150.
I conclude that such an offer is fair compensation in all the circumstances. My decision is 
that Aviva should pay Mr J (if they have not done so already) within 28 days of receiving his acceptance of this decision.
Mr J should note that if he accepts my decision, it will be legally binding on all parties and he 
probably then wouldnt be able to take legal action over this matter for additional 
compensation. If, however, he rejects the decision, although his legal rights will remain intact 
it will be purely a matter between Mr J and Aviva as to whether the £150 offer remains open 
for acceptance. Strictly speaking, an offer is not binding on the offeror after rejection of it has 
been communicated.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman