DRN-3182444
The complaint
Mr H complains that Provident Personal Credit Limited has mis-managed his loan accounts 
for several reasons. And Mr H says that his credit file ought to be corrected to remove 
several years of adverse markers. 
What happened
Using information I have been sent from Provident, here is a brief loan table for some of 
Mr Hs loans which I think will assist to place matters and events into context. I have used 
the original credit agreements which have been sent to me plus later details from Providents 
account notes and statements of account. 
Mr H had four earlier loans but I have not included them here as they are not relevant to this 
complaint but I mention them for completeness so that Mr H knows I am aware of the 
lending history between him and Provident. 
Loan Approved
(scheduled end 
date)Amount 
and 
termOriginal 
Cost 
each 
weekArrears/missed 
paymentsRepaid
*9509
Loan 526 February 
2016
(late February 
2017)£1,000 
over 52 
weeks£35 3 April 2018 
*9608
Loan 627 September 
2016
(around April 
2017)£1,500 
over 63 
weeks£45 22 June 
2021
*0331
Loan 724 October 
2016
(around April 
2018) £760 
over 78 
weeks£19.76Account Notes say  
arrears letters for loans 6 
and 7 were sent to Mr H 
in November 2016 - 
sporadic payments made 
after January & February 
2017  one payment to 
the representative on 
30 May 2017 then no 
payments - loans 5, 6 & 
7 all passed to Provident 
Central Collections 
(PCC) on 30 August 
2017 22 June 
2021
Mr H complains that Provident got it wrong in relation to its handling of his credit file 
information for loans 5, 6 and 7. He maintains that he was always informed by Provident 
(and, he says, it was subsequently confirmed) that when his loans had been paid off his 
credit score would be sorted out and/or the adverse information on his credit file would be 
erased. 
An additional complaint point is that Mr H says his credit file shows many missed payments 
rather than Arrangements to Pay markers going back several years. He says that the credit 
reference agency check he did about his credit file information shows two missed payments 
every month for the past few years and that translates into 24 bad marks every year. Mr H 
has not sent to us any credit file copies or copies of any searches to show this and we only 
have information from Providents investigations. 
Mr H has said that Loan 5 has had incorrect credit file information reported against it. It was 
paid off in April 2018. In June 2021 Mr H had a telephone conversation with a Provident 
representative after which the credit file amendments for loan 5 were done.  
In the 18 June 2021 final response to his recent complaint then Provident accepted various 
points and reduced his balance by £150. After that he cleared the outstanding balance 
(22 June 2021) and he owes it nothing now.
He has complained to Provident about several issues over the years but the current one with 
this Service is summarised in Providents final response letter from June 2021:
Your credit file not being amended as promised on a previous complaint.
Your credit file not reflecting the arrangement you are in with Provident Central 
Collections (PCC).
Being informed that all of your arrears would be removed once the loans are paid in full.
Mr H told Provident that the resolution he wanted was:
Customer wants his credit file to be amended as he's not missed a payment, and 
wants confirmation that his credit file will fully be sorted when he's cleared the 
balance
Mr H has explained that several years ago, in 2017, he made a complaint about the 
Provident representative being unavailable for collections and/or his shift work not matching 
the representatives working hours and so that made it difficult to pay in person. And notes 
I have from Provident tell me that the representatives were not available for Mr H in loan 
repayment weeks 26, 30 and 34. This I refer to in this decision as the missed collections 
part of Mr Hs complaint history. 
My reading of all the information provided suggests that loans 5, 6 and 7 were transferred to 
the Provident Central Collections (PCC) in August 2017. And later, Mr H entered an 
arrangement to pay using a Continuous Payment Authority (CPA) from around 
December 2018 or January 2019 for loans 6 and 7. This looks to have been for £60 each 
month. 
Mr H complained in June 2021 that his credit file showed a lot of missed payments which 
he thinks was wrong. And he also reiterated his firm view that once the loans had been 
repaid then all his bad markers on his credit file would be removed or sorted by Provident. 
This led to Provident issuing a final response letter (FRL) that same month  June 2021. 
Provident upheld most of Mr Hs points and came up with a resolution and actioned some 
points to put things right for Mr H. These are summarised in the next few paragraphs. 
Provident said that it had looked at what had happened in 2016 (the missed collections 
complaint) and it referred to its original final response letter (FRL) for that complaint from 
2017 and duplicated that outcome in its June 2021 FRL. Ive read that. Provident determined through its research of its records that it had agreed it 
would amend the part of Mr Hs credit file relating to the missed collections complaint when 
the loans had been paid off. Its clearer to duplicate here the extract from the 2017 FRL 
which had been inserted into the June 2021 FRL as it covers several points: 
 Regarding the late payments that have been shared on your credit file during this 
time, we will be in a position to amend this for you once your arrears have been 
cleared. In order for us to update your credit file you will need to contact us once the 
arrears on your account are brought up to date, or when you have settled your 
account. We will then arrange for the late payments applied during this time to be 
removed from your credit file. Please note that any information shared prior or after 
this period will remain unchanged. We are unfortunately unable to remove the late 
payment now due to the outstanding arrears on your account that have built up as a 
result of other missed payments.
Another aspect the June 2021 FRL addressed was the fact that loan 5 was repaid in 
April 2018 and yet that element of the missed collections complaint which related to loan 5 
was not addressed and that ought to have been done. Provident said it would put that right 
for loan 5: 
I have referred this to the relevant team who will amend your credit file, as the 
arrears marker was 1, this will be amended to 0 and no arrears should reflect on this 
loan. Please note it can take up to 60 days to reflect.
The June 2021 FRL went on to say that the arrangement to pay for loans 6 and 7 ought to 
have been reflected on Mr Hs credit file and it had not been and so Provident said it had 
arranged for that to be carried out. So, it accepted that the missed payments markers ought 
to be altered to show arrangement to pay.
Provident then explained further about loans 6 and 7: 
Once you have repaid the remaining two loans, please contact us and we can 
arrange for the credit file amendment. I have reviewed the system and can confirm 
this means arrears will still show, but just not as severe. As an example, where your 
loan shows an arrears of 5, this will be reduced by 3 (in line with the 3 monthly 
collections that were previously missed) so the report will reflect 2.
The June 2021 FRL also set out that part of Mr Hs complaint Provident did not agree with 
which was Mr Hs understanding that PCC had confirmed with Mr H that all arrears would be 
removed from his credit file once the loans had been repaid. The Provident complaints 
department had investigated and this was not what had been agreed. But Provident did 
accept that on at least one telephone call with a Provident representative this was not 
articulated as clearly as it could have been and so may have caused confusion.
Provident explained in the June 2021 FRL:
Whilst the operator did not advise you that all the arrears would be removed, 
unfortunately they did not clarify the amendment would only be what the original 
complaint detailed above, not a full removal.
Although your Customer Representative (CR) did miss three collections, you did then 
fall further into arrears therefore it would not be correct to remove all the arrears. 
Your loans were taken in 2016 and went over the term by more than three months, 
and we are obligated to reflect accurate information.The June 2021 FRL ended as follows: 
For the reasons outlined above I am upholding your complaint. I am sorry for any 
trouble and upset we may have caused you.
 
By way of a further apology I have reduced your balance by £150.00 which can take 
up to 14 working days to reflect.
Mr Hs balance was reduced and then he chose to pay all the outstanding sums and so he 
owes Provident nothing. 
Mr H referred his complaint to this Service. 
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and did not consider that Provident needed to do 
more and so he did not uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Mr H was not content and so it was referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has not sent to us any copy documentation to demonstrate his concerns and so I have 
relied on the notes and documents sent to us by Provident as it has sent to us its 
investigation notes including records and extracts of details surrounding the original missed 
collections complaint. Mr Hs main concerns seem to emanate from that first complaint to 
Provident in or around 2017. I have not reconsidered that 2017 complaint  I have used the 
resolutions reached then as information pertinent to answer Mr Hs concerns now. 
 
In order fully to understand Mr Hs complaint and his concerns, I have listened to all the 
recorded calls between Mr H and our adjudicators since he referred his complaint to this 
Service. I have gathered that the main issues which concern Mr H relate to the original 
missed collections complaint following which Mr H holds a firm view that the whole of his 
credit file was going to be sorted when the loans were repaid. And the other issue about 
which Mr H feels strongly was that the arrangement to pay had not been recorded on his 
credit file  but it showed lots of missed payments.
Provident has accepted that the arrangements to pay had not been recorded on Mr Hs 
credit file, has upheld that part of his complaint and has undertaken to put it right. If that has 
not been done yet then Provident must do that. I cant be sure that its been done (or done 
correctly) because we dont have a copy of Mr Hs credit file. Ive relied on what B has said  
that the credit file has been updated. But on this part of his complaint I need not look into it 
further as Provident has agreed to put things right. 
Provident has also agreed to amend Mr Hs credit file in relation to Loan 5 and accepts that 
ought to have been done earlier. 
These elements of Mr Hs complaint have been resolved and I need not look into those 
further. 
So, it leaves me with Mr Hs main issue which, according to Mr H, was that Provident had 
always led him to believe that his credit file would be completely cleared of all arrears and 
bad markings once hed repaid the loans. Mr H has explained to our adjudicators, and which I have heard on the recorded calls, that 
because of the weeks in which the Provident representative did not come to collect the 
payments in 2017, adverse entries to his credit file relating to some of those missed 
payments were made. Mr H says that he was led to believe that once the loans were repaid 
his credit score would be sorted out. He understood that to mean the whole of the bad 
marks would be removed or erased. 
Mr H has also explained to our adjudicators that if he had known that his credit file was not 
going to be made good at the end, then he would have paid off the outstanding loans earlier. 
He explained that he had spent about £16,000 on an international family holiday in 2019 and 
he had the means to pay off the loans. He maintains he chose not to and to remain on the 
payment plan because he understood that the credit file was due to be amended and made 
good at the end. 
Provident has demonstrated by citing its 2017 FRL (from the original missed collections 
complaint) that this was not what was offered or agreed. I have set it out in full on page 3 of 
this decision and I repeat some of it here  We will then arrange for the late payments 
applied during this time to be removed from your credit file. Please note that any information 
shared prior or after this period will remain unchanged. We are unfortunately unable to 
remove the late payment now due to the outstanding arrears on your account that have built 
up as a result of other missed payments.
Provident was clear in 2017. And having considered it carefully that does appear to have 
been a fair resolution. Its not likely that due to a representatives non-attendance in or 
around 2017 over three weeks that Provident would agree to eradicate all past and future 
poor credit file history. I think that would have been disproportionate and I think it unlikely it 
was the agreed resolution at the time. And reading the extract from the 2017 FRL I think that 
the outcome was clear  just those credit file missed payments relating to the missed 
collections complaint were due to be corrected  not all the adverse entries. 
And reviewing Mr Hs payment history from the statements of account provided to me by 
Provident it does seem that Mr H was in arrears for a large part of 2017 until the accounts 
were passed to PCC. My view is that most of these arrears did not stem from the missed 
collections events. I think that Mr H had built up arrears before and since those missed 
collections events. And an arrangement to pay would have been agreed between Mr H and 
Provident in order to assist Mr H and likely because of the persistent arrears and/or 
additional missed payments when the loans were with PCC. So although Mr H may think 
that he was placed on the payment plan it would have been a mutually agreed plan and 
likely renewed periodically. 
It is unfortunate that at least one of the Provident representatives Mr H has spoken to on the 
telephone in the past was not as clear as they ought to have been when addressing this 
credit file correction. And Provident have accepted that what was said was likely not detailed 
enough and may have caused confusion. 
But I have considered this very carefully and thought about the likelihood that Mr H, having 
got the means to repay the loans in 2019 (an possibly earlier), chose to stay on the payment 
plan in order to pay off the loan slowly when all the time he was concerned about his credit 
file being sorted at the end. Mr H has said that he has been in an insolvency arrangement 
in the past and he knows how important good credit scores are for him. And I have seen 
from Providents notes that he received many letters or communications for loans 6 and 7 
about late payments and arrears over the years. So, I find it unusual that Mr H had not 
noticed these bad markers before and had not chosen to pay off the loans as soon as 
possible. 
And even if I am wrong that Mr H had money which he could have used to repay the loans in 
2019 (Mr H has not sent us any copy documentation or statements to show this) then still 
I am aware that the 2017 FRL was clear on what Provident had told him it would do when 
the arrears were cleared or the loans repaid. So I do not uphold this part of Mr Hs complaint. 
Considering all the explanations and details Mr H has given to us and which I have listened 
on the recorded calls with our Service, I think that the June 2021 resolution and the action 
points Provident has carried out already, or is prepared to do, is enough. It seems to be the 
fair and reasonable outcome based on the wording in the 2017 FRL (cited in the June 2021 
FRL). And considering all elements it seems an equitable outcome. Anything else seems to 
have been based on an expectation by Mr H which was not what was agreed.  
In the circumstances I consider that there is nothing further I need ask Provident to do. But 
I do make it clear to Provident that it must carry out all that it has said it would do in the 
June 2021 FRL. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman