DRN-3173890
The complaint
Mr W complains about Money Redress Limiteds (MRL) handling of his complaint against a 
company who provided advice about his pension.  
What happened
Mr W says he was pressured by a financial advisor at company G into switching his pension 
from one provider to another. Mr W says this didnt produce the returns he was promised so 
MRL represented him in a complaint for the advice given by company G and being mis-sold 
this pension. Company G didnt uphold the complaint and MRL then referred Mr Ws 
complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and MRL then stopped 
acting for Mr W in the complaint. Mr W then complained to MRL about their handling of his 
complaint and being led to believe for three years that he had a strong case and could 
potentially receive the return of his investment. 
 
MRL responded and noted Mr Ws main complaints were that MRL didnt take any significant 
action regarding his allegations against company G badgering him and using pressure 
sales techniques before and during the process of switching his pension. And, he felt he was 
continually reassured by various MRL staff that he had a strong case. MRL said there wasnt 
any physical evidence to support an allegation of badgering and it was a case of one 
persons word against the other. MRL said it wouldve been impractical for them to put 
forward this allegation against company G. MRL said they had listened to telephone 
recordings and noted three occasions when staff told Mr W he had a strong case and they 
accepted this gave Mr W a degree of confidence to continue with his claim. MRL upheld this 
part of the complaint and offered £250 compensation. This was broken down as £50 each 
for the three occasions Mr W was told he had a strong case, and £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience to Mr W.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mr W. He thought MRLs offer to put things right was 
reasonable and wouldnt be asking them to do anything further. Mr W disagreed so the 
matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided MRLs offer is a fair way to resolve matters. I understand Mr W 
will be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I 
think is the right outcome.    
The claim against company G
I understand Mr W feels MLR didnt present a strong enough case to company G or to our 
service. I do acknowledge Mr Ws concern but I feel its important to note that my role here is 
to look into MRLs service rather than the merits of any complaint against company G. That 
said, I do understand Mr W is unhappy about MRLs approach to his complaint so Ive 
looked into this further.  
I can see MRL take Mr Ws instructions and consider factors such as, was the advice 
provided in writing, were any other investments discussed, how the chosen investment 
compared to Mr Ws current pension at the time and were all risks fully explained. Using the 
information gathered, MRL prepared a draft complaint which was sent to Mr W for approval. 
This was approved by Mr W and then sent to company G. Mr W says he felt the draft 
complaint sent to him didnt contain all the important information he had provided but he left 
it to MRLs expertise. I think its a reasonable approach for a firm to send a draft to their 
customer to check all facts are accurate. But, I also accept Mr Ws point that its reasonable 
for a customer to rely on the expertise of a firm theyve instructed when framing allegations. 
Company G provide their final response to the complaint and refer to MRLs comment about 
their recommendation to undertake pension transfers. Company G say no policies 
constituted a pension transfer, and instead were pension switches. Company G also make 
reference to MRLs comment about Mr W being recommended to transfer his pension to a 
SIPP. Company G say this is an inaccurate statement and at no point did they recommend a 
SIPP for Mr W. They say the pension switch was from one personal pension to another. 
So, I agree there might well have been some inaccuracies in the information included in the 
complaint but Ive seen no evidence this has had an impact on Mr Ws complaint. I say this 
because Ive reviewed the final response from company G and theyve provided detailed 
reasons for why they dont feel they mis-advised Mr W to switch his pension. So, the claim 
has been considered by company G in full and theres no evidence the reason for the non-
uphold decision was down to there being inaccurate information. On this basis, even if the 
information provided was accurate, I dont think it wouldve changed company Gs position. 
I can see MRL stopped acting in the matter following our investigators view to not uphold 
the complaint against company G. I note Mr W is concerned MRL took this step and that its 
wasted three years of pursuing this complaint. MRLs Terms of Engagement say they will 
not guarantee to win a claim or pursue a claim that, in their opinion, has no realistic chance 
of success, and they reserve the right to cancel the agreement if they form this opinion. Its 
clear MRL formed this opinion after our investigator set out their findings on the complaint 
against company G. 
The terms and conditions allow MRL to take this step so I cant say theyve acted 
unreasonably. I acknowledge it has taken a significant period of time for MRL to reach this 
view but I havent seen any evidence which suggests MRL were aware prior to this point that 
the complaint lacked reasonable prospects of success. Even at the point MRL refer the 
complaint to our service, its clear they still believe there are prospects of success. This 
changes when the investigator shares their view so I cant say MRL have acted 
unreasonably here. As mentioned above, Im not assessing the prospects of success of a 
complaint about Mr W being mis-advised. So, while I note Mr W questions why MRL formed 
this view nearly three years later, its clear there was a trigger for MRL forming this opinion. 
I note Mr W says MRL were sent a substantial amount of information at the outset which 
they decided to ignore. Mr W says, had MRL reviewed this all and presented a stronger case 
to company G, then this wouldve resulted in a successful outcome. I can see Mr W did send 
a substantial amount of information to MRL and, while I agree the final response from 
company G points towards some inaccuracies, its clear they have considered the complaint. 
The central complaint against company G was around Mr W being mis-advised to switch his 
pension, and thats what company G have addressed. So, while I can understand why Mr W 
is concerned about inaccuracies presented in the complaint, I cant say this has had any 
impact on the final response as the key issue was addressed. In addition to this, I note Mr W feels he was pressured into switching his pension and feels this shouldve been raised as an 
allegation but I can see MRL have explained why the evidence didnt support this allegation.   
Assurances about prospects of success    
Firstly, Ive looked at the service given to Mr W. The key facts about this part of the 
complaint arent in dispute. MRL have admitted they got things wrong when they told Mr W 
on a number of occasions that he had a strong case. The only issue I have to decide is 
whether their offer of compensation is fair and reasonable.
I think its right that MRL should compensate Mr W for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by their poor service. Mr W clearly relied on the assurances he was being given and 
understandably was confident of a successful outcome to his complaint. Its clear from       
Mr Ws testimony he was left disappointed when he was then later told that MRL couldnt act 
for him any further due to the lack of prospects of success. Taking this all into account, I 
think the £250 offered by MRL is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.   
In summary, I do acknowledge Mr Ws frustration here around MRLs decision to stop acting 
almost three years after they first took on his case. While I cant comment on the prospects 
of his complaint about being mis-advised, I havent seen anything to suggest MRL shouldnt 
have reasonably believed Mr Ws complaint would be successful. MRL acted for Mr W on a 
no win no fee arrangement so I dont believe it would be in their interests to pursue a 
complaint they believe at the outset to lack prospects of success  and I havent seen that as 
being the case here. I do think though MRL have made an error here in reassuring Mr W he 
had a strong case and I think their offer of £250 compensation is fair and reasonable.   
My final decision
Money Redress Limited have already made an offer to pay £250 compensation to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Money Redress Limited should pay £250 to Mr W, if they havent 
done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman