DRN-2944119
The complaint
 Mr Z complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) marked his credit file with late 
payment markers and took too long to open a new current account for him.
What happened
 Mr Z had a current account with Nationwide. In September 2020, he switched it to another 
bank (which I will call Bank A). There was an outstanding overdraft of £77.31 on his 
Nationwide account, so the switch wasnt completed. The overdrawn balance remained. In 
November 2020 through to March 2021, late payment markers were advised each month to 
Credit Reference Agencies (CRA) by Nationwide. In March 2021, Mr Z repaid the overdraft 
of £83.90 (interest and charges had been added). In October 2020, he wanted to transfer his 
savings to his new bank  but couldnt, as he needed a current account to do this  and 
thought he no longer had one - so completed an application to open another account. The 
account was opened in November 2020.
Mr Z complained. He had no idea the switch hadnt been completed, nor that he had an 
overdrawn balance. He couldnt access internet banking to check the old account and didnt 
receive any letters about it. The late payment markers added by Nationwide were therefore 
unfair  and his credit history was badly affected as a result. Hed raised all this in his 
complaint to Nationwide in November 2020  but they took too long to handle his complaint, 
and when they did, they didnt address his main complaint  about the late payment 
markers. He tried to open a new account to enable him to transfer his savings  and this 
took far too long.
On 21 December 2020, Nationwide said the switch of account to Bank A hadnt been 
completed because there was an overdrawn balance of £77.31, and this increased to £83.90 
with interest and charges. They said no communications had been sent to Mr Z due to the 
figure overdrawn and said Mr Z couldnt access internet banking for the same reason. His 
new account application was made on 6 October 2020 and the account was opened on 13 
November 2020. They apologised for this delay and paid compensation of £50. Mr Zs 
complaint had been logged on 5 November 2020, and under the FCAs rules, they had 56 
days to respond  and they were within that timescale.
Mr Z brought his complaint to us. He said his main complaint  that Nationwide had advised 
late payment markers to the CRA  hadnt been dealt with by Nationwide. Our investigator 
said that Mr Zs account hadnt been closed and switched to Bank A because it was 
overdrawn. She could see that Nationwide had written to him on 21 January 2021 to advise 
him of the overdrawn balance. And hed received statements which also showed the 
overdrawn balance. He had a responsibility to check his balance himself. Nationwide had 
therefore advised the correct information to the CRA. On the delay to the opening of the new 
account, she could see there had been an unreasonable delay, but Nationwide had 
apologised and paid a compensation of £50  which was fair. So, she didnt uphold Mr Zs 
complaint.
Mr Z disagreed and asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
Mr Z initially also raised a complaint about the delays with opening a new account  but has 
since told us that his main complaint is about the switching process and the subsequent late 
payment markers. And Nationwide have apologised for the new account delays and paid 
compensation of £50  so I will concentrate on his main complaint.
As Ive said, I take a different view to our investigator. There are valid arguments on both 
sides of Mr Zs complaint. Hes consistently argued his case. And while Nationwide have 
followed their processes here, strictly following a procedure or process can lead to an unfair 
outcome for a customer in the individual circumstances of their situation. I think thats whats 
happened here.
Mr Z wanted to switch his current account from Nationwide to Bank A  under the industrys 
seven-day switch process. He completed the necessary forms. But I can see that on the day 
of the switch - 17 September 2020 - there was an overdrawn balance of £77.31. So  in 
cases like this, the switch couldnt go ahead, as the overdraft would have to be repaid before 
the account could be closed. This is the crux of Mr Zs complaint  he thought the switch had 
gone ahead and had no idea it hadnt. He says he didnt receive anything to say it had been 
held up, or that there was an overdrawn balance. He couldnt access internet banking (he 
presumed this was because the account had been closed)  and the first he knew about it 
was when he saw that Nationwide had lodged late payment markers at the CRA. So  I will 
concentrate on what Mr Z was told by Nationwide.
Nationwide say that he received statements and therefore Mr Z shouldve known about the 
overdrawn balance. I can see that statements were available between September 2020 and 
March 2021  Nationwide have shown us these - but I havent seen that a paper copy was 
mailed to Mr Z, so cant confirm this was the case or not. It may have been that he received 
only online, paperless statements, in which case  as he didnt have internet banking access 
 he wouldnt have seen these.
Nationwide also say that they wrote to Mr Z on 17 September 2020 to say that the switch 
couldnt be completed because of the overdrawn balance. They cant show us this letter  
but Ive seen a note on their system which says a letter was sent. So, this point is accepted.  
Although  I would be interested to know what the letter said  and whether it said that the
CRA might be advised.
But  against this, Nationwides final response letter to Mr Z says Upon speaking with our 
collections team, theyve confirmed that no communication has been issued due to the figure 
overdrawn as its not yet been required; however, as you are overdrawn you will not be
able to view the account online. So  this said that no letters were sent (or its unclear if they 
were)  and Mr Z (and hes said) couldnt access internet banking. I must say  I find it odd 
that Nationwide wouldnt allow this because of an overdrawn balance an account that was 
still open  but thats what theyve said.
Ive seen Nationwides notes of the switch. It says the switch was complete on 17 
September 2020, but then on the same day a Negative Balance Notification was sent  I 
presume this is the letter Nationwide have referred to. On 17 October 2020  the records 
show A switched out account is still open (with a negative balance) 1 month after the Switch 
Date. Nationwide told us that Mr Zs account was then transferred to collections on 19 
October 2020. But  I cant see that any communications were sent to Mr Z about this  and 
I think its reasonable to have expected there to be. I can also see that prior to the switch, Mr 
Z had an overdraft limit of £1500  which was cancelled at the time of the switch - so he 
must have been considered good for that amount of credit limit  so it seems odd that the account went straight to collections on that basis, and after only one month, and without any 
communications to Mr Z.
I can see that Nationwide wrote to Mr Z on 21 January 2021. This advised Mr Z his account 
was overdrawn with a balance of £83.90 debit. But  it doesnt say anything about the 
delayed switch. Nor does it mention any advice of late payment to CRAs. And in any case  
to write to Mr Z four months after the switch was started isnt reasonable in my opinion. Ive 
not seen any other contact or correspondence between September 2020 and then.
Mr Z tried to raise these issues with Nationwides complaints team. Mr Z says he complained 
in mid October 2020. He says Nationwide mislaid this. Whether that happened or not isnt 
that material here. But - I can see that the complaint was logged on 5 November 2020, but 
Mr Zs complaints werent followed through. I can see that Mr Z called them on 5 November 
2020. He was told  as shown in Nationwides notes - the account was not closed even 
though it has been transferred out in September and no longer showing on customer 
IBtransferred to collections. On 27 November 2020, he called again, and its recorded 
that not happy (with the delays) he has been checking his credit file and there is a 
default showinghes missed a payment for overdraft which he thought the account had 
been closed with the account switch he had requested. He cant view the account online so 
was unaware of his balance. Member is desperate to speak with someone .to get this 
resolved as he feels no one is taking ownership of the complaint. On 9 December 2020 he 
called again. So  Mr Z had put his complaint to Nationwide. And set out his problems that 
needed to be resolved. But in their final response, they do not deal with his complaint about 
late payment markers, whether any communications had been sent to him or why he didnt 
have access to internet banking. Nationwide had an opportunity to deal with the matters 
when Mr Z contacted them early in November 2020  but they didnt.
So  on balance, I dont think Mr Z has been treated fairly here. My provisional decision, 
subject to any comments that either Mr Z or Nationwide have, is to uphold this complaint.
My provisional decision is that Nationwide should remove the late payment markers. And  
Mr Z had argued strongly that hes spent a lot of time trying to sort matters out with 
Nationwide and been caused a lot of inconvenience. This includes taking time off work a 
visiting a branch of Nationwide. So  Im also awarding him a payment of £150 for this.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Nationwide didnt respond. But Mr Z did, and he said (in summary):
The correction to his credit file was the most important thing to him
But he felt the compensation should be higher than £150. Because of the impact on 
his credit file, his credit score had gone down. The reduction in his credit score meant 
that he couldnt apply for loans as a result. This led to further stress for him and his 
family, especially in the pandemic.
So  I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I hear what Mr Z says. Ive considered his complaint again. I can see that Nationwide 
couldve sorted things out much earlier  in November 2020, when Mr Z first contacted them, 
but they didnt. And so  Mr Zs problems were felt for longer than they needed to be. And  
not being able to apply for credit in the pandemic must have caused worry and stress. So, I 
am increasing the award for this to £250. This is what this service would expect to see for 
what happened.
My final decision
 My final decision is to uphold this complaint. And Nationwide Building Society must:
Remove the late payment markers at the CRAs for the months of November 2020 to 
March 2021 inclusive,
Pay compensation of £250 to Mr Z for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman