DRN-1900892
 
The complaint
Ms T complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard has refused to increase 
its compensation offer for the way in which it dealt with her when she was in financial 
difficulties. She also complains that she was given a credit limit increase that was 
unaffordable.
What happened
Ms T says Barclaycard increased her credit card limit in 2013 from £2,000 to £3,500. She 
says that increase was unaffordable and contributed to debt problems and her credit score 
being reduced to zero. Ms T says she received a letter in 2019 from Barclaycard in which it 
accepted it didn't treat her fairly and gave her £75 compensation but also said it would pay 
further compensation for the impact of its mistake. She says she paid Barclaycard £1,800 
that she borrowed to clear her debt and would like that money refunded to her and 
compensation for the effect Barclaycard's actions had on her.
Barclaycard says it increased Ms T's credit limit in 2013 in line with account terms and 
conditions and says prior to that she had managed her account appropriately with no late 
payments. It says Ms T could have rejected the increase and assessed it at the time. 
Barclaycard says it was some months later that Ms T got into financial difficulties and it tried 
to help her by refunding charges, agreeing to freeze interest and charges and by agreeing a 
short term plan at a lower interest rate. It says in 2018 Ms T offered it £1,800 in full 
settlement of the debt which was substantially higher, and it agreed to her offer and updated 
her credit file.
Ms T brought her complaint to us and also complained about how she was treated when she 
called Barclaycard. The investigator thought Barclaycard had dealt fairly with the complaint 
and thought it hadn't made a mistake by increasing the credit limit in 2013 as Ms T managed 
her account appropriately. He also thought Barclaycard had tried to help Ms T when she was 
in financial difficulties and hadn't treated her unfairly when she called it.
Ms T doesn't accept that view and says the £75 doesn't cover her losses.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the 
overall view that Barclaycard had dealt fairly with this complaint. I realise Ms T will be 
disappointed by my decision.
I have looked at Ms T's account terms and conditions and can see they say that Barclaycard 
can increase a credit limit. I can see that in 2013 Ms T's credit limit was increased and I think 
Ms T could have rejected that increase if she wished to do so. I have seen evidence on 
Barclaycard's records that the increase was assessed and that prior to that increase Ms T 
managed her account appropriately and was in employment. So I don't think Barclaycard made a mistake by increasing the credit limit and I have not seen any evidence that it was 
unaffordable at the time it was approved.
I appreciate that Ms T was in financial difficulties some months later and in those 
circumstances I would have expected Barclaycard to treat Ms T positively and 
sympathetically and I'm satisfied it did act in such a way here. I can see that Barclaycard 
refunded interest and charges, agreed a lower interest rate on a short term plan and 
eventually agreed a settlement amount far lower than the actual amount Ms T owed it.
I think the crux of this complaint is about the letter Barclaycard sent to a number of its 
customers about how it may have treated those in debt some years before. I'm satisfied that 
Barclaycard has looked into Ms T's complaint about how it treated her when in financial 
difficulties and has concluded that it didn't make additional charges or applied interest when 
it shouldn't have. So I don't think Barclaycard is obliged in those circumstances to refund the 
loan settlement figure as Ms T would like or pay further compensation. And I make clear to 
Ms T that I don't think it follows that she is entitled automatically to further compensation just 
by receiving that letter.
Overall I'm satisfied that Barclaycard has fairly dealt with this complaint and I have not seen 
any evidence it tried to dissuade Ms T from making a complaint. For those reasons I can't 
fairly order it to refund Ms T's payment or pay her further compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman