DRN-3927094
The complaint
Mr H complains that American International Group UK Limited (AIG) caused him distress 
and inconvenience by not communicating with him in the way he needed.
What happened
Mr H made a claim through the insurance policy he holds with AIG. On a couple of 
occasions he asked for correspondence to be in large font as he has sight problems. He also 
asked for a claim form to be sent in large font. AIG did that once or twice but didnt continue 
to send all letters etc in large font. That caused Mr H problems and meant he couldnt get his 
claim progressed as quickly as it should.
Mr H complained but isnt satisfied with AIGs response. So he asked us to look at the 
complaint.
Our investigator thought AIG should have treated Mr H better and sent letters etc in large 
font once this had been requested. She recommended AIG pay £100 compensation to make 
up for the fact that it didnt do this. 
AIG has agreed to do this, but Mr H doesnt think this is enough. He says every customer 
should be able to read letters from AIG and that he didnt like computer generated signatures 
on letters. Our investigator explained that this was a common practise  and that she 
couldnt ask AIG to change its business practises, only look at what happened to Mr H.
Mr H remains unhappy so Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When reaching this decision Im only considering the way AIG responded to Mr Hs request 
for large font letters etc. I havent considered the claim itself as thats not the subject of this 
complaint.
Mr H said he thought AIG should ensure all its customers be able to read its letters. I agree 
with that  but that doesnt mean AIG should change the way it does business generally. 
Instead its required to respond positively to reasonable requests about this. Its not 
appropriate for me to say AIG should change the way it communicates in general. I can only 
look at what happened to Mr H and the effect it had on him.
In summary, once Mr H asked for large font correspondence AIG should have provided that 
on an ongoing basis. It didnt do that causing Mr H some problems progressing his claim.
I think AIG made mistakes here and it should compensate Mr H for this.
Putting things right
I think that, taking everything into account, AIG should pay Mr H the £100 suggested by our 
investigator.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require American International Group UK 
Limited to pay Me H £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2023.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman