DRN-3692463
The complaint
Ms A complains that Lex Autolease Ltd has unfairly charged her rentals for a car, under a 
hire agreement, which wasnt of satisfactory quality when it had unreasonably delayed 
collecting it from her. 
What happened
In March 2018 Ms A entered into a 48-month contract hire agreement with Lex Autolease for 
a new car. The agreement had an initial rental of £8,621.28 and 47 monthly payments of 
£718.44. The contract hire agreement had an annual mileage agreement of 10,000 with a 
total mileage limit of 40,000. An excess mileage fee of 28.39p per mile would be applied if 
the mileage limit was exceeded when the agreement ended.
Ms A experienced issues with the cars power in September 2020, when repairs were 
undertaken. The car required further repairs in relation to engine faults in October and again 
in November 2020.
Ms A complained to Lex Autolease in November 2020 about the quality of the car. Lex 
Autolease wrote to Ms A in January 2021 upholding her complaint as it said, in light of the 
number of repairs, it couldnt be said that the car was sufficiently durable. Lex Autolease said 
it would support Ms As request to terminate the agreement early at no cost, though it said 
charges for damage or excess mileage may still apply. Lex Autolease also said it would offer 
Ms A £250 compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused by having to deal 
with the faulty car. Unfortunately, Ms A says she never received this letter and wasnt aware 
of its existence until around December 2021, when it was raised with her during a phone call 
with Lex Autolease.
Ms A says that the car wasnt fixed in November 2020, and the fault with the engines power 
cutting out remained, though it wasnt returned to the garage for further investigations or 
repairs. Ms A says she didnt think the problem with the car was repairable, so she hadnt 
pursued getting it fixed. 
Ms A made a number of attempts to contact Lex Autolease about returning the car between 
November 2020 and February 2022. In May 2021, there was an exchange of emails 
between Ms A and Lex Autolease during which Ms A provided all the necessary information 
for the agreement to be terminated and the car collected. But this wasnt processed due to 
an error between the internal departments of Lex Autolease.
The car was collected from Ms A in February 2022. The cars mileage at this point was 
recorded as 57,220 and an excess mileage charge was raised by Lex Autolease. 
Ms A says that due to her concern about driving the car it had been agreed that a family 
member would use the car and she would use theirs.  Ms A says she had no choice but to 
make this arrangement, as she couldnt afford to replace the car until the agreement had 
officially been ended. 
Ms A complained to Lex Autolease about the delay in collecting the car and the poor service 
she had received. It upheld Ms As complaint about the poor service in arranging the cars 
collection. Lex Autolease said the rentals and excess mileage fee would still apply because 
the car had been used and the mileage limit had been surpassed. It said it recognised there 
had been a service failure, but it would be unreasonable for Ms A not to expect to pay for the 
use of the vehicle from November 2020 to February 2022. Lex Autolease offered Ms A £150 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Ms A was unhappy at Lex Autoleases response and complained to this service She said it 
was unfair for Lex Autolease to charge for the use of the car after she had tried repeatedly to 
return it due to its faults. She said she had no choice but to use the car.
Our investigator recommended that Ms As complaint should be partially upheld. He said that 
Ms A had made around ten attempts to contact Lex Autolease to arrange the return of the 
car and, although it had sufficient information to terminate the agreement early in May 2021, 
it hadnt done so. He thought in the circumstances that compensation of £500 would be fair 
to reflect the impact dealing with delays in collecting the car had had on Ms A and the 
distress and inconvenience she had experienced.
However, our investigator said that the car had been used throughout the time it had been in 
Ms As possession; that the mileage limit had been exceeded by over 17,000 miles (over 
14,600 miles had been driven in the car between March 2021 and February 2022) and there 
was no evidence that the car had been in an unsatisfactory condition after the repairs carried 
out in November 2020. He said, taking these things into account, he thought it was fair that 
the contractual monthly hire payments should stand, as should the excess mileage charge 
since the agreed mileage limit under the agreement had been exceeded.
Ms A disagreed with our investigators view. She said the only reason the car had been used 
was because Lex Autolease had failed to collect it despite all her extensive efforts to hand it 
back. Ms A said the car wasnt roadworthy and was dangerous, as the repairs in November 
2020 hadnt fixed the problem with the engine periodically cutting out. And that after the third 
visit to the garage for repairs it was clear the problem couldnt be fixed and so there was no 
purpose in pursuing further investigations and work.
Lex Autolease agreed that £500 compensation was fair in the circumstances.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Ms A feels very strongly that it is unfair for Lex Autolease to charge her for the 
use of the car after she had tried to return it and end the agreement. She says the car wasnt 
fit for purpose and was dangerous, and it was only used because of Lex Autoleases failure 
to collect the car. Lex Autolease says that its reasonable for the monthly rental payments to 
be made as well as the excess mileage fee as the car was used extensively even though Ms 
As had requested to return the car.
Ive seen that Lex Autolease has accepted that following the car requiring three sets of 
repairs in respect of engine faults in September, October and November 2022, that it wasnt 
sufficiently durable and so wasnt of satisfactory quality. In January 2021, it had agreed that 
it would be fair for the contract hire agreement to be terminated early at no cost to Ms A. 
However, this termination wasnt then processed as Ms A didnt respond to this offer as she 
didnt get the letter. I dont know why this letter wasnt received by Ms A, but I cant reasonably say this was due to any fault of Lex Autolease. And I dont think Lex Autolease 
acted unreasonably in not chasing up its offer to terminate with Ms A.
Ive seen Ms A had made a number of attempts to contact to Lex Autolease, both on the 
phone and by email. And, by May 2021, she had provided all the necessary information for 
Lex Autolease to process an early termination of the contract as it had agreed to do in 
January. Unfortunately, there appears to have been a breakdown in Lex Autoleases own 
internal communication systems which meant this wasnt then done. Ive also seen that Lex 
Autolease has accepted that an increase in the amount of previously offered compensation 
would be reasonable when taking this into account, and the consequent impact it would have 
had on Ms A. And I think that Lex Autolease has acted fairly in recognising that.
Ms A says that Lex Autolease shouldnt be able to charge the contractual monthly rentals for 
using the car when that was solely the result of Lex Autoleases failure to collect it from her. 
She says she had no choice in the circumstances but to use the car. While I appreciate why 
Ms As holds her view, Im afraid I disagree it would be reasonable that there should be no 
rental payments to cover the use of the car from November 2020 until February 2022. This is 
because, even though it wasnt Ms A who was using the car, it was being driven up until the 
point of collection. And, looking at the mileage that was added to the car, I cant reasonably 
say the car was unusable. Ive seen that the mileage recorded at the MOT undertaken in 
March 2021 was 42,550, it was 46,379 in May 2021 when Ms A provided the mileage to Lex 
Autolease and was 57,220 at the point when the car was handed back in February 2022. So, 
an additional 14,670 miles had been driven between March 2021 and February 2022, which 
I cant fairly say would have been only minimal use. The car was subject to extensive use. I 
also dont think I can fairly disregard that the contractual mileage limit for the car was 
exceeded by just over 17,000.
Ms A says the car was dangerous, but I havent seen any corroborating evidence that would 
support the final repair carried out on November 2020 wasnt successful and the car wasnt 
roadworthy. Ms A has provided a short video of the car engine cutting out but its difficult to 
see when this was recorded and, without more information, it is also difficult to say this was 
due to a failed repair. Ive seen that the car successfully passed its MOT in March 2021. So, 
I dont have enough information to say that the car was dangerous to use and not 
roadworthy. Plus, as set out above, the car was being regularly driven to the point that the 
contractually agreed mileage was exceeded by a large number of miles. 
I can appreciate Ms As loss of confidence with the car and that there was an arrangement 
for someone else to use the car. But, in line with agreements terms and conditions, Ms A 
remained responsible for the car and also for the contractual monthly payments until the 
agreement was terminated. Ms A says she had no choice but to use the car and, while I 
accept the delay in collecting it would have been the cause of distress and inconvenience to 
her, looking at the mileage in that period, I think its fair that this usage is paid for.
So, looking at the use of the car, I think Lex Autolease has acted fairly in requiring the 
contractual monthly payments are paid by Ms A up until the point the contract hire 
agreement was terminated. I also think it is fair and reasonable for Ms A to be liable for the 
excess mileage charge.
However, I accept Lex Autolease has mishandled the termination of the contract hire 
agreement and that this would have caused Ms A distress and inconvenience. I think £500 
compensation in these circumstances is fair and reasonable in reflecting the impact this has 
had on Ms A. Im therefore partially upholding Ms As complaint.Putting things right
Im asking Lex Autolease to pay Ms A £500 compensation for the handling of the early 
termination of the hire contract and its impact on her.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im asking Lex Autolease Ltd to pay Ms A £500 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to her by its mishandling of the 
early termination of the contract hire agreement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman