DRN-3597361
The complaint
Mr M complains that Atlanta 1 Insurance Services Limited offered him no refund when he 
cancelled his motorbike insurance policy 39 days into the 12 months cover.
What happened
Mr M had a motorbike insurance policy sold to him and administered by Atlanta. He renewed 
the policy in October 2021 but cancelled the cover 39 days later when he discovered he 
couldnt add a second motorbike to the policy.
Mr M was surprised and annoyed to find that Atlanta offered him no refund despite the fact 
hed only had cover for 39 days. He made a complaint to Atlanta on the basis that he had 
expected to receive a pro rata refund.
Atlanta didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint about the lack of a refund. They said theyd in fact 
reduced their usual cancellation fee to ensure that Mr M didnt end up owing them money.
Mr M wasnt happy with this and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator looked into it 
and didnt think Atlanta had done anything wrong.
Mr M disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M paid £129.51 in total when he renewed his policy. This included a £35 arrangement 
fee, which is very clearly set out in the documents Mr M received when he renewed his 
policy.
So, the actual premiums amounted to £94.51 (the £129.51 Mr M paid minus the £35 
arrangement fee). Of that £94.51, £20.04 was for additional and optional breakdown cover 
and £2.30 was for additional and optional legal cover. The documents sent to Mr M at 
renewal clearly state that no refund will be provided for additional and optional cover if the 
policy is cancelled.
That leaves just over £72 as the premium for the main motorbike insurance (£94.51 minus 
the breakdown and legal cover costing £22.34 in total).
Mr M negotiated a discount on his premium when he renewed the policy. The terms set out 
in the renewal documents state very clearly that if the policy is cancelled, Atlanta will expect 
the customer to re-pay any discount on a pro rata basis.
The discount Mr M negotiated was therefore mostly (less 39 out of 356 days pro rata) to be 
paid back to Atlanta when the policy was cancelled. That amounted to £32.59.
The cancellation fee to be paid if the policy was cancelled after the first 14 days was £40. 
Again, this is clearly set out in the renewal documents.
Simple maths shows that the returned discount (£32.59) plus the cancellation fee (£40) 
swallows all of the just over £72 Mr M paid for his motorbike cover. Thats before any 
calculation of the amount Mr M needed to pay for the 39 days he was on cover.
I can understand Mr Ms surprise and frustration that he received no refund, but I cant say 
that Atlanta have treated him in any way unfairly or unreasonably given that the terms were 
set out clearly and arent inherently unfair.
In short, when annual insurance premiums are relatively cheap, its not unreasonable to 
suggest that a cancellation fee might take out a fair proportion of any refund. Cancellation 
fees should reflect the actual cost to the business of administering the cancellation. A £40 
fee is not unusual or unreasonable in that context. And it costs that much whether the 
premiums are large or small.
If youre paying an annual premium in the thousands of pounds, the cancellation fee will be a 
small proportion of the premium and so there may still be a sizeable refund. If, as in Mr Ms 
case, the premium is less than £100, for example, the cancellation fee will radically reduce 
any potential refund.
The remainder of any refund Mr M might have received was taken up, in this case, by 
Atlanta clawing back the discount theyd offered. I dont think its inherently unfair or 
unreasonable for a business to offer a discount which depends on the customer keeping the 
policy through the yearly term. 
Of course, if the discount is offered on that basis, Id expect the business to make it clear 
thats what they were doing. And in this case, I can see from the renewal documents sent to 
Mr M that was entirely clear.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman