DRN-4037987
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Bank of Scotland trading as Halifax has declined her applications to 
make changes to her existing joint mortgage.
What happened
Mrs T and her ex-partner, Mr T, have a joint capital repayment mortgage with Halifax. The 
original mortgage term ended in 2019, but the loan balance hasnt been fully repaid yet and 
the mortgage is currently in arrears.
After the breakdown of their relationship, Mr T agreed to transfer the property into Mrs Ts 
sole name if she paid him £18,000 to effectively buy his interest in the property. So, Mrs T 
approached Halifax and requested the following:
To transfer the mortgage into her sole name.
To increase her mortgage amount so that she could consolidate a loan she had with 
Halifax and raise funds to buy Mr T out of the property.
To extend the term of the mortgage to lower the cost of repayments.
Mrs T also asked Halifax to consider her request in the context that she had been in an 
abusive relationship and that it was important for her to be able to move on. She confirmed 
shes employed and renting a property but doesnt feel shed be able to approach another 
lender given the adverse information on her credit file.
Halifax declined Mrs Ts request and said this was because the mortgage term had already 
expired, and the mortgage was in significant arrears. Given the circumstances this was 
considered by its senior management team but ultimately it wouldnt be prepared to agree to 
her requests.
When Mrs T complained to our service, the investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In 
summary they said Halifax was required to lend responsibly and that it had acted fairly in 
explaining to Mrs T why an application like this wouldnt meet its lending criteria. They said 
Halifax had considered alternatives to try and assist Mrs T and it had referred her to the 
appropriate organisations.
Mrs T didnt agree, she provided further information including evidence of Mr Ts convictions, 
email correspondence showing the stress continuing to deal with Mr T in relation to the 
property was causing her, and her letters to Halifax.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be disappointing for 
Mrs T and Ill explain why I dont think Halifax has treated her unfairly in the circumstances.
Im aware Mrs T made a similar request and complaint in 2019, but for clarity Im only 
considering here Mrs Ts complaint about Halifaxs decision to decline her requests to 
amend her mortgage in 2022.
I also note that Mr T isnt party to this complaint. Im aware that the relationship between Mr 
and Mrs T has broken down and I think I can reach a fair outcome without Mr Ts 
involvement on the specific complaint points raised. My decision is focused on how Halifax 
has treated Mrs T in relation to her requests.
I do appreciate that this is a matter of deep importance for Mrs T and that shes been 
through a difficult time. It isnt for me to determine what should happen in relation to the 
ownership of the property Mrs T owns with Mr T. I can only consider whether Halifax has 
treated Mrs T fairly in relation to her mortgage, and more specifically her requests to amend 
this.
Whilst I can see Mrs T has sought financial advice and put forward a proposal that she 
thinks is reasonable to Halifax, it isnt obligated to agree to her requests. Halifax has 
explained why it wouldnt be prepared to remove Mr T from the mortgage or increase the 
amount and term of the mortgage. 
Removing Mr T from the mortgage.
I understand why Mrs T would like Halifax to remove Mr T from the mortgage, but to do so 
would increase its risk, in the sense that Halifax would only be able to seek to recover the 
lending from Mrs T and not from both of them. 
Whilst, in the circumstances, Halifax isnt required to apply the same affordability criteria in 
relation to making changes to the existing debt as it would to new debt, it is fair for Halifax to 
take into account whether Mrs T would be able to meet the repayments by herself. This is 
relevant to both the risk to itself as a lender and whats in Mrs Ts best interests. 
Mrs T hasnt been making the contractual repayments towards the mortgage consistently  
and while there are reasons for this, it does mean that there is a lack of evidence in support 
of Mrs Ts ability to repay the mortgage. In the context that the mortgage is already in 
significant arrears, I dont think Halifax has acted unreasonably in declining Mrs Ts request. 
Agreeing to the change Mrs T is requesting could make her situation worse  particularly as 
Mrs T is only seeking to do this if she can also raise further funds to buy out Mr T.
Increasing the lending and extending the term of the mortgage
Mrs T wants to extend the mortgage and increase the lending so that she can consolidate 
her debts and buy out Mr T from the property. 
I cant see that a formal lending application has been made, but again in the context of the 
high level of arrears on the existing mortgage I dont think Halifax has been unreasonable in 
explaining this wouldnt be likely to succeed.
Mrs T isnt seeking to arrange a repayment plan for an existing debt, which Halifax has 
encouraged her to do, shes requesting further borrowing. So, Halifax is entitled to take into 
account the repayment history on the mortgage and Mrs Ts credit file (among other things) 
when considering this request. Any new lending would need to be affordable for Mrs T or it 
wouldnt be responsible for Halifax to agree to this. Halifax does have a duty of care to its customers, and Im satisfied that Halifax has treated 
Mrs T fairly by taking her personal circumstances into account when considering her 
requests. A senior underwriter at Halifax has reviewed the matter to see if it can offer any 
help outside its normal lending criteria given the exceptional circumstances here, but theyve 
determined it cant agree to Mrs Ts requests for the reasons above. Halifax has also 
provided her with the details of independent debt advice charities. 
So, for the reasons explained, I dont think Halifax has treated Mrs T unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman