DRN-3965475
The complaint
Miss F complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) will not refund her money 
she says she lost as a result of a scam.
Miss F is represented by CEL Solicitors in this matter.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
Miss F says that a former close friend deceived her into joining an investment group.  
Consequently, Miss F says she made several payments to a trading account with a scam 
company I will refer to as B in this decision.  The total money Miss F says she lost as a result 
of the scam amounts to almost £16,000; however, she is only seeking to recover 
approximately £5,700, as she says some of her money has been recovered.  All the 
payments concerned in this case were made to a cryptocurrency exchange I will refer to as 
C in this decision; and occurred from October 2020 to February 2021.
Miss F has asked NatWest to refund her the money she says she lost.  Unhappy with its 
response not to do so, she raised a complaint which she has referred to our Service.
One of our investigators considered Miss Fs complaint and did not uphold it.  As Miss F did 
not accept the investigators findings, this matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If 
there is a submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is 
simply because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this 
complaint.
The investigator in this matter stated, amongst other things, that he had not seen satisfactory 
evidence showing that the funds concerned in this case were transferred from Miss Fs C 
account to her B trading account/scammer.  Based on the evidence before me, I am inclined 
to agree with the investigator on this point.
That said, even if I were to accept that Miss F made the transfer from C to B, I am not 
persuaded that NatWest should have stopped her payments to C and spoken to her before 
processing them.  I say this because, to my mind:
The majority of the transactions in this case  relative to the activity on Miss Fs 
account  were not significantly high enough to trigger NatWests systems.
oThat said, there are two transactions for £6,500 and £7,300 made in February 
2021 which, on the face of it, stand out.  However, these two transactions 
were made after several others in the payment chain concerned.  So, by that 
point, C had become an established regular payee on Miss Fs account  
particularly given the fact Miss F has been making payments to C much 
before those in question in this case (as far back as January 2020 from what I 
can see).
The transactions did not follow an out of character pattern.
The transactions were made to a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange, C.
Any card payments would not have attracted chargeback or section 75 rights.
I cannot see any other reason as to why NatWest should have flagged the 
transactions and spoken to Miss F before releasing them.
Taking all the above points together, I will not be asking NatWest to refund the payments 
concerned to Miss F.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman