DRN-2051144
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Secure Trust Bank Plc trading as V12 Retail Finance unfairly refused 
her claim brought under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to a 
computer. She wants a refund of the purchase price.
What happened
Mrs G tells us that on 25 October 2019 she visited a local computer store Ill refer to as W, 
as she thought she had issues with the data stored on her personal computer. She says that 
she was pressurised and misled into acquiring a new computer. And that when she tried to 
return the item on 16 November 2019, she was told she couldnt do so as it had been used. 
She says the returns policy hadnt been properly explained to her.
V12 said it didnt find that Mrs G had been pressurised into purchasing the computer. And 
that as it had been opened and used, she was unable to return it, in accordance with Ws 
return policy.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said she hadnt 
found any information which would show thered been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation.
Mrs G wasnt satisfied with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint 
an ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mrs G would be upset if she feels shes been pressurised into acquiring an 
expensive item which she doesnt need. And that she feels she was misled in several 
respects about the item itself and her rights to withdraw from the deal.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under 
Section 75. Rather, Im deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mrs Gs complaint. I have to 
take account of relevant law, amongst other things. Section 75 is relevant law.
In summary, in some limited circumstances, Section 75 gives a consumer an equal claim 
against the provider of finance as they would have against the supplier of the goods or 
services about which complaint is brought. It requires there to have been a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier.
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which induces a consumer to enter an 
agreement as a result of which they suffer a loss due to the misrepresentation. A breach of 
contract might occur if goods were not of satisfactory quality or as described.
Ill try and deal separately with the main issues which Mrs G has raised.
Its important to note that in these circumstances there are two separate transactions. The 
purchase itself and the entering of the finance agreement as the means of repayment. And 
this may give rise to separate rights.
Here, for example, the finance agreement came with an unconditional 14 day cooling off 
period. In other words, Mrs G couldve decided to withdraw from this agreement within that 
time period. But this wouldnt have affected the fact that she had still purchased the 
computer. And would still have needed to find an alternative means of paying for it.
One of the difficulties is that Mrs G feels that she was pressurised into entering the 
agreement and purchasing the new computer. Without being present to hear exactly what 
was said and in what manner, its very difficult to ascertain the precise circumstances. Each 
of us as individuals will respond differently to a situation and pressure itself may come about 
through a combination of different issues.
Where information is unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach my conclusions 
on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of 
the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Here, Mrs G was clearly concerned about being able to store and retrieve data from her 
existing computer. I gather she was unable to find it and that this was the initial reason for 
her visit to the store. 
Its not unusual for someone to change their mind and make an instant purchase. I gather 
Mrs Gs existing computer might not have been the most modern example. But whether a 
consumer needs to maintain a certain level of specification is largely going to depend upon 
the use to which the computer is put. 
In her original complaint letter to this service Mrs G described that following the sales 
discussion she had thought she needed to acquire a new computer. And that W had agreed 
to throw in transferring the data from the existing computer to the new model. Im not sure 
why  when this was mentioned  Mrs G didnt say that if the data could be recovered that 
was all she was requiring. At this time no data had been transferred. And even if the finance 
agreement had been signed the cooling off period would have applied.
I think its likely that having discussed the various possibilities with the sales agent that Mrs 
G decided it was probably best to acquire the new item. Theres always some element of 
pressure in any negotiation. But this discussion was apparently taking place in a public 
place within a retail outlet which must limit the nature of pressure to be applied.
Ive also seen a review posted by Mrs G which reads:X (sales agent) was brilliant and very patient in getting my old laptop back in action and in 
setting up my new one. Thank you!
Whilst I understand that Mrs G says this was posted out of relief her data had been 
recovered, it also suggests that she was content that it had also been transferred to her new 
computer.
I dont find that V12 was acting unfairly in not being satisfied that any improper pressure had 
been applied.
I understand that the manufacturers issued an upgraded model shortly after Mrs G had 
made her purchase. Its fairly common that computer manufacturers offer updated products 
from time to time. But Ive seen nothing to show that W had access to information that wasnt 
publicly available. Mrs G complained to W a few days after the new model had been 
released. Its not surprising in those circumstances that W and V12 suggest an element of 
buyer remorse may be present.
Ive already stated that V12 would only be liable if the item had been misrepresented or 
thered been a breach of contract with it not being of satisfactory quality. Ive not seen 
anything to show that W was aware of the specific date the new model would be released. 
Or that it made any specific statements regarding this issue. Nor is there anything to show 
that the item she purchased is not of satisfactory quality. Again I cant see that V12 has been 
unfair in not accepting liability in these respects.
Mrs G has also stated that she was misled about that Ws returns policy. And that she was 
led to believe that she could return unwanted goods with no questions asked within a 
specified time limit. 
For Mrs G to feel misled, I infer that the returns policy must have been discussed during the 
pre-sales negotiations. And whilst Im not doubting that Mrs G has provided a true account of 
what she remembers, experience shows that parties to the same conversation dont always 
leave with same recollection or understanding.
Mrs G doesnt dispute that she raised her complaint with W on 16 November 2019 and 
sought to return the new computer. Or that this is outside the return period. What she alleges 
is that the return policy hadnt been properly explained.
Ive viewed Ws return policy and it comprises of two main time limits. Theres a 14 day 
period in which goods which arent damaged may be returned. A 30 day limit applies to the 
return of goods which arent of satisfactory quality. 
As Mrs G sought to return the goods after the 14 day period  there being no suggestion that 
the item wasnt of satisfactory quality - I dont find that it was unfair for V12 to find that there 
was insufficient information to show there had been a misrepresentation of the returns 
policy.
Mrs G has also mentioned that V12 didnt consider the best means for her of financing the 
deal. But this is an interest free credit agreement and shes not paying any extra interest on 
top of the cash price of the item. So the means of payment hasnt resulted in any additional 
cost over and above the actual item price. Mrs G has indicated she would have preferred to 
pay by debit or credit card. 
I cant see any impediment to Mrs G paying off the agreement early  if she chooses to do 
so - and by whatever means she feels best. There is provision for this on the signature page within the agreement. All Id say is that if she were to repay the agreement early by using an 
interest-bearing means of repayment, she may then incur an additional expense.
In summary, I want to emphasise that Im not determining the merits of any claim that Mrs G 
may potentially have against W. My finding is that V12 has considered her Section 75 
complaint using the correct process. And that it has reached a fair conclusion that there was 
insufficient information to show that there had been a breach of contract and / or 
misrepresentation for which it would have been liable.
Accordingly, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman