DRN-1885122
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc trading as Barclaycard did not always collect the 
direct debit for his credit card.
What happened
Mr A has a credit card with Barclaycard. He has a direct debit set up to collect the minimum 
payment due each month. But he noticed that sometimes Barclaycard didn't collect the direct 
debit. It explained that the direct debit wasn't collected if Mr A had made a separate payment 
that month. Mr A says he expected the direct debit always to be collected - even if he made 
an additional payment.
Our investigator didn't think the complaint should be upheld. He said the letter from 
Barclaycard when the direct debit was set up said it would automatically request payment 
three working days before it leaves the account and that any additional payments made 
during this period will have no effect on the amount it has requested from the bank. The 
investigator said it followed that payments made outside that period would affect the amount 
of the direct debit. He considered that Barclaycard hadn't treated Mr A unfairly.
Mr A didn't accept what the investigator said. He said that Barclaycard's terms were 
ambiguous and misleading. He considers that Barclaycard should have set out what would 
happen more clearly so there was no room for any doubt about what would happen.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclaycard has an obligation to communicate in a way that is clear, fair and not misleading. 
I accept Mr A's point that the letter setting out whether a direct debit will be collected if a 
payment was made does not cover every potential scenario. But I think it is difficult to 
interpret it to mean that the direct debit would always be collected in the way Mr A said he 
expected. It sets out there will be no impact on the amount collected by direct debit if a 
payment is made within three working days of the date the direct debit was due to be 
collected. I think it reasonably follows that there will be an impact on the amount collected  if 
a payment was made outside the three working days.
In any event, Barclaycard sent Mr A statements each month. There is a 
reasonable expectation that he would check that everything was in order from time to time. 
So I think that Barclaycard gave Mr A enough information to query and address this issue at 
an earlier point.
I'm satisfied that Barclaycard has administered Mr A's account in line with its policy. I 
couldn't say that it gave Mr A a reasonable expectation that payments would be collected in 
the way he thought - and it gave him enough information to see what was happening. 
Overall, I consider Barclaycard has acted fairly and reasonably.My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2020.
Ken Rose
Ombudsman