DRN-4124271
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about repair work done by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited 
(RSA)s contractors following a claim on their home insurance.
Mr and Mrs G bought their policy through an insurance intermediary. For the avoidance of 
doubt, any reference to RSA includes its agents, including the intermediary.
Both Mr and Mrs G are named policyholders on their RSA policy, so any claim or complaint 
is brought by them both. But for simplicity, and because most of the information about the 
complaint has been provided by Mrs G, Ill refer mainly to Mrs G from here onward.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G had an RSA home insurance policy, bought through an intermediary. In 
September 2020, their home was badly damaged by fire. They made a claim to RSA under 
their insurance. RSAs loss adjustor appointed engineering consultants to manage the claim. 
RSAs contractors finished the major repairs in September 2021 and Mr and Mrs G moved 
back into their home. However, Mrs G was unhappy with the work carried out by RSAs 
contractors. She said the house was in a disgraceful state when they moved back in. For 
example:
A hole was left in the kitchen ceiling.
The shower door fell off, injuring her.
The boiler was poorly fitted and radiators were leaking.
The washing machine wasnt fitted properly and was unusable.
Rubble, waste, and broken tools were left inside and outside the house.
Mrs G is unhappy it took more than three months to sort these issues out. More significantly, 
she said RSA failed to install a wet room to accommodate their needs. As a result, they had 
to install this themselves at a cost of almost £7,000.
RSA said, in summary:
Mrs Gs son represented his parents in all discussions with the original contractor.
He asked the contractor to install a standard bathroom rather than a wet room. 
While Mr and Mrs G werent present during the handover meeting in September 
2021, their son was present and accepted handover on their behalf.
Mr and Mrs G didnt mention a problem with the bathroom until more than six months 
after they moved back into their home.
There were no excessive or unavoidable delays in addressing the snagging issues.
These were completed and accepted by Mrs G in August 2022.
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree and brought their complaint to this service. They think RSA 
should reimburse them for the wet room they had to pay for and install themselves and 
compensate them for the undue stress theyve suffered since September 2021.  
Our investigator recommended that Mr and Mrs Gs complaint should be partly upheld. She 
was satisfied that Mrs Gs son most likely asked RSAs contractor to install a standard 
bathroom rather than the planned wet room. She also thought the snagging issues had been 
completed to Mrs Gs satisfaction and that any additional repairs werent covered by her 
policy. However, she thought the condition of the property and outstanding snagging issues 
when it was handed back to Mr and Mrs G in September 2021 caused them a certain 
amount of distress. She recommended RSA pay them £300 to reflect this.
RSA disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think there are two separate issues here: first, the dispute about the bathroom/wet room; 
second, the state of the house when Mr and Mrs G moved back in and the need for 
snagging repairs. Ill cover each in turn.
The bathroom/wet room
The original work scope shows a wet room was to be installed. This was to replace the 
existing wet room damaged in the fire. However, RSA says Mrs Gs son asked the contractor 
to install a standard bathroom instead. RSA accepts it has no record of this other than the 
contractors recollection of discussions with Mrs Gs son. We have no evidence from Mrs Gs 
son about this.
Its unfortunate that RSA doesnt have a written confirmation of deviation from the original 
scope or a record of the handover meeting in September 2021. However, Ive seen evidence 
that:
Messages between RSAs original contractor and Mrs Gs son in April 2021 show 
Mrs Gs son was making decisions about materials and repairs.
RSA issued a Certificate of Practical Completion following a handover meeting on 30 
September 2021.
Mrs G didnt raise her concerns about the new bathroom until April 2022, more than 
six months after she and her husband moved back into their home. 
RSA has also explained that the change from a wet room to a standard bathroom was cost 
neutral. That means there would have been no financial benefit to the contractor to make 
this change. So I dont see any reason why the contractor would deviate from the original 
scope unless he was asked to. 
On balance, I think its likely Mrs Gs son asked the contractor to fit a standard bathroom. I 
also think its likely that Mr and Mrs G were initially fine with this but changed their mind later. 
I dont think Mrs G can complain to RSA about this six months after handover.
For these reasons, I dont think RSA can reasonably be held liable for the cost of installing 
the new wet room. It follows that I dont uphold this part of Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
The snagging repairs
I think this is slightly different.
Mr and Mrs G moved back into their home in September 2021. It appears that RSAs original contractor agreed to carry out snagging repairs, however the relationship between that 
contractor and Mrs G broke down in or around April 2022. RSA appointed a new contractor 
to complete these works. 
RSAs contractor emailed Mrs G on 11 August 2022. He asked Mrs G to confirm you are 
happy with [the] works and that there are no further snagging works to be completed? Mrs 
G replied the same day: Yes, thats fine, thank you.
I accept that the breakdown in relationship between Mr and Mrs G and the original 
contractor, and need to appoint a new contractor, would have contributed to delays finalising 
repairs. I also accept that Mr and Mrs Gs policy doesnt cover wear and tear or 
maintenance.
However, its apparent that repairs under the original scope either hadnt been completed, or 
hadnt been done adequately, before Mr and Mrs G moved back into their home. For 
example, emails between the contractor and Mrs G in July 2022 show that the kitchen ceiling 
wasnt plastered until July 2022, ten months after handover. That tends to support Mrs Gs 
complaint about the original contractor leaving a hole in the kitchen ceiling. Snagging wasnt 
completed until August 2022, when Mrs G signed off on the repairs.
I understand that this would have been a stressful time for Mr and Mrs G. Thats natural 
given the circumstances of the damage to their home and largely outside RSAs control. 
However, it took almost a year for RSAs contractors to complete snagging repairs. I think 
this would have added to Mr and Mrs Gs stress, and I think RSA should compensate them 
for this.
For these reasons, I intend to uphold this part of Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. Our investigator 
suggested RSA pay Mr and Mrs G £300 to reflect this. Given the level of award this service 
makes in similar cases, I think this is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint in part and order Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs G £300 to reflect the distress and inconvenience they 
experienced between September 2021 and August 2022.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 August 2023. 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman