DRN-1436768
 
complaint
Mr C says Western Circle Limited trading as Cashfloat irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about 6 instalment loans Cashfloat provided to Mr C between August 2017 
and August 2018. Mr Cs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount 
BorrowedRepayment 
Amount
1 17/08/2017 25/10/2017 2 £200.00 £144.08
2 19/11/2017 06/01/2018 2 £200.00 £140.46
3 06/01/2018 23/03/2018 3 £300.00 £137.61
4 03/04/2018 09/06/2018 3 £400.00 £188.76
5 09/06/2018 26/07/2018 3 £500.00 £226.36
6 01/08/2018 26/10/2018 4 £600.00 £232.88
An adjudicator initially reviewed Mr Cs complaint and thought that Cashfloat shouldnt have 
given Mr C loans 4-6. The adjudicator explained that by loan 4 Mr Cs borrowing pattern 
suggested he had become reliant on short term lending. Cashfloat disagreed and explained 
that it carried out proportionate and comprehensive checks and it asked for the case to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. 
Whilst the case was awaiting an ombudsman review another adjudicator reviewed the case 
to ensure we had everything needed for decision to be reached.  This adjudicator thought 
that loans 1-6 shouldnt have been given to Mr C. He said that the checks Cashfloat carried 
out showed that Mr C had existing borrowing with other short-term lenders and Mr C was not 
in a position to take on further borrowing. 
Cashfloat didnt respond to this revised opinion so the case has been passed to me  an 
ombudsman  for a final decision. 
my findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish 
whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this
is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on
time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to
meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
The recent adjudicator to review the case didnt think Cashfloat shouldve given Mr C any of 
the loans he had with them. I agree with this and Ill explain why.
Cashfloat decided to carry out credit checks on Mr C at the outset of his lending relationship 
with them. Although this was not essential for Cashfloat, once it decided to carry out these 
checks it was then under an obligation to properly consider the results of these checks 
before making any decisions to lend to Mr C.
Looking at the information Cashfloat gathered about Mr C when he applied for loan 1 I can 
see that he already had five short term loans which were active. Mr Cs credit report also 
revealed that he had defaulted on four other debts and three accounts had been passed 
onto debt management companies. These results painted a useful picture for Cashfloat and I 
think it shouldve seen that Mr C was having issues managing his finances. Mr C was 
requesting a £200 loan with Cashfloat and I think it shouldve realised that given he had five 
existing short-term loans that it was likely Mr C was not in a position to sustainably repay this 
borrowing. 
When Mr C applied for loans 2 and 3 there was no significant change in his circumstances 
and the amounts Mr C was requesting was increasing. So Cashfloat shouldve seen that Mr 
Cs financial situation was not improving. Cashfloat has explained that it carried out detailed checks on Mr C by gathering details of his income and expenditure to ensure the loans were 
affordable. I can see that Cashfloat did this and looking at Mr Cs disposable income the 
loans seem affordable. However, Cashfloat shouldve considered this information alongside 
the results of Mr Cs credit checks to gain a better understanding of Mr Cs situation. 
So I think if Cashfloat had reacted appropriately to the information it had about Mr C it 
wouldve seen that he wasnt in a position to take on loans 1-3.
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Cashfloats lending history with Mr C, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Cashfloat should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Cashfloat should have realised that 
it shouldnt have provided any further loans.
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Cs case, I think that this point was reached by
loan 4. I say this because:
At this point Cashfloat ought to have realised Mr C was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. Mr C had taken out 4 loans in around 7 months. So Cashfloat 
ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr C was having to borrow further 
to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his finances and that 
Mr Cs indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr Cs first loan was for £200 and his subsequent loans steadily increased in value. 
By loan 4 Mr C was borrowing £400 and by loan 6 Mr C was borrowing £600. I think 
this upward tend shouldve alerted Cashfloat to the possibility that Mr C was not likely 
borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in his income but to meet an ongoing need.
Mr C wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Cashfloat. Loan 6 was 
taken out a year after Mr Cs first. Mr C had paid large amounts of interest
to, in effect, service a debt to Cashfloat over an extended period.
I think that Mr C lost out because Cashfloat continued to provide borrowing from loan four 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Cs indebtedness by allowing him
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the number of loans and the length of time over which Mr C borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Mr Cs ability to access mainstream credit and so
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im also upholding the complaint about loans 4 to 6 and Cashfloat should put things right.
putting things right  what Western Circle Limited trading as Cashfloat need to do
Cashfloat shouldnt have given Mr C loans 1 to 6.
A.) Cashfloat should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr C towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third 
party where applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B.) Cashfloat should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made 
by Mr C which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr C 
originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.C.) Cashfloat should pay Mr C the total of A plus B.
D.) Cashfloat should remove any negative entries for loans 1-3 from Mr Cs credit file. 
The overall pattern of Mr Cs borrowing for loans 4 to 6 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so Cashfloat should remove these loans entirely 
from Mr Cs credit file. If Cashfloat has sold any of the loans you should ask the 
debt purchaser to do the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Cashfloat should 
give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax youve deducted, if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Cs complaint. Western Circle trading as 
Cashfloat should put things right for Mr C as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2020.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman