DRN-4324546
The complaint
Ms C complains that Lloyds Bank PLC has failed to make reasonable adjustments in how it 
communicates with her.
What happened
Ms C holds a credit card with Lloyds. In December 2021 she received an email asking her to 
make a payment to the account. Ms C had previously received these kinds of notifications 
via text message, and was distressed to receive an email. Ms C has explained that due to 
her disability she finds it difficult to deal with emails, she says Lloyds was aware of this.
Ms C complained to Lloyds, it replied to say that it could remove the email address from her 
account but would then have to also cancel her online banking facility, it asked her to confirm 
that this is what she wanted it to do. Ms C did not feel she should have to confirm that she 
did not want email correspondence from Lloyds, and she continued to receive email 
notifications rather than the text messages she preferred. 
In April 2022 Ms C made a further complaint, detailing how she wanted Lloyds to make 
reasonable adjustments for her disability. Lloyds said it would look into what it could do, but 
ultimately repeated that it would need her to confirm that she was happy for her online 
banking to be cancelled and her email address to be deleted. 
By this stage Ms C had referred her complaint to our service. Shed explained that she was 
unhappy to still be receiving emails, that she was not getting the text notifications she 
preferred  causing her to overspend on her credit card - and that she was unhappy with 
other correspondence Lloyds had sent to her about interest rate changes, which had also 
suggested that she call the bank. Ms C was also unhappy, overall, with the way Lloyds had 
handled her complaints and concerns.
Our Investigator looked into what had happened. They said they could see no evidence that 
Lloyds had been told it should not send emails to Ms C prior to her raising her complaint in 
early 2022. They felt that Lloyds suggestion that it remove the email from Ms Cs account 
(and therefore also remove online banking) was a reasonable resolution to Ms Cs 
complaint. They did not feel that Lloyds had treated Ms C unfairly or unreasonably in light of 
the Equality Act 2010  which sets out the requirement that businesses make reasonable 
adjustments for those with disabilities.
Ms C disagreed, she maintains that B has failed to make reasonable adjustments, and notes 
that it continued to send her emails. To resolve her complaint she would like assurance that 
she will receive no further emails, that she will not be asked to call the bank (unless she has 
to as a result of fraud or robbery), and compensation for the distress caused to her. 
As no agreement could be reached this case was passed to me for review. I issued my 
provisional decision on 27 July 2023. Lloyds accepted that provisional decision, but Ms C 
has provided a detailed response disagreeing with my findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following:
Ms Cs complaint stems from her belief that Lloyds has not made reasonable adjustments 
for her disability, as required by the Equality Act 2010.
For clarity, as a service, its not our role to say whether a business has breached the 
Equality Act 2010 or discriminated against its customer  thats for the courts to do. Were an 
informal alternative to the courts and decide complaints on a fair and reasonable basis. For 
the purpose of this decision the Act is a relevant consideration as Ms Cs medical issues 
meet the definition of a disability under the Act, so Ive taken that legislation and what it says 
about how businesses should treat consumers into account when considering this complaint 
and whether Lloyds has acted fairly and reasonably here. 
At the point when it first began to send emails to Ms C, in late 2021, I do think Lloyds was 
acting reasonably. Ive not seen evidence to show that it was aware at that time that Ms Cs 
disability meant that she would likely find email correspondence upsetting. Lloyds did have 
some details of Ms Cs disability recorded on its system, but the only adjustments that 
appear to have been requested at that stage were for Lloyds to ensure it was patient when 
dealing with Ms C in branch or on the phone as her disability made those interactions more 
difficult.
I can also see that Ms C was signed up for online banking at that point, and that Lloyds 
therefore held an email address for her  which it seems Ms C must have given it. So when 
it began to email her with notifications regarding her credit card account, I dont think that 
was unreasonable at that stage. Lloyds was using contact details Ms C had supplied and 
was not aware that emails were likely to cause Ms C distress.
When Ms C told Lloyds of the difficulties the emails were causing her, I think Lloyds initial 
response was also reasonable. It explained that it could remove the email address from its 
system but that this would mean Ms Cs online banking was also cancelled. Given that, from 
Lloyds point of view, it would be removing a potentially helpful service by cancelling the 
online banking access, I dont think it was unreasonable for it to ask Ms C to confirm that 
was what she wanted at that time.
However, over the following months it became clear that, even if she did not directly confirm 
that she wanted her online banking cancelled, Ms C did not use online banking and did not 
want emails to be sent to her under any circumstances. And given Ms Cs disability, and 
what she had told Lloyds about how the emails were affecting her, I consider that Lloyds 
should have acted more proactively here. For example, it could have sent her a letter saying 
that it would remove the email and cancel online banking by a certain date unless she told it 
she didnt want it to. To instead continue regularly sending emails to Ms C when she had 
clearly explained that she did not want to receive them given the distress they caused, does 
not feel like a reasonable course of action in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I note that Ms C has also raised some additional issues with our service. The first of these 
issues relates to notification texts not being received for several months  which she says 
caused her to go over her limit. I appreciate that Ms C says going over her limit caused her 
distress, but it is her responsibility to monitor her account and spending, regardless of 
whether she receives notifications or not.Ms C has also said she is unhappy with some correspondence she has received which has 
suggested that she call Lloyds. I appreciate that Ms C does not want to call the bank as she 
finds calls upsetting, but the correspondence she is referring to appears to be standard (not 
personalised) correspondence, which suggests that customers can call to resolve certain 
issues. Ms C is aware of other ways to contact Lloyds, and I dont think the correspondence 
she has referred to is unreasonable in the circumstances. 
But with everything Ive seen I do consider that Lloyds failed to act fairly and reasonably in 
continuing to send Ms C emails when she had made it clear she did not want to receive 
them. As a result, I intend to ask Lloyds to pay £250 compensation to Ms C for the distress 
caused. Lloyds should also remove Ms Cs email address from its records and cancel her 
online banking as soon as possible, so that she does not receive any more emails. 
I appreciate the time Ms C has taken to respond to my decision, and I understand her 
strength of feeling here, but I dont consider that anything she has said constitutes materially 
new evidence which would change my provisional findings, so I wont be addressing her 
comments in the same level of detail. I mean no disrespect by this, but the role of the 
Financial Ombudsman is as an informal dispute resolution service, and so I have focused on 
the main issues which I consider are material to my findings. 
I acknowledge that Ms C says she didnt ask for online access for her account, but she 
clearly did give Lloyds her email address at some stage so I remain of the view that it was 
not unreasonable for Lloyds to correspond with her using that email address when it was not 
yet aware of how those emails could impact her given her disability. Along the same lines, 
when Lloyds stopped sending Ms C text notifications it was not yet aware of the specific 
impacts of her disability other than that she needed more patience during phone and face to 
face interactions. 
As I explained in my provisional findings, I do think that Lloyds should have stopped sending 
Ms C emails at a much earlier stage given what she went on to tell it about the impacts of 
her disability, and that is why I have recommended it pay her compensation of £250 and 
remove her email from its systems. I dont though think that Lloyds needs to do anything 
more.
I note that Ms C has said that she may have once again stopped receiving text messages 
about the balance of her credit card, but that is a new issue and so would need to be 
directed to Lloyds in the first instance, so I wont be addressing that here.
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint Lloyds should pay Ms C £250.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. Lloyds Bank PLC should put things right in the way Ive set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman