DRN-2020966
The complaint
Mrs L is unhappy due to difficulties shes experienced when making online payments and 
transfers from her account with TSB Bank plc. 
What happened
Mrs L is having trouble receiving a One Time Password (OTP) when making transfers using 
online banking. The OTP is required to authorise some transactions.
TSB say that the OTPs were sent to Mrs Ls mobile phone as requested. Mrs L says she 
didnt receive them due to issues with the mobile phone signal where she lives. 
As an option OTPs can be sent to a landline. But TSB has intermittent issues with this 
service which they are working to resolve. This means that Mrs L didnt get the OTPs she 
needed and had to go to a branch make the transfers.
For the issues experienced TSB paid Mrs L a total of £120 for any inconvenience. 
Mrs L remained unhappy so brought her complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
looked into what happened. She acknowledged the inconvenience of not being able to get 
the OTPs by either mobile or landline, but thought that overall the £120 was fair 
compensation for the situation. Mrs L remained unhappy because the TSB werent able to 
say when the issue with OTPs sent to landlines would be resolved. So the complaint has 
come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mrs L has had problems with OTPs and that those issues continue.
Looking at the evidence Im satisfied TSB sent the OTPs to Mrs Ls mobile. Mrs L told TSB 
that there are signal problems within her house. This seems to be the reason why the OTPs 
are not being received to Mrs Ls mobile phone. By sending the OTPs TSB has done what I 
would expect them to do and I cant hold them responsible for any issue with signal 
problems to Mrs Ls mobile.
As an alternative TSB offer a service of sending OTPs to landlines. TSB explained to Mrs L 
that there were intermittent issues with this service which they are trying to resolve. 
Unfortunately, TSB cant give a timeframe for when this problem will be fixed, and I can 
understand Mrs Ls frustration with this.
TSB have apologised for the ongoing intermittent issues with sending OTPs to landlines and 
say theyre working towards a resolution. TSB also explained that OTPs were not required 
for all transactions.
I can see Mrs Ls frustration with this situation. However there is little more I can do other 
than reiterate that TSB are working towards fixing the issue. If the OTPs continue to not be 
received to her mobile or landline then Mrs L may also use telephone banking or go a 
branch if she needs to make transactions. 
TSB has paid Mrs L a total of £120 for the inconvenience shes experienced. Looking at 
what happened Im satisfied this is a fair and reasonable amount so wont be asking to them 
to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2020. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman