DRN-2509899
The complaint
Miss S complains that she couldnt log on to her account with Lloyds Bank PLC. She says 
this caused her distress, inconvenience and consequential losses. Miss S also says that she 
has asked Lloyds to only contact her by post but received a phone call about her complaint.
What happened
Miss S had problems logging on to Lloyds internet banking to view her account. She says 
that although Lloyds upheld her complaint, it didnt offer any redress which she doesnt think 
is fair given the inconvenience and consequential losses she was caused. She also says she 
has asked on several occasions to be contacted by post only, but Lloyds tried to call her. 
Miss S says this breached data protection.
Lloyds issued a final response letter dated December 2019 in which it explained it tried to 
call Miss S to discuss her complaint with her. It apologised for any inconvenience Miss S had 
been caused by the issues she experienced accessing its online facility but didnt think that 
any material upset had been caused and so didnt offer to pay any compensation. It says 
that there were times when the online facility isnt available due to technical issues and that it 
always tried to correct any issues as quickly as possible. It also noted that while Miss S may 
prefer to use internet banking there are other options available. It noted that Miss S had 
been able to use the online facility since she had raised her issues.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He accepted that Miss S hadnt received the 
best service from Lloyds but said that Lloyds Internet banking agreement under section 7, 
makes it clear that there may be times when its not possible to access its internet banking 
facility. He understood it was frustrating that Miss S couldnt access the internet banking but 
said that there were other ways Miss S could have accessed the information she wanted. He 
said there was no evidence of a financial loss and he thought the apology that had been 
given was sufficient in this case and compensation wasnt required.
Regarding the data protection issue, he said it was for the Information Commissioners Office 
(ICO) to decide whether a breach had occurred. He said that Miss S letter to Lloyds about 
her complaint was brief and so it wasnt unreasonable that Lloyds tried to call her to discuss 
the issues she had raised. He didnt think that postal costs needed to be refunded as it was 
Miss S decision to post her complaint rather than use other online channels.
Miss S didnt accept our investigators view. She said that in December 2019, she was 
unable to visit a branch and didnt have telephone banking and so without the internet 
banking she couldnt see her savings account information. She says that Lloyds had paid 
compensation to other customers due to the issues and so she was being treated unfairly by 
not receiving compensation.
Regarding the data breach she accepted that although the breach was a matter for the ICO 
Lloyds failure to follow her instructions was an example of poor service. She said this wasnt 
the first time this had happened, and she had received redress for this issue previously at 
which time Lloyds said it wouldnt happen again, but it did.
Miss S also said that she couldnt raise her complaint online as this hadnt worked when she 
tried and so she had needed to incur the postal costs.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Miss S experienced issues accessing her account online. While I appreciated this 
must have been frustrating. Lloyds Internet banking agreement set out under section 
7, that Not all internet Banking services are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a 
week. It then further explained why service may not be available. It also said that it 
wasnt liable for any loss suffered in such circumstances as other facilities will be 
available for use. I noted Miss S comments about not having telephone banking and 
not being able to visit a branch but I found that Lloyds provided a range of options for 
customers to access their accounts.
Miss S said in her complaint that she had been caused distress, inconvenience and 
consequential loss but I found nothing to suggest that this issue caused Miss S any 
financial loss or material distress or inconvenience. Miss S paid to post her 
complaint, but this was her choice and she could have raised the issue through 
another route. I found the postage cost was part of the usual cost of raising a 
complaint and I wouldnt expect this to be refunded. I understood that Miss S was 
upset that she couldnt access her account online, but I found that Lloyds apology for 
the issues Miss S experienced was enough.
Lloyds tried to call Miss S when she had made it clear she only wanted to be 
contacted by post. Our investigator explained it was for the ICO to determine whether 
a breach had occurred, but we could consider any impact the issue raised had. I 
understood why Lloyds had called Miss S but as she had asked to only be contacted 
by post I found it reasonable that her wishes would have been respected. I noted 
Miss S account notes recorded in June 2017 that Miss S should be contacted in 
writing only and not be called, emailed or contacted by SMS. Miss S complaint letter 
included the words As always contact me by post only. 
I understood why Miss S was upset that Lloyds had tried to call her and that this 
issue will have caused her some distress and so I thought £50 compensation for this 
was reasonable. 
Both parties accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I set out in my provisional decision I do not uphold Miss S complaint regarding the issue 
she experienced accessing her account online. I note the inconvenience caused but also 
that there will be times when online access isnt available. I think Lloyds has provided 
enough information about this and the alternatives available. In this case I find the apology 
provided by Lloyds is enough.
I do uphold Miss S complaint regarding Lloyds trying to call her when she had made it clear 
she only wished to be contacted by post. Miss S had made it clear that she didnt want to be 
contacted by telephone and this was recorded on Lloyds system notes. She then reiterated 
that contact should be made by post only in her complaint letter. Lloyds tried to call Miss S, and while I understand it did this to try to resolve the issue she had raised, I accept this was 
against Miss S wishes. Because of this I think compensation is required and as both parties 
accepted my recommendation of £50 I find that Lloyds should pay this to Miss S in 
recognition of the upset caused by trying to make contact by telephone.
Putting things right
Lloyds Bank PLC should, as it has agreed, pay Miss S £50 compensation for the distress it 
caused by calling her when she had explained she only wanted contact by letter.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC. It should take the 
action set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman