DRN-3437047
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited sent review letters for her 
reviewable whole of life policy to an incorrect address and she wasnt aware of the policy 
options at the review dates. 
What happened
Mrs G took out a reviewable whole of life policy with a provider that has since been acquired 
by Aviva. In 2020 Mrs G contacted Aviva to change her name and Aviva told her that the 
policy reviews for 2011 and 2016 had been sent to an incorrect address, and that the sum 
assured on the policy had been reduced because it had received no response to the 
reviews. Mrs G complained to Aviva.
Aviva apologised it had sent the reviews to an incorrect address and offered to pay Mrs G 
£400 for the distress and inconvenience this had caused her. In the final response letter to 
Mrs G, Aviva offered to reconstruct the policy on the basis that Mrs G would have increased 
the premiums to maintain the original the level of life and critical illness cover the policy 
provided. The new adjusted premium would start if she accepted this offer and the premium 
increase wouldnt be backdated. Aviva acknowledged that Mrs G may have chosen not to 
continue the policy at the reviews and calculated the surrender values at each review should 
Mrs G want to take this option. The offer had a deadline for Mrs G to accept any of the 
options provided. This date was extended until August 2021, but Mrs G didnt tell Aviva what 
she wanted to do with the policy, so the premium remained the same and the level of life and 
critical illness cover was reduced. 
Mrs G brought her complaint to the Financial Services Ombudsman and one of our 
Investigators looked into things. The Investigator thought that the offer of £400 for the 
distress and inconvenience Aviva caused Mrs G was a fair and reasonable one. And the 
Investigator thought the offers made in the final response letter were fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances but noted that Aviva has now said the offer to reconstruct the policy is no 
longer available.
Mrs G didnt agree with the Investigator and asked that an Ombudsman decides the 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva accepts it sent the 2011 and 2016 views to an incorrect address, so I only need to 
consider if the remedies offered by Aviva were fair and reasonable. In the circumstances of 
this case Ive decided they were, and I will now explain why.
At the time of the reviews Mrs G was unaware that the premiums could no longer support 
the level of cover the policy initially provided. Ive seen notes of telephone conversations 
between Mrs G and Aviva in which Mrs G suggests she would have increased the premium 
to maintain the level of cover. Mrs G says these comments were only made in relation to 
hypothetical questions, but I consider they are an indication that this is what she was likely 
thinking at the time, although I accept she may not have understood at the time how much 
the premium would increase. Mrs G says she would have surrendered the policy if shed 
known the premiums would increase to the level they did and asked for her premiums to be 
returned.
Ive looked at the offer Aviva made in April 2021 to reconstruct the policy and I consider it 
was fair and reasonable. In my opinion, it lays out several options for Mrs G that cover the 
decisions she could have made at the time. She could have increased the premium to 
maintain the cover, she could have left the premium the same and reduced the cover or she 
could have chosen to surrender the policy at any of the review dates. So, Im satisfied Aviva 
took reasonable steps to put Mrs G back into any of the positions she would have been in at 
each review date, and if she did chose to increase the premium to protect the level of cover 
she wouldnt have to pay any backdated premiums.
Aviva provided a deadline date for Mrs G to take up any of the offers and explained that if it 
didnt hear from Mrs G by this date, the premium on the policy would remain the same and 
explained what the level of cover would be. Mrs G says she didnt respond to the offers 
made by Aviva as she had raised her complaint with the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Because Mrs G didnt respond to Aviva the policy reverted to the original premium and lower 
level of cover which Mrs G continued to pay for several more months. Mrs G says she has 
since cancelled the direct debit. Aviva says the offer to reconstruct the policy is no longer 
available as it was made in 2021 and it had made it clear to Mrs G that if she didnt respond 
the premium would remain at its original level and the level of protection would reduce. 
I acknowledge that Mrs G didnt ask for the policy to be reconstructed, but Im satisfied that 
in the circumstances of this case the offer made by Aviva to reconstruct the policy was 
something we would normally ask a business to consider. In my opinion, the offer in April 
2021 reasonably explained what would happen to the level of cover and premium if Mrs G 
didnt respond. Then in July 2021 Aviva wrote to Mrs G to explain what the level of cover had 
reduced to. Aviva said it would extend the response date for Mrs G to let it know if this 
wasnt her intention. It seems more likely than not that Mrs Gs intention at the time was to 
continue with the initial premium and the reduced level of cover, so Im persuaded Mrs G 
accepted the offer to pay the initial premium and reduce the level of protection. Having done 
so, I consider it would be unfair and unreasonable for me to ask Aviva to do anything else in 
this regard. 
Mrs G says she would have surrendered the policy in 2011 and would have asked for her 
premiums from this date to be returned. Aviva offered Mrs G the surrender value of the 
policy from the time of the 2011 review, but Ive not seen that Mrs G told Aviva at the time 
that this is the offer she wanted to accept. Instead, for the reasons Ive outlined above, I 
think its more likely she wanted to continue the policy and maintain some protection at the 
lowest premium. Mrs G has also told us that she feels Aviva should have cancelled her 
policy and refunded all of her premiums. I dont consider this would be fair and reasonable 
as Aviva provided life and critical illness cover over the term of the policy, and I would have 
expected Aviva to have considered a claim during this time if one was made. Im satisfied 
that Mrs G has derived some protection benefit from the policy, so I wont be asking Aviva to 
refund the premiums.
Im satisfied that Mrs G would have been shocked that correspondence containing details of 
her policy with Aviva were sent to the wrong address. Mrs G is concerned about a potential 
data breach, but the best place for this to be investigated is through the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO). The ICO upholds information rights in the public interest, 
promoting openness by public bodies and data privacy for individuals and further information is available on this link: https://ico.org.uk/ However, I can look at the impact the errors had 
on Mrs G and Im satisfied it came as a shock to her that correspondence containing details 
of her policy were sent to the wrong address. 
My final decision
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has already made an offer to pay £400 as a remedy for 
the stress and inconvenience Mrs G suffered as a result of the reviews being sent to the 
wrong address, and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So, my decision is that 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should pay Mrs G £400.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman