DRN-4395383
The complaint
Mr M complains Scottish Equitable Plc trading as Aegon delayed the transfer of his 
investment. This caused Mr M to be out of the market for longer than he anticipated, and he 
feels he has suffered a financial loss as a result. 
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint in my earlier provisional decision. For clarity I 
repeat it here.
Mr M holds a pension with Aegon. 
On 5 October 2022, Aegon received a transfer request via the Origo pension transfer 
system, to transfer his existing pension to Hargreaves Lansdown. The transfer was not 
completed until 31 October 2022 and received by Hargreaves Lansdowne on 3 November 
2022.
Aegon explained its normal business standard is to process this type of transfer request 
within 10 working days from the day after the date it receives the request. In this case there 
was an unforeseen error with Aegons Origo system integration. This error meant Aegon had 
to request its IT department to cancel the original request and create a new one, this 
ensured the transfer funds were not sent twice.
Aegon confirmed the transfer value of the plan was taken as of 7 October 2022. On 28 
October, it created a new transfer request. It prioritised this new request and transferred the 
funds to Hargreaves Lansdown on 31 October, which were received on 3 November 2022.
Aegon accepted Mr M had called them numerous times to request an update on the transfer, 
but he was given misleading information including various incorrect dates of when the 
transfer would be completed. 
Aegon apologised and offered Mr M £500 by way of compensation for the delay. But it didnt 
accept that it had caused a further financial loss because when the transfer completed Mr M 
did not invest in the way, he had detailed to them. He altered his investment model and also 
chose to drip feed his investment into the market over a period between mid-November and 
mid December 2022.
Mr M explained his instruction to Hargreaves Lansdown was the transfer funds were to be 
applied to his investment wrapper as cash, so he could choose his own investment model. 
Mr M told this service he is an experienced investor, he had a watchlist in place and 
anticipated he would be out of the market for around 2 weeks, but the delay meant this was 
extended to four weeks. He says as the entry point into the market was delayed, he has 
incurred potential losses. Mr M says this is because the units he was intending to invest in 
had increased in price by the time the transfer funds had been received and the potential 
long-term gains from the investments were impacted.
As Aegon didnt uphold this part of his complaint, Mr M brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Mr M. He found that:
Hargreaves Lansdowne instructed Aegon to arrange the transfer on 5 October 2022.
The expected completion date for this transfer request was 17 October 2022.
Had it not been for Aegons system error, Hargreaves Lansdowne wouldve received 
the funds 3 days later on 20 October 2022.
The investigator didnt agree that 10 working days were appropriate given the 
advantages of the online Origo Options platform. 
Although the funds were received by Hargreaves Lansdown on 3 November 2022, 
Mr M didnt invest all his funds at this time - he waited for more favorable market 
position due to the delay. But the investigator didnt agree Aegon could be held 
responsible for this as a potential loss. 
In the investigators view a fair period of compensation would be from 20 October 
2022 to 3 November 2022. Using the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total 
Return Index as a comparison benchmark.
Mr M accepted the investigators findings in part, albeit he felt Aegon had got off lightly in 
the circumstances. But he didnt feel £200 fairly reflected the level of trouble and upset 
caused.
Aegon did not accept the investigators view. It said it gave Mr M a number of opportunities to 
submit an investment plan for a price comparison but he failed to do so and so it offered 
£500 as a fair and reasonable redress. It also questioned the period of the redress 
calculation and why it had been calculated on the whole amount of the investment as Mr M 
didnt invest the whole investment amount once the transfer was complete. It also wanted 
clarification on the reason why the benchmark was used a comparative  it said the funds 
that were invested in should be used in preference.
In my provisional findings I said I had independently reached a similar conclusion to that our 
investigator but my redress calculation differs and so I issued a provisional decision to allow 
both parties the opportunity to make any further submissions they wish me to consider 
before issuing my final decision.
Firstly, Im in agreement with our investigator with regard to the period of when the transfer 
should have been completed and when it was actually received by Hargreaves Lansdowne.
I said I had considered Aegons objections to the timescales used to calculate the redress 
suggested in the investigators view. It said it was more likely that the transfer would have 
taken ten days but given the advantage of the Origo system (when its working as it should) I 
said I was persuaded the completion should have taken less than ten days and then the 
funds received within three days. Hargreaves Lansdowne has confirmed the funds were in 
the account on 3 November, so I think calculating any potential loss should be between 20 
October 2022 and 3 November 2023. This allows for ten days for both completion and the 
funds being received.
I then looked at the contention about what Mr Ms investment model was or wasnt and how 
it is possible, if at all to calculate any potential loss. Aegon said it had requested an 
investment model and Mr M said it had a watchlist which then changed due to the changing 
market conditions. 
Mr M provided some evidence of what his intentions were and sufficient to show that there is 
little doubt here, that he fully intended to transfer his funds away from Aegon into cash in the 
first instance and then to make his own investment decisions and he intended to do so upon 
receipt of the funds. I said this was evident from the number of phone calls he made chasing up the transfer, some of which I listened to and there is clear intent on Mr Ms part to 
undertake investment of the full transfer. Mr M testified to being an experienced investor and 
I said I thought this was borne out by the actions he took.
Rather than sit and wait he actively watched the market and when the transfer was delayed 
on multiple occasions, he affectively mitigated his own losses by changing his investment 
strategy and was drip feeding his investment into the market. I said I didnt think he could be 
criticised for doing so, but conversely it isnt possible to calculate what any consequential 
losses may or may not have been, precisely because of the action Mr M took.
I explained in order to do so, one would need to unwind all the investments and then carry 
out a detailed reconciliation on the costs on given dates and I said I didnt find that pragmatic 
or reasonable. 
I also explained the changing watchlist and subsequent investments were also the very 
reason why a benchmark is used as a comparative index. It isnt possible to say precisely 
what investments Mr M would have made and so the benchmark is used a fair comparative 
for both parties. 
So, I said I found it fair and reasonable that Aegon compare the performance of Mr Ms 
investment with that of the benchmark shown in the table below. If the fair value is greater 
than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the actual value is 
greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable. 
I went onto say that Im persuaded that the redress for trouble and upset should be 
increased. I say this because Mr M chased up this transfer multiple times and was given 
misleading and incorrect dates for when the transfer would complete. Not only did this lead 
to a great deal of worry about what was going on, but it also led him to keep amending his 
investment strategy in the hope of executing his transaction at the most optimal moment. 
Accordingly, I increased the award.
I then set out how Aegon should put matters right.
Mr M accepted my provisional findings.
Aegon took issue with a number of points. In summary it said:
It was confused about the timescale; it took from the provisional decision that the 
transfer should have been completed within 3 days but that didnt fit with the 
timescales mentioned from 20 October. It asked for clarification
It points to another decision, on another separate and unrelated complaint, where a 
short delay in the transfer was not deemed sufficient to warrant compensation
It is concerned Mr M has been, essentially, able to choose exactly how the FOS 
redress is calculated and that this may have been done with prior knowledge of 
market performance on those dates and this would be unfair
It asks the redress is recalculated accordingly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the same decision, but I will clarify the areas where there 
may be confusion or where my provisional decision may have been unclear.I have summarised this complaint in less detail than both parties have done and, Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this; our rules allow me to do this. This simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it - I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. Instead, I will focus on what I find to be the key issue here which is that Mr M feels 
that the delay in transferring his pension caused him a financial loss and potential future 
losses.
In deciding this complaint, I have taken account of the submissions that have been made by 
Mr M and by Aegon including those submitted by Aegon following my provisional findings. 
Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the 
balance of probabilities. In other words, I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the 
surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I think is more likely to have happened. 
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 and the Dispute Resolution section in the FCAs handbook, I need to 
consider relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, and codes 
of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider having been good industry practice at 
the time.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead, this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Neither party has challenged what I consider to be the crux of this complaint  that being that 
the transfer was delayed but the parties are still not able to agree on how to put things right 
and so it falls to me to consider what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Firstly, with regard to other decisions reached in separate unrelated cases. Aegon will be 
aware that this service operates independently and impartially, and I have reached my 
decision based upon the merits of this case and no other.
Aegon said it was confused by what it saw as different timescales set out in provisional 
decision and indeed those in the view of the investigator and asked for clarification.
In its final response letter Aegon said it would normally expect a transfer to complete within 
10 working days of a request being made. It confirmed Hargreaves Lansdowne requested 
the transfer on it valued the plan on 5 October and so using its own standard service level of 
10 working days plus one day, it would have completed the transfer request and sent the 
funds on 20 October, meaning the funds would have been received within 3 working days 
making the 25 October for receipt by Hargreaves Lansdowne.
I considered Aegons submission. Im sorry if my wording confused Aegon and so I have 
sought to clarify matters. I took into account that this was a cash transfer and not an in-
specie transfer. I would expect such a transfer to be affected very quickly on the Origo 
system under normal conditions. Indeed, when Aegon identified its error, it managed to 
prioritise the transfer, which saw it processed within 2 working days and over a weekend. 
So, in establishing a fair and reasonable timescale, as the investigator said I dont think 
Aegon can hang its hat on ten days being the usual time frame for a transfer such as this. 
But I did agree that once completed it would take 3 days for the funds to be received by Hargreaves Lansdowne. Im sorry if my wording confused Aegon and so I have sought to 
clarify matters.
I cant say for certain what would have happened but give the swift transfer Aegon was 
ultimately able to achieve and finding a middle ground between that and the ten days Aegon 
suggested as standard service levels, Im satisfied that ten days for the whole process 
including the receipt of funds feels fair and reasonable and I havent seen a compelling 
argument from Aegon to persuade me otherwise.  For that reason, I remain of the view that 
had the transfer gone according to plan, the funds should have been received on 20th 
October 2022, and this is the starting point for the redress calculation I have directed Aegon 
to carry out.
With regard to Aegons concern that Mr M has been, essentially, able to choose exactly how 
the FOS redress is calculated and that this may have been done with prior knowledge of 
market performance on those dates and this would be unfair. I have seen anything in the 
evidence to suggest how this could be possible. Mr M had made a number of suggestions to 
Aegon about how this complaint could and should be resolved by his own estimations. None 
of these involved a benchmark nor is there any certainty of a loss. 
Mr M also submitted that Aegon may well have come off lightly, in his view. He said this 
because he feels there may well be consequential losses but as I explained in order to 
establish that, one would need to unwind all the investments and then carry out a detailed 
reconciliation on the costs on given dates and I remain of the view that this isnt a pragmatic 
or reasonable approach. 
It follows that I have reached the same conclusions as my earlier provisional decision.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr M as close as possible to 
the position he would probably now be in if he had the transfer been received by Hargreaves 
Lansdown on 20 October 2022.
I think Mr M would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what he would 
have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr 
Ms' circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What should Aegon do?
To compensate Mr M fairly it should:
Compare the performance of Mr M' investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
Aegon should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable. 
If there is a loss, Aegon should pay into Mr M' pension plan, to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. You shouldnt pay the compensation 
into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Aegon is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Ms' pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to notionally to allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr M wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Ms actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr M is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr M would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
If either Aegon or Mr M dispute that this is a reasonable assumption, you must let us 
know as soon as possible so that the assumption can be clarified, and Mr M receives 
appropriate compensation. It wont be possible for us to amend this assumption once 
any final decision has been issued on the complaint.
In addition, Aegon should pay Mr M £500 for the inconvenience caused in having to 
chase the transfer multiple times and continually alter his investment model in 
response to changing market conditions which followed the transfer delay.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr M in a clear, simple format.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Hargreaves 
Lansdowne 
SIPP (still exists 
and liquid)FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index20 October 
2022 3 November 
20228% per 
annum 
simple from 
date of final 
decision if 
Aegon does 
not settle 
within 28 
days of 
receipt of Mr 
Ms 
acceptance
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return
using the benchmark.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr M wanted Income with some growth and was willing to accept some investment 
risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr M's circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
For the reasons  I have given I uphold this complaint and direct Scottish Equitable Plc  
trading as Aegon to carry out the redress as detailed in the Putting Things Right section of 
this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman