DRN-4073531
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC changed one of 
its policies with no warning and no explanation, resulting in considerable inconvenience to K.
K is represented in this complaint by its director, Mr C.
What happened
For many years, when K received payments in cash, it would keep the cash to use as petty 
cash, and would write a cheque to itself so that the payment was reflected in its accounts. 
Barclays changed its policy and stopped accepting cheques by post which debited and 
credited the same account. In October 2022 Barclays postal credit department returned a 
cheque and wrote to K explaining that this was because it debited and credited the same 
account.
Mr C phoned Barclays and pointed out that K had been writing itself cheques right up until 
the previous month. Mr C was unhappy about the time that he was kept waiting on the 
phone, and dissatisfied that although he was told hed receive a call back, he was sent a 
letter instead.
Mr C complained to Barclays and made several follow-up calls and received several holding 
letters in response to the complaint. Barclays hadnt sent a final response to the complaint 
by the deadline. And at the end of December 2022, it wrote to Mr C to say that it was sorry 
that it was taking longer than it should to give a final response to the complaint. It said it 
expected to be able to resolve the complaint soon, but explained that he had a right to take 
the matter to this service. Mr C raised a complaint with us on Ks behalf a couple of days 
later.
One of our investigators considered Ks complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he explained that Barclays was entitled to change its policies. He thought 
Barclays could have handled things better. But while he accepted that the situation had been 
frustrating for Mr C, he could only consider the impact on K, as the account holder. And 
since a company cant feel distress or frustration, he didnt think Barclays needed to do 
anything further to resolve the complaint.
Mr C, on behalf of K, didnt agree with the investigators view, so the complaints been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, and for similar 
reasons.
Mr C says K has had to restructure its accounting procedures, and a lot of company time has 
been needed to resolve the issue. I dont doubt that, due to the way K had used cheques to 
itself to deal with cash receipts, the impact of Barclays change in policy on K is likely to have 
been greater than on some other customers. The change meant that K had to adapt its 
accounting procedures. That will undoubtedly have been inconvenient for K. But Barclays 
was entitled to make a commercial decision to change its policy on accepting cheques 
debiting and crediting the same account. So I cant say that the inconvenience arose from 
anything Barclays did wrong. 
I accept that it would have been helpful to K if Barclays had given prior warning of the 
change, but K would have needed to make the adjustments to its procedures even if 
Barclays had given it advance warning of the change.
Mr C has commented that Ks accounts team couldnt carry on with its daily tasks due to 
Barclays not responding. I understand that the letter Barclays sent K in October 2022, 
explaining that it hadnt processed the cheque because it couldnt debit and credit the same 
account, will have come as a surprise to K. But it was clear in what it said. And although it 
didnt explain further, I think it would have been safe to assume that the option was no longer 
available.
I realise that Mr C would like to know more about why Barclays changed its policy, but it has 
no obligation to explain the reason.
As the investigator explained, the complainant in this case is the account holder - K, a 
company, and while company directors can feel frustration or distress, the company itself 
cant. However, I can, in principle, require compensation to be paid for inconvenience 
caused to a company. 
Mr C says he was kept on hold for some time when he first contacted Barclays about this 
issue. He considers the attitude of the member of staff who spoke to him to have been poor, 
and he says that Barclays didnt set up a complaint when he first raised the issue, so he had 
to phone again. All this took time which he could have spent the time carrying out other 
activities for K. Mr C says that caused K inconvenience, and I acknowledge that. 
Nevertheless, a certain level of occasional frustration and minor annoyance can be expected 
in day-to-day dealings with a financial business. To award compensation, Id need to 
conclude that the impact of the businesss mistake went above that level. In this case, while 
I acknowledge that Mr C being kept on hold caused some inconvenience to K, I dont 
consider the inconvenience to be enough that I can reasonably require Barclays to pay 
compensation for it.
Mr C has also complained that once the complaint was set up, he made several phone calls 
over the following two months to chase it up. I can understand that this would have been 
frustrating. However, as the investigator has explained, we dont have power to look into a 
complaint about a businesss complaint handling. 
Mr C has asked why Barclays referred him to this service if thats the case. First, there are 
some aspects of Ks complaint that we can consider, such as the complaint about the 
withdrawal of the facility to pay in cheques debiting and crediting the same account, and the 
way Barclays handled the withdrawal. Secondly, the bank is obliged to refer a complaint to 
us, because its for us to decide whether a complaint is one we can consider. So it was 
appropriate that Barclays referred K to us. Im sorry to disappoint Mr C. I know he feels very strongly about the complaint. But for the 
reasons Ive set out, I dont find that I can fairly require Barclays to pay K compensation or 
take any other action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman