DRN-1178741
Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a 
personal reserve account in 1999. Mrs H says the policy was mis-sold to her.
Its been agreed that Allianz Insurance Plc should take responsibility for the complaint. So, 
for clarity, Ill refer to Allianz in my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Hs case.
Having done so. Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling the PPI, Allianz had to make it clear to Mrs H that she had a choice about it. 
But Mrs H says she was forced to take it out to make sure she was accepted for the account.
Allianz hasnt been able to send us a copy of Mrs Hs application form for the account but, 
due to the time that has passed since the sale, I dont think this is unreasonable. Allianz has 
been able to send us an example of what it says the application form wouldve looked like. 
The example includes a section on PPI, with a box to be ticked if the customer wants to take 
it out. So I think it makes it clear that the PPI is optional. And, in the absence of any 
evidence to the contrary, I think its likely Mrs Hs application form wouldve looked similar to 
this example. So I think Allianz made it clear to Mrs H that she did have a choice about the 
PPI.
Mrs H has said that the form says Allianz strongly recommends the cover is taken and says 
she felt encouraged to take the PPI. But theres nothing on the form to suggest that the PPI 
is mandatory or will have an effect on the outcome of the application. So I think its still clear 
that the customer has a choice about taking the PPI.
While the form says the cover is strongly recommended, I dont think Allianz assessed 
Mrs Hs personal circumstances or gave her any tailored advice. So I dont think Allianz had 
to check that the PPI was right for her. But it did still have to make sure Mrs H got the 
information she needed to decide if the PPI was right for her.
Its possible the information Allianz gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like 
Mrs H wouldve been affected by any of the likely exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. 
And the policy couldve paid out for longer than, and in addition to, the sick pay shes told us 
she wouldve been entitled to. So it would have been useful for Mrs H if something went 
wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information about it 
would have put Mrs H off taking the PPI out.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2020.
Alan Millward
Ombudsman