DRN-3355878
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr S complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC reduced the amount it would lend 
shortly before completion of their purchase. This had significant repercussions for which 
theyd like compensation. Mr S has dealt with the complaint throughout.
What happened
Mr S and Mrs B applied for a mortgage with Barclays to buy a property. Theyd agreed a 
purchase price with the vendor. This was consistent with the valuation carried out on behalf 
of Barclays.
Mrs B and Mr S instructed a separate survey. This identified remedial works which would 
cost about £35,000. They agreed with the vendor that the contractual purchase price would 
remain the same but theyd retain about £35,000 for the work and only transfer the balance 
to the vendor. 
Mr S says Barclays was aware of this and still offered to lend the amount theyd applied for. 
However, after theyd exchanged contracts, Barclays said theyd have to re-submit 
documents with a lower purchase price  equal to the amount they would transfer to the 
vendor. Barclays also reduced the amount it would lend. Mr S says this put them in a difficult 
position. They had no choice but to agree the lower purchase price with the seller. They say 
this caused enormous stress and increased their legal costs. They were left without funds for 
the remedial work. They say the property isnt habitable until the work is done, meaning 
theyre paying a second mortgage for the property they live in. In the meantime, the cost of 
the work is increasing.
Our investigator said Barclays was entitled to reduce the amount it would lend, to ensure the 
loan didnt exceed 85% of the loan to value. He said Mr S and Mrs Bs solicitor should have 
been clearer about the purchase price being reduced.
Mr S and Mrs B didnt agree. In summary, Mr S said Barclays was given the relevant 
information and should have said there was problem sooner. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. I should also say that where Ive 
referred to the purchase price and other amounts, Ive rounded to the nearest £5,000.
Mr S and Mrs B contacted Barclays about a mortgage to buy a property. They applied via a 
broker in September 2020. The application said the purchase price was £945,000. The 
valuation carried out on behalf of Barclays reported the property value as £945,000.
Mr S and Mrs Bs solicitor wrote to Barclays in late 2020 saying work was needed at the 
property, for which an allowance of £35,000 had been agreed with the vendor. The solicitor 
provided details of the work needed, saying it was understood this impacted the structure of 
the property and needed addressing immediately.
Mr S and Mrs Bs solicitor also sent a copy of the purchase contract to Barclays. This said 
the purchase price was £945,000. One of the contract clauses said The seller will make an 
allowance of £35,000 in the purchase price towards the cost of remedial work at the property 
which the buyer will carry out following completion. The solicitors covering letter drew 
attention to this clause and said they would be transferring £910,000 to the sellers solicitor.
Barclays says it responded to the solicitor and the broker in early January 2021 saying it 
would lend less than Mr S and Mrs B had applied for. Barclays says its valuer down-valued 
the property. It provided a copy of the valuation report (dated late December 2020) valuing 
the property at £910,000. Barclays says it sent this to Mr S and Mrs B  as the copy 
provided is addressed to Mr S and Mrs B I think its likely that it did. Barclays also sent a 
copy of an email sent to Mr S and Mrs Bs broker on 4 January 2021 saying the valuation 
was lower than the agreed purchase price and the maximum borrowing was £775,000. It 
said the broker should upload new documents if Mr S and Mrs B still wanted to proceed. 
Barclays says it also told the solicitors about the lower valuation and lower loan amount in 
early January 2021, although it didnt provide evidence that it did.
Barclays sent a further letter on 15 January 2021, referring to the solicitors letters, and 
saying it was happy to proceed and its offer wasnt affected. It issued a mortgage offer on 15 
January 2021 offering to lend £805,000. The mortgage product had a maximum LTV of 85% 
(although the mortgage offer was slightly over this). The mortgage offer states the purchase 
price as £945,000. Barclays says this mortgage offer was issued in error.
Mr S and Mrs B exchanged contracts on 29 January 2021 and paid a deposit of about 
£95,000. A completion date was agreed for 19 February 2021.
On 5 February 2021 Barclays said it would only lend £775,000. Mr S and Mrs B said this put 
them in a difficult position as theyd already exchanged contracts based on the mortgage 
offer received in mid-January 2021. 
Did Barclays make an error  and what was the effect of Barclays error?
I think, ultimately, it was for Barclays to decide whether it accepted the purchase price as 
£945,000 or £910,000. I think it was reasonable for it to use the lower amount  the amount 
Mr S and Mrs B actually paid to the vendor  when calculating the loan to value. Barclays 
says this is its policy. In addition, Barclays was entitled to rely on the property valuation, and 
the property was re-valued in late December at £910,000.
Barclays error wasnt that it didnt lend the amount Mr S and Mrs B wanted. The error was 
that Barclays sent a mortgage offer and covering letter in mid-January 2021 which wrongly 
said it would lend £805,000 on the basis of a purchase price of £945,000. Barclays accepts 
this was an error. It says Mr S and Mrs B ought reasonably to have known that the mortgage 
offer was an error. 
Barclays corrected its error in early February 2021 and withdrew the offer to lend £805,000. 
The terms of the mortgage offer allowed it to do this  the offer says Barclays can withdraw 
the offer or change its terms until the loan is advanced. This includes changing the offer to 
correct an error in it. 
However, Mr S says they exchanged contracts in late January 2021, relying on the mortgage offer. He says due to Barclays changing the amount it would lend their solicitor had to do 
extra work. For instance, the purchase contract was re-written and the solicitor issued a new 
certificate of title. Mr S says they were caused considerable stress before completion and 
after. And theyve been unable to complete work on the property, due to lack of funds. Mr S 
says theyve had to live elsewhere, paying a mortgage on a flat while they wait for remedial 
work on the new property to be completed. Mr S says if theyd been given correct 
information theyd have been able to negotiate a lower purchase price with the vendors, or 
might have decided not to go ahead with the purchase.
First, as Ive said, Barclays error wasnt that it didnt lend the amount Mr S and Mrs B 
wanted. Even if it hadnt made the error, Mr S and Mrs B wouldnt have been able to borrow 
£805,000. The most Barclays would lend was 85% of the lower of the valuation or the 
purchase price (about £775,000). And the solicitor would have had to re-write the purchase 
contract with the lower purchase price, regardless of the error.
Mr S and Mrs B knew about the lower valuation in early January 2021. Barclays told Mr S 
and Mrs Bs broker it would only lend £775,000 on 4 January 2021. Barclays says it told the 
solicitors this too. Barclays had given Mr S and Mrs B correct information about the amount it 
would lend and so they could at this point have tried to re-negotiate the purchase price, or 
decide not to go ahead.
I can see that receiving a mortgage offer about 10 days later which referred to the higher 
purchase price and loan amount caused confusion. This was especially the case as the 
covering letter referred to the solicitors letters. But I think in the circumstances it would have 
been reasonable for Mr S and Mrs B, or their broker or solicitor, to check this with Barclays 
before relying on it. The offer wasnt consistent with what Barclays had said about the 
amount it would lend, or the valuation of the property. 
I dont think, in the circumstances, it would be fair and reasonable to require Barclays to 
increase the amount of the loan to Mr S and Mrs B. I do think that the incorrect mortgage 
offer would have caused some confusion, but I must take into account that I think it would 
have been reasonable for Mr S and Mrs B, or their broker or solicitor, to query whether it was 
right before exchanging contracts or paying a deposit. Barclays offered £650 compensation 
for the way it dealt with this matter and the effort and time spent by Mr S and Mrs B. In the 
circumstances, I think this is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay £650 to Mr S and Mrs B, as it offered 
to do (it can deduct any amounts it has already paid). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman