DRN-3693341
The complaint
Ms H complains about the service shes received from Nationwide Building Society in
connection with a stocks and shares ISA they sold her in 2006.
What happened
Nationwide sold Ms H the ISA in 2006. They received some ongoing commission from the 
sale. The documents from the time didnt specify what services would be provided in return 
for that commission. But Nationwide said in response to the complaint that it would have 
covered the cost of further financial reviews if Ms H had asked for any.
The ISA was initially invested in a low risk fund. But in April 2010 that seems to have 
changed. A letter from Ms H to the investment provider said to move the money to a specific, 
different fund.
Ms H says she spoke to Nationwide in 2013 because she wanted to review the investment. 
But she says she was told shed have to pay for a review because of a change to the way 
commission was handled. She says she decided not to have a review as a result. 
Nationwide have no record of that conversation, and deny that they would have said a 
review would cost money.
In 2020, Ms Hs investment lost money. She says she spoke to Nationwide about this in 
2021. She says this is when she found out the fund shed invested in was medium risk, 
rather than low risk. And she says this is when she found out reviews were included in return 
for the commission she was paying for the product.
Following a review, Ms H put her investment back in a low risk fund. 
Ms H has complained that her money was in an unsuitably risky fund. And shes complained 
that she was told shed have to pay for a review, when actually she could have had one 
without extra cost. If things had been different, Ms H believes her investment would not have 
lost as much money as it did in 2020.
Nationwide have said they dont have many records given the time thats passed. They 
couldnt see exactly when Ms Hs investment had changed funds  or why  but noted they 
wouldnt have given advice about fund switching at the time. And they said that if Ms H had 
asked for a review, theyd have done one given the way the commission worked at the time.
The complaint wasnt resolved by that response so Ms H brought it to us. I wrote a 
provisional decision back in August, explaining why I didnt uphold this complaint. 
I couldnt see any evidence of Nationwide giving Ms H advice to switch funds in 2010. And 
even if they had, I didnt have any details of the circumstances that might have led to that 
advice being given. And while I could appreciate there had been some sort of 
misunderstanding about the cost of a review in 2013, there wasnt any evidence that a 
mistake by Nationwide had caused that. 
Nationwide told us they had nothing to add in response to my view. Ms H wrote to say she 
was disappointed with that outcome, as she felt Nationwide had mistakes and were now 
trying to avoid any blame for them. 
The case has now returned to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I can appreciate Ms H is disappointed, I havent seen any further evidence that would 
change my provisional view. So Im going to make that my final decision. Ill repeat the key 
details about how I reached my decision.
A big issue here is the time thats passed since the key events happened. It means theres 
little direct evidence for what Nationwide did or said.
For example, the letters from April 2010 show me that Ms H asked for her investment to be 
put in a different fund. I understand that fund was higher risk than the investment started at. 
But those letters dont show Nationwide recommending that or in any way being involved in 
Ms Hs decision to change her investment.
So I cant see if Nationwide gave Ms H accurate or inaccurate  or any  information about 
the funds in 2010. I cant see what prompted Ms H to move the investment  or what she 
was hoping to achieve by doing so.
I cant therefore link the change of the investment into that fund to any action by Nationwide. 
And even if I could, I cant say such an action didnt suit the circumstances at the time.
A key driving point of this complaint is that the investments performance in 2020 then 
followed from it being in that specific fund. But the lack of evidence to link that to any action 
by Nationwide stops me from saying they should be responsible for the funds performance. 
In addition, the performance in 2020 was probably as much the result of global events as the 
specific risk of the investment. A lot of investments saw losses as a result of the coronavirus 
pandemic. From what I can see of the historic performance of the fund Ms H was initially 
invested in, it too suffered losses in 2020.
In her initial complaint to us, Ms H was of the view Nationwide should have been offering her 
reviews of her investment. I dont think thats correct. The details Ive seen from 2006  
admittedly limited  simply referred to the commission fees being payable. It didnt specify 
that those fees would also mean Nationwide would provide a regular review service.
I accept that if Ms H had asked for a review, she could have received one at no extra cost. 
But I cant see she asked for one. I accept that she didnt ask after 2013 because she 
believed shed have to pay for a review. But I cant see that belief links back to something 
Nationwide specifically said.
I agree with our investigator that Ms Hs awareness of the changes made by the regulator to 
commission in 2013 supports the conclusion she had some sort of conversation with 
Nationwide about their fees around that time. But it stops short of telling me Nationwide definitely said something that wasnt correct. That stops me from saying theres some 
mistake by them that now needs to be put right.
My final decision
Based on my reasoning above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman