DRN-3408873
The complaint
L, a limited company, complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited refused to release loan funds 
on a property purchase completion date. Ls director, who Ill refer to as Mr H, has dealt with 
the complaint. Mr H says L suffered financial loss and asks for compensation. 
What happened
L agreed to buy a property at auction. It applied to Shawbrook for finance. Shawbrook didnt 
release funds on the completion date. It said this was because the property vendor wasnt 
the registered owner of the property at the Land Registry. 
Our investigator said Shawbrook had set out its requirements at the outset. One of these 
was an OS1 priority search. It received this just before the scheduled completion date. The 
search revealed the seller wasnt the registered owner of the property. Our investigator said 
Shawbrook hadnt acted unreasonably. 
Mr H said, in summary, that Shawbrook hadnt been clear about what it needed to receive. 
And he didnt think it was reasonable for it not to proceed due to the title issues. Mr H said 
its common for auction properties to be sold on quickly meaning the seller isnt yet 
registered on the title.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
L agreed to buy a property at auction on 24 February 2021. Title indemnity insurance was 
arranged. On 1 March 2021 a broker applied to Shawbrook on behalf of L for bridging 
finance. It said completion was scheduled for 31 March 2021. A mortgage offer was issued 
on 18 March 2021. 
The solicitors acting for Shawbrook wrote to the solicitors acting for L on 3 March 2021. This 
letter said that the matter was proceeding under insurance and no searches were required. 
The letter then set out a list of items that were required. This included confirmation that the 
purchase was at market value and at arms-length, and copies of replies to requisitions on 
title. The list also included clear OS1 and bankruptcy searches once you are in a position to 
complete. 
I think this letter is clear about the need for a clear OS1 search. The letter was between 
solicitors, and I think its reasonable to expect Ls solicitor to read all of the requirements and 
note the need for an OS1 search. In fact, the OS1 was provided. The issue was that the 
search revealed that the vendor of the property wasnt its registered owner.
Mr H says it isnt unusual for auction properties to have been sold recently meaning the new 
owner hasnt yet been registered on the property title. There were delays at the Land 
Registry at that time due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr H pointed out that title indemnity 
insurance was provided. L and its directors are of course entitled to make a decision about 
whether to go ahead in such circumstances. 
Equally however, Shawbrook is entitled to make a decision about its own lending criteria. 
Shawbrook says it doesnt complete on a secured loan unless the vendor is the registered 
owner of the property. It says it needs evidence the vendor is the legal owner of the property 
so that they can legally sell it. 
Mr H says the purpose of the OS1 priority search is to ensure no last minute changes are 
made to the title, not to confirm that the vendor is the registered owner. He says an earlier 
title search would have revealed this. Perhaps, with the benefit of hindsight, Ls solicitors 
might have carried out a title search earlier in the process. But this doesnt change what 
happened. In accordance with its lending policy Shawbrook didnt proceed because the 
vendor wasnt the registered owner of the property.
Mr H says they werent told that Shawbrook wouldnt release funds until the scheduled 
completion date. Shawbrook says it informed them of this the same day that it became 
aware of the problem  when it received the OS1 search on 29 March 2021. Theres an 
email from Shawbrook to its own solicitors on 29 March 2021, saying it needed the seller to 
be the registered proprietor. An email from the solicitor says hed spoken to Ls solicitor.
Shawbrook also said there was a bankruptcy notice on the land registry documents and it 
needed more information about this  in particular that the property was purchased at full 
market value.
I dont think it was wrong for Shawbrook to continue to correspondence through the solicitors 
in relation to title issues. Im sorry if this meant Ls directors werent told promptly about the 
issue with the title. I can understand why Mr H says Shawbrook should have told him directly 
that it couldnt proceed, especially as it carried out a pre-completion interview on 30 March 
2021. But I dont think, in the circumstances, its likely this would have changed the outcome 
here. Shawbrook would still not have been in a position to complete by the end of March 
2021. If L didnt have access to alternative finance, its unlikely it would have been able to 
secure finance elsewhere in order to complete on 31 March 2021.
I think Shawbrook was entitled to apply its own lending criteria, which meant it wouldnt 
proceed until the vendor was registered as the owner of the property on which it intended to 
take security. I think Shawbrook was clear at the outset that it needed to receive a clear 
OS1 priority search. I dont think its reasonable to say that it should have proceeded to 
completion when there were outstanding issues with the property title.
Shawbrook didnt withdraw the mortgage offer. It said it would proceed once the issue with 
the title was resolved. On 31 March 2021 Ls solicitor told Shawbrooks solicitor it would try 
to complete using alternative funds. Shawbrook was told on 6 April 2021 that L would borrow 
funds elsewhere.
Mr H says Shawbrook caused them to incur legal costs unnecessarily by requiring them to 
provide directors guarantees and take independent legal advice. Mr H says it didnt ask for 
the guarantees until 29 March 2021. I appreciate that Mr H feels this was an expense that 
could have been avoided. Ls solicitors told Mr H on 25 March 2021 that Shawbrook might 
want personal guarantees and they were waiting to hear if it required independent legal 
advice. Shawbrook ought perhaps to have confirmed that guarantees were required and 
provided drafts before 29 March 2021. However, the guarantees dont say the directors had 
to take independent legal advice, they say they should take adequate legal advice. Im sorry 
if Ls directors incurred costs taking independent legal advice, but based on what Ive seen I 
dont think that Shawbrook required this. Shawbrook said there were times that it could have responded to Ls broker more quickly. It 
paid £50 compensation. I appreciate that L incurred costs related to late completion and re-
applying for finance, but I dont think this was the result of errors by Shawbrook. In the 
circumstances, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Shawbrook to pay further 
compensation.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. This is because I think that Shawbrook 
Bank Limited has done enough to put matters right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman