DRN-2968725
The complaint
Mr D complains about the way National Westminster Bank Plc handled a dispute he raised.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has provided detailed submissions. Whilst Ive carefully considered everything Mr D 
has told us, I wont be responding in the same detail or to each point he has raised. Instead, 
Ill focus on what I consider the crux of the complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy. It 
simply reflects the informal nature of our service.
Mr D says in July 2020 he paid for a meal using his NatWest debit card and shortly 
afterwards became ill through food poisoning. He says he asked NatWest to claim him a 
refund through the chargeback scheme. Having not heard back, he called NatWest on 
18 November 2020. 
NatWest couldnt find a record of the dispute being raised but it gave Mr D the benefit of the 
doubt. It refunded the payment hed made to the restaurant (about £28) and, later, paid him 
compensation for not getting back to him (£20). Im satisfied NatWest acted fairly for the 
following reasons:
- A chargeback based on food poisoning was unlikely to succeed. I say this because 
its not the sort of eventuality the chargeback scheme ordinarily exists for, and even if 
an appropriate reason code could be found, the onus would be on Mr D to prove he 
had food poisoning, and that the restaurant was wholly responsible. Mr Ds evidence 
would also need to overcome any defense put forward by the restaurant. It follows 
that NatWest agreeing to refund Mr D - from its own funds - was to his benefit. 
- There is no record of the dispute being raised in July 2020. Had it been, I find it more 
likely than not there would be a record. I say this because NatWest records contact 
from its customers and has a process in place for processing chargeback disputes. 
Im therefore not persuaded NatWest is at fault for the dispute not progressing. And 
even if the dispute was raised and not actioned, I cant see that this oversight had a 
material impact on Mr D because it was unlikely to succeed, for the reasons set out 
above. It follows that NatWests payment of £20 compensation is fair and reasonable. 
I also note this is the sum Mr D requested at the time.
- Mr D is dissatisfied with the customer service he received during his call with 
NatWest on 18 November 2020. He says he was told he could have a refund and not 
make a complaint or make a complaint and not have a refund. Ive listened to the 
call. Ultimately the call handler, whom Ill call N, explained he could either refund the 
payment Mr D had made to the restaurant, or refer the matter to the complaints team 
to consider a refund and compensation. Mr D chose to accept the refund. Im 
satisfied there was a misunderstanding here and that N was trying to be helpful.
- Mr D says he made a number of calls to NatWest on 18 November 2020 which were 
cut off. I accept this would have been frustrating for Mr D. Its unclear if this 
happened because of issues with NatWests telephony system rather than something 
else, like mobile phone reception issues. But in any case, these things happen and 
Im not going to require NatWest to pay Mr D compensation for this.  
Overall, Im satisfied NatWest has treated Mr D fairly and reasonably, so Im not going to 
require it to take any further action in relation to this complaint. 
I know Mr D will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what
we  in trying to resolve his dispute with NatWest  can do for him.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman