DRN-3412380
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) avoided his policy and 
declined his claim.
What happened
Mr S took out a home insurance policy with Lloyds through a price comparison site. When he 
lost his watch, he tried to make a claim. Lloyds then said hed answered the question it 
asked him about unspent criminal convictions incorrectly. And said it considered this to be a 
qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid the policy, decline the claim and 
refund the policy premiums. 
Mr S didnt think this was fair, so he brought his complaint to us. Our investigator didnt think 
the complaint should be upheld as he also thought Mr S had made a qualifying 
misrepresentation. He also said Lloyds had acted fairly, by avoiding his policy and declining 
the claim.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In doing so, 
he said he thinks Lloyds discriminated against him because of his conviction. He also said it 
was punishing him for his previous mistakes and the claim needed to be settled as he 
purchased the watch using money from his inheritance. 
So, Ive considered the complaint afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Lloyds thinks Mr S failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
applied for the policy online and answered the question about unspent convictions.
Ive looked at the question Mr S was asked and note that it says as follows: 
Do you have any unspent non-motoring convictions or had insurance cancelled by 
any insurer in the past? Yes/No 
Immediately underneath this question it says, Information about unspent convictions can be 
found here. Clicking on the link then provides a simple explanation of how to calculate if a 
conviction has been spent. 
Im satisfied this was a clear and specific question. Lloyds has shown Mr S didnt declare his 
unspent non-motor conviction in response.
Mr S has said he answered the above question in good faith, finds the terms spent/unspent 
confusing and thought his recent successful job application meant he could answer the 
question by selecting No. However, as Lloyds provided guidance about how to determine 
whether a conviction had been spent or not, I think it would have been reasonable for him to 
have checked the guidance before proceeding with the application. This means, I dont think 
Mr S took reasonable care when answering this specific question.
Lloyds has explained that had Mr S answered the above question correctly, it wouldnt have 
provided him with a policy under any terms. It provided underwriting criteria to support this 
conclusion, and this shows it doesnt offer policies to any customers in such circumstances. 
This means Im satisfied Mr Ss misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Lloyds hasnt said if it thought Mr Ss misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or 
careless. However, as it refunded the policy premiums, it appears to have treated it as 
careless. This is the most favourable option for Mr S, so I see no reason to interfere with this 
decision.
If an insurer ( as is the case here) wouldnt have offered a policy under any terms. CIDRA 
says it is entitled to avoid the policy. This means the policy will be cancelled from the start 
and it will be as if it never existed. If theres a connected claim, the insurer wont have to pay 
it. This is because the avoidance of the policy will mean that there was no policy in force 
when the loss or damage occurred. 
Considering the above, I think Lloyds acted fairly by avoiding Mr Ss policy, declining his 
claim, and refunding the policy premiums. I know Mr S feels these actions were 
disproportionate. But I dont think Lloyds acted unfairly or unreasonably here by taking these 
actions in response to his qualifying misrepresentation. 
Mr S has said he feels Lloyds discriminated against him. However, for the reasons Ive set 
out above, I dont think Lloyds treated him unfairly or unreasonably relied on CIDRA and its 
underwriting criteria. Ive seen nothing to find that Lloyds wouldnt have treated someone 
else differently in a similar situation. Like all insurers, Lloyds is free to decide on what terms 
it's prepared to offer insurance and does so based on a risk assessment. Ive also seen no 
evidence that suggests it tried to punish him or acted unfairly or unreasonably in this 
particular case.
So, while I appreciate Mr S will be disappointed by this decision, I dont think Lloyds has 
done anything wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman