DRN-2868471
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that NewDay Ltd, trading as Evans Storecard, gave him incorrect
information regarding the possibility of clearing the balance on his account via a balance
transfer to another credit provider.
What happened
Mr H had an outstanding balance on his NewDay account. In December 2019, Mr H
contacted NewDay to request his account number so that he could clear the outstanding
balance on his account by making a balance transfer to another credit provider.
Mr H was informed by NewDay that he couldnt make a balance transfer to clear the
outstanding balance on his account because the account was closed, but that he could
make a payment to clear the account by debit card. Mr H wasnt happy about this, so he
made a complaint.
NewDay looked at Mr Hs complaint. They acknowledged that Mr H had been given incorrect
information about the possibility of making a balance transfer, so they reimbursed the
interest that had accrued on the account from January 2020 to July 2020 and made an offer
of payment to Mr H of £50 to compensate him for his inconvenience.
Mr H didnt feel that NewDays response to his complaint went far enough, so he referred his
complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, and while they
felt that the spirit of NewDays response to Mr Hs complaint was fair, they felt that the £50
payment of compensation didnt take sufficient account of the upset and inconvenience this
matter had caused Mr H. So, they recommended that NewDay pay a further £50 to Mr H
because of this.
Neither Mr H or NewDay accepted the recommendation put forward by our investigator, so
the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 13 May 2021 as follows:
Mr H has raised a number of detailed points in his objection to the recommendation 
made by our investigator. I hope he doesnt consider it a discourtesy that I wont be 
responding in similar detail here. Instead Ive focussed on what I consider to be the 
crux of this complaint, in line with our role as a quick and informal dispute resolution 
service.
As such, if Mr H notes that I havent responded to a specific point that hes raised, it
shouldnt be taken that I havent considered that point - I can confirm that Ive 
considered all the comments and information provided by both Mr H and NewDay  
but rather that I dont feel it necessary to specifically address that point to arrive at 
what I consider to be a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint.
NewDay have acknowledged that they gave incorrect information to Mr H when he 
first called to ask for the information needed to arrange a balance transfer to clear the 
account.
In circumstances such as this, where a business has provided a customer with 
incorrect information, what this service would expect would be that the business 
would take the corrective steps necessary to reimburse the customer for any 
demonstrable costs that they had incurred because of the provision of the incorrect 
information, as well as to fairly compensate that customer for any distress or 
inconvenience that they incurred.
I feel that NewDay have done that here. They issued an apology to Mr H and 
reimbursed all of the interest that had been incurred on the account between January 
and July 2019  since Mr H first approached NewDay about the possibility of a 
balance transfer until NewDay issued their complaint response letter to Mr H. 
NewDay also made a payment of £50 as compensation to Mr H for the 
inconvenience incurred.
Mr H has stated that at the time he first approached NewDay he was in a position to 
apply for a new credit account which benefited from a period of 0% interest, such that 
he wouldnt have paid interest on this balance moving forwards. Mr H has asked that 
this service instruct NewDay to freeze all future interest accrual on this account 
because of this.
Mr Hs request here doesnt seem fair to me, especially given that Mr H hasnt been 
able to provide any documents to confirm that he had been accepted for a credit card 
with a 0% interest offer, and also given that NewDay reimbursed the interest accrued 
on Mr Hs account for the period January to July 2019, effectively crediting Mr Hs 
account with an interest free period during that time - even though no confirmation 
has been received to demonstrate that Mr H would have been approved for an 
interest free credit card so as to be able to benefit from an interest free promotional 
offer during this period.
Its also the case that a prominent feature of a credit account, such as Mr Hs 
NewDay account, is that it incurs interest. And so, I dont feel that I can reasonably 
consider instructing NewDay to freeze future interest on Mr Hs account.
Mr H has questioned the impartiality of this service on the basis that documents 
confirming that he was accepted for the new credit card were requested from him, 
and he has suggested that it would have been more appropriate for this service to 
accept his word on this matter.
I find it difficult to accept Mr Hs position here. Indeed, Id consider that making an 
award against one party for financial loss, without first obtaining evidence from the 
other party that such financial loss had been incurred, would be considered as being 
the opposite of impartial.
Ultimately, I feel that NewDays response to Mr Hs complaint, including the 
reimbursement of interest and payment of compensation as previously described, 
does represent a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint, given the 
circumstances here.I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr H was wanting, but it follows from this 
that my provisional decision will be that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking 
NewDay to take any further action at this time. I hope that Mr H can understand, 
given everything I have explained above, why I have made the provisional decision 
that I have.
In my provisional decision, I gave both Mr H and NewDay the opportunity to provide any 
comments or further information that they wanted me to consider before I move to a final 
decision. NewDay confirmed that they had nothing more to add. However, Mr H did make a 
further submission, and Id like to thank Mr H for his detailed comments in this regard.
As with my provisional decision letter, I hope that Mr H doesnt consider it a discourtesy that 
I wont be responding in similar detail here. Instead, once again Ill focus on what I consider 
to be the crux of Mr Hs position, in line with this services role as a quick and informal 
dispute resolution service. 
Having reviewed Mr Hs objections to my provisional decision its my understanding that Mr 
H believes that the outcome of my provisional decision  that Im satisfied that NewDays 
response to Mr Hs complaint, including the provision of the information that Mr H was 
wanting, the reimbursement of interest, and the payment of £50 compensation to Mr H for 
the inconvenience he incurred  fails to return Mr H to the position that he would have been 
in, had NewDay enabled him to clear his outstanding balance with them in the first instance.
I can appreciate Mr Hs concerns in this regard, but after further consideration I remain 
satisfied that Mr H has been returned to the appropriate position. I say this because, had Mr 
H been given the correct information about the possibility of making a balance transfer to 
clear his account in the first instance, he would be in the same position as he is now in  
specifically, in a position to undertake a balance transfer to clear the balance on his NewDay 
account, should he wish to do so. 
Of course, had Mr H made a balance transfer to clear his NewDay account when he first 
expressed an interest in doing so, then he wouldnt have paid interest on his NewDay 
balance from that time. But by reimbursing to Mr H the interest thats accrued on his account 
since Mr H made his initial enquiry, Im satisfied that NewDay have restored Mr H to the 
position where he can now apply for a balance transfer, and hasnt paid any additional 
interest from the time he first asked NewDay about the possibility of making a balance 
transfer.
And while I accept that it is the case that, by not providing Mr H with the correct information 
in the first instance, NewDay did delay Mr H reaching this position, Im satisfied that the 
reimbursement of interest and the £50 compensation already paid by NewDay to Mr H is fair 
and reasonable recompense to Mr H for that delay.
Mr H has also expressed his opinion that NewDay not providing him with the necessary 
information to enable him to make a balance transfer at the time that he first inquired about it 
was a deliberate ploy by NewDay to maintain his account with a level of indebtedness such 
that they could continue to profit from Mr Hs monthly interest repayments. However, I 
consider this to be conjecture on Mr Hs part, and therefore isnt something that this service 
would consider and doesnt fall within the remit of restoring Mr H to the position that he 
would have been in had NewDay provided him with the relevant information in the first 
instance  which, as explained above, Im satisfied that NewDays response to Mr Hs 
complaint has already achieved.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr H was wanting here, but while it isnt disputed 
that NewDay should have given Mr H the information to enable him to make a balance transfer to clear his NewDay account in the first instance, it remains my decision that the 
complaint response already issued by NewDay in regard to this  including the provision of 
the appropriate information to Mr H and a payment of £50 compensation  does represent a 
fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. And it follows from this that my final decision 
will be that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking NewDay to take any further action 
at this time. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman