DRN-3029070
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 
2003. Mr W says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, (Halifax) mis-sold him PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Ws 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here. 
Mr W has said the PPI was sold by phone. Halifaxs records indicate Mr W took the PPI 
when he applied for his credit card at a meeting in a branch. Mr W was employed at the time 
as a driver and hes told us hed been there three years at the time of this sale.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the mis-sale complaint - and said Halifax had said it didnt do 
anything wrong in relation to the commission on the policy but had made an offer as if it had.
Mr Ws representatives disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated complaint points and arguments theyd previously made. As 
the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ws. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ws complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission but Halifax has offered to pay back some of the cost 
of the PPI in any event, and I dont think it needs to do anything more. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
Mr W has said the PPI was just included on his card. But the credit card application form 
had a box to mark if the PPI was wanted. Above the box, and a box for another product, 
the form says: If you would like to take advantage of these services please mark the 
relevant boxes. On Mr Ws form, which he signed to take the card, the PPI box is 
marked - and I think it is apparent that if the PPI wasnt wanted, the PPI box shouldve 
been left unmarked. The mark is printed, like the other details on the form, and I think its 
likely the printed details reflect the outcome of a discussion Halifax had with Mr W before 
the form was printed out for him to sign. Taking everything into account, I think its more 
likely Halifax made it clear Mr W didnt have to take the PPI, and he chose to take it.
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mr W. Mr W has said advice wasnt given. But if 
Halifax did recommend the PPI, Halifax had to do more and check the PPI was right for 
Mr W. So, I think its fair to assess things on that basis. That said, the evidence about 
Mr Ws circumstances shows the policy wasnt unsuitable. For example, hes told us he 
was financially stretched and didnt have savings to pay his card if he couldnt work, and 
he was entitled to only statutory pay for sickness or redundancy - so Mr W had a need 
for the cover. Also, based on what I have, Im not persuaded the cover wasnt affordable 
for Mr W at the time he chose to take it. 
Also, Mr W was eligible for the cover, nothing about his employment or occupation 
wouldve made it difficult for him to claim and he hasnt told us of having any existing 
health issues that the policy mightve excluded or made it hard for him to claim for. 
The application form called the PPI Credit Card Repayments Cover. Its possible the 
information Halifax gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But 
Ive found he chose to take it, so it looks to me like he wanted this type of cover. It wasnt 
unsuitable for him, as I concluded above, and it seems like it couldve been useful for 
him if something went wrong. Bearing in mind also that I dont think Mr W wouldve 
bought the PPI without some idea of what it covered and of the approximate cost, overall 
I think it likely the cover wasnt too dissimilar to what Mr W wouldve thought he was 
buying, from the information its likely he was given. With this and all Ive said above in 
mind, I dont think Mr W wouldve declined the cover had Halifax done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations or exclusions on claims relating to back and mental 
health conditions, in light of Mr Ws circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt unsuitable for him. So, on balance, I think he 
wouldve still thought he had some good reasons to take the policy.
Overall, I consider Mr W wouldve still taken the PPI. Given his circumstances at the time of 
sale, I think the cover couldve provided a useful benefit at a difficult time if he couldnt work 
due to disability or unemployment in the circumstances the policy covered. I also think the 
cover was sufficiently close to what its likely Mr W thought he was getting. And, in those 
circumstances, I think he wouldve taken it in any event.
Mr Ws representatives have raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which they say apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; that these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and that the duty of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor 
value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had 
on the chances of making a claim.
Mr Ws representatives have not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Ws individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Ws particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint. This means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr W.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and, if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so, Ive decided Halifax didnt need to disclose the commission it received  but 
in any event Halifax has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI - so theres nothing 
more it needs to do. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Mr Ws representatives have made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on his complaint.
In summary they have said Mr W should get back all the money he paid for the policy 
because: Halifax failed to tell Mr W about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, 
the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that 
meant the policy was poor value, they say I should find Mr W wouldnt have taken the policy 
had he known about the level of commission and he should receive a refund of all the 
premiums he paid.
But, in this case, Halifax has told us the commission for Mr Ws PPI was less than half of 
what he paid for each premium. Weve looked at how Halifax has worked this out and, based 
on what weve seen, Im satisfied the commission in Mr Ws case was less than half the cost 
of the PPI. As thats the case, taking into account:
- the effect of section 140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
- the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin and the conclusion in that case; and
- the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy;
I dont think Halifax needed to tell Mr W about the commission. So it follows that I dont think 
the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship - I dont think Halifax treated Mr W unfairly. 
This means Halifax doesnt need to pay Mr W back any of the commission he paid for the 
PPI. 
But, in any event, Halifax has offered to give back to Mr W some of the cost of the PPI to 
compensate Mr W as if it had treated him unfairly. So I dont think it needs to do anything 
more.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipmy final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr Ws complaint or make any award in 
favour of him for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that Bank of Scotland Plc didnt need to disclose the commission 
it received, it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mr W paid for the PPI.
But Bank of Scotland Plc has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W. 
Halifax should now make arrangements to pay Mr W - if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 November 2021. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman