DRN-3872812
The complaint
Mrs G has complained that Studio Retail Limited, trading as Studio, irresponsibly lent to her
What happened
Mrs G opened a shopping account with Studio Retail in October 2017. At that point her credit 
limit was £300. It was increased several times until in June 2020 it was £950.
Mrs G says that she couldnt afford the credit and that she ended up debt as a result. Mrs G 
says that Studio Retail shouldnt have lent to her because she wasnt working at the time.
 
Studio Retail says it did all the necessary checks before it increased Mrs Gs credit limit and 
that it acted appropriately and fairly.
Our adjudicator thought that Mrs Gs complaint shouldnt be upheld. Our adjudicator thought 
that adequate checks had been completed by Studio Retail at the time of account opening 
and at each credit limit increase. 
Mrs G did not agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Mrs Gs complaint.
Studio Retail needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs G
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
have taken into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts, how quickly the debt was being paid off and Mrs Gs income and 
expenditure. There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending 
itself clearly demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable.
Studio Retail has provided a copy of the checks it did when it opened Mrs Gs account. It 
didnt have much information available, although it estimated Mrs Gs income at around 
£16,000 and noted that Mrs G didnt have any delinquent accounts elsewhere or any record 
of bankruptcy or Count Court Judgments (CCJs). Her overall credit score was good. 
Given the relatively low level of initial lending and the relatively small amount Mrs G would 
have had to pay each month to ensure her repayments were sustainable (about £18 a 
month), I dont think Studio Retail did anything wrong when it initially lent to Mrs G. 
There were four further increases in Mrs Gs credit limit. Again, I cant see anything from 
Studio Retails checks  or anything about the way Mrs G was managing her account at the 
time which might have alerted it to any potential problems Mrs G was having with her 
finances or that she couldnt afford the credit offered in relation to the first three increases. I 
think the checks Studio Retail did in relation to those increases were sufficient. 
I am less satisfied that Studio Retail did sufficient checks in relation to the fourth and final 
increase in June 2020. At this point, Mrs G had a credit limit of £750 which was increased to 
£950. I note from the checks Studio Retail did at the time that Mrs G had been in persistent 
debt for the eight months preceding this increase. Studio Retails assessment of the 
affordability of Mrs Gs credit had also decreased in the preceding few months and shed 
missed a couple of payments, too.  
I think this was enough for Studio Retail to query whether Mrs G would be able to afford a 
further increase in her credit. I think at this stage Studio Retail ought to have asked Mrs G 
about her income and expenditure to better assess whether she would be able to affordably 
repay any further credit. 
I dont know for certain what Studio Retail would have found out if it had asked Mrs G about 
her income and expenditure. At my request, our adjudicator asked Mrs G to supply copies of 
her full credit file and bank statements from the time. This would have helped me gain an 
understanding of what Studio Retail might have seen if it had asked more questions. But Mrs 
G didnt provide the documents I asked for. Without that information, I cant fairly say that 
Studio Retail did anything wrong when it lent more to Mrs G in June 2020, or at any other 
time.
My final decision
I cannot fairly say that Studio Retail Limited, trading as Studio, did anything wrong when it 
lent to Mrs G, so I do not uphold her complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman