DRN-4087259
The complaint
Mr G complains about Redmayne-Bentley LLP, referred to as the business. 
Hes unhappy about the performance of his investment portfolio, managed under the 
Managed Portfolio Service (MPS). He believes his investment has been mismanaged by the 
business resulting in significant financial loss. He also believes that the advice to make the 
change was unsuitable. 
What happened
In August 2019, Mr G invested £65,541 in the MPS for capital growth. He was in his late 
60s, married and retired. He had previous investment experience, including investments 
managed on a discretionary basis. His attitude to risk (ATR) was recorded as moderate risk 
and his investment goal was recorded as being over a term of 10 years. 
In September 2019, his investment was worth £65,224. In March 2020, it dipped to £58,543. 
In February 2022, he complained that the MPS recovery had been slow compared to the 
stock market. In other words, since the dip in the stock market in 2020 the major indices 
have recovered, but the performance of the MPS has been poor. He feels the business 
hasnt managed his investment as expected and as a result hes lost out financially. He says 
the business couldve been more proactive and taken advantage of the dip.
In a final response letter (FRL) dated March 2022, the business didnt uphold the complaint. 
In summary, it said that whilst it acknowledged that the portfolio underperformed against the 
benchmark used to compare recent account performance, there was an inherent risk with 
investing in the stock market. There were also no guarantees, and some investments may 
perform less well than others. Also, although the UK companies may have performed 
strongly in the last 12 months, the MPS portfolio is invested in a range of global equities, 
resulting in lower exposure to UK companies.
Whilst Mr G is unhappy about the performance, the portfolio is extremely diverse, and 
despite the short-term volatility it continues to invest with focus on the longer-term, in line 
with a 10-year horizon.  
Unhappy with the businesss response, Mr G referred his complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In summary, 
he said:
Complaints about investment performance alone are not something that our service 
would consider. Without the benefit of hindsight, its difficult to know whether, or not, 
the stock market wouldve produced better returns, and its not something that the 
business couldve predicted at the outset. 
The client agreement confirmed that Mr G was aware that he was taking a long-term 
approach to investing and of the risks involved. 
His moderate ATR/risk appetite was in line with his objectives and broadly how the 
investment performed. 
As a medium risk investor, over time the investment sought to generate returns 
above the rate of inflation and reflect a good share of the fluctuation in value of equity 
markets. And appropriate for medium to long term investment.
The MPSs objectives was to provide investors with growth and income  with the 
aim of providing a total return designed to achieve a target of the Bank of England 
base rate +3.5%. 
Mr G was looking for a portfolio that could lose no more than -17.5% or gain 17.5% in 
terms of volatility. Despite the 2020 market volatility, it was in line with Mr Gs risk 
appetite. The highest decline in one month was -12.50%, and the maximum increase 
15.67%.
Between September 2019 and February 2022 (when the complaint was made), the 
investment grew by £8,020 (12.29%)  around 6.1% a year.  
This was broadly in line with MPSs objective, and the return was in line with the ARC 
Sterling Balanced Asset Index. The decline has been in line with the tolerance, but 
the growth has been higher. 
The business also notified Mr G when his investment started to drop by more than 
10% in March 2020 (during the pandemic) and in February 2022, at the start of the 
Ukraine war. 
Despite what Mr G said about how the business ought to have behaved regarding 
taking advantage of the undervalued equities, the business hasnt acted 
unreasonably by not doing so. If it did, it wouldve been a significant shift from the 
portfolio Mr G agreed in 2019. In other words, more exposure to equities and greater 
risk. 
Despite what Mr G says, in the circumstances the business hasnt done anything 
wrong by not asking him if hed like to change his portfolio after a drop in the stock 
market. Mr G was also asked to notify the business if he wanted to change anything. 
Mr G disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He 
made a number of points relating to management and performance, as well as the suitability 
of the advice. In summary, he made the following key points: 
He was unaware that his account had been changed and that hes consequently 
suffered a significant financial loss in terms of its value going down compared to the 
markets. 
The practice employed by the business to change accounts needs to be investigated. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. In summary, he said:
Mr Gs main complaint was about the management and performance of his 
investment. Having considered all the evidence, hes still not persuaded that the 
investment wasnt managed by the business within the agreed mandate, as 
suggested by Mr G.
Mr G also raised issues about the suitability of the change in his investment which 
hes held for years. Having given the business an opportunity to consider this issue 
he cant say that the advice was unsuitable. 
Mr G was given options, so didnt have to move to the MPS, and he was given 
information in relation to the general risks involved.  
Mr G disagreed with the investigators latest view. Hes provided numerous submissions that 
Ive addressed below. I dont think its necessary to repeat them here.   
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the parties say, I cant safely say 
that the business behaved unreasonably or that its to blame for the MPS not performing 
better.  
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise the strength 
of feeling Mr G has about this matter. He has provided submissions to support the 
complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the 
fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much 
detail, as a discourtesy.
  
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, or undertake a forensic analysis of the evidence, its not what Im required 
to do in order to reach a decision in this case. I appreciate this can be frustrating, but it 
doesnt mean Im not considering the pertinent points in this case.
 
My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr G, and the business, and reach what 
I think is an independent, fair, and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case  
Im not here to take sides.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have 
happened.
In short, I dont uphold this complaint for the following reasons:
Our service doesnt consider complaints in isolation about the performance of an 
investment. This is because performance is dependent on the financial markets and 
not something that a business can control or predict. So, on the face of the evidence, 
and on balance, despite what Mr G says, I cant safely say that the business behaved 
unreasonably just because his investment didnt perform better through the MPS 
compared to the stockmarket.   
Im aware that prior to the switch to MPS, Mr Gs portfolio was managed under The 
Collectives Portfolio (TCP) service and that in May 2019 the business took the 
decision to cease providing this service to clients with assets under £100,000, which 
affected Mr G. This is a decision that the business was entitled to make in the 
reasonable exercise of its legitimate commercial judgement and not something that 
our service would get involved in. In other words, I cant say the business has done 
anything wrong by incorporating this change which it was entitled to make.  
The above proposed change notwithstanding, Im aware that the business wrote to 
Mr G giving him three options  meet the £20,000 entry requirement and apply for 
the new MPS, change to execution only service or stop using the businesss service. 
I note that he didnt respond initially and was sent a follow up letter with the Change 
of Service Option Form  which he responded to on 15 July 2019, electing the new 
MPS. 
I note Mr G also signed a Client Agreement Form which included questions around 
his investment objective and risk assessment that helped the business determine which strategy to take.  
In August 2019, an email was sent to Mr G outlining the businesss assessment and 
recommendation of a moderate investment strategy. Later that same day Mr G 
confirmed that he wished to proceed. Despite what he now says, Im satisfied that he 
made an informed decision to go along with the recommendation and did so of his 
own volition. Im mindful that he had several options available but chose the MPS. In 
other words, and on balance, Im persuaded that he  more likely than not  knew 
what was happening regarding the change and had a reasonable opportunity to 
decide what he wanted to do going forward. 
Despite what Mr G says, if he was unsure about something or wanted more 
information about how things would work, he couldve contacted the business and/or 
sought advice but didnt, which suggests that he was content with his decision and 
the information provided. 
The above notwithstanding, there was simply no guarantee that the change itself 
would produce greater results, and certainly no guarantee that it would provide a 
positive return. But I understand that it did  I note the investigator mentioned that 
between September 2019 and February 2022 (when the complaint was made), the 
investment grew by £8,020 (12.29%)  around 6.1% a year.  
On balance I think its likely that the pandemic and the war in Ukraine had an impact 
on the investment. These are factors that certainly cant be dismissed as having an 
impact.   
Based on the evidence, I cant safely say that his moderate ATR was any more (or 
less) risk than he was willing to take, nor that it was contrary to her long-term plans. 
Given description of what a moderate risk means, I cant say that its contrary to his 
objectives either: 
oAs a medium risk investor, your investment strategy will seek over time to 
generate returns above the rate of inflation and should reflect a good share of 
the fluctuation in value of equity markets. 
Your investment strategy is likely to differ from a low-medium risk investment 
strategy through lower diversification by asset class and/or having greater 
exposure to equities, including possible exposure to shares in smaller and 
medium-sized companies. A medium risk investment strategy is appropriate if 
you have a medium to long-term timescale for investing and capacity to 
tolerate a temporary or (albeit unlikely) permanent loss to your capital.
I also cant say that this was at odds with the level of volatility that he was willing to 
accept, which I understand was 17.5% plus or minus, which was in hindsight broadly 
in line with how the investment performed. 
I dont think its necessary to list all the volatility, but I understand that the highest 
monthly decline in one month was -12.45% and the maximum increase in another 
was 15.67% which would suggest that the investment was  with the benefit of 
hindsight  managed in line with Mr Gs investment strategy and mandate.  
In the circumstances, I dont think the business has done anything wrong by not 
checking to see if Mr G wanted to change his portfolio after a dip in the market within 
a year or so after investing with a longer-term horizon in mind. 
Im mindful he was looking for a long-term investment with a moderate risk, and there 
was nothing to suggest that he wanted to change this. 
I note that the business contacted Mr G regularly (annually), and as well as providing 
him with information on his investment, also asked him for information on any 
changes in his circumstances. So, he couldve informed the business if he thought he 
was ready and willing to take greater risk. 
In the circumstances, and on balance, I dont think the business has done anything 
wrong by not acting of its own volition during a dip in the market, resulting in greater 
risk to the investment. Without the benefit of hindsight, its impossible to know 
whether, or not, this wouldve been beneficial to Mr G.  I dont think Mr G wouldve appreciated the business acting without his authority or 
pushing him to follow a particular course of action that it decided unilaterally. 
Despite what Mr G says about putting his trust in the business and expecting it to do 
its best for him, I cant say that it didnt act in his best interests. And just because he 
may have sustained losses or not profited as much as he wouldve liked, doesnt 
mean that the business didnt manage his investments properly.
I appreciate Mr G will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. 
I note he believes that the business should pay him compensation, but I dont agree, 
because I dont think the business is responsible for any losses. Whilst I appreciate his deep 
frustration and anguish, Im not going to ask the business to do anything.   
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr G says, Im unable 
uphold this complaint and give him what he wants. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman