DRN-3685562
The complaint
Mr H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund the money he lost when he fell victim 
to a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties. So I wont repeat them all here. 
The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator for these reasons: 
In line with the Payment Services Regulations in force at the time, HSBC is expected 
to execute authorised payment instructions without undue delay. Its not in dispute 
that Mr H was scammed. But nor is it in dispute that he authorised the payments. So 
the starting position is that hes liable for them.
There are some situations where we believe that banks  taking into account relevant 
rules, codes and best practice  ought to have identified a fraud risk, so should have 
looked at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction before making the 
payment. 
Ive considered whether HSBC ought to have realised Mr H was at risk from fraud  
such as if the payments were uncharacteristically large or otherwise suspicious, 
given how he generally used her account. If HSBC failed to intervene appropriately 
when it should have done, and that failure led to a fraudulent loss, it might be fair to 
hold it liable.
Here, Mr H made payments to an account in his name with a legitimate 
cryptocurrency platform  the funds were sent to the fraudsters from there. Hes 
suggested that HSBC ought to have been concerned as hed not made this sort of 
payment before. But people can, and do, legitimately use cryptocurrency platforms  
and its not for HSBC to provide investment advice. So I dont agree that this alone 
should have concerned HSBC. 
Ive also considered that there were three payments, but these didnt happen in very 
quick succession or drain Mr Hs balance, something that mightve looked suspicious. 
The highest was for £4,000. I realise thats more than Mr Hs day-to-day spending, 
but I dont think its so significant or unusual that HSBC ought to have questioned it. 
Afterall, Mr H regularly transferred over £1,000.  
Taking this all into account, I consider it reasonable that HSBC didnt detect a fraud 
risk  so simply processed the payments in line with Mr Hs instructions. 
As well as considering whether HSBC ought to have prevented Mr Hs loss, Ive 
considered whether it ought to have done more to recover it. But as the payments 
went to an account in Mr Hs name, there was little point in HSBC trying to recover 
funds from their own customer. 
Ive finally noted Mr Hs comments about why hed a reasonable basis to believe the 
scam was genuine. But thats not a relevant consideration here. To be clear, these 
payments dont fall under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (which does 
consider someones reasonably held belief) because they were transfers between 
Mr Hs accounts. 
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr H. But Im not persuaded HSBC is at 
fault for failing to stop, or recover, his loss.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman