DRN-3684006
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Barclays Bank UK Plc didnt do enough to help when they fell
victim to what they say was an online investment scam.
Whilst the payments relevant to this complaint came from a joint account, for ease of reading
(and as hes done all the correspondence on this complaint), Ill mostly only refer to Mr H.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mr Hs account statements show that in May 2018 debit card payments totalling £179,000
were made to a merchant Ill refer to as T. Mr H says at the time he believed this to be a
legitimate investment, but he later concluded hed been the victim of a scam. He contacted
Barclays to try to help him get his money back.
Barclays issued a complaint response to Mr H in January 2021. In summary they said they
needed further information to complete their investigation. Ultimately, one of our
Investigators considered the complaint but didnt recommend it should be upheld. Mr H
disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to make a decision. In November 2022 I issued a 
provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Banks have various and long-standing obligations (many of which Mr H has correctly
highlighted) to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their customers best interests. But
these are predicated on there having been a fraud or scam. So, my first consideration must
be whether T were operating a scam as Mr H alleges.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam.
Some cases simply involve high-risk investments that resulted in disappointing returns or
losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods that were
arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, whilst customers who lost out may
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006).
Ive carefully considered this. Ive taken into account that at the relevant time T were
regulated by the Cyprus Securities and Exchange Commission (CySEC). They also had the
Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) permission to offer their services to UK based
customers. Im also aware that Mr H complained about T to the Cyprus Financial
Ombudsman (who told our service that the complaint failed as Mr H didnt provide further
information).
Ive also considered a press release published by the FCA on 1 June 2020 which in part
makes reference to T. This said: The FCA has taken action to stop four Cypriot Investment
firms from continuing to offer high risk contracts for difference (CFDs) to UK Investors
[T] used social media and webpages carrying fake endorsements from celebrities to entice
consumers into the scams involving CFDs.
Whilst the FCA referred to T as a scam in June 2020, I have to take into account that this
information wouldnt have been available to Barclays in 2018 and its unclear when the FCA
became concerned with the practices of T. I note that there was some information available
from CySEC to indicate that T had been fined in February 2018. But nothing to suggest that
they were operating fraudulently at that time, indeed the fine indicates that they had been
investigated by their regulator but were still permitted to continue operating. And as the
press release referenced above is dated over two years after Mr H had made his payments,
Im not persuaded that I can fairly rely on this as evidence that Barclays ought reasonably to
have known, or suspected that T were operating a scam at the time the payments were
made. And given T were regulated at that time, with passporting rights through the FCA, I
think this is the information Barclays would reasonably have relied upon when processing
Mr Hs payments.
So, as Ive concluded (that at the relevant time) there was no fraud or scam to protect
against, there was no obligation on or reason for Barclays to intervene in the payments Mr H
authorised.
I accept the payments Mr H made to T were unusual compared to his typical account
activity. And if there were an obligation (which for clarity Ive found there wasnt) for Barclays
to intervene, I would have expected this to have happened early in the series of payments.
The main concern here would have been whether Mr H was dealing with a legitimate i.e.
regulated firm. And as Ive covered above, any further research would have resulted in the
discovery that T were a regulated firm with passporting rights through the FCA. So I dont
think Barclays ought to have done more. Im also likewise not persuaded that a warning from
Barclays about the potential for a scam would have changed Mr Hs decision to instruct the
payments. Had Mr H been prompted to do further research he too would have found the
same information regarding regulation and passporting rights. Barclays arent obliged to
provide investment advice, and I dont think there would have been any reason at the time
for them to refuse Mr Hs instructions to make payments to a regulated investment firm.
Mr H has also suggested he was vulnerable at the time he made his payments due to being
70 years old at the relevant time. And whilst I accept losing such a large amount of money
would have had a significant impact, Mr Hs own submissions say that he only considered
himself to be vulnerable in hindsight. Ive not seen evidence to support that Barclays could
have known Mr H was vulnerable at the time the payments were made or that this is
something they reasonably ought to have ascertained themselves.
Ive also considered whether Barclays should have done more when Mr H reported that he
believed the payments to be as a result of a scam. As the payments were all made using a
debit card, the only potential avenue for recovery would be the chargeback scheme (which in
this case is Visa). The Visa chargeback scheme doesnt provide protection for payments
made towards a scam, although there may have been potential avenues to pursue such as if
T had declined to action a request to withdraw available funds and Mr H had the evidence
the scheme requires.
But importantly, under the scheme rules, any chargeback must be made within 540 days (atthe latest) of the payment date. The final payment Mr H made to T took place on 
21 May 2018. 540 days on from then takes us to November 2019. Mr Hs complaint form 
records that he raised this with Barclays on 31 March 2020. Barclays claim that the first 
record they have of contact from Mr H about this matter was in August 2020. Either way, 
both dates are beyond the time limit to raise a chargeback, so I dont think Barclays 
reasonably could have done more to try to recover the funds Mr H had paid to T.
Im of course sorry to hear that Mr H lost so much money and the impact of this. But as I
dont think Barclays are responsible for the loss, Im not intending to tell them to do anything
further to resolve this complaint.
Barclays accepted my provisional decision and said they had nothing further to add. Mr H 
responded with some further comments which Ill address below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs submissions concluded with an offer that he and Barclays share responsibility for his 
loss with an 80% to 20% split with Mr H being responsible for the 20%. This offer was 
shared with Barclays who declined it, stating they agreed with the outcome in my provisional 
decision. 
Mr H didnt provide further evidence (beyond his own testimony) that T were operating a 
scam at the relevant time. Mr H says: It takes little research and basic knowledge to 
recognize that I was a victim of a scamthere is absolutely no doubt whatsoever that I fell 
victim to an investment scam. Ive considered this, but Im still not persuaded there is 
sufficient evidence to support that T were operating a scam at the relevant time. As I said in 
my provisional decision, whilst they might have offered high risk investments, they were a 
regulated firm in another jurisdiction. And I dont think the concerns the FCA highlighted over 
two years after Mr Hs payments change this. 
So, as Im concluding there was no scam to protect against, then Barclays werent obliged to 
intervene in the payments Mr H instructed (however unusual or out of character they might 
have been). 
Mr H also says he thinks Barclays likely would have received chargebacks from other 
customers of theirs who had dealt with T. He says this alone would be sufficient to highlight 
that he was dealing with a risky merchant. Ive considered this, but as Ive mentioned 
above, Barclays arent required to provide investment advice. And even if it could be shown 
that there were disputes between other Barclays customers and T around the time of Mr Hs 
payments, Barclays arent required to vet merchants that receive payments from their 
customers. 
Mr H incorrectly asserts that the Financial Ombudsman Service focuses on helping people in 
need. Whilst many consumers are helped by the resolution our service provides to disputes, 
we are not here to represent either party. We are and must remain impartial and I must 
decide this complaint based on what I believe to be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. 
Ive considered all that Mr H has said in response to my provisional decision. But ultimately, 
Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence to safely conclude that T were operating a 
scam at the time Mr H made his payments to them. This means Barclays werent obliged to intervene and didnt do anything wrong when not doing so. My provisional decision 
concluded that I didnt think any intervention would have made a difference as any further 
research into T at that time would only have resulted in the discovery that they were indeed 
a regulated firm. Even if Im wrong on this point and Mr H would have acted differently upon 
receiving a warning, this still wouldnt change my mind as to the outcome of this complaint.
Mr H also says that Barclays failed him after hed reported that hed been the victim of a 
scam. As Ive covered above, Mr Hs own submission is that he first contacted Barclays 
about this matter in March 2020. But by this point, he was already around four months too 
late for chargeback to have been an option for trying to recover his funds. So, I dont think 
anything Barclays did or didnt do when responding to Mr H impacted on whether a 
chargeback could have been pursued. I accept that Barclays likely could have provided 
better service (specifically around the provision of an email address to Mr H), but had I felt a 
compensation award in this regard to have been appropriate  I would have included this in 
my provisional decision. Overall, Im not persuaded Barclays needs to do more with regard 
to the service they provided. Mr H has also referred to himself as vulnerable, again, Ive 
considered this, but have nothing further to add beyond what Ive included in my provisional 
decision on this point. 
I understand and accept that Mr H is highly likely to remain deeply dissatisfied with the 
outcome Ive reached. And I am of course sorry to hear he lost the money he paid to T. But 
for the reasons Ive explained, Im not going to tell Barclays they need to do anything more to 
resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman