DRN-1491423
 
The complaint
This complaint is about payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in alongside  Mr 
Ls mortgage in 1996. Mr L says Nationwide Building Society  trading as Staffordshire 
Building Society -mis-sold him the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments, to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ls case.
Having done that, I dont think the policy was mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Mr L and Nationwide say the policy was sold during a meeting. During that meeting, 
Nationwide should have made sure Mr L was aware the policy was optional. Mr L says he 
wasnt aware the policy was added. As I cant know exactly what was discussed with the 
adviser when Mr L applied for the mortgage, Ive looked at the limited mortgage documents 
Nationwide has provided. Ive also thought about Mr Ls comments and what I know about 
these kinds of sales in general. 
On the copy of the schedule for insurance, I can see that cover has been selected for 
accident, sickness and unemployment. I can see the excess period of 30 days has been 
chosen (with there being the option to have 60 or 90 days as well) and the benefit period of 
18 months (rather than 7 or 12 months) So, I think its likely that Mr L discussed the option 
for the policy at the time, and he chose the cover which best suited his circumstances at the 
time. 
From what we know about how Nationwide sold these policies at the time, it usually made it 
clear it was optional. Nothing in what Mr L has told us makes me think Nationwide did 
anything differently here. 
So, taking all of this into account, I think Nationwide made it clear that the policy was 
optional, and Mr L chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember 
this.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr L so, this meant it didnt have to check if the PPI 
was right for him. But it did have to make sure that Mr L got the information he needed to 
decide if it was right for him. 
Looking at everything Ive been given, its possible the information Nationwide gave 
Mr L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been. But he chose to take out the PPI - 
so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of Mr Ls 
circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover. Mr L says he wouldnt have received sick pay benefits from his employer nor did he have 
any savings. Mr L was borrowing funds against a large and long-term financial commitment, 
which was secured on his home  on his own. On this basis, I think having the security that 
his mortgage repayments would be made if Mr L was unable to work would have been 
important to him. So, it looks like the policy would have been useful for him if something 
went wrong. 
It also looks like the policy was affordable for Mr L. So, I dont think better information about 
the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover. 
Overall, I dont think Mr L has lost out by anything Nationwide might have done wrong. 
Ive thought about everything Mr L and his representative has said  including what his 
representative has said about the excess period being 90 days and the impact that would 
have had on Mr L. But as Ive mentioned above, Mr L chose the option for the excess period 
to be 30 days. This period continued when Mr L amended the policy to cover his second 
mortgage in 1998. So this point doesnt change my decision. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman