DRN-2911037
The complaint
Mr H complains British Gas Insurance Limited has unfairly refused to replace a boiler it 
broke when attempting to carry out a repair.
What happened
In early 2021, Mr H made a claim under his homecare policy as there was an issue with his 
boiler. The engineer who attended carried out some work to the boiler and needed to return 
the next day to fit a replacement part. Whilst replacing this part, the engineer broke the 
manifold and some bolts. The engineer said as Mr Hs boiler was around 30 years old, the 
parts that were now broken were obsolete, so he could no longer carry out a repair. Mr Hs 
only option was to replace the boiler at his own cost.
Mr H complained to British Gas and said it should cover the cost of replacing his boiler, 
given it was its fault the boiler couldnt be repaired. British Gas didnt agree to replace the 
boiler. It said it had told Mr H since 2015 that because of the boilers age, it was on a 
reduced service list and that it would become more difficult to repair as parts became 
obsolete. But it offered £250 as a goodwill gesture. 
Unhappy with this offer Mr H brought the complaint to this service. Our investigator thought 
British Gas had made a reasonable offer in the circumstances. She noted the age of the 
boiler and the call-out history suggested the boiler was reaching the end of its life. So she 
didnt think British Gas needed to do anymore to put things right.
Mr H didnt accept that. He said we hadnt investigated whether British gas had deliberately 
broken the boiler so it didnt have to carry out a repair. 
As Mr H didnt agree, the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
British Gas policy says it will carry out a repair to a boiler or replace it. But it will only replace 
boilers if they are under seven years old, or under ten years old but have been installed by 
British Gas.
Mr Hs boiler was around thirty years old, so unless British Gas could carry out a repair, it 
wouldnt contribute any further. But it would offer a refund if a repair couldnt be done. 
British Gas say the boiler wasnt broken because of poor workmanship, it was just a risk of 
having an old boiler that some parts may get accidentally broken during a repair. I 
understand Mr H is concerned that British Gas may have deliberately broken the boiler, but I 
havent seen any evidence thats the case. The engineer had already visited the property to 
carry out some works and came back with another part. I think this shows its more likely he 
was attempting to carry out a proper repair for Mr H. And Mr H was under no obligation to 
have his boiler replaced by British Gas under his policy  as far as Im aware he could still 
have cover if he chose another installer. 
Based on what Ive seen from British Gas, Im satisfied the boiler couldnt be repaired once 
those parts were broken. Whether it was due to poor workmanship or not, it seems the 
engineers actions meant the boiler couldnt be repaired, when it otherwise would have been. 
So I accept British Gas actions have probably resulted in his boiler having to be replaced 
earlier than Mr H would have otherwise done.
The more difficult part is putting Mr H back in the position he would have been in, had the 
engineer not broken the parts. If British Gas had repaired his boiler  as seemed possible at 
the start of the works  Mr H would likely still have his old boiler now. For obvious reasons, I 
cant return him to this position.
British Gas has offered £250 as a goodwill gesture, so its essentially offered a contribution 
towards a new boiler, which under the policy it isnt required to do. I think thats a fair and 
reasonable way to put things right. 
Whilst I can understand Mr H wants British Gas to pay for the new boiler, I think that puts 
him in a better position than he was before. I say this because, given the age of the boiler 
and the recent repair history, I think its likely the boiler would have needed to be replaced in 
the near future in any event. Parts of the boiler were becoming obsolete because of its age 
so its likely future repairs would become more difficult. And British Gas wouldnt have 
offered a contribution under the policy when it could no longer repair the boiler. 
Since the complaint has been with our service, Mr H has said British Gas didnt provide the 
refund on the premium as it should have. I trust this has now been resolved, but it hasnt 
formed part of my review of this complaint. If Mr H has any issues getting his refund from 
British Gas we can look into that as part of a separate complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman