DRN-3640199
The complaint
Mr K has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to adequately explain how a 
gambling block placed on his debit card worked, which ultimately led to him incurring 
substantial gambling related losses.
What happened
Mr K has a current account with Barclays which he has used as his main account since 
2016. Mr K has told us that he is a recovering gambling addict but that in the past his 
compulsive gambling addiction resulted in him experiencing periods of extreme financial 
hardship. He has spoken at length and with extreme candour about his addition and the 
impact it has had on his family and other personal relationships. 
Mr K has said that in 2020 after a particularly difficult period of consistent gambling, he 
spoke with his family and partner about the changes he needed to make to prevent him from 
gambling going forward. Part of these measures included placing a gambling block onto his 
Barclays account to prevent him from using it to gamble online. Mr K has said the block 
worked really well for him and with it, and the support of his family, partner, and counselling, 
he was able to stop gambling.
Unfortunately, in 2021 Mr K lost his debit card and contacted Barclays asking for a 
replacement card to be sent out to him. When the replacement card arrived Mr K realised 
that the gambling block was no longer in place and this resulted in him using the card to 
gamble with online. Mr K has said very quickly his gambling spiralled out of control and he 
found himself losing his wages and money set aside for bills to gambling websites. This 
resulted in Mr K borrowing from high cost credit providers and friends to try to replace the 
money he had lost. However, he ended up gambling those funds as well. It wasnt until Mr 
Ks partner and family realised what was going on that the gambling block was added back 
onto his new card and Mr K was able to stop losing money in this way.
Mr K has said that Barclays shouldve made him aware that the gambling block would be 
removed from his card when it was replaced. He has said that this system must have been 
an oversight on the part of Barclays given how difficult it can be for someone in the grips of 
an addiction to make the decision to stop. He has said that if it hadnt been for the block 
being removed, he wouldnt have lost the money he did or needed to borrow more to try to 
cover those losses. He thinks Barclays should refund the money he lost during this time and 
pay for the associated debt he accumulated as a result.
Barclays has said that while it sympathises with Mr K, and the difficult situation he has found 
himself in, it cant be held responsible for his decision to gamble. It has said that Mr K 
couldve reapplied the block onto his new card and this wouldve prevented him from losing 
the money he did. For those reasons it didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on 10 August 2022. In it I found Barclays failed to adequately 
explain to Mr K how the gambling block worked and what its limitations were. I found that 
this failure directly impacted Mr Ks ability to gamble and resulted in him engaging in harmful 
behaviour that worsened his overall financial situation. I suggested that the bank increase 
the amount of compensation it has already paid Mr K from £300 to £500 in total. I asked both 
parties to respond to the provisional decision by 24 August 2022 after which time I would 
reconsider Mr Ks complaint.
Both parties have now responded so I see no need to delay issuing my financial decision 
and have considered the case again, taking in mind the comments received since I issued 
the provisional decision. 
Barclays responded accepting the findings of the provisional decision. 
Mr K responded to clarify that his gambling losses had totalled approximately £1,300 not 
£5,000 as I had stated in my provisional decision. He explained that the related losses he 
experienced through additional lending and lost wages brought this amount to a total of 
£5,000 of debt, but that he had only gambled a maximum of between £1,200-£1,300 in total. 
He accepted the rest of my findings as set out in the provisional decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr K for clarifying how much money he lost due to gambling during this time 
and apologise for not making myself clear in the provisional decision as my intention was to 
say his overall outstanding debt resulting from the gambling amounted to £5,000. 
Having reviewed the file again and taking Mr Ks clarification into consideration I havent 
changed my opinion in relation to the complaint outcome or the suggested redress. 
For the sake of clarity I will summarise the findings from the provisional decision again here: 
The circumstances of Mr Ks complaint are no longer in dispute and so I will not repeat them 
here. It is accepted by all that Mr K had to have his card replaced twice in quick succession 
and that the replacement cards didnt have the gambling block in place when Mr K received 
them. Barclays have also conceded Mr K wouldnt have known the block would be removed 
when his card was replaced. Therefore, I will only focus on the impact of the block not being 
added to the new card and what responsibility lies with the business in regard to this.
Barclays have said that its records indicate Mr K didnt have a block on his account prior to 
2021 when Mr K says the block was eventually applied to his replacement card. This point 
has been addressed by our investigator and I agree with her findings on the matter. While I 
accept that some of the back-end screen shots that Barclays have provided seem to show 
the block being added for the first time in 2021, by Barclays own admission its possible that 
the block couldve been in place in 2020 but due to systems updates this is no longer visible. 
And Mr Ks testimony on this matter, unlike Barclays, has been consistent throughout. Its 
also supported by the behaviour on the account prior to the replacement cards being issued. 
There was no evidence of gambling during the time Mr K says the block was in place and 
therefore I believe him when he says it had been applied to his account in 2020. 
Barclays has argued that it cant be held responsible for the choices Mr K made and that he 
gambled his money willingly. I find these statements extremely troubling as they show a 
deep lack of understanding around compulsive behaviour and addictions which will 
significantly reduce Barclays ability to effectively support some of its most vulnerable 
customers. Offering support mechanisms like gambling blocks can be incredibly useful for 
people. But only if they are designed in a mindful and considered way. And while I 
appreciate that not everyone who chooses to apply a gambling block to their account will have a compulsive spending addiction, a number of them will. And so, the tool should be 
designed with this in mind. 
Ultimately it would be better if gambling blocks such as the one Barclays offers, were linked 
to the account itself as opposed to the physical card. It should be quick and easy to apply 
them, but some friction and time delays should be in place in order to have them removed. 
Multiple charities and reports detailing the way compulsive spending addictions have all 
acknowledge the importance of a time delay in removing these types of supports. Gambling 
addicts and those in recovery have repeatedly explained that the desire to place a bet will 
dissipate over time. If they can be prevented in the moment from acting on their impulse, it 
can make a fundamental difference. So, I agree with Mr K when he says that Barclays needs 
to reconsider this aspect of how its block works or order for it to work effectively. 
Mr K has explained that as a result of the gambling that took place in 2021 after the block 
was removed, he accrued debt of approximately £5,000. He said that very quickly he had 
spent his wages, money for bills and was taking out successive loans from high cost credit 
providers in order to try to recoup his losses. Ultimately this didnt work, and it wasnt until his 
then partner and family realised what was going on and took control of his accounts again 
that the gambling stopped. This period of gambling sadly resulted in the breakdown of Mr Ks 
relationship and he had to move back into his Mothers house, which he has described as 
very distressing. 
Therefore, I believe the impact of Barclays not adequately explaining how the gambling 
block worked, so that Mr K and his support network understood the risks associated with his 
card being replaced, has been substantial. Mr K has, by his own testimony, had an 
extremely challenging year and has lost considerably more than just the funds from his 
account. And while I appreciate Barclays cant be held responsible for everything that 
happened after the block was removed from Mr Ks card, I do believe that the replacement 
card and loss of the block was the catalyst that led to Mr Ks current circumstances.  
Putting things right
Therefore, I am upholding Mr Ks complaint and direct Barclays pay him a total of £500 in 
compensation, thus increasing the compensation already paid by an additional £200. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold Mr Ks complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman