DRN-3225853
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage which Ms H used to hold with Pepper (UK) Limited 
trading as Engage Credit. For simplicitys sale, Ill refer to the business throughout as 
Pepper.
Ms Hs complaint is under three broad headings:
she believes it was mis-sold because it was residential instead of buy-to-let;
shes unhappy Pepper wouldnt switch the mortgage to buy-to-let when she wanted 
to rent it out; and
believes Pepper was wrong to re-possess the property and then sell it at a loss.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Ms H and Pepper. Im also aware 
that the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, a copy of which has been 
sent to all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all the details here. Our decisions are 
published and its important that I dont include any information that might result in Ms H 
being identified. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention 
something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to 
the outcome of the complaint. 
By way of a jurisdiction decision issued on 8 December 2021, I set out the reasons why our 
remit to consider this complaint was confined to the second and third bullet point listed 
above. Both parties were given a further two weeks to make any final comments on the 
issue before I dealt with the merits. That time has now passed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, these are my conclusions, and the reasons for them.
Refusal to switch to buy-to-let
Theres no automatic right to change a residential mortgage to buy-to-let; the two are very 
different from each other in terms of the commercial risk they represent to the lender. So 
here, Ms H wasnt entitled to change to buy-to-let, but she had the right to ask Pepper if it 
was willing to make the switch. Its apparent that Pepper asked Ms H for information to 
support her request, but as this wasnt received, nothing further happened. 
This meant the mortgage remained as it had always been, a residential mortgage, the terms 
of which did not allow tenants. I cant therefore find that Pepper did anything wrong or acted 
unfairly when it told Ms H shed be in breach of the mortgage conditions if she let the 
mortgaged property out.
Taking possession and selling at a loss
The property in question wasnt Ms Hs home, but a second property that was, at the time of 
possession, let out without Peppers permission. The tenants were evicted and the property 
taken into possession by receivers appointed by Pepper under the Law of Property Act 
(1925). Thats allowed under the mortgage contract; in contrast, Ms Hs unauthorised letting 
wasnt allowed. Another factor was the long history of mortgage arrears. Whilst Ive no doubt 
Ms H found the possession unwelcome, in the circumstances, I cant say it was unfair.
Once the property was in its possession, Pepper began the process of selling it. Thats not a 
process that involves the borrowers; its something for a lender to conduct in its own right, 
generally by engaging third parties (solicitors, estate agents, and asset managers for 
example) to act as its agents. All Id then expect a lender to do is to notify the borrowers 
once a sale has completed, and account for the transaction. Pepper clearly did that here.
Ms H believes Pepper mis-handled the sale and failed to achieve a fair price for her former 
property. I appreciate her strength of feeling, but the evidence doesnt support her claim. 
Pepper took the steps Id expect it to; that is:
establish independent professional opinions on the propertys likely market value; and 
sell it for the best price achievable within a reasonable amount of time, mindful that 
interest continues to accrue on the outstanding debt until a sale has completed.
The initial valuation was given as £105,000; four offers were received for more than this 
sum, but all fell through for reasons that had nothing to do with Peppers marketing. The last 
of the four offers was actually reduced to £65,000 once the shortness of the lease became 
apparent. 
Indeed, the short lease would prove a genuine stumbling block to potential buyers, forcing 
Pepper to reduce its asking price, in stages. Several offers between £70,000 and £75,000 
were received and rejected as being too low; eventually an offer of £76,000 was accepted. 
Ultimately, any property is only worth what someone is willing to pay for it. In my view, 
Pepper met its duty to Ms H in the way it marketed the property, and the eventual selling 
price achieved was a fair one. 
After all of the sale costs had been accounted for, there wasnt enough left to repay all of the 
mortgage debt. Pepper can reasonably hold Ms H liable for the shortfall, but in any 
discussions about a possible repayment plan, it has a duty to treat her fairly and take her 
wider circumstances, financial and personal, into account.
My final decisionI dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman