DRN-2220762
The complaint
Miss M complains that the wrong car was supplied under finance provided by Mercedes-
Benz Financial Services (UK) Limited (trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance) (MBF). 
What happened
In 2019 Miss M placed an order for a new car with a particular specification to be funded with 
a hire purchase agreement (HPA) from MBF. A car was delivered about a month later but 
this was an older model. The supplying dealer told Miss M that a car with the correct 
specification could be provided but that would cost £20 more a month. Miss M agreed but 
the car she specified was never supplied. Miss M is unhappy with the way MBF handled the 
matter. She wants MBF to provide the car she ordered (or a full refund), reimburse the cost 
of insuring the car that was delivered and pay compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
MBF accepts Miss M was misled when she ordered the car but it was unable to supply the 
correct model. MBF proposed several options in an effort to resolve the matter, including:- 
a lump sum payment of £1,500;
a partial finance settlement of £1,500 (which would reduce monthly payments 
meaning Miss M would pay less interest over the term); or
end the finance agreement and refund the deposit plus one monthly instalment of 
about £300. 
Miss M didnt think any of those were fair and she referred the matter to our service. One of 
our investigators looked into what happened. He thinks the paperwork should have been 
clearer and its reasonable that MBF should allow Miss M to return the car and provide a 
refund  which would put her back in the position she would have been in at the outset. 
He thought MBF should also pay interest on the refunds at 8% simple a year. He 
acknowledged Miss M wants the cost of insurance refunded but hes satisfied she had use of 
the car and shed need insurance for that so he didnt think it was unreasonable she should 
pay for the insurance cover. He told Miss M hed be inclined to find any administration fees 
for cancelling the insurance should be refunded if she provided relevant evidence  but she 
didnt provide anything else. He recommends MBFS should take the car back and refund the 
deposit plus one monthly instalment with interest.   
MBF agreed to pay interest on the refunds and Miss M didnt think the outcome 
recommended was fair overall. In summary, she says 
shes entitled to the new model she ordered, its wrong that an older model was 
supplied and MBFS shouldnt have said it could supply the model she specified if this 
was unavailable;
shes been paying for the model she ordered since the start of the finance agreement 
which cost more than the model that was actually supplied so shes out of pocket;
rewinding the agreement doesnt address all of the issues - shes never had an 
explanation as to why the right vehicle wasnt/couldnt be delivered, for example; and 
she feels there was an attempt to deceive; and
shed like an alternative solution that acknowledges these problems and takes 
account of the difficulties shell have now finding the car she specified at the outset.
As Miss M didnt accept the investigators recommendations, the matter was referred to an 
ombudsman for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M brings this complaint to our service because MBF supplied this car under a regulated 
consumer credit agreement  the HPA. I want to be clear at the outset that Im looking at 
MBFs obligations arising out of that agreement. This service is not a regulator and I dont 
have the power to tell MBF (or any other financial business) how to operate on a day to day 
basis. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service is independent and impartial and we dont take sides or 
represent the interests of any party. Instead, its my role to consider the individual 
circumstances of Miss Ms complaint in order to decide what is fair and reasonable, having 
regard to relevant law (amongst other things). 
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
I understand Miss M feels upset and frustrated by what happened here. I can see that she 
took the time to choose and order a specific premium vehicle. Then she waited a month for 
the car to be delivered but the model she wanted wasnt the one that was supplied. I have no 
doubt that must have been disappointing and inconvenient. 
There seems to be no dispute that mistakes were made when Miss M ordered this car. MBF 
accepts that some of the information provided at the relevant time was poor and Miss M 
didnt receive the right car. I appreciate Miss M feels there was a deliberate attempt to 
deceive her but, as shes acknowledged in correspondence, it looks as if communication 
between the dealer and other parties was poor at times. And I think the wrong model was 
probably supplied as a result of a simple mistake. 
Putting things right
MBF has offered to take the car back, settle the finance, refund the deposit of £5,000 and 
return one months instalment (of just over £300) - to reflect any upset and inconvenience 
caused. After the matter was referred to our service, MBF also agreed to add 8% interest to 
the refunds. Having considered the evidence carefully, I think that sounds reasonable overall 
and Ill explain why below. 
Theres no dispute that Miss M wasnt supplied with the car she requested. When something 
like this happens we generally try and put the consumer back in the position she would have 
been in if the mistake hadnt been made. I understand Miss M would like to know why and 
how she came to receive the wrong car exactly but I dont think that would take matters any 
further in terms of my decision here. 
I have no doubt it was frustrating for Miss M that she didnt get the car she wanted. I can see 
she didnt drive the car that was delivered at all for the first few weeks  when it was hoped 
that the correct car might be available. I accept that must have been inconvenient and I understand it was upsetting to then be told that the new model wouldnt be provided. I think it 
is fair that MBFS should pay some compensation to reflect Miss Ms loss of use, upset and 
inconvenience. MBFS has offered to refund about £300 for that and I think this seems fair.  
I appreciate Miss M also feels she should be reimbursed for other financial losses. She 
thinks it is wrong that she had to pay for insurance and she says the monthly finance 
instalments were higher than they should have been for the older model that was supplied. 
I understand Miss M feels its unfair that she should have to pay to insure the car in these 
circumstances. Im satisfied however that she had some use of the car that was supplied. I 
cant exclude the fact that she would have needed to have insurance in place in order to 
drive this vehicle  or any car. And Im not persuaded its unreasonable that Miss M should 
pay for the relevant cover.    
I have considered what Miss M says about the cost of the finance - she thinks this was set 
up so that she was paying for the car she ordered not the car that was delivered and shes 
paid more than she should have as a result. Ive looked at the paperwork from the relevant 
time. I have seen nothing to show that the instalment payments Miss M made were too high 
or based on a car with a higher price than the one she received - the sales invoice, for 
example, shows the price of the car that was delivered to Miss M is the same as the price 
set out in the HPA. 
I note that the supplying dealer told Miss M it would cost about £20 more a month if the 
correct car could be supplied. And, in an email Miss M sent to MBF in mid-July, she refers to 
this price increase but didnt take issue with the revised cost. On balance, Im satisfied that 
the finance was set up correctly for the car that was supplied and I cant reasonably require 
MBF to provide a further refund on those grounds.  
I realise Miss M feels MBFS should have to do more, in light of everything that happened. 
Ideally, I think shed like the car she wanted to be supplied but I cant reasonably require 
MBF to do that, in this situation. As far as I can see, its not reasonably possible in practical 
terms and I think the investigators recommendations provide a fair and reasonable outcome 
overall  which puts Miss M back in the position she would have been in at the outset, 
insofar as thats reasonably possible. 
Taking everything Ive seen into account, I find it fair that MBFS should arrange to take the 
car back at no cost to Miss M and settle the finance. I consider it is reasonable for Miss M to 
have the deposit she paid of £5,000 refunded, with interest. And I find it fair that MBFS 
should refund one months instalment payment of around £300, by way of compensation for 
any loss of use, distress and inconvenience caused. 
I realise this decision is likely to come as a disappointment to Miss M as its not the outcome 
she hoped for. But, she doesnt have to accept what Ive said in which case it remains open 
to her to pursue the matter by any other means available. 
My final decision
My decision is I uphold this complaint and I require Mercedes-Benz Financial Services (UK) 
Limited to:-
1. cancel the finance and arrange to take the car back at no cost to Miss M;
2.  refund the deposit paid under the finance agreement of £5,000;
3. refund one months instalment payment to compensate Miss M for loss of use, distress and inconvenience; and 
4. pay interest on the refunds at 8% simple a year from the date of payment of the date 
of settlement. 
If MFS considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest part of my award, it should tell Miss M how much its taken off. It should also give 
her a tax deduction certificate, if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman