DRN-4109362
The complaint
The estate of Ms H (The Estate) is unhappy with several aspects of the service its 
received from Nationwide Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest).
This complaint is brought to this service by The Estates representative, whom Ill refer to as 
Mr P.
What happened
NatWest sent a cheque to Mr P, on behalf of The Estate, for an incorrect amount  for £320 
instead of the correct £324. Mr P raised this matter with NatWest and a cheque for the 
missing £4 was sent by NatWest to him. 
Mr P wasnt happy about this, and he also wasnt happy that he didnt receive a response to 
documents he submitted to NatWest within ten working days. Mr P also wasnt happy about 
several other aspects of the service he received from NatWest, and that NatWest were 
refusing to reimburse to The Estate the professional costs  totalling approximately £2,230  
that had been incurred by The Estate as a result of his handling of these matters. So, he 
raised a complaint on The Estates behalf.
NatWest responded to Mr P and confirmed that a corrective cheque for £4 had been issued 
to The Estate and that they had responded to the documents received from Mr P within a ten 
working day timescale. 
NatWest also apologised to Mr P that  when hed first written to them about the £4 cheque 
amount discrepancy  the issue hadnt been raised as an official complaint at that time, and 
that one of the letters sent to Mr P included an incorrect reference number. However, 
NatWest felt that an apology was a fair response to these issues, and they reiterated that 
they wouldnt be reimbursing the £2,330 claimed costs that Mr P was seeking. Mr P wasnt 
satisfied with NatWests response, so he referred The Estates complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint but felt that the response NatWest had 
already issued to Mr P already represented a fair outcome. Mr P remained dissatisfied, so 
the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that NatWest have acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. Such declarations 
would be for a regulatory body or a Court of Law to potentially make. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration.
I also note that Mr P has provided several detailed submissions to this service regarding The 
Estates complaint. Id like to thank Mr P for these submissions, and I hope he doesnt 
consider it a discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I consider to be the key aspects of this complaint, in-line with this services 
role as an informal dispute resolution service. 
 
This means that if Mr P notes that I havent addressed a specific point hes raised, it 
shouldnt be taken from this that I havent considered that point  I can confirm that Ive read 
and considered all the submissions provided by both The Estate and NatWest Rather, it 
should be taken that I have considered that point but that I dont feel it necessary to address 
it directly in this letter to arrive at what I consider to be a fair resolution to this complaint.
Having considered all the evidence and information available to me here, I wont be 
upholding this complaint. This is because I feel that the response NatWest have already 
issued to The Estates complaint already represents a fair and reasonable outcome to what 
happened. 
One reason I say this because Im satisfied that NatWest did respond to the documents 
provided by Mr P within a ten working day timescale, given that they received the documents 
on 31 December 2021 and acted on those documents by 12 January 2022. Mr P may point 
out that he sent the documents on Thursday, 23 December 2021. But given that this was just 
before the Christmas holiday period  which included bank holidays on Monday 27 and 
Tuesday 28 December  it seems reasonable to me that NatWest would only have received 
those documents on 31 December as theyve explained. 
Additionally, Im also satisfied that when NatWest were made aware that The Estate had 
received a cheque for £320, rather than for £324, they acted quickly to provide a corrective 
cheque for the missing £4 to The Estate.
In regard to the complaint not being raised when it first should have been and to the 
incorrect complaint reference number being included on a letter, NatWest have apologised 
to The Estate for these incidents. This seems a reasonable response to me. And given that 
The Estate appears to have incurred very little detriment because of these incidents  given 
that a complaint was subsequently successfully raised and that The Estate didnt have any 
major issues in locating or discussing its complaint with NatWest  I dont feel that anything 
further beyond an apology is merited in this instance.
Finally, Mr P wants NatWest to reimburse The Estate the £2,330 professional costs which he 
is charging The Estate for handling these matters. But its the decision of the executors as to 
whether The Estate will appoint a professional representative  and thus incur professional 
costs  or not, and theres no need or requirement for The Estate to do so. 
Additionally, claimed costs of £2,330 seem disproportionate here in relation to what has 
actually taken place  which to reiterate was that a cheque was sent for £4 less than it 
should have been sent for and that a complaint in regard to that £4 and in regard to an 
incorrectly perceived slow response from NatWest wasnt raised when it first should have 
been raised, as well as also in regard to some minor administrative errors. As such, I feel 
that both The Estate and Mr P could and reasonably should have mitigated against these 
claimed costs and that there was no need or requirement for them to have been incurred by 
The Estate.Ultimately, I dont feel that its either fair or reasonable to expect NatWest to reimburse the 
significant costs that Mr P is claiming on behalf of The Estate here, given the relatively low 
tangible impact that these events have had on The Estate and given that I feel that there 
was no compelling need for such costs to have been incurred. And I remain satisfied that the 
response issued by NatWest to The Estates complaint  including the issuance of the 
cheque for £4 and the apologies described previously  already represents a fair outcome to 
this complaint.
It follows therefore that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing NatWest to take any 
further action. I trust that The Estate will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive 
made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms H 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman