DRN-2691957
The complaint
Mrs O complains that JAJA FINANCE LTD didnt update her credit file to record a default as 
being settled.
What happened
Mrs O says she was declared bankrupt in 2014 and at around the same time JAJA 
registered a default on her credit file. She says JAJA should have recorded the default as 
settled when she came out of bankruptcy. And this mistake has caused years of problems in 
getting credit and has caused problems in getting a mortgage in 2020. Mrs O says she will 
have to pay further costs to add her name to a mortgage and would like compensation for 
the costs of the mistake and the distress she has been caused.
JAJA says it didnt make a mistake and didnt know Mrs O had been discharged from 
bankruptcy. It says the default would be removed six years after it was registered.
Mrs O had brought her complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint in part. The 
investigator thought JAJA had been told in around 2016 that Mrs O had been discharged 
from bankruptcy and ought to have recorded the default as settled on her credit file. But the 
investigator thought it likely any lender would have considered the bankruptcy as significant 
and also thought some lenders would have asked about any such matters regardless of 
when it was made. The investigator recommended JAJA pay £250 compensation which its 
agreed to do.
Mrs O doesnt accept that view and in summary says that compensation isnt enough.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that JAJA ought to have recorded the default on Mrs Os credit file as settled in 
or around 2016 when I can see it was told about the bankruptcy position. I also accept that 
JAJA initially maintained it hadnt been told what the position was and so the position wasnt 
corrected when Mrs O first contacted it in 2020.
So, I agree with the investigator that JAJA should pay Mrs O compensation. The key issue 
here is the level of that award. I appreciate Mrs O says that JAJAs actions led to the 
mortgage application problems and other credit problems. But I think lenders consider a 
variety of factors when making lending decisions and I have not seen any evidence that this 
mistake led directly to the mortgage application being refused. I also think it likely that the 
bankruptcy played a significant part in any lending decision, and that any lender is likely to 
consider a bankruptcy as far more significant that a default.
Im satisfied that JAJA ought to pay the £250 compensation recommended by the 
investigator which I think is a fair and reasonable amount and reflects whats taken place 
here as well as the delay. 
I appreciate Mrs O will be disappointed by my decision and that she may have to pay fees to 
be added to the mortgage. But for the reasons I have explained I cant be sure the position 
here would have been any different if the default had been recorded as settled, as there 
would still be a record of the default that lenders could see. And more importantly Mrs O had 
been made bankrupt.
Putting things right
I intend to order JAJA to pay £250 compensation to Mrs O.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order JAJA FINANCE LTD to pay Mrs O 
£250 compensation. Mrs Os acceptance of this decision would be in full and final settlement 
of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman