DRN-3622753
The complaint
Mr S complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund the money he lost when he was the victim of a 
scam.
What happened
Mr S was interested in investing in cryptocurrency. He searched online and found a website 
that appeared to be endorsed by a number of celebrities, and so he signed up to the 
website. He then started to receive emails from a cryptocurrency investment company 
offering him the chance to invest with them. Mr S exchanged a number of emails with the 
investment company, before ultimately agreeing to invest with them. The investment 
company then got him to download some software so they could remotely access his 
computer, and to open an account with Revolut which the investments would be made 
through.
Mr S then made a number of payments from an account he already had with another bank, 
to his new Revolut account. He then made a number of payments from his Revolut account 
to a cryptocurrency exchange, as set out below, and used that money to buy cryptocurrency 
that was sent to the investment company.
Date Amount
21 October 2021 £1,910.61
25 October 2021 £1,060.78
1 November 2021 £1,912.25
10 November 2021 £2,977.01
15 November 2021 £3,081.59
16 November 2021 £2,388.82
23 November 2021 £2,071.74
Unfortunately, we now know the cryptocurrency investment company was a scam.
The scam was uncovered after Mr S asked to withdraw some of his money from the 
investment company. He says the company kept making excuses as to why he couldnt 
withdraw his money, demanded he pay in more money and threatened that he would lose all 
the money hed invested if he didnt invest more. Eventually the company stopped 
responding to him and Mr S reported the scam to Revolut and asked it to refund the money 
he had lost.
Revolut investigated but said that Mr S had confirmed he wanted to make the payments 
through its app. It also said it had no reason to be suspicious of the payments, so didnt think 
it had acted negligently in allowing them to go through and had done all it could to protect 
him. So it didnt agree to refund the money Mr S lost. Mr S wasnt satisfied with Revoluts 
response, so referred a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They didnt think the payments were 
unusual enough to have warranted further questions from Revolut, and so they didnt think 
Revolut should have to refund them. Mr S disagreed with our investigator, so the complaint 
has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think it would be fair to require Revolut to refund the money Mr S 
lost. Ill explain why below.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that an account provider is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
terms and conditions of the customers account. And a customer will then be responsible for 
those transactions that they have authorised.
Its not in dispute here that Mr S authorised the payments. He accepts he made them himself 
as instructed to by the scammers, or allowed the scammers to make them using his account 
details. So while I recognise that he has been the victim of a scam and didnt intend the 
money to go to scammers, the starting position in law is that Revolut was obliged to follow 
his instructions and process the payments. So Mr S isnt automatically entitled to a refund.
The regulatory landscape, along with good industry practice, also sets out a requirement for 
account providers to protect their customers from fraud and financial harm. And this includes 
monitoring accounts to look out for activity that might suggest a customer was at risk of 
financial harm, intervening in unusual or out of character transactions and trying to prevent 
customers falling victims to scams. So Ive also thought about whether Revolut did enough 
to try to keep Mr Ss account safe.
As Mr S opened the account specifically to make these payments, there wasnt any previous 
account history for Revolut to compare the payments to when trying to see whether they 
were unusual or out of character. The payments also arent for such large amounts that Id 
necessarily expect Revolut to question them  particularly as these types of accounts are 
often used for money transfers, in a similar way to how Mr Ss payments would have 
appeared. And I dont think there was anything else about the payments that should have 
made them seem unusual either. So I dont think Revolut acted unreasonably in letting the 
payments Mr S made go through.
Mr S was clearly the victim of a cruel scam and I sympathise with the position he has found 
himself in. But I dont think anything Revolut could reasonably have been expected to do 
would have prevented the scam. And so I dont think it would be fair to require Revolut to 
refund the money Mr S lost.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022. 
Alan MillwardOmbudsman