DRN-4027375
The complaint
This complaint arises from a mortgage Mrs H holds with Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Birmingham Midshires (referred to here as BM). Mrs H says that in November 2019 BM 
agreed a nil repayment plan for the mortgage, which BM has now failed to honour. 
To settle the complaint, Mrs H wants BM to provide the call recordings and the notes of the 
calls from November 2019. Mrs H says that BMs failure to do so is a breach of the 
Data Protection Act (DPA) and the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).
Mrs H is represented in the complaint by a family member, Mr H, but for the most part I will 
refer to Mrs H.
What happened
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to over a thousand pages of documents, as 
well as call recordings. Ive considered everything, and its apparent that some parts of the 
evidence are less relevant to the underlying case than others. There are also a lot of 
duplicated documents and repetition of arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, 
summarised events in rather less detail than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
I will also explain that the Financial Ombudsman Service is independent of both consumers 
and the businesses they are complaining about. This means that we dont act for 
consumers, nor do we take instructions either from consumers or businesses, or allow either 
party to direct the course of our investigations; were we to do so, it would compromise our 
independence and impartiality. Its up to us to determine what evidence we need in order to 
investigate a complaint. 
Furthermore, our decisions are published, so I have to ensure that I dont include any 
information that might lead to Mrs H being identified. 
It is important to note that there have been two previous final decisions issued by our 
ombudsmen.
The first final decision is dated 10 March 2014. That complaint arose because Mrs H 
believed that in 2011 BM had agreed to freeze the mortgage account and cease to apply any 
interest to it whilst legal action against BM and its surveyors (arising from subsidence at the 
property) was taking place. 
The ombudsman didnt uphold this substantive issue  finding that BM had agreed to place 
the account on hold (that is, taken no action to recover mortgage arrears). He found no 
evidence of any agreement by BM not to charge interest on the account. The ombudsman 
ordered BM to refund arrears administration fees of £70 and to pay compensation of £250 
for distress and inconvenience.
The second final decision is dated 18 May 2017, and is about BM not providing call 
recordings to Mrs H, which Mrs H said was in contravention of the DPA. The ombudsman 
noted thered been a delay in BM providing the recordings and awarded compensation of 
£300 for distress and inconvenience.
I have referred to these two decisions because there is some overlap with the current 
complaint Mrs H has brought. To be clear, I dont have any power to re-visit any issues that 
has been the subject of a final decision by another ombudsman.
The current complaint can be summarised briefly. In 2005 Mrs H took out an interest-only 
mortgage of £517,999 with BM, and a further advance of £60,000 (also interest-only) in 
2006. 
There are currently arrears of over £120,000 on the mortgage. Whilst the complaint has 
been with our service, BM has put legal action to recover possession of the property on hold.
Mrs H complained that BM had failed to provide call recordings, in breach of the DPA, GDPR 
and contrary to the direction of the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). Mrs H also said 
that she had been told by BM that there was no requirement to pay the mortgage until all 
disputes relating to freezing the account and in relation to the previous litigation (which I 
take to be the claim against BM and its surveyors) was resolved.
Mrs H said that the complaint about breach of the DPA would be progressed with the ICO, 
and that a complaint had also been raised with our service.
An investigator looked at the complaint raised with us but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
her report dated 22 December 2022 the investigator explained that she wasnt persuaded 
that BM had agreed a nil repayment plan in November 2019. The investigator noted that, 
where previous payment arrangements had been agreed in July 2018 and May 2019, BM 
had confirmed this in writing, but there was no confirmation of any November 2019 
arrangement. 
Mrs H didnt accept the investigators findings. Although extensions of time have been 
granted for Mrs H to provide further information, no further evidence or arguments have 
been submitted. However, as the complaint remains unresolved, it falls to me to issue a 
decision on it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint follows a similar thread to the one my colleague decided on 10 March 2014. 
In that case, Mrs H thought BM had agreed to charge no interest on the mortgage account 
whilst legal action in relation to the subsidence issue was ongoing. In this current complaint, 
Mrs H believes BM agreed to a nil repayment arrangement whilst mediation was taking 
place.I confirm Ive listened to the recordings provided by BM of calls between Mr H and BM in 
November 2019. There is nothing in the call recordings that discuss a nil payment 
arrangement whilst issues (which BM says have already been determined by a court) are 
mediated.
Im satisfied that, if such a payment arrangement had been made, it would have been 
confirmed in writing by BM. The absence of any such confirmation of an arrangement in 
November 2019 does not support Mrs Hs contention that a nil payment arrangement had 
been put in place by BM. 
In the circumstances, Im not persuaded any such arrangement was put in place. This 
means that I am unable to uphold this complaint.
Other matters: Its clear from what Mrs H has told us (and from Mr Hs conversations with 
BM) that her primary focus is on the issues that have already been subject to court 
proceedings. During his conversations with BM Mr H talked about BM obtaining pecuniary 
advantage by deception and conspiracy that had occurred during the court proceedings, 
that the judge was biased and that, as far as he and Mrs H were concerned, the issues the 
court had decided were still unresolved. 
However, any matters arising from the previous legal proceedings would need to be dealt 
with by the courts, not by this service. If Mrs H believes shes been the victim of a criminal 
conspiracy or that BM has committed criminal acts, then that would be a matter for the 
police.
Likewise, Mrs Hs concerns about breaches of GDPR or non-compliance with the DPA by 
BM are better suited to the ICO. Indeed, I note Mrs H has confirmed to BM that those 
matters have been raised with the ICO. 
The mortgage account is substantially in arrears, and, if repayment proposals cant be 
agreed, BM will be entitled to pursue recovery action through the courts, as a last resort. I 
would not want Mrs H to underestimate the seriousness of this, given the level of arrears.
I think it is also important to explain here that lenders will generally agree to put recovery 
action on hold whilst we look at a complaint, but they dont have to and we cant force them 
to. If the Financial Ombudsman Service had that power it would undermine our impartiality 
between the parties to a complaint. It would also create the potential for consumers to use 
our service to bring complaints with the intention of having any legal action put on hold, 
thereby obstructing businesses that were trying to take action through the courts to recover 
money legitimately owed by the consumers. 
I do not wish to alarm Mrs H, but I would not want her to be under any misunderstanding that 
we would tell BM that it must suspend any recovery action in the event of any new complaint 
being raised about the mortgage. It is a matter for a court to decide whether it is appropriate 
to adjourn or suspend any legal action, not this service.
If Mrs H is experiencing financial difficulty, she might find it helpful to speak to one of the free 
debt advisory services such as StepChange, Citizens Advice or Shelter. We can provide her 
with contact details for those agencies, if she would like us to. If Mrs H is considering pursing 
further legal action against BM, I would strongly suggest she takes legal advice from a 
solicitor.I know this isnt the outcome Mrs H was hoping for. But after considering the evidence, Im 
unable to find that BM agreed to accept nil repayment on this mortgage account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman