DRN-2766518
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs H are complaining about the way AWP Assistance UK Ltd (AWP) has dealt with
a claim they made on their home emergency cover. 
What happened
 Mr and Mrs Hs boiler failed in mid-January 2020. They had it replaced on 21 January, as it
couldnt be repaired. About a week later Mr H was checking his bank statements and
realised hed paid for home emergency cover for situations like this, so he contacted AWP to
make a retrospective claim.
AWP said it wouldnt consider the claim. It said one of the terms and conditions in the policy
was that the problem had to be reported to AWP within 48 hours of it occurring, and Mr and
Mrs H hadnt done that.
Mr and Mrs H complained, but AWP still said it wouldnt meet the claim  but instead said it 
would pay £250 as a gesture of goodwill. 
We asked AWP to explain what it would have done if Mr and Mrs H had contacted it about 
the failed boiler within the 48 hour timeframe in the policy. I did that to allow AWP to provide 
some evidence that the late notification prejudiced its position in this claim. 
AWP didnt respond, so I issued a provisional decision that said I was minded to uphold Mr 
and Mrs Hs complaint based on the evidence they provided. That was, in summary, that the 
failure was catastrophic and required the replacement of the boiler rather than a repair. 
I thought that meant AWP should have met the claim as the policy stipulated  that is, it 
should have made a payment of £500 towards the new boiler. So its offer of £250 as a 
gesture of goodwill didnt go far enough. I also thought Mr and Mrs H had been out of pocket 
for some time, so AWP should add interest at statutory rates to the £500.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Mr and Mrs H accepted my provisional decision, and asked if I would add interest to the 
award, as theyve been out of pocket for some time.  Id mentioned this in my provisional 
decision and I do think its fair to add interest at the statutory rate to the £500 they should 
have received. I say that because we know Mr and Mrs H paid to replace the boiler and 
should have received £500 towards this shortly after they made their claim. Instead they only 
got an offer of £250.
AWP hasnt responded to my provisional decision, so theres no reason for me to change my 
initial intention to uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
To put things right AWP should refund Mr and Mrs H £500, plus interest* at 8% per annum 
simple from the date Mr and Mrs H paid for their new boiler to the date of refund. If AWP has 
already paid the £250 it offered, it can deduct this from the refund.
*HMRC requires AWP to deduct tax from this interest before making payment to Mr and Mrs 
H. AWP must give Mr and Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax it deducted if they ask 
for one.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require AWP Assistance UK Ltd to pay the 
compensation described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman