DRN-3466789
The complaint
This complaints about an equity release lifetime mortgage that Mr and Mrs P took out in 
2019 on the advice and recommendation of Key Retirement Solutions Limited trading as Key 
Equity Release (KER). The essence of the complaint is that KERs advisor bullied and 
deceived them into taking a new mortgage with a lender Ill call M when all they wanted was 
a further advance on their existing mortgage with a lender Ill call L.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr and Mrs P and KER. Im also 
aware that the investigator issued a comprehensive response to the complaint, which has 
been shared with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all of the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr and Mrs P being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the main points, 
rounding the figures where appropriate, and then focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I 
didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs P arranged their first lifetime mortgage with L in 2016, on the advice and 
recommendation of KER. They made three further drawdowns during 2017 and 2018, but by 
the beginning of 2019, wanted to borrow more again. They contacted L, who told them they 
could apply for a further advance but needed to go through KER. 
However, when KERs advisor spoke to L, he told it, wrongly, that Mr and Mrs P had only 
held the mortgage seven months. As Ls policy is not to offer further advances on mortgages 
less than a year old, it said it wouldnt lend. However, it then wrote to Mr and Mrs P to say 
they could apply for up to £30,000 based on their estimated valuation of £350,000.
Meanwhile, KERs advisor identified Mr and Mrs Ps total borrowing requirements, including 
paying off the mortgage with L, at around £117,000, and arranged an application for a new 
equity release mortgage with M. The valuation arranged by M came in at £315,000, which 
enabled it to lend only £113,400. After repayment of the mortgage with L, that provided 
Mr and Mrs P with new borrowing of approximately £39,400, but they paid an early 
repayment charge (ERC) of just under £2,600 to leave L.
Mr and Mrs P say they never wanted to leave L, and that KER mis-sold the re-mortgage with 
M for financial gain; they say this is partly because KER and M are owned by the same 
parent company. Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld; he pointed out 
that even if an application for a further advance had been made to L, the subsequent 
down-valuation means L would never have lent the amount Mr and Mrs P needed. 
Mr and Mrs P have asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally; nor do we issue 
fines against financial businesses. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we 
dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its for me to assess if and when I have enough evidence to decide a complaint fairly. In the 
case at hand, Im satisfied I can do that on the basis of what both parties have said and 
provided already. 
The starting point here is the point-of-sale documentation. The value of such documents is 
that theyre contemporaneous; so they should reflect what was said and agreed at the 
relevant time. Theyre not fool-proof, of course; its always possible information might be 
recorded incorrectly; but its typically more reliable than peoples individual recollections at a 
distance of time which, although given in good faith, can sometimes be inaccurate or 
contradictory, or more generally influenced by hindsight. 
So unless theres a compelling reason to believe the information is inaccurate, well 
generally attach some weight to it. For the most part, Im satisfied I can do that here. 
Mr and Mrs P have disputed a lot of the content, as well as the timing of certain events, but 
the only clearly provable error on KERs part is when the advisor told L the existing mortgage 
was only seven months old. Mr and Mrs P say that was a lie, but Im inclined to attribute that 
to human error rather than malice. It seems to me the most likely explanation for the mistake 
is that the most recent drawdown on the mortgage with L had taken place around seven 
months earlier.
But in any event, thats not what the outcome of the complaint turns on. The error had come 
to light, and been corrected by L, before Mr and Mrs P agreed to go with the new mortgage 
from M. Mr and Mrs P knew, because L had told them in writing, that they could have a 
further advance. But they also knew that L would only lend them a maximum of £30,000 
extra. That was substantially less than what was needed to meet their recorded financial 
objectives, and was based on a valuation that had been shown to be over-optimistic.
Weve asked L how much it would have been willing to consider lending based on a 
valuation of £315,000, but it wasnt able to give us a figure. However, its possible to arrive at 
a reliable extrapolation. Ls maximum loan to value (LTV) is 30%. Based on the actual 
valuation of £315,000, thats £94,500; so taking account of how much Mr and Mrs P had 
already borrowed from L, the most they were ever likely to be able to borrow from L on a 
further advance was around £19,500.
Mr and Mrs P have told our investigator that they could have managed with around £20,000 
of extra borrowing. I appreciate they say that now, in good faith, but without wishing to sound 
unkind, it seems to me theres an element of hindsight there. If Mr and Mrs P genuinely 
believed at the time that their additional financial objectives could be met with £20,000 or 
thereabouts, they had the opportunity to refuse the new mortgage and insist that KER submit 
a further advance application to L which, by now, they knew it was willing to consider. However, the conclusion I have to reach is that Mr and Mrs P chose to continue with the 
re-mortgage to M, knowing they didnt have to. The most likely reason for this, it seems to 
me, is that they wanted and/or needed the additional money that the re-mortgage provided.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. 
I have, as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a material 
effect on the outcome. I can see from Mr and Mrs Ps submissions the intensity with which 
they have brought the complaint. They see error or wrong-doing in almost everything KER 
has done (or not done). Thats a natural, subjective reaction, and entirely understandable 
when youre as close to a situation as Mr and Mrs P have been here.
But I have a different remit. I have to be objective, and impartial, and sometimes that means 
stepping back from the fine detail, taking an overview and deciding what is fair, reasonable 
and pragmatic in the overall circumstances of the case. It also means that Im not required to 
provide answers to every specific question that comes up if I dont consider doing so will 
affect the overall outcome.
I understand Mr and Mrs P felt the experience of dealing with KER second time around to be 
less than satisfying, but the outcome that resulted from it wasnt unfair, and ultimately thats 
the test I have to apply.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 June 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman