DRN-4288707
The complaint
Mr P complains about the suitability of the advice he received from Century Life  now part 
of Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix) - to contract out of the state earning related pension 
scheme (SERPS) in 1989. He says he was told that SERPS was coming to an end and that 
he would receive advantageous bonuses for taking out a personal pension plan (PPP) 
instead. He would like the benefits he says he was initially promised to now be honoured. 
What happened
Mr P was advised to opt of SERPS into a new PPP from 1 November 1989. The relevant 
national contributions continued to be made into the plan until 1 June 2007. During this time 
over £4,000 was paid into the PPP and invested into a managed fund with an annual 
management charge of 1% and an investment charge of 0.24%. There was also a bid/offer 
spread of 5%.
 
In July 2018 Mr P requested information about his plan while also updating his address. He 
was made aware that there was an investment charge on his plan. Following receipt of the 
information he subsequently asked about the process involved in switching from the funds 
into which he was invested.  
By October 2019 the plan was valued at £8,047.64 but a year later it had fallen to £7,565.35. 
In February 2021 Phoenix confirmed to Mr P that it had carried out a fund switch in line with 
his request for a fund which didnt carry an investment charge  which was a money (cash 
type) fund. In January 2022 the plan was valued at £8,309.21.
But in November 2022 Mr P complained about the advice hed been given to take out the 
PPP. He said he had been promised bonuses and rebates for being an early adopter and 
was told that the government was stopping the SERPS. He said these statements had 
turned out to be untrue. He also thought that after 33 years of being invested the value of the 
plan ought to have been greater and he thought this was most likely due to the high level of 
management costs that had been applied to the PPP. At this time the plan was valued at 
£8,332.82.
Phoenix didnt uphold the complaint. It said that the advice to contract out of SERPS was 
suitable. It thought that, based on his situation at the time, it wouldnt have been considered 
a disadvantage to have contracted out.
But Mr P wasnt happy with this outcome, so he brought his complaint to us where one of our 
investigators looked into the matter. He made the following points in recommending that the 
complaint shouldnt be upheld:
He noted what Mr P had said about being told the SERPS was ending and that he 
would receive bonuses for contracting out into a separate PPP. But as there was 
nothing to confirm what information hed been given at the time he said he was 
unable to comment further on the claim.
The advice to contract out at the time was generally based on the pivotal age and 
level of earnings. He thought Mr P was of an age and had sufficient earnings for 
there to be a reasonable prospect of him being better off by contracting out. He noted 
there was almost 50 years for the pension fund to grow and negate the risk of Mr P 
not being in a better financial position.
He noted that the fluctuations in the value of Mr Ps PPP were as a result of falls and 
rises in the markets but didnt think it meant Mr P had been given unsuitable advice. 
He also didnt think the management charges Mr P had paid on his PPP were 
excessive or unreasonable. He said it was a commercial decision for Phoenix to set 
its plan charges as long as it made its clients aware of those charges.
Mr P didnt agree with the outcome and suggested that his weekly earnings at the time had 
been £60 instead of the £160 he had previously advised. The investigator said it wasnt 
possible to be sure of Mr Ps earnings and we didnt have the facility to work them out  but 
in any case he still thought there was an extended investment horizon which would have 
allowed sufficient time for Mr Ps pension to grow and demonstrate that the advice to 
contract out was likely to have been suitable for the reasons he gave previously.
But as no resolution could be found Mr P asked for his complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman  so its been passed to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. I know this 
outcome will disappoint Mr P who has been consistent in saying that he wouldnt have 
agreed to contract out of SERPS if he hadnt been giving misleading and incorrect 
information. And I have some sympathy for the situation he now finds himself in  so Ill 
explain my reasons.
The suitability of the recommendation to contract out
SERPS was a top-up to the basic state pension which meant that in an addition to their basic 
state pension consumers would also receive a SERPS pension at retirement. But the 
government brought in regulation so that consumers could choose to opt out of SERPS, also 
known as contracting-out. This meant that instead of accruing the additional state pension, 
they could build up other benefits by redirecting some of their national insurance 
contributions to a PPP  or by joining an occupational pension scheme (OPS) that was 
contracted-out. 
This was a fluid situation so that people could contract in or out of SERPS from tax-year to 
tax-year and there was usually a (pivotal) age at which it was beneficial to contract back into 
SERPS. The process required the consumer and employer to pay the normal level of NI 
contributions and, once a year, the state paid (known as rebating) part of these contributions 
into a PPP.
When the government decided to allow individuals to contract-out of SERPS, incentives
were offered to encourage them to do so. No guidance was given on who should be advised
to remain in SERPS or on the type of person it was expected that contracting-out would be
beneficial for. So pension providers actuaries carried out comparisons of the projected
benefits from SERPS with those from alternative personal pension arrangements, based on 
conservative assumptions of future investment returns.
As there was little government guidance around contracting out providers generally took four main factors into account when considering whether to advise someone
to contract out or not. These were:
The pivotal age, which was an age when the provider thought it reasonable to 
assume a consumer would benefit from contracting out  usually thought to be the 
younger the better.
The current salary and whether it met any minimum earning requirement the provider 
had set.
A consumers attitude to risk (ATR).
Whether there was an OPS available to join.
So, Ive looked at the information that was known at the time to assess if the advice was 
suitable and if Mr P was eligible to contract out of SERPS.
The application form that Mr P completed included a declaration which said, are you a 
member of a superannuation scheme providing retirement benefits in either lump sum or 
pension form (answer no). I think Phoenix was entitled to rely on that as confirmation there 
was no OPS available, so I dont think it was unreasonable to rule out the possibility that 
Mr P could contract out through an OPS. I also note Mr P has said there was no question of 
being eligible for an OPS in his complaint letter.
The age at which a providers advice of whether or not to contract-out might change was 
called a pivotal age. At the time of this advice the original provider, before it was taken over 
by Phoenix, didnt set out the maximum age for recommending contracting out. But my 
experience of those lenders that did operate under such rules, was that it was usually 
somewhere between 40 to 50 years old  so as Mr P was only 17 at the time this would have 
been significantly below the pivotal age. 
And based on the conservative assumptions used, it was thought in broad terms 
that men beneath the pivotal age would be better off contracting out of SERPS. In Mr Ps 
case there was around 30 years or so before it was likely advice would be for him to contract 
back into SERPS  which would suggest, given the investment horizon available, that it was 
in his best interests to contract out.
Another factor used to determine whether someone was likely to be better off contracting out
of SERPS was their earnings. Phoenix had no minimum salary requirement at the time, 
although Mr Ps annual earnings  which were initially thought to be around £8,320 per year, 
were above the lower earnings limit which was considered to be enough to ensure that 
rebates forwarded by the government would generally cover the charges of the PPP. 
However, following our investigators assessment Mr P thought his earnings were more likely 
to have been around £60 per week instead. It hasnt been possible to determine the level of 
Mr Ps earnings from that time so its difficult to draw any definite conclusions here. But the 
earnings level was usually only an issue where the consumers pivotal age might mean the 
advice to contract out was borderline. 
In this case because of the length of time that Mr Ps money would be invested, there was a 
greater chance that he would be better off by contracting out. And I note that even the lower 
salary figure Mr P told us about following the assessment was still greater than the lower 
earnings limit in place at the time - which meant that rebates and bonuses would have been 
due to some extent.
Phoenixs recommendation was for Mr Ps contributions to be invested into the default 
medium risk managed fund. I havent been presented with any indication of how Mr Ps ATR was determined in 1989, although there was no regulatory requirement for this to be 
recorded. But considering Mr Ps age and the length of any investment horizon  the fund 
recommendation doesnt seem unreasonable to me given Mr Ps circumstances at the time. 
It seems reasonable to recommend a managed fund with a balanced or moderate ATR. 
The 10 year bonus and rebates Mr P says he was promised
Mr P has told us that he was mis sold the plan as he was told SERPS was coming to an end, 
and he would be getting 10 year bonuses added to a PPP as he was an early years adopter. 
I have no reason to dispute what Mr P has said here, although I appreciate it can be difficult 
to be specific and completely clear about things some 40 years on from an event. But theres 
simply no other available written evidence to confirm what the adviser did say at that time, so 
its hard to be sure about the context around which he may have made some of his 
statements.
As an example the application form to contract out, which was signed by Mr P and dated 
30 March 1989, contained a ready reckoner which noted the rebate & bonus for various 
levels of earnings for the previous and current tax years. And at all the earnings levels noted 
the total rebate and bonus payments were at least 10% or more of the earnings figure. In 
addition it was widely publicised and known that the government did give rebates as an 
inducement for people to contract out  so its possible that was the thrust of what the 
adviser was talking about. Any bonuses and rebates that were due would have been paid 
within the national insurances payments that were made to Phoenix for the PPP.
Im unclear about the remark about SERPS ending as that wasnt the case at the time 
although subsequently it was renamed as the state second pension in 2002. As I said 
previously though Ive no reason to dispute what Mr P has told us he was informed at the 
time. But in any case, what Mr P might have been promised can be seen through the 
suggestion of whether it encouraged the policy to be mis sold and the advice to contract out 
to be unsuitable. As Ive already explained above, I dont think thats the case here. 
The management charges and the investment performance
Mr P doesnt think its ethical that hes paid in the region of £16,000 in management fees. 
He says that hes paid more in management fees than the plan is worth, and the fund he 
initially invested in carried an investment charge but when he switched in 2021 there was no 
longer an investment charge.
I can understand Mr Ps frustrations here as it doesnt appear to him that hes receiving the 
benefits and fund value he was originally promised. But, based on my experience, Phoenixs 
annual management and investment charges seem to be in line with typical charges for 
similar plans at that time. Theres no evidence to support the claim that they are excessive or 
unethical. Its for Phoenix to set out its PPP and fund charges and we wouldnt normally 
interfere with such everyday commercial decisions as long as it made Mr P aware of them.
 
And I think Phoenix did make Mr P aware as Ive seen a copy of the application which he 
signed and completed in 1989 which set out the unit allocation and charges. These were 
explained as, 95% of each contribution will be allocated to accumulation units in the pension 
fund at the offer price. your benefits are determined by reference to the bid price which is 
5% lower than the offer price. It also confirmed that a monthly management charge is 
deducted from the fund, currently at the rate of 1% per annum. where an investment is 
made via unit trusts there will be an additional management charge of up to 1.25% of that 
investment only. So I think this confirmed the three charges that were applied to the PPP and set them out 
clearly at the start of the plan. And I think these charges have been applied to the plan in the 
way Phoenix said they would be. But Ive also seen a copy of a letter that was sent to Mr P 
in January 1997 which answered a number of questions he had previously asked by 
telephone. The letter also said, this value is not guaranteed and can vary in line with the 
changes in the bid price of units, in the pension managed fund in which you are invested. 
So while I can understand Mr Ps concerns about the charges levied on his PPP theres 
nothing to support his claim that they were excessive or that he wasnt made aware of them 
and the amount  at least in percentage terms  of what would be taken. Phoenix couldnt 
have given notification of the exact amount of fees as they were linked to the size of the fund 
which fluctuated during the term of the plan. 
Having established that Phoenix did set out the charges it intended to deduct Ive looked at 
Mr Ps concerns regarding the value of his fund now after around 30 years of investment 
returns. But investment performance alone isnt something we would usually uphold a 
complaint for because the very nature of investments is that their values will fall and rise due 
to external factors which the provider cant control. Unless that performance is linked to 
unsuitability  which in this case Ive said I dont think it is. 
 
Mr P has also questioned that while there was an investment charge on his initial managed 
fund, there wasnt one applied when he switched to another fund in 2021. It isnt untypical of 
funds such as the managed fund to have charges applied. They are usually levied to pay 
for the fund managers and general administration of the funds. But all funds levy different 
charges and when Mr P switched to another fund  which didnt carry a charge, this was 
because it was a money or cash type fund. These typically carry less fees or as in this case 
none at all. 
Mr P has also told us that there were four years worth of contributions from 2007 to 2011 
that hadnt been included in the plan as he was sporadically in employment up until 2011. 
I have carefully considered this part of Mr Ps complaint, but I dont it was Phoenixs 
responsibility to be aware of which payments were made and when. It simply administered 
the payments each year when they were issued by the Department for Work and Pensions 
(DWP). If the payments werent issued, then this would suggest Mr P was no longer eligible 
for them to be made. There could be any number of reasons for this to be the case which 
could be explained by the DWP, but I dont think it was Phoenixs responsibility. I dont think 
Mr P has missed out on those contributions, simply that he wasnt eligible for them to be 
made during those four years.
Summary 
  
Mr P reached the conclusion that he wouldnt have agreed to contract out of SERPS had he 
not been provided with misleading and incorrect information. He says what he was 
promised turned out to be untrue. 
But, while Im not able to verify exactly what the adviser did promise Mr P, I dont think 
Phoenixs advice to recommend that he contracted out of SERPS in favour of a PPP was 
unsuitable. Based on the criteria that was set out I think Mr P was eligible to contract out and 
there was every reason to conclude that it was in his best interest to do so. Unfortunately 
since then, investments havent performed as well as expected and annuity rates have 
fallen, but Phoenix cant be held responsible for that and to do so now would be with the 
benefit of hindsight.
My final decisionFor the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman