DRN-3534442
The complaint
This complaint is about a valuation Marsden Building Society (Marsden) relied on when 
Mr F re-mortgaged.
What happened
Mr F originally took out a mortgage with Marsden in May 2018. Due to personal 
circumstances, Mr F decided to re-mortgage with Marsden and switch to a different product 
in May 2021. Marsden instructed a valuation report with the same surveyors that previously 
assessed Mr Fs property. This time, the surveying company said the property was worth 
£10,000 more than when it previously valued the property in May 2018.
Mr F was unhappy with the valuation because he says he had spent around £65,000 
improving it. He also understood that property values had generally increased more than 
this, so he felt the valuation was wrong. Mr F says local estate agents valued the property at 
greater amounts and he felt this should be taken into consideration along with a number of 
other things about his specific type of property and location. 
Mr F was most concerned that in order to apply for the product he wanted, the loan to value 
meant that he would need to top up his contribution by around £7,000. He said the funds 
would need to be taken from his retirement savings and would have an impact on his future 
plans. 
Marsden looked into Mr Fs concerns, but confirmed they were entitled to rely on the 
valuation they were given. Mr F eventually decided to proceed with the re-mortgage.
As Mr F remained unhappy, he brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator 
reviewed Mr Fs concerns, but they didnt think Marsden had done anything wrong. Mr F 
disagreed, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill only comment on what I think is relevant 
to this complaint and necessary to explain my findings. I say this because any further detail 
could reduce Mr Fs anonymity when the decision is published.
Mr Fs property was valued on 13 May 2021 and a retirement interest only mortgage (RIO) 
was recommended to him on 18 May 2021. Mr F challenged the valuation of his property at 
this time and Marsden passed his concerns onto the surveyors who confirmed they had 
considered everything and were happy with the valuation they made. Following this, an 
agreement in principal was offered to Mr F on 19 May 2021. I note that Mr Fs original 
product was due to expire on 31 May 2021.
Mr F was still unhappy with the valuation of his property, so Marsden put his concerns to the 
surveyor once again. A further response from the surveyors said that the valuation was 
completed in accordance with the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors Mortgage Valuation 
Specifications and that while they understood Mr F said he had spent a considerable amount 
improving the property, this had already been factored into their valuation along with 
evidence of similar properties in the area. 
Marsden issued an updated offer letter on 3 August 2021, but the property value remained 
the same. Mr F ultimately agreed to this offer and the RIO mortgage completed on 
28 October 2021. In fairness to Mr F, the interest on his account was backdated to 1 June 
2021  which was the day after his previous product expired.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr F has said, but Marsden is a lender and not a 
chartered surveyor. It is entitled to rely on the advice it receives from the surveyor its 
instructed and if Mr F didnt agree with the offer he could have chosen to decline it and seek 
an alternative product with a different lender. 
Mr F feels strongly that the surveyors valuation was incorrect, and I understand he says this 
has had an impact on his health and wellbeing, so I empathize with him. But as our 
investigator has explained, our role, at the Financial Ombudsman Service, is to informally 
resolve disputes between financial service providers and their customers. We cannot 
determine whether the surveyors valuation was correct or not and if Mr F is unhappy with 
the surveyors he would need to raise that through the appropriate body. 
I understand Mr F says he has since accepted an offer on his property at considerably more 
than the surveyors said and he believes this is proof their valuation was wrong. But for the 
same reasons Ive explained above, this wouldnt change the outcome of his complaint. 
Marsden were entitled to rely on the surveyors they used, and it was up to Mr F to decide 
whether he wanted to proceed with the offer they made him or not. 
Marsden took on board Mr Fs concerns and shared them with the surveyor more than once 
in case it had any impact on their valuation. It also backdated the interest on his mortgage 
when it didnt have to. 
So, I think Marsden attempted to help Mr F as much as it could. That means I dont think 
Marsden has done anything wrong and I dont think it needs to award any settlement to him.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman