DRN-1371953
 
The complaint
Mr C says Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in December 1999. The policy was 
added to Mr Cs credit card account when he applied for the card in person.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Cs case. Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint and I'll explain why.
I think BOS made Mr C aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it. Ive 
seen a copy of the application form and note that the option of PPI was checked. Ive taken 
account of the fact that the application form was pre-populated, but on the basis that this 
was an advised sale, its reasonable to assume that a discussion took place and that the 
form, including Mr Cs personal details, his salary, his employer and his mothers maiden 
name are typed because the form was completed on-screen during the discussion with the 
BOS adviser before being printed off for checking and signing by Mr C. And as the PPI 
premiums wouldve appeared on Mr Cs monthly credit card statements, had the PPI been 
added to his account without either his knowledge or his consent, I wouldve expected him to 
query the PPI in the first few months of the policy starting in December 1999.
BOS recommended the PPI to Mr C, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for him based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Mr C told us he had some occupational 
sick pay in the event that he was off work due to sickness or an accident, but this policy 
would have paid out for 12 months and at a level over and above that provided by his 
employer.
Mr C would not have been caught by any of the important exclusions or limitations that 
would have made the policy less useful for him, for example being self-employed or having a 
medical condition  he told us he was in good health and employed.
Its possible the information BOS gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But Mr C chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type of 
cover. He wasnt affected by any of the main exclusions or limitations that would have made 
the policy unattractive to him. The policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr C wouldve made a different decision if better information had been 
provided. On balance I think he would still have taken out the policy.
Ive thought about everything Mr C has said but these points dont change my decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman