DRN-3830767
The complaint
Miss G, a sole trader, is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc terminated her Bounce Bank Loan 
agreement for non-payment.
What happened
In September 2021, payments became due on Miss Gs Bounce Back Loan (BBL). In 
January 2022, Miss G spoke with HSBC and learned that the bank had issued a default 
notice because they hadnt received any monthly payments towards the BBL up to that time. 
HSBC later terminated the BBL agreement for non-payment and defaulted the account. Miss 
G wasnt happy about this, so she raised a complaint.
HSBC looked at Miss Gs complaint. They noted theyd sent several missed payment letters 
to Miss G and so didnt feel theyd acted unfairly in following the process that they had.   
Miss G wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint but didnt feel HSBC had acted unfairly in 
how theyd managed the situation. Miss G remained dissatisfied, and so the matter was 
escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC have been able to demonstrate that shortly before Miss G was scheduled to begin 
making payments towards the BBL, they received notice from the third-party bank with 
whom Miss G had previously set up a direct debit to pay the monthly BBL instalments that 
Miss G had cancelled that direct debit with them.
This led to HSBC sending a letter to Miss G in September 2021 advising that the direct debit 
had been cancelled, and that Miss G needed to make alternative arrangements to make the 
upcoming BBL payments that were scheduled to begin later that month. Miss G didnt make 
any alternative payment arrangements, and so the scheduled BBL payments werent made. 
HSBC sent letters to Miss G about this in September, October, and November 2021. And, 
when no payment continued to be received, HSBC sent a default notice to Miss G in January 
2022, followed by a final demand notice the following month. Then, in March 2022, with no 
payment ever having been received against the account, HSBC terminated the BBL 
agreement for non-payment and defaulted the loan.
Miss G has said she wasnt aware that the direct debit to pay the instalments had been 
cancelled. But the third-party bank where the direct debit had been set up confirmed to 
HSBC that the direct debit had been cancelled at the account holders instruction.
HSBC also sent a series of letters to Miss G at the address which Miss G has provided to 
this service as being her own. Miss G has said that she didnt receive these letters. But given 
that they were correctly addressed, its difficult to hypothesise that all of HSBCs letters 
wouldnt have been received. However, if that were the case, this service wouldnt hold 
HSBC accountable for the non-delivery of correctly addressed letters, given that the delivery 
of letters is undertaken by a postal service over which HSBC have no direct control.
Ultimately, as the BBL account holder, Miss G was responsible for ensuring that the BBL 
payments were paid. And this is regardless of whether she was receiving post from HSBC or 
not. And while Miss G has explained she was experiencing difficulties access her HSBC 
accounts online, there were several other ways that Miss G could have checked that the 
BBL payments were being made, including by telephone banking or by visiting branch, or by 
monitoring the account she was expecting the BBL payments to have been made from.
Miss G has complained that the money to pay the instalments was present in her HSBC 
business bank account, and that HSBC should just have taken the payments without her 
explicit authorisation to do so. But it isnt reasonable to expect a bank to take unauthorised 
payments as Miss G suggests here. Instead, as explained above, it was Miss Gs 
responsibility, as the account holder, to authorise the payments and ensure they were made. 
Miss G has sent a call log which suggests she spoke with HSBC in January 2022  after the 
default notice was sent, but before the final demand. HSBC have no record of this call, 
although I have no reason to dispute Miss Gs position that it did take place. Importantly, 
however, following this call, the arrears accrued on the BBL werent cleared. And so, I dont 
feel that HSBC have acted unfairly by continuing to follow the collections and recoveries 
process on Miss Gs BBL account that they were already engaged in.
All of which means that I dont feel that HSBC have acted unfairly towards Miss G here as 
she contends. And it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing 
HSBC to take any further action. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Miss G was wanting, but I hope shell understand, given 
what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman