DRN-2503577
The complaint
Ms G complains that British Gas Services Limited didnt cancel the boiler cover on her 
HomeCare policy as she requested. And that an appointment to repair her kitchen 
appliances was rescheduled at late notice.
 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so Ill only refer to some key 
events here.
Ms G had a HomeCare policy with British Gas that provided cover for her boiler, controls and 
central heating (including an annual service). It also provided kitchen appliance cover. 
Ms G says she called British Gas on 14 November 2016 to cancel the boiler cover as shed 
purchased a new boiler which came with a warranty. She says the agent told her they were 
unable to access her account on the system at that time. But that they took her information 
and said they would email her to confirm the cancellation. Ms G says she didnt hear back 
from the agent, or anyone else from British Gas, regarding the cancellation but that she 
continued to receive yearly letters asking her to arrange the annual service.
On 30 July 2019 Ms G sent a letter of complaint to British Gas about the boiler cover not 
being cancelled as per her request. She also complained about a repair appointment for her 
dishwasher and washer dryer, booked for 5 June 2018, being cancelled on the morning of 
the scheduled visit. The appointment was then re-scheduled for 18 June 2018.
British Gas Services Limited apologised for the repair appointment being rearranged and 
explained it was as a result of engineer unavailability. But they said they had no record of the 
call Ms G says she made in November 2016. And that since then they had sent her 
numerous letters and emails asking her to book the annual boiler service as well as renewal 
letters which confirmed the policy details. They hadnt however heard anything from Ms G 
querying why the cover hadnt been cancelled up until they received her letter of complaint 
on 7 August 2019. So, they said they would remove the boiler cover and refund the 
premiums from that point.
The matter was referred to our service. At which point British Gas explained that due to a 
system error the boiler cover wasnt cancelled and the premiums werent refunded to Ms G. 
So, they offered to cancel and refund the boiler cover premiums from 7 August 2019 plus 8% 
simple interest  leaving Ms G with only the kitchen appliance cover. And also pay £60 to 
recognise the rescheduling of the appointment as well as the delays in actioning the 
cancelling of the boiler cover and refunding of the premiums. 
One of our investigators thought British Gas offer to refund the premiums, and apply 8% 
simple interest, from 7 August 2019 was fair. She explained there wasnt anything to 
evidence the November 2016 call which Ms G says happened. And that she wouldve 
expected Ms G to have questioned why the cover wasnt cancelled when she received 
correspondence from British Gas confirming the policy renewal or asking for the annual 
service to be arranged. Our investigator did however recommend British Gas increase the 
compensation amount to £100.
British Gas agreed to the increase in compensation. Ms G disagreed with our investigator 
and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There isnt, unfortunately, any record of the call Ms G says she made in November 2016 to 
British Gas. I know how strongly Ms G feels about this as she says British Gas automated 
phone system advises that calls are recorded. But, while British Gas may record calls, 
theyre not expected to retain these indefinitely. So, it isnt surprising its not available given it 
wouldve occurred several years ago. Firms, like British Gas, do however usually also make 
notes of customer calls. Having reviewed these, I havent seen any record of the alleged call 
here. But if, as Ms G says, there were system issues preventing the agent from accessing 
her account then this could explain why there wouldnt be a record of it.  
That being said, I think its reasonable to have expected Ms G to have got back in touch with 
British Gas in 2016 if she didnt receive confirmation of the cancellation (as she says she 
was told would follow). Further, Ive also taken in to consideration that Ms G continued to 
receive correspondence  policy renewal and annual service letters  that wouldve made 
her aware the boiler cover wasnt cancelled. I likewise think its reasonable to have expected 
Ms G to have contacted British Gas to query this if she thought the cover ought to have been 
cancelled. 
In the absence of anything to show Ms G called British Gas requesting for the boiler cover to 
be cancelled in November 2016, I dont think I can fairly conclude that British Gas are 
responsible for this not happening. 
British Gas didnt however cancel the boiler cover and refund the premiums from 7 August 
2019 as they said they would in response to Ms Gs complaint. And so, premiums continued 
to be taken after this. I understand the policy has since been cancelled. But, to put things 
right, British Gas has offered to refund the boiler cover premiums from 7 August 2019 and 
apply 8% simple interest to these payments. This is in line with what I would expect in order 
to compensate Ms G for the loss of use of the money during this time. It therefore follows 
that I think this offer is fair. 
Ive also considered the impact of this on Ms G. And I think British Gas failure to cancel the 
boiler cover and refund the premiums, when they say they would, wouldve caused Ms G 
some trouble and upset. I also think the rescheduling of the kitchen appliance repairs 
wouldve inconvenienced her too. I understand this was due to engineer shortages in the 
area as a result of sickness. So, I dont think British Gas couldve reasonably foreseen this 
and I dont think it automatically results in compensation. But, after taking everything in to 
consideration, I think compensation is warranted here. And having carefully thought about it I 
think £100 is fair. So, I wont be increasing this further.
   
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. I direct British Gas Services Limited 
to refund Ms G the premiums shes paid for boiler cover on her HomeCare policy since 7 
August 2019, plus 8% simple interest. British Gas Service Limited should also pay Ms G, if 
they havent already, £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman