DRN-2422743
The complaint
Miss C complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited are charging her for items not 
received. 
Shop Direct are trading as Very. 
What happened
Miss C opened an account with Shop Direct in December 2016 and entered into a credit 
agreement with them. 
Having placed multiple orders in November and December 2018, Miss C complained that 
several items hadnt been delivered, but that she was still being charged for them.  
Shop Direct said that some items had been returned, and the amounts for these had been 
credited to her account. However some hadnt been returned and so still required payment.
They explained that certain items were documented as having been delivered to Miss Cs 
house, and others to a neighbour, after she had ordered them in November/December 2018. 
They say they spoke to the (post)/delivery depot, but due to the length of time that had 
passed since the items were said to have been delivered (around six months), they werent 
able to investigate any further.
 
However, because Miss C said her neighbour had re-located to another country, Shop Direct 
made the decision to refund the items that were identified as being delivered to the 
neighbour, but no others. They credited her account with £60.99. 
Miss C also says she was told not to make payments to her account, which has resulted in 
charges being incurred, a large amount of debt and a negative impact on her credit score. 
Shop Direct explained that having listened to calls Miss C had with their advisors, they 
couldnt find any record of Miss C being told not to make payment. 
Due to some items not being delivered to Miss Cs home address, Shop Direct apologised 
for any upset caused and paid her £50 in compensation in addition to crediting the items that 
were said to have been delivered to her neighbour. 
Following this, during our investigation, Miss C told our service that out of the items in 
dispute, there was one item that she didnt think she had ordered at all. This wasnt 
something she had mentioned before, so it was added to her complaint. She also said that 
the signature on Shop Directs delivery records wasnt hers. 
Two different investigators gave their view on Miss Cs complaint, and both were of the 
opinion that Shop Direct had acted fairly. The most recent view explained that our 
investigator couldnt see that Miss C had ever mentioned the issue about the item she said 
she didnt order to Shop Direct or our service in the past. And as Miss C had consistently 
explained her complaint was about items she had ordered but not received, our investigator 
felt it was more likely than not that she did order that item. 
Our investigator was also of the view that it was more likely the other items in dispute had 
been delivered to Miss C, as the information provided by Shop Direct showed the items to 
have been delivered through the post box, or that they had been signed for at the correct 
address. He also thought the difference in signatures wasnt significant enough to agree they 
werent that of Miss C. 
In relation to whether Miss C had been told by Shop Direct to stop making payments, our 
investigator couldnt see anything from the information provided that to support this. He also 
noted that Miss C had made some payments after she said shed been given this 
information, and therefore concluded that it was unlikely Shop Direct had told her to not to 
make payments.
Miss C disagreed, so the complaint was passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked over everything, I agree with our investigator for the same reasons. I will 
explain why. 
Regarding the items Shop Direct have said were delivered to Miss Cs neighbour, theyve 
explained its their normal process to offer customers the option to select a safe place for 
items to be delivered, should they not be home. Miss C didnt do this, and as shes explained 
her neighbour has moved away, Shop Direct have refunded the cost of these items, which I 
think is fair. They have also paid her £50 in compensation for some items not being 
delivered, which I also think is a fair amount.
 
But Miss C has said there were several other items that were not delivered, whereas Shop 
Direct have said its likely they were. I cant be certain about what happened to these items  
the testimonies provided are contradictory. So, to reach a conclusion Im required to base 
my decision on what I believe is most likely to have happened. In doing this, I have to weigh 
up the information Ive been given by both sides. 
Shop Direct have provided information which it says shows the items in question were 
delivered to Miss Cs home address and were delivered through the post box or signed for. I 
believe Miss C has also been sent a copy of this information. I can see the date they were 
delivered, whether they were posted through a letter box, or whether they were signed for. 
Because of this  on balance, I believe it more likely than not that the items were delivered to 
Miss C.
 
I understand Miss C has said the signature on the document is not hers. But having 
compared the information with a signature provided by Miss C, although they arent identical, 
I cant say theres a significant enough difference between the two to question whether or not 
its hers. 
Miss C says she was told not to make any payment towards her account in February 2019. 
But I havent seen any evidence to suggest she was told this by Shop Direct. It isnt detailed 
in their notes which get recorded when a customer makes contact. Shop Direct have also 
explained theyve listened to a number of calls they had with Miss C and couldnt find that 
she was told to not make payment. 
Ive also listened to the calls and cant hear that Miss C was ever told to stop making 
payment. 
In addition, I can see that payments were made after Miss C says she was told this, in both 
March 2019 and June 2019. If Miss C was told not to make payment, I thinks is unlikely that 
she would have made these two payments. As she did, I feel its more likely than not that 
Miss C wasnt told by Shop Direct to stop making payment.
 
Payments are due to be made every 28 days and the due date was shown on Miss Cs 
monthly statements. The terms of the account also make it clear that should payment be 
missed, late or made for an insufficient amount, charges may be applied, and information 
recorded on the account holders credit file. Therefore, I dont think Shop Direct have acted 
unfairly in applying charges to Miss Cs account or recording such information on her credit 
file  this is a true reflection of what happened.
 
Overall, I believe Shop Direct have acted correctly and fairly, and so wont be asking them to 
do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman