DRN-3208844
Complaint
Ms K is unhappy with what HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) has agreed to do to put things right 
after she complained about unfair charges on her overdraft.
Background
As a result of our adjudicators involvement, HSBC agreed that it should refund all the 
interest, fees and charges it added to Ms Ks overdraft from February 2018 and it proposed 
to reduce what Ms K owed by this amount.
One of our adjudicators looked at Ms Ks complaint and he thought that what HSBC had 
agreed to do to put things right was fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances of the 
case. Ms K didnt agree so the complaint was passed for an ombudsmans decision.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what HSBC has already agreed to
do to put things right for Ms K is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his 
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
HSBC has agreed that it ought to have realised that it was unfair to continue adding interest, 
fees and charges to Ms Ks account, from February 2018 onwards, as it ought to have 
realised Ms Ks overdraft was unsustainable by this stage. And it has agreed to refund all the 
interest, fees and charges added it to Ms Ks overdraft from then in order to put things right. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have. However, thats not possible in cases where funds that shouldnt have been advanced 
were advanced because typically those funds will have already been spent. 
So we have to look at a way of asking a business to put things right in a fair and reasonable 
way. And where a business provided, or continued to allow a consumer to use, a credit 
facility which it should have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the 
consumer in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges 
on that credit.
This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any 
credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if those 
interest and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year. Thats what HSBC has 
agreed to do here, so it has agreed to do what Id normally expect a firm to do in these 
circumstances.
In this case, Ms K has been left with an outstanding balance even though shes been 
refunded all of the interest, fees and charges applied. So while Ms K has been left with an 
outstanding balance to repay and she might be unhappy with this, HSBC has done what Id 
normally expect it to do here.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provided credit it shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do 
something different and/or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what 
would be fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
Ms K believes that HSBC should do more. As I understand it, shes unhappy adverse 
information will continue to be recorded on her credit file as she tried to reach an 
arrangement with HSBC before her complaint.
Ive carefully thought about what Ms K has said. But all the interest, fees and charges HSBC 
shouldnt have added have been removed from the overdraft. So what Ms K is left with to 
repay are the funds which she used and benefitted from and crucially I dont agree that the 
interest, fees and charges have left her with a debt that she wouldnt otherwise have been 
left with. Equally as HSBC ought to have realised that Ms Ks overdraft had already become 
unsustainable for her by February 2018, I would have expected HSBC to have taken 
corrective action at this point. 
So while I appreciate Ms K says she received incorrect information with regards to a 
repayment plan and she found HSBC to be unhelpful, I dont think it would have been fair, 
reasonable or proportionate for HSBC to continue ignoring Ms Ks obvious and apparent 
difficulty, or the fact that the overdraft had become demonstrably unsustainable for her, 
indefinitely. And asking HSBC to reinstate the overdraft here, or remove all adverse 
information here, when it seems unlikely Ms K will be able to repay this debt in line with the 
initial arrangements, would arguably be counterproductive and not in Ms Ks interests or that 
of any future lender.
In these circumstances, Im satisfied that HSBC reflecting what would have been recorded 
had it started the process of taking corrective action on Ms Ks overdraft in February 2018, 
puts Ms K in the position she would be in if things had gone as they should have done. And 
Im satisfied that this represents a fair and reasonable outcome to this part of Ms Ks 
complaint. 
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what HSBC has already agreed to do to put 
things right for Ms K  reworking her account so that all the interest, fees and charges added 
since February 2018 are removed and backdating any adverse credit file information to 
when it should have taken corrective action  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this case. And Im not requiring it to do anything more. As this is the case, its up to Ms K to 
decide whether she wishes to accept HSBCs offer.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what HSBC UK Bank Plc has already 
agreed to do to put things right for Ms K is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of her 
complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman