DRN-3702392
The complaint
Mr W complains that he and his wife were mis-sold a timeshare product and the credit facility 
used to pay for it. The credit facility was provided by Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, 
which trades as Barclays Partner Finance and which Ill refer to as BPF. 
Mr W is represented by a claims management business, which Ill call M. Where I refer to 
his submissions and arguments, I include those made on his behalf.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W were existing timeshare owners and members of the Diamond Resorts 
European Collection, a timeshare and holiday club. 
On 26 October 2009 Mr W says that he and Mrs W attended a presentation while they were 
on holiday. Following the presentation, and as a result of it, they agreed to buy from 
Diamond Resorts Tenerife Sales SL (DRT) additional membership points at a cost of 
£6,190. Mr W says they did so because they were told that having additional points would 
help resolve issues they had experienced with availability of holiday accommodation.  
In order to fund the purchase, Mr W was offered and agreed to take out a ten-year loan with 
BPF for the full purchase price of £6,190.
In August 2018 Mr W complained to BPF. He said that the timeshare product had been 
misrepresented to him and his wife and that, because BPF had financed its purchase, he 
had a claim against it in the same way as he had a claim against DRT. He also said that no 
proper checks had been made to ensure that he could afford to repay what he had 
borrowed, and that the actions of DRT and BPF had created an unfair relationship. 
BPF did not agree to meet Mr Ws claims and did not uphold his complaint. Its main reason 
was the length of time that had passed since the timeshare sale and the provision of the 
loan. 
Mrs S referred the matter to this service. Our investigator, however, took broadly the same 
view as BPF had done and did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr W did not 
accept the investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the case.  I did 
that and issued a provisional decision, in which I said:
The complaint about the credit assessment
M says that BPF did not properly assess whether the credit facility was affordable for Mr W. 
At the time, lenders were obliged to assess the affordability of loans and other credit facilities 
in line with guidance issued by, for example, the Office of Fair Trading (OFT), the Lending 
Standards Board and the Finance and Leasing Association.  
Our rules say that we cannot generally consider a complaint unless it is referred to us within 
six years of the event complained of or, if later, within three years of the date on which the 
complainant knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that they had cause for complaint.  
The event complained of in this case is the credit assessment that BPF carried out (or did 
not carry out) in October 2009. I think it possible that Mr W could have known fairly soon 
after that date if he was having difficulty making repayments. Its possible, therefore, that this 
part of the complaint was brought outside our own time limits. 
Be that as it may, I have seen nothing to indicate that Mr W is having difficulty making 
payments, that he has had difficulty making payments, or that he has sought assistance from 
BPF. So, even if BPF should have carried out more detailed checks, it is not apparent that its 
lending decision would have been materially different or that Mr W has suffered any loss as 
a result of any failure to do so.
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act statements made by a broker in connection 
with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender.  
In addition, one effect of section 75 of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for breach 
of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, bring 
that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
It is clear in this case that the loan financed the purchase of the club membership. DRT was 
a party to the timeshare contract, although a different Diamond Resorts company was 
named in the credit agreement. It is open to the parties to provide further information about 
the relationship between the two, should they wish to do so, but I shall proceed on the basis 
that it is sufficiently close that section 75 could apply. 
I have therefore considered what the position might be if Mr W were to bring a claim against 
DRT. 
Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
However, under the Limitation Act 1980 an action (that is, court action) based on 
misrepresentation cannot generally be brought after six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued. Any statements which might have induced Mr and Mrs W into the 
timeshare contract were made on or before 26 October 2009; since they were already club 
members, its possible that they relied on what they were told or their own experiences even 
before that. Mr W did not however raise any complaint with BPF until August 2018, nearly 
nine years later. I think it very likely therefore that a court would conclude that any claim for 
misrepresentation was made outside the time limit in the Limitation Act. 
Any defence available to DRT in respect of a misrepresentation claim would also be 
available to BPF. That includes a defence based on time limits. I stress that it is not for me to 
decide whether any underlying claim is now out of time under the Limitation Act. Rather, I 
must decide whether the response of BPF to the claim under section 75 was reasonable. 
Given the real possibility that a court would say that the claims are time-barred, I think it was. 
Section 140A claimsUnder section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments. In deciding whether to make an order, a court can have 
regard to any connected agreement; in this case, that could include the agreement for the 
sale of the timeshare product.
The usual time limit for these types of claims under the Limitation Act is six years from the 
time the relationship between the parties ended. As far as I am aware, the loan agreement 
was not repaid early, but the parties can tell me in their response if it was. 
On the basis of what I have seen so far, however, I think it unlikely that a court would make 
an order under section 140B. The allegations made about the sales process are not detailed 
and are not supported by contemporaneous evidence. They include an allegation that BPF 
induced a breach of fiduciary duty on the part of DRT. That would however require DRT to 
have been acting as agent for Mr W. But the effect of section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 
is that DRT was BPFs agent. 
I am not persuaded that DRT had to disclose what commission, if any, it was receiving from 
BPF  unless Mr W asked. I note as well that M has suggested DRT was in breach of The 
Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010, even 
though they only came into force in February 2011, more than a year after the timeshare 
sale.      
I have no power to make an order under section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act; only a 
court can do that. I must however have regard to any relevant law in deciding whats fair and 
reasonable; that includes relevant parts of the Consumer Credit Act. 
In the circumstances, I think that BPFs response to the complaint made by reference to 
section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act was reasonable. 
I concluded that I was not minded to uphold the complaint, but indicated that I would 
consider any further evidence or arguments the parties might send. 
Neither BPF nor Mr W has provided anything further for me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has submitted any further evidence or arguments, I do not believe there is 
any reason for me to reach a different conclusion from that set out in my provisional 
decision. I have nevertheless reviewed Mr Ws complaint in full before reaching that 
conclusion.  
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman