DRN-3110326
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold them a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy sold to Mr and Mrs B in 2001, in connection with their 
joint mortgage. The policy provided cover for Mrs B if she couldnt work because of accident, 
sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs case. 
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
- If Lloyds gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs Bs needs?
- Did Lloyds give Mr and Mrs B the information they needed to decide whether to take 
out the policy? 
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Mr 
and Mrs B are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale? 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs case and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs B say they dont remember discussing PPI with Lloyds, and that they didnt know 
it had been added to their account. They say they wouldnt have agreed to cover for only one 
of them, as they were both working at the time. Ive noted everything Mr and Mrs B have 
said.
But Ive seen the PPI application form that was completed, and the direct debit instructions. 
These were both signed by Mrs B.
I can also see that the customer had to declare on the form that they had been in their job for 
at least six months. I understand Mr B had been in his position for only one month. So I think 
this might explain why only Mrs B was covered by the policy.
Overall, from what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Lloyds made Mr and Mrs B aware of the PPI 
policy and gave them a choice about taking it out.
Lloyds accepts that it advised Mr and Mrs B to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it 
was unsuitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I say 
this because:
-  Mrs B was eligible for the policy given her circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions. 
-  Mrs B says she was entitled to sick pay from her employer if she couldnt work due 
to sickness or accident, and that she and Mr B had other assets they couldve used. 
They also say their family wouldve helped them.
But the policy would have paid out in addition to Mrs Bs employer sick pay and 
would do so, it seems for longer. Having the policy in place wouldve meant Mr and 
Mrs B could use Mrs B's employer benefits and their other assets to pay for other 
expenses. And they wouldnt have had to rely on their family.
Overall, I think Mr and Mrs B would have had some use for the policy, despite their 
existing arrangements. 
-  Mrs B wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, 
such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical 
conditions. As she could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it 
unlikely Mr and Mrs B needed better advice or information about the policys 
exclusions and limitations.
-  I cant be sure that the policys cost was made clear to Mr and Mrs B before they 
agreed to buy it. It seems there may have been a free period before Mr and Mrs B 
started paying premiums. But the policy was competitively priced and had a 
reasonable benefit. So I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs B would have made a different 
decision if better information about the cost had been provided.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But as Ive already said, Mrs B wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations and the policy was reasonably priced. So I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs B would 
have made a different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I think they 
would still have taken out the policy. 
So I dont find Mr and Mrs B have lost out as a result of anything that Lloyds mightve done 
wrong when it sold them the PPI.
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman