DRN-4168012
The complaint
Mr P complains that Fluro Platform Limited trading as Lending Works unfairly deducted 
money from his Innovative Finance ISA following changes it made to its terms and 
conditions. 
What happened
Mr P held a P2P lending account for a number of years on Lending Works platform and
invested funds in return for interest.
In January 2020, Lending Works changed its Lender Platform Terms and Conditions to allow
it to vary the interest rates investors received on existing loans, in order for it to replenish the
Shield  a segregated account used for the purpose of making payments to a lender when a
borrower does not meet its obligations under a P2P agreement. Prior to this change, interest
rates for ongoing loans were fixed. 
In April 2020, Lending Works emailed investors to explain that a Normalisation Period was
being introduced in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. The Normalisation Period resulted
in a pause on all new retail investors signing up on the platform, a pause on all new
investments on the platform, as well as a suspension of the secondary market  a
mechanism which allowed investors to sell their existing loans to other investors. Lending
Works also introduced a 2% servicing fee in order to cover overheads associated with
servicing the loan portfolio.
Lending Works also introduced a Lender Rate Adjustment under the changed Lender
Platform Terms and Conditions to temporarily (initially for 90 days) divert all interest
repayments to the Shield for all active loans on the platform. This meant that Mr P received
capital repayments only on his loans. The Normalisation Period and Lender Rate
Adjustment was extended for an additional 90 days in July 2020 and again in October 2020.
In November 2020, Lending Works emailed investors to explain that it was introducing
negative interest rates due to the Shield requiring additional funding in order to protect
investors. Lending Works also explained that it intended to resume lending and reopen to
retail investors in January 2021 and that it would no longer be charging the 2% servicing fee
once lending resumed. It also explained that the secondary market would remain suspended
until further notice. 
Following this, Mr P raised a complaint to Lending Works regarding deductions Lending 
Works had made from his account. He said he was owed £1,543.34.
Lending Works looked into Mr Ps complaint and partially upheld it. In summary, it said:
It had emailed Mr P in November 2019 to notify him of the Lender Platform Terms 
and Conditions changes.
It allowed a period of more than 30 days before the changes were applied to allow 
any investors who did not wish to continue investing to use the secondary market in 
order to sell any outstanding loans to other investors. It confirmed that it would waive 
any fees which would have otherwise been payable to Lending Works during this 
window. These included the two fees charged when a secondary market transaction 
occurs  a fixed transaction fee payable to Lending Works and a variable fee payable 
to the investor purchasing the loan (this fee is only charged if the interest rate on a 
loan is lower than the Target Annualised Return at the time an investor sells the 
loan).
Rather than allowing a deficit to build in the Shield, with the result that certain 
investors would be exposed to losses that would not be covered by the Shield, it 
decided it was in investors best interests as a whole to divert interest into the Shield 
by varying the interest rate (eventually to a negative rate). It said this effectively 
spread the losses across all investors equally (in proportion to their investment) and 
avoided a situation where some 'unlucky' investors would be disproportionately 
negatively impacted.
Although Lending Works felt it had acted fairly and in line with its Lender Platform 
Terms and Conditions, it recognised Mr Ps dissatisfaction and offered £100 as a 
gesture of goodwill.
Mr P didnt accept Lending Works findings so he referred his complaint to this service for
an independent review.
Having referred his complaint to our service, Lending Works contacted us to make an offer 
to Mr P. It agreed to put him back in the position he would have been in had he made use of 
the fee-free exit period and negative interest rates werent applied. It said this amounted to 
compensation of £745.21, plus it increased its offer for any distress and inconvenience 
caused from £100 to £500. So in total, the offer was £1,245.27.
Mr P didnt accept this offer as he said it was short of the £1,543.34 he said he was owed.
The investigator considered Lending Works offer to be fair. In summary, he said:
Where a business done something wrong, our service aims to put the customer back
in the same position theyd be in if the wrongdoing never happened. 
If Lending Works had never introduced variable rates, then the Shield would have 
likely run out of funds, based on the rapidly decreasing balance in 2019. And so, Mr 
P would have likely suffered significant capital losses.
During the period negative interest was applied to Mr Ps account (April 2020 to 
February 2022) his account balance shrank from £18,523.43 to £17,778.16. This is a 
reduction of £745.27, which Lending Works have offered to reimburse him.
Lending Works offer is in recognition, at least in part that had it been clearer
about the implications of the change in terms in November 2019, many investors 
such as Mr P would have exited the platform within the 30-day provided.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I want to assure Mr P that Ive carried out an independent review and considered everything 
that both parties have submitted. We provide an informal complaint handling service as a 
free alternative to the courts and this is reflected in the way Ive approached the complaint. 
Its part of my role to identify and concentrate on the core issues I need to address in order 
to reach a fair outcome  this means I might not mention everything Mr P has said, but I will 
comment on everything that makes a difference to the outcome of the complaint.
Whilst there still seems to be some dispute as to whether Lending Works acted fairly in
introducing the changes to the Lender Platform Terms and Conditions, considering its
agreed to compensate Mr P, my decision will focus solely on whether Lending Works offer
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
This services starting point for redressing complaints is to try and put the consumer back in
the position they would have been in if the changes hadnt happened. Whilst I dont think its
necessary in this case to comment on Lending Works decision to make the changes, in
determining whether Lending Works offer is a fair one, I do need to consider what is likely to
have happened to Mr Ps investment had the changes not been made.
Lending Works has provided statements showing the balance of the Shield and from these
its clear that at the time of implementing the changes, funds in the Shield were depleting.
The changes were introduced shortly before the Covid-19 pandemic began, which had a
significant impact on lenders abilities to make repayments. I think its reasonable to say that
Lending Works lenders would have been impacted by this and on balance, its likely, given
the time Mr P had been investing on the platform and the diversification of his portfolio that
losses would have applied to his account had the Shield not been topped up by the
diversion of interest. Whilst Im not able to say with any certainty what the extent of his
losses would have been, given that Lending Works has explained that the Shield would have
been fully depleted during the Covid-19 pandemic had it not made the changes, its more
than likely that, in this scenario, he wouldnt have been able to achieve the 6% target
interest rate. 
Turning to Lending Works offer, Ive thought carefully about whether the offer is fair. And
having weighed up everything, I think the offer is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. Ill explain why.
Lending Works offer is essentially to put Mr P back in the position had the negative interest
changes not applied to his account. Lending Works has used the following calculation to 
determine its offer
Mr Ps account balance was £76,701.89 on 31 December 2019.
Between 31 December 2019 and 28 February 2022 (last month of negative interest) 
he withdrew £58,178.46.
£76,701.89 minus the £58,178.46 withdrawn leaves £18,523.43.
Mr Ps account balance as of 28 February 2022 was £17,778.16
During the period negative interest was applied to his account (April 2020 to 
February 2022) his account balance reduced from £18,523.43 to £17,778.16. 
Therefore, his loss during the negative interest period was £745.27.
Whilst I appreciate Mr P believes he has had more than this deducted from his account, I 
think the offer fairly compensates him for any loss hes incurred because of negative interest 
being applied to his account. I understand Mr P also didnt earn as much interest as he 
anticipated during the period where Lending Works reduced interest to top-up the Shield. 
However, as Ive explained above, Im persuaded that on balance he would have been in a 
worse position had Lending Works not taken this action. While its impossible to precisely recreate what his investments would have achieved and when the Shield would have paid 
out, Ive considered that its possible that the level of defaults on his loans would have left 
him worse off than he now is. And certainly worse than the position Lending Works offer 
seeks to put him in.
Taking all that into account, Im satisfied Lending Works offer is fair and reasonable given
everything thats happened. Overall, I do think Lending Works offer strikes a balance
between Mr P not being exposed to the negative interest changes, whilst allowing him to
benefit from some interest during a time of economic uncertainty. 
I also think the offer of £500 does fairly take into account the any distress, upset
and worry caused to Mr P. As he had a substantial amount of money invested on the 
platform and I appreciate the impact of the negative interest would have had on him.
Putting things right
I think Lending Works offer is fair and so I instruct it to do the following, if it hasnt already:
Pay Mr P £745.27.
Pay Mr P £500 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that Lending Work Limiteds offer is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances and it should compensate Mr P in line with this.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman