DRN-4511599
The complaint
Mr G has complained about the suitability of the advice provided by AJH Financial Services 
Ltd (AJH) in December 2017 to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits in the British 
Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension plan (PPP).
Mr G is represented in this complaint by a law firm (Representative).
What happened
The events leading up to this complaint were set out in detail by our investigator in their 
assessment. I dont intend to repeat here what our investigator stated but will instead provide 
a summary.
Mr G built up safeguarded benefits in the BSPS while employed by Tata Steel UK Ltd (Tata 
Steel). The BSPS was a defined benefits (DB) pension scheme that provided a 
guaranteed lifetime income to members.
In March 2016, Tata Steel announced that it would be examining options to restructure its 
business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with members 
referred to possible outcomes regarding their safeguarded benefits, one of which was a 
transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to 
provide compensation to members of DB pension schemes when their employer becomes 
insolvent. Tata Steel closed the BSPS to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017. By that 
point, Mr G had built up 18 years and 6 months pensionable service in the BSPS between 
September 1998 and March 2017. His annual scheme pension as at the date of leaving the 
scheme was £10,559.67. This would be revalued over the term to retirement by a prescribed 
amount.
In May 2017, the PPF announced that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement 
(RAA) had been agreed. This was approved by The Pensions Regulator in August 2017  
under the announced plans, Tata Steel agreed to set up and sponsor a new DB pension 
scheme, the BSPS2, subject to certain conditions relating to funding and size being satisfied. 
Members were told that if the re-structure was approved, they would have three options 
regarding their safeguarded benefits:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP (the BSPS offered Mr G a 
transfer value of £265,936.16)
Mr G was concerned about what the announced changes meant and wanted advice on his 
options He initially contacted a different financial advisory business who, in turn, introduced 
him to AJH for pension transfer advice. 
In December 2017, AJH issued a suitability report to Mr G in which it recommended that he 
accept the transfer value of £265,936.16 and invest it in a new PPP in favour of the 
alternative PPF and BSPS2 options. Mr G accepted the recommendation, following which 
the pension transfer to the PPP was completed. 
This complaint
In May 2022, the Representative, on behalf of Mr G, complained to AJH about the suitability 
of the pension transfer advice it had given him in 2017. In July 2022, AJH didnt uphold this 
complaint so the matter was referred to this service.
In March 2023, one of our investigators considered this complaint and recommended that it 
be upheld on the basis that AJH failed to demonstrate in 2017 that transferring to the PPP 
was clearly in Mr Gs best interests compared to the alternative options. To put things right, 
our investigator recommended that AJH carry out a redress calculation in line with the FCAs 
guidelines on the basis that Mr G transferred to the BSPS2, retired at age 65 and would be a 
20% income taxpayer in retirement. 
The Representative, on behalf of Mr G, accepted our investigators assessment. AJH initially 
didnt accept our investigators assessment and requested that this complaint be referred to 
an ombudsman for review.
While this complaint was in the queue awaiting allocation to an ombudsman, AJH contacted 
us again in July 2023 to say it had changed its mind and accepted the investigator's 
assessment. It stated, whilst we do not agree with the initial case investigators findings to 
uphold the complaint, AJH are prepared to accept the decision. Following this, AJH 
obtained relevant information and carried out a redress calculation on 24 October 2023 
using a specific BSPS calculator provided by the FCA. This showed that Mr G hadnt 
suffered a financial loss, meaning redress wasnt due. AJH sent details of the calculation to 
our investigator to consider.
Our investigator reviewed the calculation output and was satisfied that it had been carried 
out appropriately and in line with the FCAs guidelines. With the aim of resolving this 
complaint informally, our investigator expressed his view to the parties that Mr G hadnt 
suffered a financial loss as a result of the pension transfer. He didnt think that AJH needed 
to do anything else in response to this complaint.
While AJH accepted our investigators assessment, the Representative, on behalf of Mr G, 
didnt. It stated that it didnt accept the no loss outcome and set out its reasons why. It also 
requested that Mr G be awarded a very significant payment for the trouble and upset it said 
he had suffered in connection with this matter. It requested that this complaint remain in the 
queue for an ombudsman to review.
This complaint has now been allocated to me to review and decide. This is the last stage of 
our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and regulations, 
regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, Ive made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words Ive 
looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide 
what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.Given that AJH previously told us that it accepted the investigator's assessment and 
recommended remedy to resolve this complaint, I dont see the need to address the 
suitability of its pension transfer advice to Mr G in detail. However, I would like to state I 
agree with the investigators view that the pension transfer advice AJH gave to Mr G was 
unsuitable for largely the same reasons. In particular, Im mindful of the FCAs guidance in 
COBS 19.1.6G that a firm should only consider a transfer to be suitable if it can clearly 
demonstrate, on the contemporary evidence, its in the client's best interests. I dont think 
that was the case for Mr G for the key following reasons:
The primary purpose of a pension is to meet the income needs of an individual during 
retirement. Mr Gs safeguarded benefits, accounting for 18 years and 6 months 
pensionable service, represented his most valuable asset built up by that time. He 
had limited other assets which could be used to support his retirement income needs. 
Mr G was aged 36 at the time of AJHs advice. I acknowledge that given his age and 
substantial investment time frame, it was likely Mr G would build up significant DC 
pension savings elsewhere by retirement, thereby reducing the reliance on his 
safeguarded benefits. But that didnt mean it was suitable to relinquish valuable 
benefit guarantees at that time. In my view, Mr G had a limited capacity for loss at 
that point. So I think it was important not to expose the value of his safeguarded 
benefits to unnecessary risk by treating flexibility, control and maximisation of death 
benefits as a high priority at the expense of the primary income purpose when he 
couldnt access benefits for at least 19 years (at age 55)  unless there was a clearly 
suitable reason to do so;
According to the suitability report, the primary aim of the pension transfer was so that 
Mr G could retire early, from around age 58. Mr G was then aged 36 and so couldnt 
access any benefits until age 55 at the earliest under the PPP. In my view, with such 
a time frame until pension benefits could be accessed, it made the case for a pension 
transfer at that time  for the sake of achieving possible early retirement at age 58  
more difficult to justify;
Its my view that AJH failed to obtain the necessary information relating to Mr Gs 
financial situation including his anticipated income and expenditure during retirement 
when assessing whether it was suitable for him to transfer to a PPP to achieve his 
early retirement objective. It may well have been the case that Mr Gs retirement 
income need couldve been met by the BSPS2 but AJH failed to establish this. 
Ultimately, however, theres insufficient evidence to demonstrate why it was in Mr Gs 
best interests to transfer at that time to achieve his early retirement objective or 
whether he could in fact retire earlier than age 65;
At the time of the advice Mr G had limited savings or investments that indicated he 
had experience of investing. I havent seen any evidence that persuades me he 
understood the investment, inflation and longevity risks associated with his 
safeguarded benefits being transferred from the scheme to a PPP. Those risks 
wouldve been retained by the BSPS2 had he transferred to that scheme  I cannot 
see that there was any compelling reason for Mr G to take on those risks at that time;
Had AJH advised Mr G to transfer to the BSPS2 he wouldve maintained 
safeguarded benefits and retained the option to transfer to a PPP at a later date, if 
then deemed suitable, when he could immediately access benefits and, crucially, 
determine his retirement income and lump sum needs with far greater accuracy than 
at age 36; 
AJH recorded that Mr G preferred flexible income rather than guaranteed lifetime income. Its unclear why Mr G apparently didnt value guaranteed income. He had 
received guaranteed income all his working life. So I think a guaranteed retirement 
income from another source such as the BSPS2 before state pension age wouldve 
been valuable for an individual in his circumstances;
Im not persuaded that it was appropriate for an inexperienced investor to relinquish 
the guarantees attached to his main retirement provision (built up by that time) in 
exchange for more risk so that he could access flexible benefits many years in the 
future. Theres no real evidence that Mr G required the flexibility of irregular lump 
sums or variable income during retirement. But if he did require it, then any flexible 
needs couldve been met by his DC workplace pension. And hed also have access 
to tax-free cash under the BSPS2. This doesnt appear to have been adequately 
considered by AJH;
AJH recorded that Mr G had surplus disposable income of about £1,300 available 
every month. Theres inadequate evidence that AJH considered saving some of 
these additional monies in either a pension, investment or savings account to provide 
flexible income or lump sums rather than transferring and losing benefit guarantees;
The suitability report mentioned that Mr G wanted to ensure any unused pension 
benefits be inherited by his family. While I understand that death benefits are 
important to consumers, the priority here, in my opinion, was to advise Mr G about 
what was best for his own retirement provision. He was in good health at the time. 
Withdrawing money from the PPP to meet income and lump sum needs would likely 
mean that the size of the fund remaining in later years  when death is more likely  
could be much smaller than expected. Its my view that Mr G had no health issues at 
the time AJH advised him which might reasonably have prompted him to relinquish 
the guarantees attached to his own retirement income for the sake of an enhanced 
safety net for his family. So Im not convinced there was any real merit in him 
transferring to a PPP at that time to provide a lump sum death benefit at the cost of 
losing valuable benefit guarantees; and
The growth rates required to match the benefits payable by the BSPS, particularly if 
Mr G were to take early retirement at age 58, were too high to show that there was a 
reasonable prospect he would be financially better off by transferring to a PPP.
Conclusion
Overall, I dont think the contemporaneous evidence supports the position as to why Mr Gs 
generic objectives wouldve been sufficiently compelling reasons for him to relinquish 
valuable benefit guarantees by transferring to a PPP at that time, especially in view of his 
age, good state of health and level of reliance on these monies to provide retirement income.
I havent seen any evidence that shows the pension transfer to the PPP led to Mr G gaining 
any clearly defined advantage compared to the alternative option of transferring to the 
BSPS2 at that time. As a result, I think its fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
The aim is to put Mr G in the financial position he would have been in had he been given a 
suitable recommendation. 
Our investigator concluded that, if properly advised, Mr G wouldve transferred to the BSPS2 
and his benefits would now be preserved in that scheme. While some information on the 
benefits of the BSPS2 were still to be confirmed, its my view that by December 2017 the risk of the BSPS falling into the PPF had receded by a large extent following the announcement 
by the PPF in May 2017 that the terms of a RAA had been agreed. So I think AJH shouldve 
considered the BSPS2 as a viable option. So, in addition to the PPF, I think its fair to 
consider the BSPS2 as a potential comparator scheme for redress purposes.
There were differences between the BSPS2 and PPF. These differences meant that the PPF 
was likely the better option for unmarried, deferred members who expected to retire early or 
take the maximum tax-free cash available even allowing for the 10% reduction in the starting 
entitlement. But the BSPS2 was likely the better option for married pensioners and deferred 
members who expected to draw benefits at or close to the scheme normal retirement age of 
65. Im not convinced that it could be reasonably determined in 2017 that the PPF was the 
better option for Mr G. And so I think, given his age and the lack of clarity surrounding when 
he would retire, the BSPS2 was likely the better option for him based on what was known at 
the time and that at age 65 the BSPS2 would provide a higher level of benefits than the PPF. 
As such, I agree with our investigators view that the calculation on the basis of entering the 
BSPS2 should be carried out based on the normal retirement age of 65.
In response to our investigators assessment, AJH carried out a calculation using a specific 
BSPS calculator provided by the FCA which is what I would expect them to do in the 
circumstances. It shared with this service details of the calculation inputs and output.
The calculator uses economic and demographic assumptions to calculate how much a 
consumer needs in their pension arrangement to secure equivalent retirement benefits that 
they would have been entitled to under either BSPS2 or the PPF (as uplifted to reflect the 
buy-out), had they not transferred out.
If the calculation shows theres not enough money in the consumers pension arrangement
to match the alternative benefits they wouldve received, the shortfall is the redress amount
owed to the consumer. If the calculation shows there is enough money in the consumers
pension arrangement, then no redress is due.
The BSPS calculator has been developed by actuaries and is programmed by the
FCA with benefit structures of the BSPS, BSPS2 and PPF (including the impact of
the subsequent buy-out) and relevant economic and demographic assumptions which
are updated regularly. This information cant be changed by firms.
The calculator also makes automatic allowances for ongoing advice fees of 0.5% per year 
and product charges of 0.75% per year which are set percentages by the FCA.
Like our investigator, Ive checked the inputs that were entered by AJH which are personal to 
Mr G. These include Mr Gs personal details, his individual benefits from the BSPS at the 
date he left the scheme and the value of his PPP as at 1 October 2023. The calculation also 
assumes that if he hadnt been advised to transfer his benefits from the BSPS, he would 
have moved to the BSPS2 and that he would have taken his DB benefits at age 65. This 
would provide the highest benefits for Mr G and are fair assumptions. The calculation result 
is valid for the period 1 October 2023 to 31 December 2023.
Overall, based on what Ive seen, the calculation has been carried out appropriately and in
line with the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as
detailed in the FCAs policy statement PS22/13 and set out in their handbook in DISP App 4:
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
The calculation in Mr Gs case shows that theres no shortfall to his pension and that he has
sufficient funds to be able to replicate the BSPS2 benefits in retirement. Im satisfied that                
Mr G hasnt suffered a financial loss by transferring his safeguarded benefits to a PPP. I think the calculation carried out by AJH is appropriate in the circumstances and no redress 
for financial losses is therefore due to Mr G.
Ive carefully considered the Representatives latest comments sent on 30 November 2023. I 
can understand why its upset by the no loss outcome which means Mr G wont receive any 
redress. But its comments dont change my view. The FCA has set out what it deems to be 
appropriate redress to put right instances of unsuitable pension transfer advice provided to 
former members of the BSPS. And, based on what Ive seen, AJH has complied with the 
FCAs requirements in this regard. The FCAs guidance doesnt allow for the matter to 
remain open-ended or revisited. This is because the whole purpose of the FCAs redress 
methodology is to draw a line under the matter so that finality is achieved for all parties. I see 
no reason to depart from the FCAs guidance in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The Representative also requested that I award Mr G a very significant payment for the 
trouble and upset it says hes suffered. But in its submissions it hasnt articulated how and to 
what extent Mr G has suffered to justify an award. Ive carefully considered the matter. 
Overall, I dont agree that a non-financial award is appropriate in this case given that the 
investigator didnt recommend a payment in their initial assessment and I see no reason to 
depart from that conclusion based on the subsequent submissions received from the 
Representative.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think AJH Financial 
Services Ltd needs to take any further action in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman