DRN-4165146
The complaint
Mr R complains that Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely Loans irresponsibly lent to 
him. He says the loan caused him to go further into debt.
What happened
Likely Loans lent Mr R one loan in May 2019, the loan was for £1,000 repayable in 12 
monthly instalments of £106.50. As I understand it, the balance on the loan remains 
outstanding.
Likely Loans didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint and so he referred it to this service where it was 
looked at by one of our adjudicators. Our adjudicator didnt think Likely Loans was wrong to 
lend to Mr R. Mr R disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about high-cost lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Likely Loans was required to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
It needed to carry out proportionate checks to make sure Mr R could repay the loan over its 
term without undue difficulty, and without borrowing further. There wasnt a prescribed level 
of checks, but these checks could take into account a number of different things, such as 
how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and 
expenditure.  
Likely Loans has provided evidence to show before lending the loan, Mr R completed an 
application form where he declared his income as £50,000 per annum, he stated the loan 
was for home repairs. I cant see Mr R declared his monthly living expenses or credit 
commitments.
Likely Loans says it verified Mr Rs monthly income as £2,919.65 using information from the 
current account turnover. It also says it searched Mr Rs credit file to understand his credit 
commitments and used data from the Office of National Statistics (ONS) to work out his 
monthly living costs.
Likely Loans worked out Mr Rs living costs as being around £1,047. The credit search 
showed Mr R had five active credit accounts and was repaying around £200 a month 
towards credit. Based on these checks Likely Loan thought it was fair to lend.
Mr R has said he had a county court judgement (CCJ) at the time of the loan. The results of 
the credit search showed Mr R had a default from more than two years ago and there was a 
CCJ recorded a month before this loan.
Mr R had little credit commitments compared to his income and the loan repayment was also 
small relative to his income so I can understand why Likely Loans wasnt concerned about 
the CCJ and Mr R being able to repay the loan based on the results of its checks.
Mr R has provided further details of the CCJ and from what I can see, the judgement was 
entered in 2017, around two years before this loan. While Mr R was still repaying the debt 
tied to this judgement, the debt was decreasing, and Likely Loans considered that 
repayment when it looked at his monthly credit commitments.
In the circumstances, I dont think given that the CCJ was from 2017, that on its own wasnt 
enough to say Likely Loans shouldnt have lent to Mr R. I think given the overall 
circumstances of Mr R compared to the loan, repayment amount, term and the results of the 
search carried out, I dont think Likely Loans lent when it shouldnt have.
As the debt remains outstanding, Id remind Likely Loans of its duty to treat Mr R positively in 
his financial difficulties.
I understand this wasnt the outcome Mr R was hoping for, but I hope my explanation helps 
him understand why Ive reached these conclusions.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint or make any award against 
Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely Loans.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman