DRN-3660789
The complaint
Ms T complains about the problems shes faced when transferring her share dealing account 
from ITI Capital Limited. She complains that it took too long to transfer her shares and cash, 
and this has caused significant distress and left her without access to her investment. 
What happened
Following the insolvency of her previous broker, in June 2020, Ms T investments were 
transferred to ITI. She held a dealing account and an ISA account  the shares and cash she 
held in the accounts were due to be transferred. 
Ms T said due to the problems with the transfer to ITI, in November 2020, she initiated a 
further transfer of her investments to a new broker. She said this transfer should
have been completed by early January 2021 but due to ITIs handling it was still being 
finalised in late May 2021. 
In March 2021, Ms T raised a complaint with ITI. She was unhappy with the failure to 
manage and successfully complete the transfer of her accounts held with ITI. She was 
concerned about delays, the time she had spent chasing up ITI and also that that there were 
missing dividends and cash that hadnt been transferred to her new broker.  
In May 2021, ITI responded to the complaint. It upheld it and acknowledged that the service 
it had provided caused unnecessary delay and inconvenience. It made her an offer of £150 
in compensation.
Ms T didnt accept the offer made. She didnt think this adequality compensated her for the 
problems she experienced. She said the cash transfer she received for her ISA account was 
missing a dividend payment and the final amount paid to her was £215 short of what she 
was expecting. After this she referred her complaint to this service for an independent 
review. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He noted that ITI had agreed to increase 
its offer of compensation to £300. He felt this was a fair and reasonable level of 
compensation for the circumstances of the complaint. He didnt find that ITI had failed to pay 
Ms T any dividends or cash balances that were due. 
Ms T didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked for an ombudsman to reach a 
decision on her complaint. In summary she said:
- ITI didnt transfer all the cash that was being held in her ISA account at the time of 
transfer from them to my new broker  so she thinks she is still owed £215. She has 
based this on the statements ITI provided to her about the cash value and expected 
dividends due. 
- She is now satisfied from the evidence provided, the dividends due on her dealing 
account were paid. 
- The transfer of her funds from the original broker that was liquidated to ITI is 
irrelevant to this complaint  and what matters is the transfer of the cash being held 
by ITI at the time of transfer to her new broker.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint relates to problems Ms T has experienced in transferring her 
investments away from ITI. She has concerns that she hasnt received all of the funds she 
should have into her accounts with the new broker. She has also explained the earlier 
transfer into ITI isnt relevant to the complaint she makes now. So, I will concentrate my 
findings just on the transfer she made away from ITI.  
Firstly, I acknowledge form Ms Ts comments in response to the investigators assessment 
that she is satisfied she has now received all of the dividends she was due on her dealing 
account. What remains in dispute is whether she has received the correct dividend 
payments and linked to the cash balance transferred to her new broker for her ISA account.
Ms T maintains that £215 is missing from the cash transfer for her ISA.  Ms T says she was 
expecting £23,818 in cash based on a statement she received from ITI on 9 March 2021 and 
on top of this she was also expecting dividend payments (of £104.51 and £36.64).  She says 
the amount transferred to her new broker didnt fully cover the cash and dividends she was 
due. 
ITI says it has paid all of the cash and dividends that were due to Ms T on her ISA account. 
It has provided evidence that it paid dividends to her. ITI has provided transaction data to 
show it made an external cash payment from Ms Ts account of £23,691.51 on 1 April 2021 
and further a further payment of £231 on 4 May 2021. It says the second payment was in 
respect of the dividends that were due to Ms T. ITI has also shown systems data to show 
there are no funds remaining in the ISA account.
I understand why Ms T is concerned that she hasnt received everything she should have - 
particularly in light of the way the transfer has been handled by ITI. But in order to say she 
has suffered a loss because she hasnt been paid all of the funds she is due, I would need to 
be satisfied that ITI had made an error when transferring her portfolio. Ive considered the 
evidence available to establish whether an error has been made. There seems to some 
confusion in the figures on whether dividend payments due were including or not in the 
statement total Ms T refers to gain her understanding of what should be transferred. There 
were two dividend payments that became due after the shares had been transferred  which 
I can see were paid. It seems most likely to me this is why Ms T believes she hasnt had the 
full amount due to her and there is a misunderstanding of the figures due rather than an 
error by ITI. I understand this will come as a disappointment to Ms T but the evidence Ive 
seen doesnt support that there is remaining funds due to her. For this reason, Im not going 
to ask ITI to make any further payment for missing funds. 
Finally, Ive considered whether the offer of compensation ITI made fairly compensated Ms T 
for the frustration and hassle she has experienced as a result of the way it has handled the 
transfer. ITI increased its initial offer after the complaint was brought to this service. I agree 
the initial offer of £150 wasnt sufficient to compensate Ms T for whats happened, so I need 
decide whether the increase to £300 is fair compensation. 
Ms T has provided evidence of various emails and contacts she made with ITI trying to 
establish what was going on and chasing up things with ITI. I can also see that Ms T became 
distressed as she was worried her money had gone missing. She encountered delays as a 
result of the transfer taking longer than it reasonable should have. From her initial transfer request, the process took quite a few months to complete, which based on my experience is 
longer than I would expect for the size and type of portfolio. ITI also havent provided much 
in the way of evidence to explain the reasons for the delays other than to say it had received 
a high number of transfer requests at the same time. But I note it has conceded that the 
service Ms T received fell short of the standards it expects to deliver.
The impact ITIs handling of the transfer has caused considerable distress and worry  as 
well as inconvenience to Ms T that meant she spent extra time trying to get the transfer 
sorted. Having considered everything, Im satisfied that the increased offer of £300 fairly 
compensates Ms T for this impact caused as a result of ITIs handling of the transfer.
My final decision
My final decision is ITI Capital Limited is required to pay Ms T pay £300 to settle the 
complaint for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of the transfer of her 
investment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman