DRN-3839275
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J are unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) declined their travel insurance 
claim. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs J had an annual travel insurance policy alongside their bank current account. 
The policy was underwritten by AXA.
Mr and Mrs J booked a trip in January 2020 and were due to depart on 12 September 2020. 
They booked their accommodation separately. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, they were 
unable to take the trip and it was rescheduled for 18 September 2021. However, in May 
2021, their accommodation provider cancelled Mr and Mrs Js booking due to a sale of the 
accommodation taking place and they received a refund of the deposit theyd paid from the 
provider. 
Mr and Mrs J werent able to find suitable accommodation so on 7 September 2021, they 
cancelled their flights and submitted a claim on their travel insurance policy with AXA.
AXA declined the claim. It said the event that led to the cancellation wasnt one that was 
covered on Mr and Mrs Js policy.
Unhappy with AXAs decision, Mr and Mrs J brought their complaint to this service. They 
said theyd contacted AXA by phone before cancelling their flights and were told the cost of 
cancelling the flights would be covered.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. He didnt uphold it and concluded that AXA hadnt 
declined Mr and Mrs Js complaint unfairly or unreasonably. 
Mr and Mrs J disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, 
its been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
Ive started by looking at Mr and Mrs Js travel insurance policy terms and conditions as this 
forms the basis of their contract with AXA.
The cancellation section of the policy sets out what is and isnt covered on page 67. It states 
AXA will cover travel costs if a trip is cancelled due to any of the following reasons:
1. The death, bodily injury or illness of:
a. You
b. Any person with whom you are travelling or have arranged to travel with
c. Any person with whom you have arranged to reside temporarily
d. Your close relative
e. Your close business associate
2. Compulsory quarantine, jury service attendance or being called as a witness at a 
court of law of you or any person with whom you are travelling or have arranged to 
travel with.
3. Redundancy of you or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to 
travel with which qualifies for payment under current United Kingdom redundancy 
payment legislation, and at the time of booking the trip there was no reason to 
believe anyone would be made redundant.
4. You or any person with whom you are travelling or have arranged to travel with are 
a member of the armed forces, police, fire, nursing or ambulance services or 
employees of a government department and have your/their authorised leave 
cancelled for operational reasons, provided that such cancellation or curtailment 
could not reasonably have been expected at the time this insurance is purchased by 
you.
5. The police requesting you to remain at or return to your home when a loss in 
excess of £1,500 is involved due to serious damage to your home caused by fire, 
aircraft, explosion, storm, flood, subsidence, malicious persons or theft.
6. Medical complications as a result of your pregnancy or the pregnancy of anyone 
you have arranged to travel or stay with during the trip.
7. A government directive prohibiting all travel to, or recommending evacuation from, 
the country or area you were planning to visit or were staying in provided such a 
directive came into force after you have left the United Kingdom
Mr and Mrs J cancelled their flights because their accommodation provider cancelled their 
booking. But based on the above cancellation section of the policy, this event that led to the 
cancellation isnt covered under Mr and Mrs Js policy. There are no other sections on the 
policy that would provide cover for what happened either. I therefore dont think AXA 
declined the claim unfairly or unreasonably. 
Mr and Mrs J say they were told, during telephone calls they had with AXA, that the cost of 
cancelling their flights would be covered. Ive considered Mr and Mrs Js comments and I 
note they had telephone calls on 30 September 2020, 11 May 2021 and on 7 September 
2021. While AXA hasnt been able to provide the call recordings of these conversations, it 
has provided us with copies of the notes that were made. So, along with the handwritten 
notes Mrs J made, Ive looked at everything. 
The call in September 2020 was before the accommodation provider had cancelled the 
booking and was made because a new policy document was received by Mr and Mrs J. And 
AXA confirmed as the trip was booked before the Covid-19 restrictions had been put in 
place, there were no specific Covid-19 exclusions applied as their trip was booked in 
January 2020.In regard to the call on 11 May 2021, I only have the evidence of the handwritten note from 
Mrs J. The note confirms who she spoke to and that she was advised flights would be 
covered. Mrs J noted she offered to wait out before cancelling the flights. This is the only 
information I have on this call, and, on balance, I cant safely say that AXA said it would 
accept the claim for the cost of cancelling the flights during this call. 
On 7 September 2021, I cant say AXA provided a guarantee that the cost of cancelling the 
flights would be covered. This is because AXAs notes confirm that a claim was registered 
for the cost of cancelling the flights and Mrs J has noted this too. Shes also noted the claim 
reference and that she was advised it didnt matter when she cancelled the flights and that 
she was covered either way. However, I cant see on AXAs notes that it guaranteed the 
flight cost would be covered. The claim was logged and theres a note saying for the time 
being, I have added the full cost of flights Im not persuaded that this necessarily means 
that the full cost would be covered and settled. 
I wouldnt generally expect an insurer to be in a position to give a definite claims decision 
over the telephone until it has seen all the relevant documentation and is aware of the 
specific circumstances of the claim. So, even if I accept that the advisor might have said 
Mrs J was covered either way, the claim has to go through the process to be assessed by a 
claims team and against the terms and conditions of the policy - after all the evidence is 
provided. 
I acknowledge Mr and Mrs Js comments that the call notes may not necessarily provide a 
full account of the discussion that took place. However, I can only base my findings on the 
evidence that is available to me. And based on this, I cant safely say AXA did provide a 
guarantee that the cost of cancelling the flights would definitely be covered. 
Overall, Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs J, but taking everything into account, Im satisfied 
that AXA hasnt declined their claim unfairly and unreasonably. Under the terms and 
conditions of Mr and Mrs Js policy, the claim isnt covered for what happened in their 
circumstances and there are no other sections of the policy that provide cover either. It 
follows that I dont require AXA to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint against AXA 
Insurance UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman