The complaint
Miss Ms complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) relates to her withdrawal of cash from 
her local branch. Miss M asked to withdraw £120 in cash, and because she is partially 
sighted asked for the cash to be counted out to her and placed into an envelope in £10 
notes. Later she discovered that she had been given £5 notes and feels that a member of 
Lloyds staff has taken £55 from her.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Miss M and Lloyds, so there is no need for me to repeat it here in any detail. 
Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its of direct 
relevance to the issues I need to deal with. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate.  
I have considered both sides views in considering whether Lloyds acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. 
Where evidence is not complete, I think about what is more likely to have happened in the 
light of the evidence which is available. I must make an independent decision about what I 
think is right for each case, and thats what Ive done here. In this case, I dont think that 
Lloyds has done anything wrong and Ill explain why.
In August 2019 Lloyds paid £120 compensation to Miss M by paying it directly into her 
account. This was in respect of a similar matter to that of which she now complains. On that 
occasion Lloyds contact notes show that when she asked to withdraw cash in branch she 
had been given a bundle of notes, without them being individually counted and placed in an 
envelope. In addition to the compensation they paid, Lloyds put an indicator on her account 
to warn their staff that the notes must be counted and put in an envelope for her in the 
future.
In September 2019 Miss M went back into the branch to withdraw the £120 in compensation 
She agrees she was given a £10 note into her hand, and that the rest of the money was put 
into an envelope for her. Lloyds say they counted the rest of the cash out in £10 notes, and 
Miss M agrees it was counted out, but when she got to a shop immediately after she left the 
branch she said there were only £5 notes in the envelope. She fees the cashier has kept 
£55. That is a strong accusation to make and one which would require some cogent 
DRN-1477726evidence to support it. However, beyond Miss M's suspicion, there is no direct evidence 
which would prove that the cashier has taken the £55. 
Ive thought about the wider circumstances and the cashier who served Miss M would have 
known that special measures had been put in place for Miss M. And she accepts the cash 
was counted and it was put into an envelope. So, I think it is more likely than not that the 
correct amount of money was put in the envelope, because if it was not then it would mean 
either the cashier made an innocent mistake in which case the banks daily reconciliation 
would show the discrepancy, but it didnt, or that the cashier has taken the £55 for herself. 
That would be a crime, and I have to think about whether a bank cashier would be likely to 
do that risking her job and being convicted of a criminal offence. In my view I think it is 
unlikely a bank cashier would do that. 
I also take note that Miss M said she also had another envelope in her bag with cash in it, 
and so I cannot rule out that perhaps she has picked up the wrong envelope by mistake 
when in the shop after visiting the branch.
I do take account of the fact that Miss M says the cash she was given was in £5 notes, but 
again I cannot be satisfied that that is correct because of the existence of the second 
envelope. I also take account of the fact that Lloyds took extra care in counting the money 
out because of Miss Ms requirements and their previous experience. But even if the cash 
was given to Miss M in £5 notes there is no evidence to suggest that the overall sum was 
less than it should have been. I also take account of the conversation Miss M had with our 
investigator when she agreed she had received £120 in total.
So overall I find there is insufficient evidence to show that there has been either a mistake in 
giving Miss M the correct amount of money, or that the cashier has stolen it from her. And 
neither is there sufficient evidence to show that Miss M was given the cash in £5 notes when 
she asked for it in £10 notes. 
So, although Miss M will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say Lloyds has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 September 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman