DRN-4415769
The complaint
Miss B says Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) didnt ensure that full repairs 
and checks were done on her car after she made a claim on her motor insurance policy.
What happened
All the background facts were set out in my provisional decision and are well known to the 
parties, so Ill just summarise them here:
RSAs approved repairer (garage B) had Miss Bs car from February 2022 to June 
2022 for repair. Miss B took it to a dealership garage (BS) in December 2022 as she 
wasnt happy with the way it was driving. BS replaced the battery and on a second 
visit found some bolts were loose on the cars replaced subframe. Miss B took it back 
to garage B, but it said the only fault left to be repaired by it was a broken mirror. 
Miss B contacted RSA in January 2023, as she still wasnt happy with the repairs, 
and it instructed a firm of independent engineers. Engineer D viewed the car, but he 
didnt inspect it. He relied on details provided by garage B and BS. He said BS had 
done safety checks and no further action was needed. When Miss B called BS, it 
wouldnt confirm or deny that it had done the checks. In a revised report, engineer D 
said BS had just confirmed the safety checks to him again and that garage B also 
thought the car was safe to drive. Miss B didnt accept engineer Ds second report, 
especially as an employee of BS he said hed spoken to couldnt be identified. 
In reply to her complaint, RSA paid Miss B £400 compensation for poor service, but it 
accepted engineer Ds findings.
One of our investigators reviewed Miss Bs complaint. He thought RSA should pay 
her a further £100 for poor service. But he didnt think there was any evidence that 
the car wasnt safe to drive. Miss B pointed out that neither he, nor RSA, had noted 
that she was a vulnerable, disabled consumer in terms of the compensation offer.
The complaint was passed to me for review, and I issued a provisional decision, increasing 
the level of compensation to £800 in total. In summary, I made the following points:
Miss Bs concerns
RSA recognised that rectification of the repairs shouldnt have been necessary and 
that there were delays in the process. But I could see why she thought the offer of 
compensation was too low, as RSA didnt appear to have thought about the full 
impact of the situation on Miss B, given her disabilities and vulnerability. I noted that 
Miss B thought her life was in danger from June 2022 to December 2022 (after the 
loose  bolts were found). Her extreme anxiety following that meant she couldnt drive 
the car, so she returned it to the disability car scheme shed hired it from. But being 
without a car led to a lack of mobility for Miss B and hence a physical decline. 
The cars roadworthiness 
Miss B said she took the car back to garage B during the six months after it was 
returned to her in June 2022, due to concerns about its performance. But garage B 
said it had no record of her having raised any concerns or of taking the car back 
during that time. I didnt think I could conclude that she was worried about its safety 
before December 2022 without evidence of it. And I noted that in December 2022, 
BS had tightened some bolts, but it didnt say the car hadnt been safe to drive 
previously - and it allowed Miss B to drive the car away. I thought BS would have 
told Miss B not to drive the car away, had it thought it was dangerous to do so.
Regardless of whether the car was safe to drive, I thought it likely that the discovery 
of the loose bolts would have caused Miss B much more anxiety than it would have 
caused an average consumer, given her anxiety and mental health conditions.  
The independent engineer  
Although RSA instructed a reputable firm of independent engineers to carry out a 
review, I could see why Miss D was upset that engineer D didnt examine the car, 
but relied on assurances from garage B and BS. I could also see why Miss B was 
concerned about that, as neither garage would confirm to her that it had carried out 
safety checks. However, I could see no reason why engineer D would have provided 
a false report (ultimately, his duty isnt to RSA, but to a court, should legal action 
ensue). So I thought it more likely than not that someone at BS (even if not the 
person he had named) told him the car was safe to drive when it left BSs premises. 
Despite the lack of evidence that the car wasnt safe to drive, I thought an average 
consumer would have been upset by engineer Ds failure to inspect it - or to say why 
an inspection wasnt needed. I thought that decision (and his failure to obtain more 
evidence from garage B and BS after his first report was challenged) probably 
increased Miss Bs existing anxiety about his approach and the cars safety. 
Compensation
The starting point in considering an appropriate level of compensation is the extent to 
which an insurer hasnt acted fairly or reasonably. Its then a matter of the impact on 
a particular consumer of its errors or omissions. In this case, I thought RSA could 
have done more to ensure that the independent engineers involvement led to the 
resolution of Miss Bs concerns. He didnt inspect the car - or explain why that wasnt 
needed - and he relied on verbal assurances from the garages concerned about 
their safety checks. I thought that was unusual, especially when Miss B was as 
concerned about safety as shed expressed - and it may have made matters worse. 
I didnt think RSA had considered the full impact on Miss B of the discovery of the 
loose bolts, or of not having an independent, physical examination of the car, despite 
the specific concerns shed raised with RSA. But I thought her expectations about 
the level of compensation due to her were unreasonable. She based them on her 
belief that the car wasnt safe to drive. Without evidence of that, I didnt think RSA 
could be expected to compensate Miss B for the danger she felt shed been in. But I 
accepted that shed become extremely anxious about what could have happened, 
and that RSA hadnt tried to manage that situation. 
I didnt think RSA was responsible for Miss Bs drastic decision to stop driving the car 
and to give it up. And I didnt think the consequences that flowed from her decisions 
(compromised mobility, a weakened physical state, plus an injury) resulted from 
RSAs errors, or any unfairness on its part (nor were they reasonably foreseeable). I thought Miss B had a duty to minimise her losses, and that she could have taken 
advice before making her decisions about not driving any longer. I thought having an 
independent inspection of the car done could have resolved the safety concerns, but 
that Miss B didnt seem to have considered it.
I was minded to conclude that RSA wasnt fully responsible for the situation Miss B 
found herself in, but it could have done more to assist her, given her disabilities and 
vulnerability. So I thought it should pay her a further £300 compensation for distress 
and inconvenience (£800 in total).   
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings. RSA said it had nothing to add. 
Miss B made extensive comments, some of which only confirmed what shed already told 
us. Briefly, she made the following main points:
  The evidence Miss B has of the car being unsafe for months is the discovery of the 
loose bolts. That meant she had driven the car for months when there was a risk of 
the engine falling out.
  Miss B became anxious when she realised the danger shed been in, but no-one 
else would listen to her concerns. The independent engineers review was 
unsatisfactory, and RSA wouldnt appoint anyone else, so she had no option but to 
dispense with the car. That didnt amount to drastic action on her part, as Id 
suggested, given that shed done all she could to resolve the issues first.
  In March 2023, when she returned the car to the scheme, it offered her a car with 
automatic transmission. Although that was what shed wanted previously, by that 
point she couldnt even travel in a car as a passenger, let alone drive one.
  RSA should be held responsible for the great distress it has caused, which is 
continuing, and the events should be viewed through Miss Bs eyes. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Bs additional comments havent changed my view of this complaint. RSA is being 
required to pay substantial compensation, although it isnt at the level Miss B thinks is 
appropriate. RSA had already accepted that Miss B was due £500 for poor service. The 
increase Ive proposed is to make up for the fact that Miss Bs disabilities and her 
vulnerability werent taken into account. I think the impact on her of what happened (as 
opposed to that on an average consumer) was greater and should have been addressed. 
In my opinion, the major issue is whether the car was safe to drive, and I dont think theres 
evidence to show it wasnt safe. RSA could have done more to reassure Miss B (especially 
given her concerns about the questionable approach of the independent engineer) but I think 
she could also have acted differently in some respects. Had she done so, the impact on her 
of what happened may have been reduced. In particular, I think she could have arranged an 
independent inspection of the car before deciding to give it up. I appreciate that her anxiety 
was extreme at the time, but it looks as though she didnt take advice about the options open 
to her - or discuss the possible consequences that might flow from no longer driving.  
I know Miss B will be unhappy with my decision. Ive tried to see the situation from her 
viewpoint, and I sympathise greatly with her, given the very difficult situation shes found 
herself in. But I also have to consider RSAs position. Taking everything into account, in my opinion a total payment to Miss B from RSA of £800 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience would be a fair and reasonable way to resolve this complaint.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited to pay Miss B an extra £300 compensation for distress and inconvenience (£800 in 
total).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 December 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman