DRN-3053711
The complaint
Mr H and Mr R complain that Openwork Limited (Openwork) misadvised them about early 
repayment charges (ERCs) when they applied for a mortgage.  
What happened
The full details of this case are well-known to all parties involved. So instead of repeating 
everything, Ill provide a summary here and then Ill focus of giving the reasons for my 
decision. Whilst I may not have listed every detail, or every complaint point, Ive thought 
carefully about everything when reaching my decision. 
In November 2020 Mr H and Mr R applied for a joint mortgage to purchase a property 
together. They sought advice from an advisor at Openwork. 
Mr H and Mr R both had properties in their sole names before this purchase. They were both 
in the process of selling those properties at the time of applying for the joint mortgage. 
Theyve complained that the Openwork advisor told them that if they both borrowed from the 
same lender as the one they held their sole mortgages with, they could reclaim the ERCs 
payable on both mortgages. 
After the joint mortgage completed Mr H and Mr R attempted to reclaim the ERCs theyd 
paid on both of their sole mortgages, but the lender declined. Whilst they reclaimed the ERC 
of around £1970 associated with repaying Mr Hs mortgage, they werent able to reclaim the 
one associated with Mr Rs previous mortgage, of around £3500. Mr H and Mr R were 
unhappy with this so they complained about what the Openwork advisor told them.
Openwork didnt uphold the complaint in full, as it said it had never told Mr H and Mr R that 
they could port both sole mortgages to the new joint mortgage, thus avoiding the ERCs. But 
it did accept that it had made some service failings and offered Mr H and Mr R £600, which 
they didnt accept, and they referred their complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and he didnt think Openwork had done enough to 
put things right. Whilst he didnt think Openwork needed to fully repay the ERC payable on 
Mr Rs mortgage, he did think it should pay the difference between that and Mr Hs lower 
ERC. He said that because he thought that if theyd known theyd only be able to reclaim 
one ERC, theyd have reclaimed the higher of the two. He also said Openwork should pay 
the £600 it had previously offered for the other service failings. Theres no dispute about 
these issues, or the £600, so I havent looked into them any further. 
Mr H and Mr R agreed with the investigators recommendations, but Openwork didnt. It 
maintained that it had never told Mr H and Mr R that they could port both of their mortgages.
As the case still hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me, to bring matters to a close. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator. Ill explain why.
- Ive noted in Openworks several emails to this service following the investigators opinion 
that it has highlighted that it didnt tell Mr H and Mr R that they could both port their 
mortgages. I agree with this point  as I havent seen evidence of that either. But the word 
port is being misused in the context. Mr H and Mr R have complained that they were 
misadvised about ERCS, and not that they were misadvised about porting their mortgage. 
Ultimately, its clear from all of the information Ive seen that they wanted to save on 
paying the £5292 in ERCs, rather than having a strong desire to keep their existing 
mortgage deals, which as Openwork will know, is what would be referred to as porting. 
- Ive carefully looked at the advisors advice notes, as well as the advice summary letter 
that was posted to Mr H and Mr R following their meeting with Openwork. Both of these 
documents refer to Mr H and Mr R being able to claim the ERCs back. In fact the advice 
summary letter uses this as one of the reasons for recommending a mortgage with the 
particular lender that it did. 
- I understand that Openwork says that a misunderstanding mayve happened due to the 
advisor receiving incorrect information from the lender about eligibility for the refund of 
ERCs. I agree this may be the case  but I dont think Mr H and Mr R should lose out as a 
result of that. Thats a matter between Openwork and the lender.
- Theres been some confusion about whether Mr H and Mr R initially chose to port and 
changed their minds, or whether they declined to, and why that happened, and if thats 
what led to both of the ERCs not being refunded. Openwork has referred to Mr Rs job as 
a reason that he shouldve understood what he was doing, but I dont agree. Ultimately, 
as Ive explained, Im persuaded that the advisor gave Mr H and Mr R incorrect 
information about receiving a refund of both ERCs following completion of their new joint 
mortgage. I dont think the amount of knowledge Mr H and Mr R had as customers 
negates the need for Openwork to provide correct information, and I dont think it did in 
this case. I dont know exactly why the wrong information was given, although as Ive 
already said it could be because the lender gave the Openwork advisor the wrong 
information. But whatever the reason, based on everything Ive seen and been told, Im 
satisfied that this led to Openwork advising Mr H and Mr R incorrectly.
- Had Mr H and Mr R been given the right information, I still think theyd have gone ahead 
and taken this mortgage. But if theyd known they could only reclaim one of the ERCs, it 
goes without saying that theyd most likely have reclaimed the higher one of £3315, rather 
than of £1977. 
Putting things right
To put things right I require Openwork Limited to:
- Pay Mr H and Mr R £1338, which is the difference between the lower ERC and the 
higher ERC;
- Add 8% statutory interest to this payment, from the date the initial payment was 
made (for Mr Hs ERC) until the date its paid;- Pay the £600 that was initially offered for the misinformation, loss of expectations, 
and for failing to offer Mr H and Mr R all of the options they shouldve been offered in 
relation to porting and not porting their mortgage.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Openwork Limited to put things right by doing what Ive 
said above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Sam Wade
Ombudsman