DRN-3832412
The complaint
Ms K is unhappy that Revolut Ltd has decided not to refund her after she was the victim of 
an investment scam.
What happened
- Ms K opened a new account opened with Revolut and the transactions as part of this 
scam began the following day.
- Ms Ks account was flagged on 24th November 2020 and Ms K was informed in the 
in-app chat that the account had been restricted for a security review.
- On 15th December 2020 Ms K said she wanted to close the account, but Revolut 
advised this couldnt be done as the account was still under review. 
- On 20th January 2021 Ms K contacted Revolut to say she had been the victim of an 
investment scam.
- After the complaint was brought to our service Revolut reviewed everything and 
decided to make an offer of £10,750 to settle the complaint as a goodwill gesture. 
Ms K sent £45k to scammers from her Revolut account, in just over 3 weeks. Revolut 
blocked the account after £45k had left the account.
- Two card payments for £1,000 each were declined on 20 November 2020 because 
the merchant was blocked.
One of our investigators initially looked into things she thought that by the 23 November 
2020 (after six previous transactions to crypto companies) the transactions were high 
enough in value and so unusual, that Revolut ought to have been concerned that Ms K could 
have been at risk of financial harm at this point.  
She went on to say that if Revolut had intervened at this point it could have exposed and 
prevented the scam. She recommended the final two payments that Ms K made of £10,000 
and £5,000 (with 8% simple interest being paid on these two payments from the date they 
were made to the date of settlement) should be refunded along with the £10,750 that it 
already offered. 
Revolut disagreed. It said:
- It had adhered to its terms and conditions and processed the payments in line with 
Ms Ks instructions. And those T&Cs go on to say it is not responsible, if the payment 
is made to the correct account.
- As the account was new, Ms K moved large amounts of money from the outset. 
Therefore, the transactions the investigator had said were unusual, werent, as they 
had become part of Ms Ks regular activity on the account. And it had no reason to 
believe these payments related to a scam.
- It said Revolut provides a cheaper service than others, for cross-currency conversion 
and transfers. And it is highly regular for its accounts to used in this way.
- It didnt think it would have exposed the scam  Ms K was investing for some time 
prior to 23 November 2020 and was therefore convinced it was genuine. The scam 
was sophisticated and verbal interaction wouldnt have exposed it. And Ms K would 
have likely said she knew the person she was paying and this wouldnt have caused 
concern.
The investigator went on to make a formal finding on the complaint and in summary, she 
said the following:
- the broad regulatory landscape obliges banks to protect its customers from fraud and 
financial harm. 
- She thought Revolut shouldve taken more action than it did. She thought the 
payments from Ms Ks account were unusual as they were in quick succession and 
for large amounts. So, she thought Revolut should have contacted Ms K to discuss 
the payments. 
- She said if Revolut had contacted Ms K the scam would have been exposed. She 
said she thought Ms K would have said the payments were related to investments 
and she would have said that shed met someone online via a dating website. That 
he was encouraging her to make these payments and they had only been talking for 
a short time before he introduced the idea of investing. And that all communication 
had taken place over text mesage. And if all that had been discussed she felt the 
scam would have been exposed.
- She also acknowledged that if asked why she thought it was genuine Ms K would 
have said she was able to withdraw funds on the first day she invested. But the 
investigator thought this was a well-known tactic that scammers use to earn trust 
from the outset  something which she thinks Revolt could have warned her about. 
- She didnt think Ms K should bear any responsibility for her loss, as she had 
researched the company and it was genuine  but she had been redirected to use a 
fake/cloned version of the investment platform. She was able to withdraw funds on 
the first day which made it seem reasonable and trustworthy. 
- She recommended that Revolut refund the Ms K from the 7th payment onwards  
totaling £31,000. And pay 8% simple interest from the date the payments were made 
to settlement.
Revolut disagreed it said:
- The payments were authorised by Ms K, and it had an obligation to execute those 
payments. And its terms and conditions state it is not liable in these circumstances.
- This was a new account and Ms K moved large amounts of funds from the offset, 
and so the transactions had become the customers regular pattern of activity and 
not unusual or suspicious. She opened the account and appeared to use it for the 
sole purpose of moving funds to crypto wallets. Its highly regular for accounts to be 
used in this way, and it is not, in itself, suspicious and so it didnt agree the payments 
ought to have flagged.
- The customer ought to be held, at least partially liable, as she decided to trust an 
unknown third party she met via a dating app. Shed never met in person and then 
start investing on their advice. The dating app is not a platform for business and Ms K 
ought to have been aware of this. It believes she failed to meet her due diligence 
obligations prior to making the payments and/or deciding to invest in crypto-
currencies. She also failed to evaluate the risk of investment and the legitimacy of the 
transfers to unknown beneficiaries.
- It doesnt think intervention here would have made a difference as Ms K would have 
said she knew the people she was dealing with. It doesnt think it would have exposed the scam and it had been ongoing for some time and Ms K was convinced it 
was genuine. 
- Revolut is also aware that this scam involved another bank account that Ms K held. 
And it is aware that Ms K was questioned about the transactions from that account 
and was warned about scams and still decided to proceed. So, it thinks the outcome 
would have been the same if it had intervened. 
- And despite Ms Ks account being restricted for review she didnt contact Revolut to 
say she had been the victim of a scam for another two months  suggesting 
intervention at the point the account was restricted wouldnt have exposed the scam 
either.
A second investigator looked into the complaint. She didnt uphold the complaint. In 
summary she said:
- The previous investigator felt the scam would have been uncovered if Revolut had 
intervened and spoken to Ms K. But she didnt agree. She had since reviewed the  
conversation Ms K had had with her other bank account provider, where the scam 
wasnt exposed, despite Ms K receiving various warnings about crypto-currency 
scams. 
- Whilst she thought Revolut ought to have identified the payments as unusual or 
suspicious she didnt think it would have made a difference here. Having listened to 
the call Ms K had with her account bank account provider she thought it was likely 
Ms K would have given the same information  where she said all the transactions 
were genuine and no third party was involved. Shed also been told to take out a loan 
and not tell the truth about the reason for the loan and this didnt ring any alarm bells 
for Ms K. So overall she didnt think it was likely that Ms K would have given the 
detail about what she was doing that wouldnt have sounded suspicious so that 
Revolut could have exposed the scam.
- She went on to say she thought the offer from Revolut was fair and she wouldnt be 
recommending any further refund.
Ms K didnt accept the investigators findings. She said Revolut didnt have the procedures in 
place to block high value payments without further authorisation - which other banks do. 
The investigator explained shed concluded that even if Revolut had blocked and intervened 
in the payments, it wouldnt have made a difference. Shed said this because the evidence of 
the phone call with the other bank was compelling. The conversation was three days after 
she had made the last payment on her Revolut account. And she concluded it was likely 
Ms K would have given the same answers to any questions Revolut would have asked at the 
time. And as she was still very much under the spell of the scammers at this point, so she 
didnt think a call with Revolut would have exposed the scam here.
As Ms K didnt accept the investigators findings the complaint has been passed to me to 
consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator for largely the same 
reasons. I dont agree with Revolut that the payments werent unusual because it was a new account. 
Or that because the account was initially used for large value payments that these become 
part of the normal running of the account and wouldnt be considered suspicious. Even if 
Revolut operates with cheaper fees for currency conversion and that is how most of its 
account are used, this doesnt mean it shouldnt be on the look-out for unusual transactions 
or consider if their customers could be at risk of financial harm. 
And I think there is an argument that Ms Ks account activity could have been considered as 
unusual. I say this because card payments to one crypto-currency provider (B) are blocked 
and two payments made by Ms K were unsuccessful for that reason. So, it follows that bank 
transfers to several other crypto-currency providers for large amounts over a short period of 
time could be considered as unusual and an indication that their customer could be at risk of 
harm. So, I think there is an argument here that Revolut ought to have been concerned 
about how Ms K was operating the account. And indeed, it did have concerns as the account 
was restricted a month after it was opened. 
But I have to go on to consider if intervention by Revolut would have made any difference 
here and prevented Ms Ks losses. And Im not persuaded it would have. I say this because:
- As well as using her Revolut account to make payments towards the scam 
investment, she also used another bank account. She initially started with payments 
from her Revolut account, but after her Revolut account was restricted she carried on 
making payments from her other bank account. She continued to make payments for 
another month, and the scam wasnt exposed for another a further month after that. 
- Ms K also spoke to her other bank account provider on the phone. And this 
conversation has formed part of my thinking in deciding this case. In the conversation 
Ms K is asked some questions about what the payments are for, and if anyone else 
is involved or prompting her to make the payments. She says no-one else in 
involved. 
- Other questions are asked, and she isnt truthful about the background and reasons 
for making the payments. Its not clear why Ms K didnt reveal how she had come 
across the specific investments she was making, I cant see that she was told to 
specifically cover this up or say something else. But she doesnt reveal anything 
about a third person or how she was advised to invest when speaking to the bank so 
Im not persuaded she would have provided this information if speaking to Revolut 
either. 
- So, I have to consider if that would have also been the case if Revolut had intervened 
with the payments. And I think its likely the conversation would have been similar and 
she would have proceeded with the payments. 
- Ms K wasnt suspicious about what she was being asked to do by the scammers, she 
trusted what she was being told and she didnt find it suspicious that she wasnt able 
to tell the truth about the reasons for her actions. - So Im not persuaded that Revolut could have gone further and exposed the scam 
here. I have no reason to think she would have given different answers to any 
questions she would have been asked or revealed more about what she was doing 
and why. And that in turn wouldnt have caused Revolut to be suspicious, or go on to 
prevent her from sending the money or expose the scam. So, I dont think Revolut 
would have prevented her losses. 
Revolut has offered a refund of £10,750 as a gesture of goodwill. I think this is fair offer in 
the circumstances and I dont think it needs to refund anything further. 
My final decision
The offer from Revolut Ltd is fair and it doesnt need to refund anything further to Ms K. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Sophia Smith
Ombudsman