DRN-4098691
The complaint
Mr J and Miss P have complained that Covea Insurance plc has unfairly declined a claim on 
Miss Ps pet insurance policy.
What happened
Miss P took out a pet insurance policy for her dog with Covea in January 2016. She says it 
was established early on that the dog had a number of severe allergies. Miss P made a 
number of claims for treatment of the allergies which were settled.
In January 2022 Miss P made another claim for the dogs allergy treatment. The claim 
included immunotherapy treatment. Covea reviewed the dogs clinical history. It said the 
history showed that signs of the allergies had been present in December 2015 when 
dermatitis was noted around her tail. It said as this was before the policy started, the 
allergies were a pre-existing condition and not covered by the policy. Covea also said that 
the dogs immunotherapy treatment was no longer effective and so it was unable to continue 
to offer cover for that type of treatment. It said all claims relating to the dogs skin condition 
had been paid in error but it wouldnt look to reclaim the monies.
Miss P provided evidence from her vet that the dogs dermatitis in December 2015 was 
secondary to excessive skin folds around the tail area which was later corrected by surgery. 
Covea didnt change its decision.
Mr J and Miss P brought a complaint to this service. Our investigator upheld it. He didnt 
think Covea hadnt acted fairly in treating the two conditions as linked. He recommended that 
Covea pay the claim and £100 compensation.
Covea didnt agree. It also said immunotherapy isnt a licensed medication and so the cost of 
treatment involving this isnt covered by the policy. 
As the Investigator wasnt able to resolve the complaint, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Ps policy, like many other pet policies, doesnt cover pre-existing conditions. There is 
an exclusion in the policy for the cost of any treatment for a pre-existing condition. A pre-
existing definition is defined as:
An injury that happened or an illness that first showed clinical signs before your 
pets cover started, or
An injury or illness that is the same as, or has the same diagnosis or clinical signs 
as an injury, illness or clinical sign your pet had before its cover started, or
An injury or illness that is caused by, relates to, or results from, an injury, incident, 
illness or clinical sign your pet had before its cover started. No matter where the 
injury, illness or clinical signs are noticed or happen in, or on, your pets body. This 
is in addition to any exclusion(s) stated on your Certificate of Insurance.
I need to consider whether Covea has treated Miss P fairly in relying on this exclusion to 
decline the claim. That requires there to be sufficient evidence of a connection between the 
condition claimed for and the one that happened before the policy started.
Covea has said that the dog has a pre-disposition to skin issues, including allergies and that 
clinical signs of the dogs allergies were noted in December 2015, that is before the policy 
started.
Miss Ps dog was seen by a vet in December 2015 when it was noted the dog had moist 
dermatitis *** in folds around tail. 
I can see from the clinical history that in late 2015 and 2016 irritation and dermatitis around 
the dogs tail was noted. There do not appear to have been any other skin complaints or skin 
irritation at that time. In May 2016 the vet recorded that the base of the tail is quite deep into 
bottom. The vet thought the irritation was due to her tail being inverted into bottom. 
Another colleague wrote that the skin condition is because of the tail folds. Surgery was 
recommended to correct that abnormality and that took place in September 2016.
As Miss Ps vet has noted, there is no mention in the clinical history of the dog having any 
dermatitis around the tail base after the surgery. Regarding allergies he said:
I believe that [name of dog] first demonstrated evidence of allergic skin disease on the 10th 
June 2016 where she presented with a history of scratching face and ears, over time this 
developed into a generalised pruritus and dermatological lesions more associated with 
atopy, which prompted further investigations into this condition. At this time [name of dog] 
would have been about 1-year old. It is unusual for atopy to develop in dogs younger than 
this, with age of onset typically between 1-3 years old.
Ive carefully considered the expert evidence provided by Covea and that from Miss Ps vet. 
Given that Miss Ps vet saw, examined and treated Miss Ps dog, I find his evidence is more 
persuasive. I dont think Covea has provided sufficient grounds for its conclusion that there 
was a connection between the dermatitis around the tail area first noted in December 2015 
and the allergic skin disease with which Miss Ps dog presented from June 2016 onwards. In 
the light of this I dont think Covea treated Miss P fairly in declining her claim on the ground 
that the dog was suffering from a pre-existing condition.
With regard to Coveas assertion that the immunotherapy was no longer effective, Miss Ps 
vet said that was untrue. He went on to explain:
On the 10th December 2021 I wrote in my clinical notes that I was concerned that the 
immunotherapy was not as effective as it had been previously. This can happen over time as 
the patient may develop new allergies. It is likely that the immunotherapy is still helping with 
[dogs] allergic skin disease. As no medication is able to eradicate allergies, [name of dog] 
requires several different types of medication to keep her atopy under control as much as 
possible.
Again, I place more weight on the evidence from Miss Ps vet due to the fact that he has 
treated her dog.
When responding to our Investigators view Covea said that immunotherapy isnt a licensed 
medication and so the cost of treatment involving this isnt covered by the policy. In my opinion it is unfair of Covea at this late stage to rely on a new reason, which has not 
previously been communicated to Miss P, to decline the claim.
To put things right, I think Covea should meet the cost of the claim. I also agree with our 
Investigator that some additional compensation is warranted because of the unnecessary 
distress the refusal of the claim would have caused Miss P at a time when she needed to 
avoid additional stress. I agree that £100 is reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Covea Insurance plc to 
pay Miss Ps claim subject to the policy limit and any excess and pay her £100 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its unfair refusal of her claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Miss P to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman