DRN-2811842
The complaint
Ms L says Bank of Scotland plc (trading at the time as Leeds Permanent Building Society, 
and now trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy for a 
mortgage.
What happened
Ms L took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1991. Ms L paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered her in case she was off work sick 
or lost her job.
I sent Ms L and Halifax a provisional decision on 12 April 2021, to explain why I didnt think 
the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
There does not appear to be any debate that Ms L was offered a choice and chose to take 
out this policy. And Ive not seen any wider problems with Halifaxs sales process from the 
time, nor anything which makes me think they misled Ms L into buying PPI here. So I think 
its most likely that Halifax made Ms L aware she had a choice about buying the PPI, and 
that she chose to take it at the time. 
Its not clear whether Halifax recommended the PPI to Ms L, or not. The requirements 
were stricter on Halifax if they did recommend it  so to be as fair to Ms L as possible, Ive 
assumed they did. That means Halifax had to check the PPI was right for her, and based 
on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it looks like 
Ms L was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or 
limitations.
While Ms L had sick pay through work, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of that and helped 
shore up any gaps in cover  for example, when her sick pay reduced to just a fraction of 
her normal pay. Ms L pointed out that her sick pay wouldve paid out a greater amount of 
money over time, but thats normal  her sick pay was there to cover all her living costs, 
whereas the PPI was there to cover her mortgage-related costs specifically. Ms L also had 
some shares, though understandably there isnt solid evidence of their amount in 1991. 
We only have a rough estimate of what they might have been worth a number of years 
later, so its unclear whether these shares were relevant at the point of sale. In any case, 
the PPI meant Ms L could effectively protect her shares, instead of potentially needing to 
sacrifice one asset to save another. I also understand Ms L felt her job was stable, but 
accidents, illnesses and redundancies can and do happen, even in situations that feel 
stable.
Ms L recalled being entitled to an exceptionally high redundancy payout. But we dont 
currently have any evidence to substantiate this, so I need to consider whats most likely to 
have been the case. The amount Ms L has given us is exceptional, and does not fit with 
typical entitlements or with her length of service in 1991. I also need to bear in mind that 
memories fade over time and this sale was particularly long ago. So while I dont doubt 
that Ms Ls given us her best recollections, it seems most likely shes mistaken about what 
her redundancy entitlement was back in 1991. I think its more likely that Ms L had a more 
normal entitlement, in which case the PPI wouldve provided useful additional cover. Of 
course, if Ms L provides evidence of her redundancy terms in response to this provisional 
decision, then Ill be happy to reconsider this point. And by issuing this provisional 
decision, rather than a final decision, it means Ive given Ms L extra time to find anything to 
support her case, in addition to the extensions weve already given.
Its worth bearing in mind that this mortgage was a very significant, long-term commitment. 
At the time of the sale, there was no guarantee that Ms L would have the same job, 
benefits, or savings in the many years to come. And if she fell behind on her mortgage, 
she couldve lost her home. Overall, it looks like the PPI could have been useful for Ms L in 
protecting her home and providing some peace of mind.
Lastly, it is possible that the information Halifax gave Ms L about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed her mind. But as I explained above, Ms L wasnt affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve been useful for her in case something went 
wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out in a claim. 
And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Ms L could cancel it at any time 
without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to have put her off 
taking out the cover.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
10 May 2021. Halifax didnt add anything further. Ms L made a further submission, which 
Ill talk about below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms L explained that she was not able to prove her redundancy entitlement, but she 
reiterated that she recalled it was much higher than a normal payment. In support, she 
provided evidence of some money she had available in 1998, and of her moving house. She 
said that was all funded by a redundancy payout, and that it had funded extensive home 
improvements as well.I do understand Ms Ls point of view and appreciate her efforts in trying to evidence this. But 
her financial situation in 1998 proves very little about her redundancy terms seven years 
earlier, not least as theres nothing to show that these funds all came from a redundancy 
payout as opposed to any of the other likely sources they couldve come from  such as 
regular savings, investments, family help, or the sale of her previous property when she 
moved. Ive also kept in mind that even if she got a particularly large redundancy payout in 
1998, that wouldve been based on a much higher entitlement than what she wouldve had at 
the point of sale in 1991, as she wouldve been at the company over twice as long by then 
and would potentially have been more senior. And as I said in the provisional decision, back 
in 1991 there was no guarantee that Ms L would stay in the same job in the many years to 
come, so her potential entitlement in 1998 wouldnt have been relevant back then. In order to 
support Ms Ls assertions, we really would have needed the evidence we asked for, such as 
the contractual redundancy terms or the exact payout she got so that we could backwards-
calculate the likely entitlement. Without that, I have to consider whats most likely to have 
been the case.
As I explained before, the entitlement Ms L gave us is exceptional and does not fit with 
typical entitlements or her work situation at the time. Further, this sale was particularly long 
ago, and it would be normal for someone not to be able to remember their exact redundancy 
terms from three decades prior.
Taking everything into account, I still conclude that its most likely that the PPI could have 
really been useful for Ms L in her situation at the time of the sale. And having reconsidered 
the case, I have not found any other reason to say that the policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold Ms Ls complaint in this particular case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman