DRN-3154336
The complaint
Mr M complains about a loans Everyday Lending Limited lent to him in February 
2014 and August 2015. He says the loans were irresponsibly lent and Everyday 
Lending shouldnt have lent to him.
  
What happened
When Mr M complained to Everyday Lending, it didnt uphold his complaint and so it was 
referred to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought it should be upheld, Everyday 
Lending responded by saying it thought Mr M had complained about loan 1 too late and that 
loan 2 was unwound and so there was no interest refund due on the loan. Another one of 
our adjudicators looked at Everyday Lendings point about Mr Ms complaint about loan 1 
being made too late and thought the complaint was one we could look at.
 
Everyday Lending disagreed and asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman.
As Everyday Lending has had an assessment on the jurisdiction and substance of this 
complaint, Ive fully addressed both elements in my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Did Mr M complain too late about loan 1?
The rules which apply to complaints referred to us and which I must apply say that, where a 
business doesnt agree, I cant look at a complaint thats made more than six years after 
whats being complained about happened. Or, if later, more than three years from when the 
person complaining knew or should really have known they had reason to complain.
As Everyday Lending hasnt consented to us looking into Mr Ms complaint about loan 1, I 
have to determine whether he complained about that loan within the relevant time limits. To 
start with Mr M had six years from the date his loan was lent to complain. From the 
information provided, Mr M didnt complain about the decision to lend until April 2020 more 
than six years after the loan was approved in February 2014.
The rules can potentially provide Mr M with longer than six years to complain, if he 
complains within three years of when he became aware, or he ought reasonably to have 
been aware, he had cause to complain. So, Ive considered when Mr M became aware, or 
he ought reasonably to have been aware, she had cause to complain more than three 
years before he complained to Everyday Lending.
Having thought about everything provided, I havent seen any evidence from Everyday 
Lending or Mr M that suggests that he was aware he had cause for complaint or that he 
ought to have been aware he had cause for complaint more than three years before he 
made his complaint.
Based on the available information, I think that Mr M complained in time. So, I think that 
we are able to look at whether her loan was responsibly lent to him.
Did Everyday Lending lend fairly to Mr M?
Everyday Lending is aware of its obligations under the rules and regulations in place at 
the time of this lending decision, including the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), 
so I wont repeat them here. But, briefly, it was required to carry out sufficient checks to 
ensure that Mr M would be able to repay the borrowing applied for in a sustainable way. 
As set out in CONC 5.3.1G(2) that means that he could manage the repayments,
withoutincurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences
Before lending both loans, I can see that Everyday Lending carried out a number of 
checks including reviewing Mr Ms payslips and bank statements. I think those checks 
went far enough in the circumstances, however based on the results of those checks, 
I dont think Everyday Lending made a fair decision to lend to Mr M in the circumstances.
Everyday Lending confirmed that Mr Ms income was around £1,049 from his payslips 
from the previous two months. The bank statements Everyday Lending obtained also 
showed that Mr M was paying £140 towards his rent but that he was borrowing from at 
least three other lenders including a bank. Mr M was also in his overdraft and incurring 
fees and charges.
In the month before the loan and from the bank statements Everyday Lending saw, Mr M 
repaid around £1,073 towards credit and borrowed around £1,600 in the same month, 
most of which appeared to still be outstanding.
I think Everyday Lending ought to have been aware that Mr M was likely reliant on credit 
and paying a significant amount towards credit and shouldnt have lent loan 1 in the 
circumstances.
Turning to loan 2, Mr M borrowed £2,845.32 for this loan over 36 months with a 
repayment of £261.03 per month. Everyday Lending says it used the year to date figure 
on Mr Ms payslip and worked out his income as being around £1,400 and even though 
Mr M was consolidating some of his borrowing, including the repayment of this loan, 
Mr M would still have been repaying a significant portion of his income towards credit. 
Everyday Lending should have known that there was a real risk Mr M would struggle to 
meet his repayments over the three-year term and shouldnt have lent the loan.
Everyday Lending lent both loans to Mr M when it shouldnt have, and it needs to put 
things right. I understand that loan 2 was unwound within the cooling off period and so 
Mr M didnt pay any interest and charges towards that loan. As Mr M didnt suffer any 
financial loss for this loan, I wont be asking Everyday Lending to make any refunds.
 
Putting things right
For loan 1, Everyday Lending should;
refund all interest and charges Mr M paid towards loan 1;pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative information about both loans from Mr Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Everyday Lending Limited 
should give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax youve deducted, if they ask for one. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited to put things right as set out 
above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman