DRN-2484592
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as H complains that Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) unfairly 
declined a claim under Hs business protection insurance policy.
Mrs S who is a director of H brings the complaint on Hs behalf.
What happened
H holds a business protection insurance policy with Allianz. Mrs S made a claim on that 
policy to cover Hs losses arising out of the closure of H due to the national government-
imposed lockdown in response to the Covid 19 pandemic.
Allianz declined the claim because it said H didnt have cover for the losses it was claiming 
for. Mrs S didnt agree. She said that Covid 19 was unprecedented and couldnt have been 
specifically referred to in the policy at the time it was written as it wasnt known about.
Our investigator considered Hs complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said that, 
while he sympathised with Mrs Ss situation, he didnt think there was cover available under 
the policy for the situation H found itself in. Mrs S doesnt agree so the matter has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact the lockdown has had on H. But 
for the same reasons the investigator set out, I wont be upholding Hs complaint. Ill explain 
why. 
The type of cover H is looking to claim on is business interruption insurance. There are a 
range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering different risks. For 
example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, whilst others provide 
cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as an optional add on. The 
starting point is to consider the specific policy H took out. As such Ive considered every 
aspect of the policy H holds with Allianz to determine whether there are any sections that 
would require Allianz to meet the claim. 
Mrs S has told us that H closed its doors in March 2020 due to the government-imposed 
lockdown. The nature of Hs business meant that it wouldnt have been allowed to stay open 
after this time.
The policy provides cover for several things, including specified illnesses, damage and 
denial of access. Ive considered each of them below.
Specified illnesses
The government-imposed lockdown was intended to control the Covid 19 pandemic. 
Because of this, the most likely section of the policy that could provide cover would be the 
extension in relation to specified illnesses. That section covers disruption to business 
activities as a direct result of any occurrence of a Specified Illness at the Premises, or any 
occurrence of a Specified Illness within a radius of 25 miles of the Premises.
Specified Illness is defined as:
illness sustained by any person resulting from:

b Acute Encephalitis, Acute Poliomyelitis, Anthrax, Chickenpox, Cholera, Diphtheria,
Dysentery, Leprosy, Leptospirosis, Malaria, Measles, Meningococcal Infection, Mumps,
Opthalmia Neonatorum, Paratyphoid Fever, Plague, Rabies, Rubella, Scarlet Fever,
Smallpox, Tetanus, Tuberculosis, Typhoid Fever, Viral Hepatitis, Whooping Cough or Yellow
Fever an outbreak of which the competent local authority has stipulated shall be notified to
them.
Having considered the list of illnesses set out, Im not persuaded this section of the policy 
provides H with cover in the current circumstances as Covid 19 isnt one of the specified 
illnesses. I realise that Covid 19 wasnt something Allianz would have known about when the 
policy was drafted, but I dont think that changes my findings. Ill explain why.
There are other policies that were on the market that do provide cover for the present 
pandemic. These tend to be policies that cover all notifiable diseases, which are set out and 
updated on a Government defined list. Whereas Hs policy sets out a list of the illnesses 
which are covered by the policy  and there is nothing in the policy which implies that it 
provides cover for other illnesses, including any new illnesses which might emerge. And 
there are several potential illnesses that the policy doesnt cover, including SARS (which is 
another type of Coronavirus). So I think the purpose of the policy is to provide cover in the 
event of those specific illnesses listed and I dont think the policy can or should fairly be 
interpreted as covering any illnesses that arent specified in the list set out above.
Ive also considered whether Covid 19 might fall under Plague which is one of the illnesses 
specified in the policy terms, but I dont think it does.  The policy doesnt define what Plague 
is, but it does have a specific medical classification and is an infectious disease in its own 
right caused by a particular bacterium. Plague also appears as a specified disease in the 
Governments list of notifiable diseases. In contrast Covid 19 is a viral infection. So, having 
considered the position carefully I am satisfied that the capitalised term Plague used in the 
policy was intended to only cover the recognised medical illness Plague. 
Finally, whilst I appreciate its possible that Plague could be interpreted on its widest 
dictionary definition as an infectious disease, affliction or pestilence, like the investigator, I 
think that doing so would render the list Allianz has set out, redundant. Thats because it 
would cover most of the specified illnesses set out within it, so it would be pointless to list 
them as Allianz has. 
 
Overall the fact that Plague is listed separately and that Covid 19 is different in its make-up 
and nature to Plague is, in my view, enough for me to determine that Covid 19 does not fall 
within the term Plague in the policy and it wouldnt be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances to treat the policy as if it did. 
Damage and denial of accessIve also thought about the denial of access section of cover and I dont think it applies to this 
claim. The denial of access part of the policy requires there to be Damage which prevents or 
hinders the use of or access to the business premises. 
Damage is defined as Destruction, damage or loss insured under Sections 1 and 7 of this 
Policy. Nothing in these sections extend to damage caused to the business itself by way of 
a specified illness or disease such as Covid 19, or even a government-imposed act. Rather 
they refer to physical damage in different situations. Because Covid 19 doesnt fall into the 
definition of Damage, it cant apply to the denial of access clause either. 
So for the reasons Ive set out, I dont think Allianz acted unfairly in declining Hs claim. I 
know this decision will be disappointing for Mrs S but I hope Ive provided her with a 
thorough explanation of why the policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of Hs claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Hs complaint against Allianz Insurance Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S on behalf of 
H to accept or reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman