DRN-3229857
The complaint
Mrs L complains Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) have failed to deal with her faulty tap and 
the issues with her two radiators adequately. 
Mrs L also complains the policy does not cover any damage caused by their contractors and 
that she was asked to sign a waiver before the work commenced. 
Mrs L is the policyholder and is represented by her son, Mr L. Mr L contacted Aviva on his 
mothers behalf and liaised with it throughout. And so for clarity Ill refer to him directly in my 
decision.  
Any reference to Aviva includes its agents
What happened
Mrs L has had a Plumbing and Drainage Plus HomeServe policy with Aviva for a number of 
years. The policy provides cover for, amongst other things, leaks within the gas central 
heating system, and repair or replacement of faulty taps.
On 11 May 2021 Mr L contacted Aviva for assistance on behalf of his mother. The tap in the 
bathroom was leaking a discoloured substance and two radiators were not heating up. 
Mr L says the first contractor attended the appointment early despite him telling the agent 
over the telephone Mrs L was vulnerable and so Mr L would need to be at the appointment. 
When the contractor attended he fitted a new tap washer on the hot tap in the main 
bathroom. Mr L says this didnt solve the problem.  Mr L says the contractor told him the 
gland inside the tap needed to be replaced. Mr L says he was told another appointment 
would be required since the contractor didnt have any parts which would fit the bathroom 
dcor.  
At the same visit the contractor said he was unable to identify the cause of the problem with 
the radiators and Aviva would be in touch with respect to future action. Mr L says the 
contractor told him he could change the valves under the policy. But the valves were not 
replaced. 
Mr L says he didnt hear anything further and since the issues remained he contacted Aviva 
again. Mr L says an appointment was made but the contractor failed to attend. 
A third appointment was arranged. Mr L says the contactor told him the tap heads would 
need to be replaced since hot water could escape from the body of the tap. Mr L says the 
contractor offered to source replacement heads which closely resembled the current fittings 
and said he would order them. The contractor told Mr L the issue with the radiators was not 
on his job sheet since they were outside the terms of the policy; and so he didnt look at the 
heating system.
Mr L says he was contacted by the contractors office who left a message saying it would not 
be possible to order replacement heads which matched Mrs Ls current taps since this was 
not covered under the policy. Mr L was told he could source the replacement heads himself 
and the contractor could fit them. Mr L says it would be sensible to keep the existing taps 
which are consistent with those in the bathroom. Mr L says the contractor told him it would 
be better to replace the heads rather than the full tap. He said this was because removal of 
the taps from the basin might damage the basin.  
Mr L says he is unhappy his mother was expected to sign a waiver to say Aviva would not be 
liable for any damage caused by their contractors in carrying out any work in the event the 
taps were eventually replaced.
Neither issue had been properly resolved. Aviva offered to arrange another contractor to 
attend and give a second opinion. It said it could assess the matter further after the 
attendance. Mr L says two contractors had already attended and had not solved either issue. 
Mr L says he arranged for his own contractor to attend to resolve the issues. 
Mr L complained to Aviva on his mothers behalf regarding the service. Aviva said the terms 
of the policy provides cover for the taps to be repaired and if this is not possible, replaced 
with the same type of tap but this will not be like for like. Aviva explained the contractors use 
the taps stocked on their vans to complete the replacement. Aviva also said the policy 
covers for leaks within the central heating system and so leaking pipes in the boiler and 
radiator valves are covered. Aviva said any issues within the central heating system which 
are not due to the leak are not covered. It accepted there had been miscommunication about 
the policy and it had not provided a high level of service to Mrs L. Aviva offered £150 for the 
inconvenience caused. This was not accepted
Mrs Ls complaint came to our service, with Mr L representing her. The investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. He said he thought Aviva had acted within the terms and conditions of 
the policy. The investigator accepted the service provided by Aviva fell below what he would 
have expected. But since Aviva had offered to pay Mrs L £150 to reflect the poor service the 
investigator could not ask it to do anything more. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr L has strong views about what has happened and I can empathise with the 
situation. I have read and considered everything I have received carefully. My role is to 
consider the evidence to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision.
The nature of home emergency insurance is to cover emergency repairs when things go 
wrong. It isnt a maintenance policy. Mrs L has Plumbing and Drainage Plus insurance which 
provides cover for the water pipework, taps, stop taps, water storage, drainage internal and 
external, and waste pipes within your property which you are legally responsible.
Replacing faulty tap
I can see the policy does not provide for the replacement of a tap unless necessary as part 
of a repair so when the first contractor attended he was trying to stop the sludge-like 
substance from leaking from the tap. When the repair didnt work it was suggested replacing 
the top of the tap might stop the leak or replacing the whole tap. The contractor told Mr L he 
would source similar fittings to the current taps since he didnt carry anything like them on his 
van. Mr L was then told replacing the tap with a similar tap would not be possible under the 
policy. So I can understand why he wasnt happy. There was a miscommunication between 
what the contractor told him and what the insurer says the policy covers. Although there was 
a miscommunication I dont think Aviva acted unfairly in not replacing the tap like for like.  Aviva said it is willing to replace the taps with ones purchased by Mr L, but the fittings 
themselves wont be guaranteed. This is within the terms of the policy and so I think its a 
reasonable offer. 
Policy doesnt cover damage caused by their contractor 
When Aviva offered to replace the taps with ones sourced by the customer it asked Mr L to 
sign a disclaimer to say the contractor wouldnt be held liable for any damage caused in 
replacing the taps. Mr L wasnt happy with this as there was no guarantee the basin wouldnt 
be damaged when replacing the taps. The term actually says the underwriter will not be 
liable for any losses caused by any delays in obtaining spare parts and any losses as a 
result of an incident covered by the policy other than those direct costs expressly covered by 
this policy, unless caused by our negligence or that of our agents  I understand Mr Ls 
concerns however this type of disclaimer is fairly standard practice amongst insurers. Most 
types of home emergency policies are designed to deal with the issue that has caused the 
emergency, such as the leaking tap. These types of policies arent usually designed to cover 
any damage that may occur as part of putting a stop to the emergency (the faulty tap).  
Issues with radiator 
I know Mr L feels the contractor did not carry out an adequate inspection of the radiators and 
heating system. Since the contractors are the expert in this matter they will carry out an 
inspection as they see fit. I have seen the notes from the contractor which say a gas 
operative needs to attend due to the issue potentially being a blockage on the central 
hearing pipework, which is not covered under the terms of the policy. 
I am satisfied Aviva used the contractors professional opinion to make its decision to decline 
that part of the claim. There is not a specific report available but I checked the contractors 
notes in order to help make my decision. 
I can understand why Mr L was frustrated given the repair was not carried out. My focus is 
on whether Aviva acted fairly when considering the terms of the policy. In respect of the gas 
central heating system since the issue did not relate to a leak in the system it was not 
covered under the policy. I can see this was not communicated to Mr L properly which has 
contributed to the frustration he has felt. However under the terms of the policy I dont think 
Aviva has acted unreasonably by not repairing the radiators.
Mr L has told our investigator he wants Aviva to change their advertising to reflect the 
limitations of the service offered and make it clear the policy is limited to rescue only. Mr L 
also indicated he would expect compensation to be proportionate with the annual policy cost.  
I am not able to compel Aviva to amend any policies or advertising as these are business 
decisions and not within my remit to comment on. 
I know Mr L will be disappointed with my decision. Aviva has accepted the service fell below 
what would be expected and has offered Mrs L £150 to reflect this. I think the offer is 
reasonable in the circumstances and in line with what I would have suggested, had an offer 
not already have been made.
My final decision
Aviva Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay £150 to settle the complaint and I 
think this is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is Aviva Insurance Limited should pay Mrs L £150.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman