DRN-2074476
The complaint
Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wouldnt allow him to make a balance transfer to his 
HSBC credit that fully utilised his credit limit.
What happened
Mr A applied for a HSBC credit card in December 2019. He was given a credit limit of 
£8,500. His credit card had a 25 month interest free offer on balance transfers made in the 
first two months of account opening subject to a 1.5% balance transfer fee.
In February 2020 Mr A contacted HSBC because he wanted to transfer a credit card balance 
of £8,300 from a credit card he held with another provider to his HSBC credit card but he 
was told that HSBC limits transfers to 95% of the applicable credit limit.
Mr A told us that the balance transfer of £8,300 and 1.5% balance transfer fee of £124.50 
would have been within his credit limit of £8,500 so he complained to HSBC. HSBC didnt 
uphold his complaint. It said there was no bank error. It said it only allows balance transfers 
of up to 95% of the available credit to ensure the credit limit on the card is not exceeded.
Mr A thinks this is unfair because he wasnt able to use the credit card in the way he wanted 
and he says the limit of 95% wasnt made clear when he applied for the credit card or in his 
credit card agreement.
Unhappy with HSBCs response Mr A referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
thought that while HSBC is entitled to limit balance transfers to a particular per-centage of 
the credit available on the card, it should make this clear. Our investigator didnt think Mr A 
would have known about the limit at the time he applied for his credit card and he thought it 
wasnt unreasonable for Mr A to believe he could make a balance transfer of £8,300.
To settle his complaint Mr A would like HSBC to provide a 25 month interest free 
promotional for him now. HSBC said it wasnt able to do this but it has offered a 0% for 15 
months and it also agreed to pay £150 compensation. Our investigator thought HSBCs offer 
was fair.
Mr A disagrees with the settlement. He has provided detailed reasons but in summary he 
says HSBC continues to refuse to own up to and correct its mistake and hes unhappy with 
the journey he has had with our service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id firstly like to explain to Mr A that in this decision I am only addressing the merits of Mr As 
complaint.
I think HSBC is entitled to limit balance transfers to a particular per-centage of the credit 
available on the card provided this was made clear to Mr A. Ive looked at the terms and 
conditions of Mr As credit card agreement and credit card summary and neither document 
states that balance transfers are restricted to 95% of the available credit card balance. That 
being the case I dont think Mr A could reasonably have been expected to know that any 
balance transfer would be limited to 95% of his available credit limit.
Our role is to resolve individual complaints between a consumer and a business. Should 
we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the business to put things right by 
placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position they would have been in had 
the problem not occurred.
Had Mr A been able to make the balance transfer as hed wanted the entire balance of 
£8,300 would have been interest free for 25 months. Mr A told us that he completed a 
balance transfer of the maximum amount permitted by HSBC and with regard to the small 
balance of around £200 that he wasnt able to transfer to his HSBC credit card Mr A told us 
he repaid this balance in cash.
HSBC has told us it cant reinstate for Mr A now a 25 month interest free period because a 
balance transfer that isnt linked to Mr As profile will automatically be rejected. HSBC 
confirmed that it could offer Mr A an interest free balance transfer on the terms known to the 
parties and detailed in correspondence. I can see that our investigator already explained to 
Mr A that if wished to accept this offer, Mr A would need to contact HSBC directly. Im not 
aware that he has done so.
Mr As loss here is the interest he could have earned on the small balance he was unable to 
transfer to his HSBC credit card during the 25 month interest free period had he not had to 
use this cash to repay his existing credit card provider.
Putting things right
HSBC has already made an offer to pay £150 compensation to settle this complaint. I think 
this is fair in the circumstances  and is more generous than I would have awarded had the 
complaint come to me without the business already having made an award. It follows that I 
think this compensates Mr A for the trouble and impact this has had on him and for any loss 
of interest on the small balance he was unable to transfer to his HSBC credit card.
my final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in the sense that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay 
the £150 compensation it has offered to pay to Mr A if it has not already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Michelle Hayward
Ombudsman