DRN-4061459
The complaint
Mr B complains about Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank, irresponsibly 
increasing his credit card limit.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on 7 March 2023, and this is what I said:
Ive considered the relevant information about this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, there will be a different outcome to what our investigator
proposed.
Before I issue my final decision, I wanted to give everyone a chance to reply.
Ill look at any more comments and evidence that I get by 21 March 2023. But unless the
information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be along the following lines.
The complaint
Mr B complains about Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank, irresponsibly
increasing his credit card limit.
What happened
Mr B opened a credit card account with Tesco Bank in 2016 with a credit limit of £4700 and
this was increased to £6700 in June 2017.
Then, in 2020, for a short period between July and November, Tesco Bank temporarily
increased the limit by £610. Tesco Bank say this was to support certain customers after
giving them Covid-19 support.
Mr B maintained payments on the account until late 2020 but arrears subsequently built up,
leading to the account being defaulted and then terminated.
Mr B complained to Tesco Bank about the credit card limit increases which he believes are
irresponsible lending. He explains that he had for a long time only been making minimum
payments on this credit card and was using a very high level of his credit limit and Tesco
Bank shouldve known he was struggling with his finances.
Tesco Bank dont agree. They said that before any of the credit limit increases, including the
one in 2020, they completed a review of all available information. They added that they had
written to Mr B giving him the opportunity to decline the increase.
Mr B complained to our service about the 2020 credit limit increase, and he wants Tesco
Bank to accept they didn't conduct due diligence checks and to refund the interest paid and
close his account balance to zero.
Our investigator didnt think the temporary credit limit increase in 2020 was fair but as Tesco
Bank dont agree, this complaint has been referred to me to look at.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to a different view to the investigator, and I will explain how
Ive come to my decision.
I first looked at Tesco Banks decisions to offer and increase credit to Mr B in 2016 and 2017
and, from reviewing the information and evidence on file, Im satisfied that the checks and
the lending decisions were fair and reasonable.
Mr B says that prior to the 2020 £610 increase, Tesco Bank shouldve reduced his limit or
closed his account. This is because he took out a secured loan to pay off credit card debts
and a loan and was only making minimum payments. So, I considered what Tesco did to
look at the affordability of this lending for Mr B and whether it was otherwise responsible to
increase his limit at this time.
Although Mr B was making his minimum payments, there is evidence that Tesco Bank were
aware that Mr B required financial support as, prior to temporarily increasing his credit limit in
2020, they approved his application for a Covid-19 payment break. Also, they put Mr B on an
interest free repayment plan retrospectively refunding incurred interest.
Tesco Bank have explained that the £610 limit increase was an additional short-term support
option which they offered to help their customers, including Mr B, whilst they were spending
but not making payments.
There is information on file that this was due to Covid-19 and Financial Conduct Authority
(FCA) guidance. Tesco Banks rationale was to put in place interim credit card limit
increases to ensure customers were not overlimit when payment breaks concluded, and they
didnt experience a spike in their minimum payment when the arrangements concluded. I
found that Tesco Bank wrote to Mr B giving him the opportunity to decline this temporary
support measure. I think this was a fair and reasonable additional support offer and I cant
see that Mr B responded to Tesco Banks letter.
However, despite this and Mr B not being over his credit limit, Tesco Bank say that they did
perform some checks before approving this limit. So, I looked at what this entailed and
whether they shouldve made requests to further check affordability.
Tesco Bank completed checks with Credit Reference Agencies which Im satisfied didnt
show any adverse risk information. But although I dont have information on the internal
review they said they carried out, I think it more likely than not that when they made their
lending decision, they didnt have information on Mr Bs current expenditure.
So, I then considered whether an evaluation of current income and expenditure information
wouldve led to a different decision, and Im not persuaded it wouldve. This is because at the
time of the decision, Mr Bs comprehensive list shows some disposable income. Although its
not considerable and Mr B subsequently had difficulties making minimum payments which
led to a default, it wouldve been enough to demonstrate that this short-term lending to assist
him was affordable. So, when balancing this with the fact this was further short-term support
following a refund of interest and communications around this, Im not persuaded that Tesco
Bank have acted unreasonably or unfairly here.
So, whilst I appreciate Mr B will be disappointed, when considering the above Im not
upholding this complaint.My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, it's my provisional decision not to uphold this complaint.
Ill look at anything else anyone wants to give me  so long as I get it before 21 March 2023.
Unless that information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be as Ive set out
above.
Mr B was disappointed that the provisional was different to the investigators view and set 
out his reasons for disagreeing with it. He also provided supporting financial and credit report 
information and requested reconsideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by thanking Mr B for his detailed response. Also, I would like to point out that whilst I 
have empathy for Mr Bs situation, my role here is to be impartial  that is, to be objective 
and to be fair to both parties. 
Regarding Mr Bs surprise that my provisional decision differed to our investigators view, Id 
also like to point out that Tesco Bank submitted additional information prior to my review.
This included information on support they provided in the form of a Covid-19 payment break 
and an interest free repayment plan for which they retrospectively refunded incurred interest.
Also, as detailed in my provisional decision, Tesco Bank explained how the £610 limit 
increase was temporary and additional short-term support for which Mr B had an opportunity 
to decline.
I further considered and again balanced this with all the information on file including Mr Bs 
explanations, credit, income and expenditure figures and, whilst I appreciate Mr B will be 
disappointed, Im not persuaded that Tesco Banks temporary credit increase decision was 
either unfair or unreasonable.   
So, having considered everything again, although I empathise with Mr Bs difficult situation, I 
Im not asking Tesco Bank to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman