DRN-3741297
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Quilter Life & Pensions Limited caused delays when she was 
transferring her personal pension to it, and she lost out because the funds were invested at a 
later date than they should have been.
What happened
Mrs Gs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She sent her assessment of 
the complaint to both parties in September 2022. The background and circumstances to the 
complaint were set out in that assessment. I wont repeat them all again here as they are - 
largely - not in dispute. However in summary, I think the key points are that Mrs Gs original 
pension provider, which I will refer to as Provider A, wrote to Mrs G on 1 April 2021 saying it 
had received her application to transfer but required further paperwork. It explained Mrs G 
could download a form from the self-serve part of its website and this would need to be 
completed and returned by Quilter.
Mrs G e-mailed this letter from Provider A to Quilter on 7 July 2021.  Quilter posted a self-
serve top up application to Mrs G on 28 July 2021. Mrs G returned the completed application 
to Quilter on 2 August 2021.
Quilter contacted Mrs G about her application on 30 September 2021 saying two bits of 
information werent included within the completed form.  Mrs G responded the following day, 
however she didnt provide one part of the information requested - the ceding scheme 
reference.
Quilter forwarded most of the necessary information to Provider A on 1 November 2021, but 
not a pension declaration form that Provider A had said it required (in the letter Mrs G had 
forwarded onto Quilter). Provider A noted this in return correspondence sent on 5 November 
2021. And chased this outstanding form again on 23 November 2021. 
Following some further correspondence, the outstanding form was completed and provided 
to Provider A on 29 November 2021. Provider A disinvested the funds and these were 
received by Quilter on around 13 December 2021.
When Mrs G complained to Quilter it upheld her complaint and offered her a total of £300 in 
respect of the distress and inconvenience caused. It also completed a loss assessment on 
the basis that but for any delays it was responsible for, the transfer could have gone ahead 
on 9 September 2021. The assessment showed Mrs G hadnt suffered a financial loss.
Our investigator thought that the transfer could have been completed at an earlier date.
She said firstly that she didnt think the evidence suggested that Quilter had caused any 
delays before receiving Mrs Gs transfer request in July 2021. She said Mrs Gs 
correspondence to Quilter on 7 July 2021 contained a copy of the letter from Provider A 
requesting the secondary information from Quilter. The investigator said although Mrs G 
hadnt forwarded the form from Provider As website, it was accessible to any party. She said 
if Quilter couldnt download it directly it could have asked Mrs G to do so. However it didnt 
appear that had happened.
The investigator said following Mrs Gs 7 July 2021 request Quilter hadnt posted the 
application until 28 July 2021. She said she would have expected this to be completed within 
five working days. The investigator said the completed pack was received by Quilter on 2 
August 2021, three working days after sending it to Mrs G. And she didnt see any reason 
why Mrs G wouldnt have returned it equally promptly if it had been sent to her earlier. 
Quilter then didnt contact Mrs G until 30 September 2021 to confirm it had received her
transfer request. It said it required the transfer value and ceding schemes policy number.
The investigator thought Quilter should have reviewed the application within a few working 
days, identified what information was missing and contacted Mrs G about it.
The investigator said although Quilter had said Mrs G hadnt provided the transfer value she 
had included it in a different part of the form. And her understanding of the need for
the ceding scheme reference was to assist with the transfer, but it wasnt a requirement of
the ceding scheme, and so shouldnt have delayed the transfer.
The investigator said if Quilter hadnt seen that the transfer value was noted in a later part of 
the application it should have continued to request this from Mrs G. She noted that Mrs G 
had responded to the initial request the following day - albeit without sending the information 
specifically required. The investigator thought if Quilter had asked for the information again 
Mrs G would likely have responded promptly. But in any event, as the transfer eventually 
proceeded without this information it suggested it wasnt a key necessity; she noted Quilter 
hadnt asked Mrs G for it again. 
The investigator said Quilter had been alerted to the information that was required by 
Provider A in the correspondence Mrs G had sent to it on 7 July 2021:
evidence of registration by HMRC from the receiving scheme
receiving scheme policy or reference number
receiving scheme payment details
the personal pension declaration form (downloaded from Provider As website)
However it hadnt forwarded most of this until 1 November 2021. She said Provider A had 
then alerted it within four working days that the pension declaration form remained 
outstanding. And again on 23 November 2021. Quilter issued the required outstanding form 
on 29 November 2021.
The investigator said in deciding on when the transfer should reasonably have been 
completed she had considered the best practice issued by the Transfer and Re-
registration Industry Group (TRIG) in 2018. This provided end-to-end good practice standard 
timescales for differing types of transfer. 
The investigator said Quilter was notified of Mrs Gs intention to transfer on 7 July 2021.
She said Quilter could have sent Mrs G the top-up application by 14 July 2021, and had it 
then been received three working days later (as it was), this would have been 19 July 2021. 
She thought Quilter could have sent Provider A the information it had specified in the letter of 
7 July 2021 within five working days. And mirroring the actual timescales taken; the time 
taken for Provider A to send the funds to Quilter (8 working days), and for Quilter to receive 
and invest the funds (2 working days), she thought Quilter could reasonably have been in 
receipt of the transferred funds from 28 July 2021.
The investigator said shed thought about whether Mrs G should have downloaded Provider 
As form herself and provided this to Quilter. The investigator said she had followed the 
instructions given by Provider A herself, and it had taken only a few minutes. She also noted that when reminded for the second time Quilter had downloaded and completed it. So she 
didnt think it was overly burdensome. She thought Quilter could have sent it to Provider A in 
the first instance, alongside the scheme registration, reference and payment details.
Quilter accepted that it was responsible for some of the delays. But it didnt agree with all 
what the investigator said. It said, in summary, that Mrs G didnt provide either the ceding 
schemes policy number or the transfer value on the application form. It said Mrs G had 
confirmed a value of £14,454 in section 5 of the transfer form. But this related to any residual 
cash if assets were being transferred in-specie/re-registered, which in this instance they 
were not. 
It said the ceding schemes reference number was always requested otherwise there was a 
higher probability that a transfer would either be rejected or delayed. It was therefore 
necessary to ask for this information and it was also stipulated on the form, which Mrs G 
hadnt completed in full. It said the e-mail it subsequently received from Mrs G confirmed the 
ceding schemes account number. It didnt confirm the cash value, but it proceeded having 
the ceding schemes account number anyway.
Quilter said it hadnt downloaded the forms  Provider A had e-mailed it copies. It said it 
wasnt Quilters responsibility to download any further forms that might be required  it was 
Mrs Gs responsibility to provide all the necessary information to transfer her pension,. The 
letter it received on 7 July 2021 was addressed to Mrs G and not Quilter, and it outlined the 
requirements for Mrs G to complete.
Quilter said it forwarded all the relevant documents that it was in possession of on 1 
November 2021. It didnt agree it had forwarded most of the required information. Provider A 
provided copies of the forms it needed completing on 5 November 2021. These documents 
had not been presented to Quilter previously for completion. Provider A chased for this 
information on 23 November 2021 and it posted the completed forms on 26 November 2021 
(not 29 November 2021).
Quilter said it received the transfer money on 9 December 2021. And Provider A e-mailed
the benefit letter to it at 6:10pm on 10 December 2021, after close of business. It couldnt  
invest the money without this letter. So its requirements were fulfilled on 13 December 2022. 
Quilter also said as Mrs G had already accepted its offer of £300.00 it didnt think it should 
offer a further £200.00.
The investigator responded to say that when first forwarding Provider As letter to Quilter on 
7 July 2021 Mrs G had confirmed the current value of the fund to be moved. And the figure 
matched the figure she had provided, albeit in the incorrect section of the transfer form.
The investigator said she didnt think it was unreasonable for Quilter to request the ceding 
scheme reference number. But that it hadnt done so for almost two months. She thought 
this should have been identified and communicated much earlier. 
The investigator said she didnt think the letter from Provider A was in any way ambiguous 
about the information it required and from whom. It was addressed to Mrs G, but she had 
forwarded it to Quilter with her e-mail which said I would like to transfer my pension, see 
letter attached, from [Provider A] current value as at 07/07/2021 £14,454.63 to Quilter 
The attached letter said Please arrange for the following forms to be completed and 
returned to us by the receiving scheme. The letter went on to specify what was required; 
including the personal pension declaration form.
The investigator said although the personal pension declaration form wasnt included, the letter explained how to obtain it. The investigator said this took a matter of minutes. But that 
even if Quilter wasnt prepared to download it itself, it should have told Mrs G that she 
needed to do this. 
The investigator acknowledged that Quilter was correct to say a subsequent e-mail from 
Provider A had attached copies of the declaration relevant form. But she said it still remained 
that Quilter hadnt asked Mrs G to provide the declaration form between 7 July 2021 and 
issuing the rest of the information on 1 November 2021, almost 4 months later. She said Mrs 
G had already forwarded the letter from Provider A setting out its requirements so wouldnt 
have known that she needed to download and supply this form when returning Quilters form 
on 2 August 2021. The letter specifically noted for the forms to be completed and returned 
by the receiving scheme.
The investigator said although she didnt think it would have been unreasonable for Quilter to 
download the necessary form following the 7 July 2021 e-mail, if it wasnt going to do so she 
thought it should have told Mrs G. Had it done so Mrs G would have responded with the 
relevant form by 19 July 2021, based on her response time. Quilter could then reasonably 
have completed and sent this to Provider A within five working days or by 26 July 2021 at 
the latest.
The investigator said by applying Provider As timescales and acknowledging Quilters 
comments about the benefit letter, she thought Quilter could reasonably have been in receipt 
of the transferred funds and benefit letter by 9 August 2021, and these should then have 
been invested within two working days. Therefore she thought the transfer should have been 
completed by 11 August 2021, and that Quilter should carry out a comparison of the relative 
positions at that date to calculate if compensation was due. 
Quilter responded to say that it didnt agree with the date that the investigator had said the 
transfer could have been completed by. It said, in summary, that it was Mrs Gs responsibility 
to download the forms and forward them to Quilter. The fact that Mrs G didnt do this didnt 
prevent the transfer from going ahead. Provider A confirmed its requirements to Quilter in a 
timely manner once it received the transfer instruction from Quilter. It said Provider As letter 
was addressed to Mrs G, not Quilter. Provider A had clearly informed Mrs G what it needed 
and it wasnt Quilters responsibility to inform Mrs G of Provider As requirements.
Quilter said Mrs G chose to complete the transfer on a self-serve basis and therefore she 
was responsible. It said it was reasonable for a ceding scheme (Provider A) to confirm any 
additional requirements to the receiving scheme (Quilter) once the transfer was initiated, as 
it did. It said the application form and Transfer Authority form were signed and dated by Mrs 
G. It said she had therefore agreed to its terms, which included that Quilter didnt accept any 
liability for any losses arising from the misunderstanding of the information provided or 
omissions therein; and Quilter would only contact the transferring pension provider once all 
relevant information was received in respect of the transfer, including any additional 
documents required.
Quilter provided an alternative timeline of events assuming there had been no delays. It said 
based on this timeline it thought the funds would have been invested on 1 September 2021 
and a comparison should be completed on that basis.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so Ive come to the same overall conclusions as the investigator about the 
merits of the complaint, and for the same reasons. However Ive come to a different 
conclusion about any further payment for distress and inconvenience. 
Quilter acknowledged from the off that it was responsible for some delays. Whats not yet 
agreed is the length of the delays and therefore by what date the transfer ought reasonably 
to have been completed by. 
For the reasons set out by the investigator, I think it would have been reasonable for Quilter 
to have competed the transfer by 11 August 2021. The alternative timeline provided by 
Quilter is not significantly different to the investigators findings, and differs largely due to 
Quilters view on the provision of the pension declaration form. 
As the investigator said, when Mrs G forwarded her e-mail to Quilter she said she wanted to 
transfer her pension and specifically referred to the letter attached from Provider A. This 
asked her to arrange for certain forms to be completed and returned to it by the receiving 
scheme. Whilst I accept it was Mrs Gs responsibility to provide all the necessary information 
to transfer her pension, I think it was reasonable for her to understand that her e-mail alerted 
Quilter to the receiving schemes requirements and the matter was in hand. Quilter has said 
Provider A confirmed its requirements to Quilter in a timely manner once it received the 
transfer instruction from Quilter. But Mrs G had already alerted Quilter to Provider As 
requirements in the 7 July 2021 e-mail. 
In my view if Quilter expected Mrs G to do something more about those forms it ought 
reasonably to have alerted her following receipt of her 7 July 2021 e-mail. And given Mrs Gs 
normal response times I think its likely she would have acted on the matter promptly and 
obtained a copy of the declaration form and forwarded it to Quilter within a few days. So I 
think the pension declaration form would have been sent along with the other documentation 
and so there wouldnt have been the further delay.
Quilter has referred to Mrs G agreeing to the terms in the application and Transfer Authority 
forms that she signed. I dont think the particular clauses referred to are material to the 
circumstances of the case. However in any event, I dont think Quilter can exclude or restrict 
its regulatory duties or liabilities  it acknowledged itself that it was responsible for at least 
some of the delays.
However I do agree with Quilter about the distress and inconvenience payment. Mrs G 
accepted the £300 and she subsequently said she accepted that payment for the 
inconvenience caused. Mrs G has said she thinks an award is appropriate given the length 
of time the transfer took and that the communication wasnt clear at any stage. I accept that  
Mrs G did suffer a degree of distress and inconvenience caused by Quilters delays. But 
Quilter accepted and addressed that, and I dont think Quilter needs to make an additional 
payment over and above that £300 that was accepted by Mrs G.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Gs complaint. 
I order Quilter Life & Pensions Limited to calculate and pay compensation to Mrs G on the 
following basis:
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mrs G as close as possible 
to the position she would probably now be in had it not been for the unnecessary delays.To compensate Mrs G fairly Quilter Life & Pensions Limited should compare the actual value 
of Mrs Gs pension at the date of this decision with what it would have been worth at the 
same date assuming the transfer value had been transferred to Quilter and subsequently 
invested on 11 August 2021.
If its value assuming the transfer had completed on 11 August 2021 is higher than its actual 
value there is a loss. 
If there is a loss, Quilter Life & Pensions Limited should pay such an amount into Mrs 
G's pension plan to increase its value by the amount of the compensation. The  
payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Quilter 
shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance.
If Quilter is unable to pay the compensation into Mrs G's pension plan it should pay 
that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mrs G wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid. 
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs G's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age. Its reasonable to assume that 
Mrs G is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the 
reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mrs G would have been able to take a tax 
free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, 
resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Quilter should provide details of the calculation to Mrs G in a clear, simple format.
Quilter Life & Pensions Limited should also pay Mrs G £300 in total for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the matter  if it hasnt already done so).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2023. 
David Ashley
Ombudsman