DRN-3137560
The complaint
Mr A complains about the way Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) has settled a claim he made 
for damage to his home in 2019.
What happened
Mr A made several claims for theft and storm damage to his home. In particular he claimed 
for storm damage in late 2014/early 2015, which caused water to get into his home and 
damage internal surfaces.
Aviva agreed to cash settle that claim.
In 2019 Mr A made another claim for storm damage. When Aviva got a surveyor to look at 
the damage he thought most of it was long standing and not the result of a recent storm. 
Aviva paid Mr A £1,000 to settle the claim  it says to cover any possible additional damage 
that might post-date Mr As 2015 settlement.
Mr A objected, so Aviva asked him to prove hed had the work it paid for in 2015 done. Mr S 
provided some photos but Aviva said they didnt prove what had been done. Mr S brought 
his complaint to us.
One of my colleagues issued a decision in January 2021 that said he couldnt ask Aviva to 
pay Mr A more than it already had, based on the photos provided. Whilst he didnt doubt that 
some work had been done, there was no way of saying whether all the work Aviva paid for in 
2015 had been completed. He said hed expect Aviva to reconsider its position if Mr A 
provided new evidence that showed he had completed all the work.
Mr A subsequently sent in some invoices for materials he purchased in 2015. Aviva said that 
still didnt show what work had actually been completed. Mr A said he couldnt provide 
information about the actual work because he paid cash in hand at the time  and the 
contractors wouldnt provide any detail of what theyd done.
Mr A complained again but Aviva hasnt increased its offer.
When he asked us to review this new complaint, our investigator explained he could only 
look at new evidence that had been provided since our decision in January 2021  which 
was the invoices for materials. He concluded that these invoices didnt persuade him he 
should ask Aviva to do more than it already had, as he agreed that  although they showed 
Mr A had bought materials in 2015  they didnt prove what work had been done.
Mr A responded to say that the insurer had been looking at the wrong photos when it initially 
refused to increase the offer it made in 2019 and sent some more in. Our investigator 
thought these were in the main photos similar to those that had already been reviewed in our 
decision from 2019, and if any were new then Mr A had had plenty of time to submit them for 
consideration before that decision was issued. He said he couldnt take them into account 
now.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
First I must explain that I cant look at any evidence that has already formed part of another 
ombudsmans decision. Thats because a final decision from this service is our final input 
into a complaint, and is based on all the evidence made available to us at the time. 
My colleague explained in his 2019 decision why he thought it fair for Aviva to request proof 
that work it had paid for in 2015 had been carried out, before paying more to settle the 2019 
claim than it already had. I cannot reconsider this.
Im satisfied the latest photos Mr A sent in show us no new information as they are similar to 
ones considered by my colleague (and Aviva) in 2019. So the only new evidence Ive seen is 
the invoices from 2015. I have looked carefully at them, and I agree they show he bought 
materials. Unfortunately they dont show the extent of the work that was carried out with the 
settlement Mr A got in 2015. 
I understand Mr A says he cant get more information on the actual work carried out by 
builders because he paid for it in cash. I do understand that this sort of arrangement is 
common. But without a contract of works or written confirmation from the builders of what 
work they did, its very difficult to show whats been done  or indeed get any issues sorted 
out if they should arise. 
Without that information I cant say Aviva is unfairly refusing to pay him any more to settle 
his claim than it already has.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman