DRN-4147299
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Birmingham Midshires (BM), 
has refused to honour a fixed interest rate it told them they had for the lifetime of their 
mortgages with it.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W have two buy-to-let mortgages with BM. Both were on a fixed interest rate 
product which was due to end on 31 January 2023, after which the interest rate would be a 
variable one of 4.34% above Bank of England base rate for the rest of the term. 
In late 2022, Mr and Mrs W spoke with their broker about getting a new interest rate product, 
to take effect in February 2023. Both mortgages had less than two years left on their terms, 
so Mr and Mrs Ws broker told them they would need to contact BM directly to extend the 
terms; the broker would then recommend a new interest rate product and apply for it on Mr 
and Mrs Ws behalf.
On 1 November 2022, Mr and Mrs W phoned BM in order to extend the mortgage terms. BM 
agreed to the extensions. Its representative also told Mr and Mrs W that both mortgages 
were on a fixed tracker rate, which she explained was a fixed interest rate of 1.85% for the 
lifetime of the mortgages. 
On 9 November, Mrs W phoned to check the term extension had been completed, and also 
to query the rate she had been quoted the week before, on the 1 November call. BMs 
representative confirmed the term extensions, but also said that while the mortgages were 
on a fixed rate of 1.85%, that rate was due to end on 31 January 2023. It couldnt offer a new 
interest rate product direct, and said Mr and Mrs W would need to go through their broker for 
a new product. 
Mr and Mrs W complained. They wanted BM to honour the rate it had told them they could 
have on their 1 November phone call.
In January 2023, on their brokers recommendation, Mr and Mrs W went ahead with a two-
year fixed rate of 4.76% on both mortgages with effect from February 2023. They said they 
felt they had no choice but to take the new rate but it has resulted in a significant increase to 
their monthly payments, which they are finding difficult to manage.  
BM said it had given Mr and Mrs W the wrong information on 1 November: they werent on a 
lifetime rate of 1.85%; it was a fixed rate ending on 31 January 2023. BM apologised and 
paid Mr and Mrs W £200 compensation. 
Mr and Mrs W werent happy with that and referred their complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Our Investigator said she couldnt fairly recommend that BM honour a 
rate it didnt have available. She concluded that it had done enough to put things right. 
Mr and Mrs W didnt accept that conclusion and asked for a review. They still thought that 
BM should be required to honour the rate, and said they would also be taking legal advice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As part of my review, Ive listened to a recording of Mr and Mrs Ws phone call with BM of 1 
November 2022. Ive also considered Mr and Mrs Ws email of 23 May 2023 and the 
attachment. Having done so, while I realise Mr and Mrs W will be very disappointed, Ive 
come to the same conclusion as our Investigator, for the same reasons.
In 2020, Mr and Mrs W had taken a fixed rate product of 1.85% until 31 January 2023 on 
both their BM mortgages. Ive seen copies of the mortgage offers setting out the terms of 
those arrangements. Im satisfied that the offer letters are clear that the rate was fixed for a 
set period of time. Mr and Mrs W must also have understood that, since they were looking to 
arrange a new interest rate product a few months before their 1.85% rate was due to expire. 
After January 2023, the rate would be a variable rate of 4.34% above Bank of England base 
rate for the rest of the term. That was also clear in the offer documents. 
Im satisfied that a fixed rate product of 1.85% for the remainder of the mortgage term isnt 
something BM was offering in November 2022  so it was never open for Mr and Mrs W to 
accept. Its also not the product which Mr and Mrs W already had when they phoned BM.
BM accepts that it made a mistake. It told Mr and Mrs W on the 1 November phone call that 
their mortgages were on an interest rate product which in fact they werent, and which BM 
didnt have available. This was a misrepresentation.
The usual remedy for misrepresentation isnt for the complainant to be put in the position 
they would have been in if the misrepresentation were true. Its for the complainant to be put 
in the position they would have been in if things had been explained correctly. Here, this 
means Mr and Mrs W arent entitled to the rate BM told them they had on 1 November 2022. 
Instead, I must consider what Mr and Mrs W would have done differently, had they been 
given the right information. I think Mr and Mrs W may well have decided to go ahead and 
arrange a new fixed interest rate product in early November 2022 had BM not misled them. 
So Ive looked at the fixed rate products BM was offering at that time. The rates were 
significantly higher than the fixed interest rate Mr and Mrs W later went ahead with in 
January 2023. I cant therefore fairly conclude that they missed out on a better deal as a 
result of what happened. 
Mr and Mrs W say that BM not only offered them a lifetime interest rate on the phone; it 
confirmed that arrangement in writing and this represents an offer by which BM is bound. 
However, the 10 and 21 November 2022 letters confirming the term extensions didnt 
confirm the mortgages would be subject to a fixed interest rate for their remaining terms. 
Rather, they said Your mortgage product and interest rate remain unchanged. This means 
that the extended terms would continue on the same rates set out in the 2020 offer: a fixed 
rate until 31 January 2023 followed by a variable rate.
Mrs W spoke to BM again on 9 November, and this time it gave her the right information: the 
1.85% fixed rate wasnt for the remaining terms of the mortgages; it would end on 31 
January 2023. So Mr and Mrs W were only under the misapprehension that they had a 
lifetime interest rate product for a short time  just over a week.I think its clear that Mr and Mrs W suffered some disappointment and loss of expectation. 
However, in all the circumstances, I consider that BMs apology and payment of £200 
compensation is a fair and reasonable settlement in recognition of that. 
I note that Mr and Mrs W have been finding it difficult to maintain the higher monthly 
mortgage payments on the 4.76% interest rate product. They should keep BM informed of 
their circumstances, and BM has an obligation to treat them fairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that BM has already paid fair compensation, so I make no order or 
award.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman