DRN-2562325
The complaint
Mr C has complained that, under his home emergency policy, Homeserve Membership 
Limited (Homeserve) fitted a part that didnt comply with regulatory standards.
What happened
Mr C had a new central heating pump fitted by Homeserve under his home emergency 
policy. After it was fitted, Mr C complained to Homeserve because he said the pump was 
noisy and didnt meet the standard required by energy efficiency regulations. Homeserve 
didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had fitted a standard part and that all of its parts 
complied with current standards.
Mr C was dissatisfied with the response, so he continued to look into the issue and to raise 
his concerns with Homeserve. Following this, Homeserve accepted that it had fitted a pump 
that didnt meet the regulations. Homeserve offered to a fit a new compliant part or said Mr C 
could source it himself and would be reimbursed. It also offered £200 compensation.
Mr C complained to this service. Our investigator agreed there had been issues with 
Homeserve accepting there was an issue with the pump. However, some of the issues were 
outside of the remit of this service. In terms of the aspects we could consider, he said 
Homeserve had appropriately resolved the complaint by fitting a new pump and offering 
£200 compensation. 
As Mr C did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service doesnt regulate businesses. That is the role of the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority. Our role is to deal with individual complaints made by consumers about 
how theyve been treated by a business. So, Ive looked at Mr Cs complaint in that context.
As a result of Mr C explaining to Homeserve it had fitted a pump that didnt meet regulations, 
it agreed to fit a new one. In the circumstances, I think Homeserve offered a reasonable 
resolution to the issue with the pump itself.
However, Im aware Mr C seems to have put in significant effort before Homeserve accepted 
there was an issue with the pump. So, Ive thought about this as well and whether the 
amount of compensation offered by Homeserve was appropriate. 
Ive read what Mr C said to Homeserve, along with his assessment of the amount of time he 
spent researching the issues with the pump and explaining his concerns to Homeserve. 
Some of those issues were to do with Mr C specifically and some were wider issues, such as 
concerns for the environment and the potential impact on other customers. Im aware that Mr 
C also had to take time off work to have the replacement pump fitted.
I can understand Mr Cs strongly held views and why he felt the need to persevere with his 
complaint, despite Homeserve initially assuring him that the pump was compliant with 
regulations. As part of that, Im aware that sometimes Mr Cs concerns were focussed on the 
wider issues. However, the wider issues he raised with Homeserve are outside of the remit 
of this service to consider or to award compensation for.
In the circumstances of this case, it isnt necessarily straightforward to separate the issues 
related to resolving the issues with the specific pump Homeserve fitted for Mr C from the 
wider principles he was concerned about. However, in my view, I think Homeserves offer of 
£200 compensation was reasonable in response to the issues that Im able to consider and 
appropriately recognised the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr C in order to get a 
compliant pump fitted. Its also in line with what I would have said in the circumstances had 
Homeserve not offered compensation. As a result, I dont require Homeserve to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I dont require Homeserve Membership Limited to do anything 
further in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman