DRN-3180925
The complaint
Mr C complains about National House-Building Councils (NHBC) handling of a claim on a 
building warranty.
What happened
Mr C owns a property which has a warranty provided by NHBC. Due to issues with the 
property, Mr C contacted NHBC with a view to repairs being effected under the warranty. 
Matters relating to that have previously been the subject of a complaint to our service.
Mr C referred a further complaint to our service. He was unhappy with an ongoing ingress of 
water at the property, the condition of walls in the kitchen after repairs were carried out, 
drainage and that NHBC had declined to pay the cost hed incurred in obtaining a surveyors 
report.
NHBC had rejected his complaint. Our investigator didnt think NHBC had done anything 
wrong. Mr C accepted our investigators conclusions regarding the water ingress and 
drainage matters but thought that the matters relating to the kitchen walls and report costs 
should be covered by NHBC. Hes asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The two outstanding matters which I need to decide are the need for further works to the 
kitchen walls and the costs of the surveyors report. These are separate matters so Ill outline 
my findings on these points individually.
Further works to the kitchen
During the initial repairs, works were carried out to the kitchen. Mr C says that these works 
werent in accordance with NHBCs standards He says that after the works were completed, 
the areas behind and inside kitchen cupboards didnt have a consistent finish compared to 
the rest of the kitchen. 
The standards in question say that surfaces should be reasonably uniform, although there 
may be minor textural differences around lights and other fittings and surfaces should be 
reasonably smooth and free from nail holes, cracks and splits. Open joints should be filled. 
Colour, texture and finish should be reasonably uniform.
The area in dispute is behind and underneath fitted cupboards in the kitchen area. Works 
were carried out to this area as part of repairs relating to insulation at the property. Based on 
photos of this area, I think its fair to say that the finish is different to the rest of the kitchen. 
But Im not satisfied that this is a breach of NHBCs standards. 
It seems to me that the intention of the standards Ive referred to is to ensure that normally 
visible areas of the property have a reasonably uniform appearance. I dont think its 
reasonable to expect that areas which arent normally visible have the same appearance. I 
also think that a layperson wouldnt expect areas behind cupboards to have the same finish 
in terms of plastering and painting as the rest of the kitchen. 
Mr C also refers to skirting being missing from these areas of the kitchen, and says that this 
is similarly a breach of the standards requiring a uniform appearance. Im satisfied that 
where the need for skirting to be uniform is referenced in the standards that this applies to 
areas where skirting is fitted, or would reasonably be expected to be fitted. I dont think it 
means that all areas of the property need to have skirting fitted. I dont think that its to be 
expected that areas behind fitted cupboards have skirting.
I dont think NHBC is liable for any further works to the kitchen.
Report costs
Mr C obtained a report from a surveyor on the condition of the property during his 
correspondence with NHBC during the original claim. Hes asked for NHBC to pay the costs 
he incurred in obtaining the report, but NHBC has declined to do so.
In declining to pay these costs, NHBC referred to a condition of the warranty which says it 
wont pay The cost of taking professional advice in connection with your claim (except for 
legal costs payable under our guarantee in Section 2 if you take legal action against the 
builder). 
Mr C says that it was only after this report was provided to NHBC that it took action to initiate 
repairs to the property. But it seems to be agreed that the report itself didnt highlight or 
establish any new issues which NHBC hadnt already been informed of. I cant see that 
NHBCs actions in resolving the issues were affected by the contents of the report, and so I 
dont think its fair for me to conclude that theres a link between NHBCs actions, or 
liabilities, and the report. 
If the report had highlighted issues which NHBC was unaware of then I may have concluded 
differently. But I think the condition in the warranty is clear that NHBC wont cover costs such 
as those incurred by Mr C for the surveyors report and so I dont think its reasonable to ask 
NHBC to pay these costs.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman