DRN-2981490
The complaint
Mr Y complains about problems updating his telephone number with TSB Bank plc.  
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. In my provisional decision I said: 
In June 2020 Mr Y tried to log into his online banking but was advised he needed a 
passcode to access it which had to be sent to his mobile phone. Mr Y said his mobile 
phone number was out of date so called TSB to update it. After a long wait to speak with 
someone, Mr Y says he was told he needed to update his number in branch but pointed 
out he lives in Northern Ireland where there is no branch network. Mr Y says that his call 
was then ended by TSB. No one tried to call Mr Y back.
Mr Y complained and spoke with TSB. But during his call, TSB says Mr Y failed to answer 
all the security questions properly so the complaint handler couldnt amend his number. 
TSBs final response said Mr Y could send a selfie of him holding his passport which could 
be used to amend his number. TSB also apologised Mr Ys call was cut off without being 
called back and paid him £6 to cover his call costs.
Mr Y has explained his account was locked at this point. Mr Y says he later spoke with 
another person at TSB who was able to unlock his account and amend his phone number.
Mr Y referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought TSB had dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr Y 
asked to appeal and said he had been left without access to his account during a 
particularly difficult time. Mr Y says after making several attempts to contact TSB his call 
was cut off without resolution. Mr Y also said the options TSB gave him were unsuitable 
because he lives in Northern Ireland and doesnt have a passport.
Mr Y has explained that over a month later, he called and spoke with a call handler who 
was able to amend his details. Mr Y asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached a different view to the investigator as I think TSB couldve done more to help 
Mr Y resolve the situation. Mr Y has explained he was able to speak with someone after 
several attempts and a lengthy wait on hold. After being on the phone for over an hour, Mr 
Y says he was told to visit a branch but advised none were available in Northern Ireland. 
Mr Y says the call was then cut off without any sort of resolution. Given the nature of Mr 
Ys call and length of time it took for him to get through, I can see no reason why TSB 
didnt try to call him back. I can see TSB paid Mr Y £6 to cover his call costs but Im not 
persuaded that reflects the way his call was handled.
Mr Y made a complaint and spoke with the complaint handler. They say Mr Y failed security 
questions which meant his number couldnt be updated. As a result, TSBs final response 
advised Mr Y could send a selfie with his passport but he didnt have one. I can see Mr Y 
emailed TSB back after he got the final response to explain why the solution didnt work for 
him, but nothing further was done to assist him.
Mr Y spoke with TSB again around 10 days later as he hadnt heard anything. The notes 
show Mr Y was told a request for a call back would be made, but none was received.
It was only after Mr Y called TSB again and spoke with someone else that his number was 
amended and online banking reinstated. TSB has suggested Mr Y answered the security 
questions correctly which meant his number could be updated. But TSB hasnt sent us a 
call recording or phone note to verify what happened. In addition, I note the options set out 
in the final response didnt include any reference to Mr Y calling back and attempting to 
pass security again. As its clear that was an option, I think TSB couldve resolved the 
situation sooner if it had told Mr Y he could call back to attempt the security questions 
again.
Im pleased Mr Y was able to resolve the situation and update his number. I agree with him 
that the information he was given was unclear and can understand why hes upset he 
wasnt called back after his call ended unexpectedly. I agree TSB couldve done more to 
help Mr Y resolve the situation at an earlier stage and can see the way it handled his 
enquiries caused an unreasonable level of trouble and upset. As a result, I intend to uphold 
Mr Ys complaint and direct TSB to pay him a further £150. In my view that figure more 
fairly reflect the impact of the issues raised on Mr Y than the £6 costs TSB has paid to date.
I invited both parties to respond with any comments or information they wanted me to 
consider before I made my final decision. Mr Y responded and said he accepted the findings 
but felt the level of compensation wasnt sufficient. Mr Y pointed out he had been without 
access to his primary account for around a month. TSB responded and said it thought the 
level of compensation awarded is too high but felt an additional £50 was fair. TSB sent in 
statement evidence it says shows Mr Y wasnt impacted by the lack of an online banking 
facility.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB sent us a bank statement it says shows Mr Y wasnt impacted by the lack of an online 
banking facility as after it was reactivated he didnt complete any online transactions. But the 
bank statement TSB has sent is for the period June/July 2021 so doesnt show what 
happened during the period in question. 
Ive looked at statements covering the months preceding the block. Mr Y has told us this was 
his primary account. And I can see regular transactions, but no card payments or regular 
cash withdrawals. I can also see faster payments and transfers to other accounts in Mr Ys 
name. So I think its reasonable to say Mr Y likely had access to other banking options with 
different businesses. 
That being said, I disagree with TSBs point that Mr Y wasnt impacted as he didnt regularly use his online banking facility. I can see regular faster payments instructed by Mr Y in the 
preceding months and Im satisfied he was inconvenienced by the delay in reinstating his 
online banking access. For the same reasons I set out in my provisional decision, I also think 
TSB missed chances to resolve the situation sooner and failed to contact Mr Y as requested.  
Ive carefully considered everything Mr Y has told us about the impact of the issues raised 
on him. Ive also considered TSBs points and response to my provisional decision. I remain 
of the view that TSB shouldve been able to resolve the situation sooner for Mr Y, for broadly 
the same reasons. Im not persuaded that the £50 figure TSB has offered is a fair reflection 
of the service provided or what happened. I still think £150 is a fairly reflects the impact of 
the delays Mr Y experienced and the poor service he received. I can see Mr Y wasnt called 
back and I still think options to reactivate his online banking facility werent offered to him in 
good time. 
In line with my provisional decision, Im going to uphold Mr Ys complaint and tell TSB to pay 
him a further £150 for the trouble and upset caused.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct TSB Bank plc to pay Mr Y a further 
£150 for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman