The complaint
M is a limited company. It complains that poor service from Barclays Bank UK PLC in 
connection with a loan application caused it to miss out on funding  and the business that 
this wouldve generated.
One of the companys directors, Mr W, brings the complaint on Ms behalf.
What happened
Last year, M was looking to raise funds to support plans to expand. Having secured a loan 
offer elsewhere on 7 March 2019, Mr W approached his relationship manager (RM) at 
Barclays the same day to see if it could offer better terms. Following some initial exchanges, 
the RM set up an appointment with Mr W for 12 April 2019 to discuss the prospective 
application. But the RM didnt attend.
The RM subsequently apologised to Mr W for missing the meeting. And her manager 
contacted Mr W with a view to finding a way forward. But ultimately Mr W didnt go ahead 
with the application, and raised a complaint instead. He said the banks errors had left M 
without funding  causing it to miss out on new business.
Barclays accepted that the service fell below expectations, for which it offered M 
compensation of £100. But it said that no application had yet been made, and any 
application would always be subject to the banks approval. With no agreement in place, it 
thought it had been Mr Ws decision to let the alternative offer lapse  so it didnt accept any 
liability for the alleged loss of business.
Mr W remained unhappy and referred his concerns to us. He said hed only foregone the 
alternative offer on the basis of the banks assurances. So he still thought it should 
compensate M for the loss of the funding  and the business this caused it to miss out on.
Our investigator thought Barclays couldve done more to get things back on track after the 
appointment had been missed. So to compensate for this and the inconvenience M was put 
to as a result of the missed meeting, she recommended that Barclays increase the 
compensation to £250. But while accepting Mr Ws frustration, our investigator thought that it 
had ultimately been his decision not to pursue the application. Given this, and as there was 
no guarantee that the lending wouldve been approved, she didnt think Barclays needed to 
compensate M for any lost revenue.
Barclays accepted our investigators recommendation, but Mr W didnt. So the complaint 
was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
DRN-1572312reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The error on Barclays part was in the RM failing to attend the meeting scheduled for 12 April 
2019. While that would undoubtedly have been frustrating for Mr W  particularly as I 
understand this had happened on a previous occasion too  I dont think it caused M to miss 
out on its line of funding as he suggests. Rather, it delayed the progress of the application  
which was still in its very early stages  by a few days.
Barclays was in touch with Mr W on 16 and 17 April, keen to try to resolve things and find a 
way forward. It remained open to M to proceed with the loan application with Barclays. But 
from what Ive seen, Mr W decided not to  in favour of pursuing the matter as a complaint. 
I appreciate that the relatively short delay could still have been significant for M if it needed 
the funds by a particular deadline. Mr W hasnt replied to our questions about this. But from 
the evidence I have seen, there doesnt appear to have been a particular urgency on Mr Ws 
part. The RM made clear in her initial exchanges with Mr W that due to the banks security 
requirements and the related involvement of solicitors, completion would take weeks rather 
than days. This didnt seem to put Mr W off. Rather, Mr W replied to say that he wanted the 
best deal  which was more important than speed. I cant see that he put the bank on 
notice at any point that M needed the funds in place by a particular date.
Mr W says that were it not for the RMs involvement, he wouldve accepted the loan offer 
that he already had in place. But I cant see that Barclays ever gave Mr W any assurance 
that it would definitely be able to offer M a loan. While I can see that it was confident of 
having better deals available, this was always going to be subject to application  including 
the assessment of security. With the Barclays application at a very early stage, I think it was 
Mr Ws decision to forego the existing offer in the hope of obtaining a better deal with 
Barclays. As Ive explained above I think the possibility of such a deal with Barclays still 
existed  Mr W just decided not to follow it up.
And so taking all of this into account, I dont think I can fairly require Barclays to compensate 
M for any losses stemming from the loss of funding. It is, though, evident that there were 
shortcomings in how Barclays handled the application. Of course the missed appointment 
itself put M to some inconvenience, in preparing for a meeting that didnt go ahead. And Mr 
W had to chase things up afterwards, with the bank taking a few days to get back in touch 
with him. Its right that M is compensated for this. To that end I think the £250 that has 
already been proposed represents a fair way to put things right. 
My final decision
I uphold Ms complaint in part and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay it compensation of 
£250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2020.
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman