DRN-2384465
The complaint
Miss D complains about HDI Global Specialty SEs (HDI) handling of her legal expenses 
insurance claim. 
Where I refer to HDI, this includes their agents and claims handlers.
What happened
The detailed and lengthy background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill 
only provide an overview of some key events here. 
Miss D has the benefit of insurance for certain legal expenses which is provided by HDI and 
primarily relates to her being the landlady of a property. In 2019 Miss D contacted HDI to 
make a claim. She says her rental property had been left with an infestation of fleas by its 
outgoing tenant. Miss D wanted to take legal action in relation to the losses this had caused 
her. 
HDI passed Miss Ds claim to a panel solicitor which Ill refer to as S. S ultimately concluded 
that Miss Ds claim couldnt be said to have the required prospects of success (which was a 
requirement for cover under the policy) without an expert report that would confirm liability 
and quantum. Based on this cover was declined. Miss D has been unhappy with both the 
claim decision and the service shes received from the various parties involved. 
HDI maintained their position on the claim and said that they werent responsible for the level 
of service provided by S. The matter was referred to our service and one of our investigators 
didnt think it should be upheld. In summary she said she couldnt comment on the actions of 
S, but she didnt think HDIs decision on the claim was unfair. And whilst she acknowledged 
that perhaps HDI could have been more proactive, she didnt recommend that they ought to 
compensate Miss D. Miss D remained unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman to review 
her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. I can see from all that 
Miss D has said that this whole episode has had quite an impact on her and I acknowledge 
her strength of feeling. I know this outcome will be disappointing, so Ill explain why.
Miss D has also made considerable submissions in bringing her complaint, this includes a 
large number of calls and emails between her and the other parties involved. But I wont be 
responding in similar detail. So if I dont mention a particular point or piece of evidence, it 
isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it, its just that I dont feel I need to reference 
it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy, its just a reflection of the 
informal nature of our service. 
Miss Ds policy says For each insured incident there must always be more than a 50% 
chance that you will: recover any losses or damages Terms like this are common to 
nearly all legal expenses insurance policies and I dont think this term is inherently unfair. 
Litigation can be expensive and a privately paying client wouldnt generally continue to fund 
legal action if they were advised they were unlikely to achieve a positive outcome, so I dont 
think an insurer should have to either. 
HDI arent legal experts, they are an insurer. So, I think its fair that they rely on a suitably 
qualified legal opinion when making decisions about a claim. Unless that advice is so 
obviously wrong that a layperson could be expected to notice. Throughout the course of the 
claim, there have been numerous legal assessments conducted on Miss Ds intended legal 
action. Ive read these and I dont think any of them are obviously wrong and I think it is fair 
for HDI to rely on them. 
Collectively the legal assessments from S conclude that without expert evidence there arent 
the required prospects of success. One of S solicitors said in March 2020 Until I am in 
receipt of independent evidence (separate to the evidence regarding the property damage) 
which confirms that in fact it can only have been the previous tenants cat that caused the 
infestation, together with a clear indication on the costs associated with the removal of the 
infestation, I am unable to thoroughly assess loss, nor can I confirm prospects of success to 
be in excess of 51%.
I dont think HDI have acted outside the policy terms or unfairly when declining to further 
fund the claim until the prospects of success have been confirmed. And whilst Miss D did 
provide some evidence from a pest control company to support her position, I can see that 
this was considered by S and deemed not to be sufficient to evidence positive prospects of 
success. S as legal professionals are well placed to know what type of report is likely to be 
needed and I think its fair for HDI to rely on what S said in that regard. 
There is a further part of Miss Ds policy which says We may require you, at your expense, 
to obtain an independent opinion from a barrister or other expert agreed between you and 
us over a claims merits, financial value or reasonable prospects of success. If the opinion 
supports you and there are clear merits in proceeding with that claim, the costs incurred by 
you in seeking that opinion will be reimbursed. (My emphasis added.) HDI say its for 
Miss D to fund the expert report to evidence that her claim meets the requirements of the 
policy. I dont think that is unreasonable or unfair. And in line with the term quoted above if 
the report supports Miss Ds claim (and the remaining conditions are met), the costs of that 
opinion/report will be reimbursed. 
Overall, I dont think HDI have acted outside the policy terms or unfairly. If Miss D believes 
her intended claim has reasonable prospects of success, she can either provide a conflicting 
legal opinion to support this or the expert report that S have referred to in order to support 
her position.
Miss D is also deeply unhappy with the level of service shes received. I understand the 
relationships between an insurer, claims handler and solicitor can be complex and they 
arent something that many consumers often have to deal with. But I can only consider the 
actions of HDI and their agents, as the underwriter of the policy they are responsible for any 
claims decision. But even though the legal work S did was being funded by HDI, S are 
solicitors and in these circumstances are not an agent of HDI. And I simply cant comment 
on the quality of legal advice or the service provided by solicitors. I appreciate this may be 
frustrating for Miss D, but I cant comment where I have no jurisdiction to do so. Miss D has provided evidence which she says shows that S are an agent of HDI. Ive 
considered this but I dont agree. Whilst S will handle the day to day running of the legal 
claim, it is HDI who will be ultimately responsible for the decision to decline a claim. S and 
HDI will naturally work closely together with HDI authorising costs and periodically being 
updated as to progress. But I dont agree that this means S are an agent of HDI and that I 
should comment on the service they provided. 
I agree with our investigator that there were occasions when HDI could have perhaps 
progressed things a little more pro-actively. But Im not persuaded that this had a meaningful 
impact on the length of time consideration of the claim took. Often it was Miss D providing 
further information that she wanted to be considered. And I think HDI acted fairly when 
agreeing that S would reassess the claim on numerous occasions. I dont think the overall 
service that HDI are responsible for was so poor as to warrant an award of compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman