DRN-2310578
The complaint
Ms H complains that NewDay Limited wont refund to her the money that she paid for a sofa 
and about the customer service that shes received.
What happened
Ms H used her NewDay credit card in December 2018 to pay £1,397.25 to a retailer for two 
sofas. She found a fault with one of the sofas in August 2019 so complained to the retailer. It 
said that the sofa couldnt be replaced but would honour the same price if she ordered 
replacements and that the price of the faulty sofas would be refunded after theyd be 
collected. There were two failed collections in October 2019 before the sofas were collected 
in November 2019 and Ms H complained to NewDay that month because she hadnt 
received the refund. 
It asked Ms H to provide further information about the refund so that it could try to trace it but 
contacted the retailer and found out that it hadnt processed the refund. The retailer offered 
to pay the refund to Ms H by other means and to pay her £250 compensation but she didnt 
accept its offer and wanted NewDay to refund the payment to her credit card account. 
NewDay offered to pay £20 to Ms H because of the phone calls that shed made to it but she 
didnt accept its offer.
Ms H complained to this service but our investigator didnt recommend that her complaint 
should be upheld. She said that she couldnt hold NewDay liable for Ms H not accepting the 
retailers offer of a refund and compensation and she couldnt say that NewDay had acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in dealing with Ms Hs complaint. She thought that the 
compensation offered for the phone calls was fair and reasonable and she explained the 
position with the account statements that Ms H had complained about. Ms H says that she 
still hasnt received the refund and the retailer has stopped trading. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
its clear that there was a delay in the refund being processed and Ms H complained 
to NewDay  but the retailer confirmed that it would pay the refund by other means 
and offered Ms H £250 compensation  I consider that to have been fair and 
reasonable but Ms H didnt accept it and wanted NewDay to refund the payment to 
her credit card;
in certain circumstances, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 gives a 
consumer an equal right to claim against the supplier of goods or services or the 
provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier;
to be able to uphold Ms Hs complaint about NewDay, I must be satisfied that theres 
been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the retailer and that NewDays 
response to her claim under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable  but Im not 
determining the outcome of Ms Hs claim under section 75 as only a court would be 
able to do that;
the retailer offered to pay the refund and compensation to Ms H so Im not persuaded 
that theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the retailer which 
would give rise to a claim against NewDay under section 75  and for that reason I 
consider that NewDays response to Ms Hs claim has been fair and reasonable;
if Ms H now wants to accept that offer, I suggest that she contacts the retailer  the 
retailer has stopped trading so it may not pay the refund to her but if that happens 
she may be able to make another claim to NewDay under section 75 because of the 
retailers breach of contract in not paying the refund to her  and then, if shes not 
satisfied with NewDays response, she may be able to make another complaint to 
this service;
I sympathise with Ms H for the issues that shes had with the sofas and the refund, 
and its clear that she feels very strongly that shes received poor service from 
NewDay in connection with her section 75 claim, but Im not persuaded that theres 
enough evidence to show that its customer service has fallen below a reasonably 
acceptable standard in these circumstances; and
NewDay has offered to pay Ms H £20 because of the phone call that she made to it  
if she now wants to accept that offer I suggest that she contacts NewDay to see if the 
offer remains available to her  but Im not persuaded that it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to require NewDay to refund to Ms H the money that she paid for 
the sofas, to pay her any compensation for the customer service that shes received 
or to take any other action in response to her complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Ms Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman