DRN-3046231
The complaint
Mr W says Gain Credit LLC trading as Drafty didnt administer his loan account correctly. He 
says that he asked for a payment holiday but Drafty reduced his credit limit instead. This 
resulted in him incurring extra charges and negative information being recorded on his credit 
report. 
  
What happened
This complaint is about one running credit account Drafty provided to Mr W in 
September 2017. This was an arrangement where Mr W could withdraw up to an agreed 
credit limit. He would need to repay a minimum of 2% of the outstanding balance each 
month plus any accrued interest or charges. 
Mr W hasnt complained that the loan was mis-sold, the complaint is about Draftys actions 
when Mr W was having financial problems. A brief summary of what happened is below. 
In March 2020 Mr W contacted Drafty and requested that he receive a payment holiday. This 
is because he was in financial hardship due to the Covid-19 pandemic. There is evidence 
that Drafty didnt properly respond to this request and Mr W couldnt contact it by telephone 
either. This resulted in a payment being taken on 31 March 2020 which he says caused him 
further financial difficulty. 
And again, there is evidence that Mr W had ongoing problems contacting Drafty over the 
coming months. And rather than the three-month payment break that the regulators 
guidance specified Mr W should have in this situation, Drafty only authorised a payment 
break of one month from 30 April 2020. 
And in April 2020 Drafty reviewed Mr Ws account and reduced his credit limit significantly. 
As he had borrowed an amount that was not far short of his old credit limit he was over the 
new limit straightaway. Drafty then suspended his account. As far as I can see Drafty didnt 
inform Mr W that it would be doing this as it is contracted to do under the terms and 
conditions of the loan. 
Mr W was also having problems making the loan repayments. This was due to him being 
unable to pay via the app. And it looks likely this was linked to the account suspension. 
Again, Drafty didnt communicate with Mr W about this issue at the time and it only offered 
limited assistance. 
Lastly in November 2020 Drafty sent Mr W an offer to repay his loan under special terms in 
one lump sum. Mr W has complained that his was frustrating and added to the distress he 
was under. 
Our adjudicator has upheld the complaint. He said it was clear that Drafty had handled 
Mr Ws account very poorly at what was a difficult time for him. He recommended the 
following compensation:
Remove all interest added and charges added to the account since 26 March 2020.
Amend Mr Ws credit file to remove any adverse information (including defaults) 
applied since 26 March 2020.
Pay Mr W £250. 
Take steps to agree a repayment plan with Mr W for the outstanding loan balance.
Once a repayment plan is agreed it should be recorded on his credit file going 
forward that the account is in an arrangement to pay until it is repaid.
Drafty agreed with what the adjudicator said and agreed to pay compensation on this basis. 
Mr W didnt fully agree with the proposed redress. Mr W thinks that if Drafty had agreed to 
his original request for a three-month payment holiday then the account wouldve remained 
the same and he would not need a repayment arrangement. And his credit file would not 
have been affected by Draftys errors. It should have assisted him to make his loan 
repayments when he was having problems with this and it shouldnt have sent him the offer 
to repay his loan
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about high cost credit - including all of the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Its not now in dispute that Drafty has made a number of significant errors here. I wont 
consider these in depth as it is now agreed this is the case. But for the avoidance of doubt 
Drafty shouldve properly considered Mr Ws request for a payment break in March 2020, 
under the guidance laid down by the regulator in respect of the Covid-19 pandemic and by 
its application of the overall requirement to exercise forbearance. It should have 
communicated better with Mr W throughout the time period complained about, but 
particularly in respect to reducing his account credit limit and the ramifications of this. The 
offer for him to clear his loan balance was inappropriate. It shouldve helped Mr W make his 
payments when he couldnt use the app. All these errors have caused Mr W distress and 
inconvenience. 
Essentially the area that is still in dispute is that Mr W thinks that Drafty shouldnt have 
reduced the account credit limit and he still should be able to continue to use the account. 
And Mr W feels there shouldnt be any adverse reporting on his credit file, and this includes it 
being recorded that he is in an arrangement to pay the loan balance on reduced terms. 
Drafty has said that it reduced the credit limit on his account due to a periodic affordability 
review. Whilst both the timing of this, and the communication surrounding it were poor, 
Drafty is able to do this. And its clear that Mr W was in some financial difficulty and so it 
doesnt seem to me to be an unreasonable thing to have done. Given what Mr W had told it 
about his financial situation. So, Im not going to direct that Drafty should reinstate his 
account. 
Drafty has a responsibility to provide correct information to the credit reference agencies. 
And the facts do indicate that Mr W was clearly experiencing financial difficulty which has led 
to repayment problems. This would need to be recorded on his credit file in some way and 
an arrangement to repay seems to be fair reflection of this. And all of the other adverse 
information will be removed if Mr W accepts this decision. OveralI, dont think its reasonable to assume that Mr W could have been able to use the 
account as originally agreed. At the very least, he did have repayment problems over a 
number of months and its hard to see how this wouldnt have been reflected on his credit file 
in some way. 
Given all of the above, I think the compensation that our adjudicator recommended, and that 
Drafty has agreed to, is reasonable. 
  
Putting things right
Remove all interest added and charges added to the account since 26 March 2020.
Amend Mr Ws credit file to remove any adverse information (including defaults) 
applied since 26 March 2020.
Pay Mr W £250. 
Take steps to agree a repayment plan with Mr W for the outstanding loan balance.
Once a repayment plan is agreed it should be recorded on his credit file going 
forward that the account is in an arrangement to pay until it is repaid.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Gain Credit LLC trading as Drafty should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman