DRN-4118726
The complaint
This complaint is about a secured commercial loan that Mr S holds with Lloyds Bank Plc. 
Hes unhappy that Lloyds hasnt been taking monthly capital repayments since 2008. It was 
a condition of the loan when it started in 2007 that the first years payments would be 
interest-only, after which capital repayments would begin. That never happened and the full 
debt is now overdue for repayment. Mr S doesnt have access to enough money to clear the 
debt, and says the loan balance should be written off.
What happened
By way of a provisional decision dated 21 March 2023, I set out my provisional conclusions 
on this complaint. The following is an extract from the provisional decision.
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr S and Lloyds. Im also 
aware that the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, which has 
been shared with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information 
that might result in Mr S being identified. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for 
my decision, rounding the figures where relevant. If I dont mention something, it 
wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the 
outcome of the complaint. 
What Ive provisionally concluded - and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial 
businesses, and we dont police their internal processes or how they operate 
generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with 
individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont 
replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without 
interference from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of 
the ombudsman service, and the remit those rules give us.
This complaint arose out of one we were already looking into, about the decision not 
to re-finance the loan; to be clear, Im not reviewing that complaint here. Initially, 
Lloyds indicated to Mr S that he had raised this complaint outside the time limits in 
our rules. It then emailed us on 3 August 2022 to say it had given Mr S referral rights 
to this service but said the mediation process might benefit from us waiting a little 
longer before getting involved. It followed that up a couple of weeks later with a final 
response including a settlement offer. Ive taken that as an indication that Lloyds 
consents to us considering the complaint.
Mr S has pointed to decisions issued by this service on previous complaints, which 
he says cover similar situations to his. Hes referenced one case in particular and 
says his case should be decided the same way. Whilst individual complaints might 
appear similar, the reality is that no two cases are exactly alike, and an ombudsman 
will always decide a case on its specific circumstances. Thats what Ill be doing here, 
but Id also observe, just for completeness, that in the complaint Mr S has pointed to 
as a reference point for his own, the deciding ombudsman didnt find in the 
consumers favour.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im satisfied this 
case is more straightforward than it might first appear. Thats because I dont need to 
decide whether Lloyds is at fault. 
In the final response issued in August 2022, Lloyds has accepted that it failed to 
switch the loan to capital repayment after the first anniversary in 2008. Itd also 
offered to compensate Mr S for that omission. What I therefore have to decide is 
whether the resolution Lloyds offered in that response was enough, or if it needs to 
do more.
In arguing his case for the outstanding balance to be waived, Mr S has pointed to 
various elements of the underlying loan agreement, which he believes Lloyds has 
breached, rendering it unenforceable in law. I should explain that only a court can 
decide if a loan agreement is legally enforceable. Whilst I am required to take 
account of relevant law when deciding a complaint, my primary obligation is to decide 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
When I do that, I have to keep in mind that Mr S has benefited greatly from the 
money he borrowed under this agreement, as it has allowed him to earn a substantial 
rental income from the commercial property that act as security for the lending. That 
being the case, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for him not to have to pay back any 
of the money he borrowed. 
Its also apparent from the historic notes in Lloyds records that Mr S has been aware 
of the failure to switch to capital repayments for several years. Thats particularly 
relevant given the nature and subject of the complaint. In essence, Mr S complaint is 
one of under-funding. Thats where, for whatever reason, a borrower hasnt paid all 
of the money that was due under the terms of a loan agreement, as a consequence 
of which the loan balance is higher than it should be.
Where that happens solely as a consequence of a mistake by the lender, we will, as 
a starting point, expect the lender to compensate the borrower by adjusting the 
balance to reflect the additional payments that should have been paid but werent. 
But there are several caveats to that. 
Firstly, we keep in mind that the borrower has had the benefit of paying less each 
month than they would have if nothing had gone wrong. We also take into account 
the possibility that the borrowers payment record at the lower level indicates they 
might have struggled to pay the full amount they should have been paying. But the 
single most important caveat relates to when the borrower knew (or should have 
known  both tests are relevant here) that they werent paying the full amount they 
should be paying.
Even though the problem may have arisen due to a mistake by the lender in the first 
instance, its reasonable to expect a borrower to take steps to limit the damage once 
they are aware of it; thats called mitigation. Here, its a matter of record that Mr S 
knew in 2018 that Lloyds hadnt been taking the monthly capital instalments. However, as I said earlier, there are two tests to apply, and in Mr S case, Lloyds took 
the view when making its settlement offer, that he should have known there was a 
problem from the statements he received each year. 
I can see why Lloyds might think this to be a fair position to take when arriving at its 
redress proposal. The first annual statement, from 2008, would have correctly shown 
the loan balance as unchanged, but Mr S should have been expecting his statement 
for 2009 to show a reduction, following a year of higher payments. He should, of 
course, also have been expecting the payments taken from his funding current 
account by direct debit to be higher in year two. In reaching that conclusion, Ive 
taken account of a couple of key factors. 
First of all, the term in the loan agreement requiring capital payments to be made 
from 2008 onwards was Mr S condition to comply with; not Lloyds. Its a 
universally-accepted convention of lending and borrowing that borrowers are 
responsible for making the payments required of them under the lending contract. 
Thats not a responsibility that can be delegated or transferred to any other party. 
Secondly, Mr S is a professional landlord; hes running a commercial business. One 
of the responsibilities of managing a business is to ensure that any and all business 
debts are being paid as they should be.
The reality, however unwelcome or unpalatable he might find it, is that Mr S current 
position is not solely down to Lloyds omission in 2008. Its also partly down to him 
not noticing the omission and taking reasonable steps to remedy it in a timely 
fashion. The statements Lloyds has sent him over the relevant period mean that Mr S 
always had enough information at his disposal to realise the loan balance wasnt 
falling. Given that making the capital repayments was his responsibility, it was up to 
Mr S to remedy that.
Put all of the above together, and it might seem that the settlement Lloyds has 
proposed is fair and reasonable, in all the circumstances; but for one thing. Lloyds 
makes much of the fact that Mr S knew of the problem in June 2018. Thats when it 
was decided mutually to leave things as they were until maturity in 2022 and Mr S 
would then try and re-finance. But that also means Lloyds knew in 2018 that it had 
made a mistake in 2008 that had financial implications for its borrower. 
Lloyds note of the June 2018 meeting implies that it suited Mr S to kick the can 
down the road, so to speak, until maturity and try to re-finance then. That may be 
true, and I suspect neither party anticipated in 2018 the difficulties Mr S would have 
re-financing in 2022. It might even be argued that what was decided in 2018 
amounted to a variation in the terms of the contract, albeit an undocumented one. 
But it seems to me that it was rather disingenuous of the bank not to have offered the 
one-years worth of redress it offered in 2022 in 2018. If it had applied that then, Mr S 
would at least have benefited from the effect of the redress during the intervening 
years.
The main elements of that settlement proposal are that Lloyds would reduce the 
balance by an amount equal to the first year of capital repayments that should have 
been made; thats around £20,000. It would also reduce the balance by an amount 
equal to the interest that would not have been charged over the life of the loan if the 
first year of capital repayment had been made; thats around £41,000. Its also 
proposed suspending any interest that would normally be charged during what is 
described as the current charging period. Using Mr S annual statements as a 
reference point, Im taking that to mean the period from 1 April 2022 to 
31 March 2023; the sum itself is unspecified.If that resolution were implemented now, it would reduce Mr S outstanding balance 
from just under £403,000 to a little over £341,000. But if it had been implemented in 
2018, when I think it should have been, Mr S would have been charged less interest 
in the intervening years than he has been, because his charging balance would have 
been £61,000 lower. So yes, Lloyds settlement proposal is broadly fair, but it should 
have been offered and implemented in June 2018, giving Mr S the benefit of it during 
the years since. So, in addition to what is already proposed, Lloyds also needs to 
reduce the loan balance by the amount of interest that Mr S would not have been 
charged if Lloyds had implemented the underfunding remedy in June 2018.
If the complaint was eventually to be settled on the terms I am intending to order, 
Mr S would still owe a substantial sum of money to Lloyds. Furthermore, Im mindful 
of the fact that during the time the complaint has been with us, the extended deadline 
for repaying the balance has now passed. Mr S has told us he doesnt have the 
money and cant re-finance to another lender. 
Going forward, its for Lloyds and Mr S to have a constructive dialogue about the 
future of the loan; its not for this service to say how that dialogue should take place 
or in any way pre-empt the outcome. But that dialogue needs to happen and I very 
much hope it takes place without any recrimination over what has gone before. All Id 
add is a reminder to Lloyds that its duty to treat its customers fairly is ongoing, and a 
reminder to Mr S that Lloyds has the right as a last resort to seek to enforce its 
security in the event a mutually-agreed solution cant be reached.
Both parties were given a two-week time frame in which to make their further comments; that 
time has now passed, and weve heard from both.
Mr S didnt accept the provisional decision, and submitted further comments and documents, 
all which Ive considered carefully. Ive also sent Mr S, as requested, a copy of the record 
Barclays made of the discussion in 2018, as he said hed never seen it. In response to that, 
Mr S has made a further submission aimed primarily at discrediting the authenticity of the 
record.
Lloyds confirmed its acceptance of my provisional decision, but also provided an explanation 
of why backdating the proposed underfunding resolution to 2018 would be less favourable to 
Mr S. Instead, Lloyds proposed implementing the resolution as originally offered in 2022, 
including refunding all interest charged between April 2022 and March 2023. The combined 
effect of these would be to reduce the loan balance by £79,093.20. Of that sum, £41,188.48 
has already been credited to Mr S loan account in August 2022, which would leave 
£37,904.72 still to apply. 
The investigator let Mr S know that I considered the offer from Lloyds to be fairer than what I 
had proposed in the provisional decision. Mr S replied saying he did too, but still wanted his 
own preferred remedy of a full write-off. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered afresh everything that both parties have said and provided. Mr S has said 
that hed like a discussion with me about his complaint before I determine it. That wouldnt 
be appropriate. It would, in effect, be giving Mr S a one-sided personal hearing to press his 
case directly without the business being involved and being able to contribute. On the rare occasions we conduct a direct hearing, it's at the discretion of an ombudsman, is 
called solely because he or she thinks it's essential to reaching a fair outcome, and both 
parties to the complaint are present. Anything else would be procedurally unfair, and 
introduce the risk of bias. Im satisfied this is a complaint I can fairly deal with on the basis of 
the evidence on file from the parties.
Mr S has mentioned various documents that he says must be on our file (because without 
them I could not have reached the concisions I did) and therefore he must be allowed sight 
of them before the complaint is determined. The document Mr S has referred to most 
frequently, and placed the greatest importance on, is what he refers to as an 
acknowledgement letter. He says that I must have it on file as Ive referenced it in the 
provisional decision. 
Ive looked very carefully through the provisional decisional decision and cant find any 
mention of an acknowledgement letter. Indeed, there are only two pieces of evidence that 
Ive specifically referenced in the provisional decision. Those were the loan agreement and 
Lloyds record of the 2018 discussion, and I explained the relevance that both had to my 
findings (all of which is reproduced above). Mr S has had sight of both documents, so Im 
satisfied his right to procedural fairness has been met.
At one point in the provisional decision, I referenced the June 2018 meeting when talking 
about the record Lloyds made of the discussion about the problem. In fact, the date of the 
discussion record is 31 May 2018. Thats why I referenced June 2018 as the retrospective 
date for implementing the redress; whilst it doesnt affect the overall outcome, nonetheless, I 
apologise for the error in referring to the June 2018 meeting.
Mr S has gone to great pains to argue that the record of 31 May 2018 is fraudulent. Hes told 
Lloyds he thinks its a fake, and Lloyds has told us it has set this up as a separate complaint 
to look into as a new allegation. Mr S has also told us that he has reported the alleged fraud 
to the police. Fraud is a crime, so thats the proper course of action to take if Mr S thinks a 
crime has been committed, but the Financial Ombudsman Service isnt a branch of the 
criminal justice system. In the meantime, having considered everything Mr S has said about 
why he considers the record of 31 May 2018 to be a fake, Im not persuaded I shouldnt 
continue to place the weight on it that I have done up to now. 
I say that not least because the record wasnt exclusively about the discussion of what to do 
about the 2008 failure to switch the loan to capital repayments. It was a wider discussion 
about other business arrangements Mr S has with Lloyds. Those arent relevant here but the 
fact that the record of 31 May 2018 includes those matters as well as the issue of the 
underfunded loan make it more likely than not that the record is genuine.
In any event, it doesnt really help Mr S case to dispute the authenticity of the 31 May 2018 
record. It is that record that demonstrates when Lloyds became aware it had made a mistake 
in 2008, and therefore knew it should do something to put the mistake right. Indeed, its the 
reason I recommended Lloyds backdate the implementation of the redress offer to 
June 2018, albeit I have now moved away from that idea, and both parties have agreed that 
I should.
I did also say that the record of 31 May 2018 showed Mr S to be aware of the mistake as 
well. I suspect that is what is really behind his efforts to discredit the record. But that 
argument is irrelevant because I then went on to say why I considered Mr S should 
reasonably have been aware of the mistake as far back as 2009, when his monthly 
payments didnt go up and his loan balance didnt begin to come down. Put all that together, and Mr S response to the provisional decision challenging the authenticity of the record of 
31 May 2018 serves more to weaken his case rather than strengthen it. 
In summary, having reviewed the evidence in its entirety, for all the reasons set out above, 
Im not persuaded that Mr S claim for a full write-off of the debt he owes to Lloyds is a fair 
and reasonable outcome. Lloyds did make an error in 2008, but Mr S  a businessman by 
profession in his own right  should reasonably have noticed the mistake and drawn it to the 
banks attention at the time, or soon afterwards, so that corrective action could be taken. 
When the opportunity for corrective action was offered to him in 2018, Im persuaded by the 
available evidence that he elected not to take that opportunity. In all the circumstances, and 
taking account of everything that has been said and provided, I conclude that the current 
offer from Lloyds to reduce Mr S loan balance is the fairest solution.
Mr S doesnt have to accept my conclusions, and if he doesnt, then neither he nor Lloyds 
will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a court 
might impose, Mr S right to take legal action against Lloyds over the subject matter of this 
complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of it. As I indicated in the 
provisional decision, a court is the appropriate forum for Mr S to pursue his belief that the 
loan agreement is unenforceable. He may wish to take legal advice before commencing 
such action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement, I order 
Lloyds Bank Plc to reduce the balance of Mr S loan by a further £37,904.82, making a total 
reduction of £79,093.20. I make no other order or award. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman