DRN-3944245
The complaint
Mr D complains about the suitability of the advice he was given to release his tax free cash 
(TFC) lump sum and purchase an annuity with Standard Life Assurance Limited (Standard 
life) using the proceeds of his pension plan with the same provider. He would like to be 
returned to the position hed now be in without the advice. 
What happened
Mr D held a section 32 style personal pension with Standard Life. In 2006 he wanted to 
discuss his retirement options  his main objective was to withdraw his TFC lump sum so 
that he could pay off his outstanding loan and cut back his work commitments to spend more 
time with his partner  who was unwell. But Standard Life said it needed to give Mr D advice 
around the annuity provision from his residual fund  so it completed a fact find document 
with him in order to gather the necessary information to then set out its recommendations.
 
But Mr D said he didnt want advice from Standard Life, he just wanted his TFC to be paid as 
soon as possible. Standard Life provided the necessary paperwork for Mr D to withdraw his 
TFC and purchase an annuity but said it would be on a non-advised basis. So, in 
October 2006 Standard Life paid Mr D TFC of £14,825.84 with the promise of a residual 
yearly annuity of £2,215.68.
But in 2022, using a representative, Mr D complained about the advice hed been given 
previously. The representative said Standard Life hadnt followed the correct process for 
treating Mr D as an insistent client and hadnt issued a suitability report. It said Standard Life 
didnt mention the other options Mr D had or explain the risks involved in transferring from 
the section 32 plan. This meant he was unaware of the guarantees that he would lose upon 
transferring. 
Standard Life didnt uphold the complaint. It said that, while its adviser had begun the 
regulated advice process with Mr D, it wasnt completed because Mr D said he didnt want 
advice. So it didnt think it had fulfilled the process of giving advice and making a formal 
recommendation and couldnt be held responsible for the decisions Mr D subsequently 
made. 
Mr D remained unhappy with this response, so he brought his complaint to us where one of 
our investigators looked into the matter. She didnt think the complaint should be upheld as, 
although she understood the difficulties Mr D was enduring at the time, she didnt think 
Standard Life had given any advice to Mr D  so it couldnt have provided unsuitable advice. 
She thought that Standard Life had actioned Mr Ds requests in a reasonable manner and, 
although she accepted he was most likely a vulnerable customer in 2006, she didnt think 
Standard Life had neglected his needs or that he had indicated he required any additional 
assistance during the process. 
Mr D didnt agree. He said Standard Life had a duty of care to confirm his understanding of 
the transfer and should have warned him of the risks involved, particularly the guarantees 
which were attached to the section 32 plan. He said it should have considered his vulnerable 
position and reviewed whether releasing the TFC and purchasing an annuity was in his best 
interests. He said Standard Life should have told him that the transfer wasnt suitable and 
possibly told him to seek independent advice if it wasnt going to provide its advice to him. 
Mr D said he possessed no real knowledge of pensions nor of the guarantees held within his 
plan, so he thought he ought to have been informed of the ramifications of the transactions. 
He said Standard Life was under no obligation to accept the transfer. He asked for his 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. 
  
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her view. She said that, in order for Standard 
Life to have commented that the transfer was suitable or unsuitable for Mr Ds 
circumstances, it needed to be able to complete the advice process  which it didnt because 
Mr D made it clear he didnt want to receive advice.  
So, as the complaint remains unresolved its been passed to me to review.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. I know this isnt 
the outcome Mr D would have hoped for, but I dont think Standard Lifes gave him 
unsuitable advice in 2006  so I dont think it needs to do anything here. Ill explain my 
reasons below.
The basis of Standard Lifes transaction with Mr D.
Mr Ds complaint here is that he was a vulnerable client in 2006 because of his partners 
illness and so Standard Life should have warned him about the consequences of transferring 
his pension to an annuity especially as his section 32 plan contained valuable guarantees 
which he shouldnt have been advised to give up. He says Standard Life had a duty of care 
to make sure the transfer would be in his best interest  which he doesnt believe it did. 
Whereas Standard Life says Mr D clearly told it to stop the advice process it had begun 
when he wanted to draw his pension benefits and told it what he wanted to do  without any 
advice from Standard Life. It says it wasnt responsible for the decisions Mr D made in 2006.
So Ive carefully considered the service that Standard life provided Mr D in 2006. Its quite 
clear from the fact find document that Ive seen which was completed on 5 October 2006 
that Standard Life initially began the process of providing Mr D with advice. Ive seen the 
various notes within the document which set out his objectives as, current plans are to stay 
at current company until age 65 his NRD. Client is also currently working weekends to keep 
up with loans and mortgage outgoings but wants to stop this to spend more time with wife 
who is currently very ill.. 
But Ive also seen an email from Mr D dated 9 October 2006 which said I wish to vest my 
section 32 via annuity, I wish to take the maximum tax free lump sum and require quotes on 
level term and escalating term pension (3.5%). I am not seeking financial advice from 
Standard Life at this point. So I think this was a request to Standard Life not to pursue its 
advice service but instead just simply to carry out Mr Ds instruction. Within its complaint to 
Standard Life, Mr Ds representative has said it provided negligent advice and didnt 
explain the term insistent client to Mr D. But I dont think Standard life could be said to have 
provided either of those things. The regulator has defined an insistent client as:
A client who has received a personal recommendation from the business.
Who wants to enter into a transaction that is different from that recommended by the 
business and:
Who wants the business to facilitate that transaction.
So Mr D would have needed a recommendation from Standard Life  which he disagreed 
with - to be classed as insistent. But I havent been provided with any evidence to support 
the claim that Mr D was given advice or provided with a recommendation after the email he 
sent the adviser from Standard Life on 9 October 2006. So it wouldnt be fair to say Mr D 
was an insistent client nor that Standard Life should have treated him as one and explained 
what that meant.
 
Ive also seen evidence to show that Standard Life acknowledged the position following 
Mr Ds email and how it changed its way of dealing with him. An update recorded to the fact 
find dated 9 October 2006 said, client stated how unhappy he is with SLAC when dealing 
with this matter and wants nothing more to do with SLAC on (sic) TFC paid out.
Then Standard Life sent Mr D a letter confirming I enclose your application pack containing 
all the documents you need to proceed with your application. on this occasion you have 
chosen not to receive advice from Standard Life Direct. You are aware that you are 
responsible for any decision to purchase and the timing of this purchase. And this was 
further supported by Standard Lifes response to Mr Ds complaint about how long it had 
taken to get his TFC. This said, before providing this cash sum, (our adviser) had to provide 
full advice considering your personal circumstances. I understand that you have decided not 
to proceed with (our) advice and that you have instructed us to transfer to a personal 
pension plan, withdrawing the maximum cash sum available and commencing an annuity.
So I think that supports the idea that Standard Life did change the basis on which it dealt 
with Mr D. Ive gone on to consider how Standard Life dealt with Mr D so Ive also looked the 
definition of an execution only or non-advised investment service, which the regulator says is 
a transaction executed by a firm upon the specific instructions of a client where the firm 
does not give advice on investments relating to the merits of the transaction. In practice 
this means that a consumer will give a specific instruction to a business who then executes 
or carries out the transaction for the consumer, who neither receives nor expects to receive 
any advice.
 
And thats what I think happened here when Mr D told Standard Life that he wanted to vest 
his pension, withdraw his maximum TFC, and receive quotes for level and escalating 
annuities.  Standard Life provided the illustrations and, following Mr Ds complaint to the 
CEOs office about the length of time taken  he received his TFC and details of his annuity 
payments.
 
So I dont think it would be fair to either conclude that Standard Life gave Mr D any advice  
or more specifically negligent advice, nor that it did, or should have, treated Mr D as an 
insistent client. 
 
I have also considered whether Mr D was a vulnerable consumer at the time because of his 
personal circumstances, particularly his concern for his wifes health and desire to spend 
more time with her. But I havent seen any evidence to suggest that Standard Life didnt deal 
with Mr D fairly and I think Mr D was articulate and forthright in his communications with 
Standard Life. I havent seen any evidence that he made Standard Life aware of any 
additional requirements or that he felt he needed more support or help because of any 
vulnerabilities.Of course Standard Life did have a duty of care to Mr D, but when he requested that no 
further advice be given  having not received a recommendation from Standard Life, it didnt 
have any responsibilities around advice. And from the letter Standard Life sent Mr D on 
10 October 2006, which said I have enclosed a Key Features Document that I recommend 
you read as this details the plan aims, your commitment and the risks associated with the 
product, as well as further product information, I think this fulfilled Standard Lifes 
responsibilities to provide the information on which he could then base his decision about the 
type of annuity he wanted.
But even if another interpretation of my findings around the basis of the service provided 
could be found, I think that Mr D would have gone ahead with the transaction regardless. I 
say that for the following reasons.
What would Mr D have done? 
    
On the face of it Mr D could have expected a far greater (guaranteed minimum) pension 
from his section 32 plan at his normal retirement date than the income he received from the 
annuity. But I think that even if that were the case  and Mr D had been made fully aware of 
the position, he would have chosen to draw the TFC from his plan. Thats because it was 
made clear from the fact find document that Mr Ds partner was quite ill, and he wanted to 
scale back his working commitments to spend more time with her. It was noted that he had 
to work weekends simply to meet his loan and mortgage payments, so it seems reasonable 
that if he were able to clear some of those debts he could reduce his working hours and 
spend the time with his partner. So I think Mr Ds motives were completely understandable in 
the circumstances, and I believe that, even if it were shown to him that he would receive 
greater income in retirement by not transferring, he would still have gone ahead and 
requested the release of the TFC and purchased an annuity with the rest of his funds. 
I think this course of action was further supported by the letter of complaint Mr D wrote to 
Standard Life on 7 October 2006, in which he set out his reasons for needing to release the 
TFC. He explained that he needed to complete this as soon as possible and that the delay 
is not helping my wifes condition and making her anxious, as until this is resolved I cant 
reduce my working hours. Understandably the tone of Mr Ds letter was one of frustration 
and need to resolve matters quickly, and its hard to conclude therefore that this wasnt the 
main driver in his request to release the TFC. 
Of course once Mr D had decided he wanted to release the TFC he then had to purchase an 
annuity with Standard Life using the residual funds. Although Ive already said that Standard 
Life didnt provide any advice  which would have included discussing Mr Ds options at the 
time, the only other real option Mr D had was to transfer his funds elsewhere releasing his 
TFC and then entering a drawdown arrangement or purchasing an annuity with that provider. 
But this would have taken time to process  which Mr D told Standard Life that he didnt 
have. 
So looking at the circumstances at the time, I think its more likely than not that he would 
have taken the actions he did to release the required TFC in favour of remaining invested in 
the section 32 plan  which would have provided greater guaranteed income at retirement 
but wouldnt have achieved his main objective. 
So, not unreasonably, and for the reasons that became clear from Mr Ds communications 
with Standard Life, I think he would have requested the release of his TFC as quickly as 
possible  regardless of whether other options might have been financially better for him. In 
my view even if he had been given advice not to release the TFC and purchase the annuity 
he would have still done so as this was the most important factor and his primary driver at 
that time.   My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman