DRN-2666983
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Sainsburys Bank plc (Sainsburys) defaulted his account and that it 
failed to collect payments by direct debit, leading to arrears.
 
What happened
Mr C took out a loan with Sainsburys in June 2017. He contacted them in April 2018 as he 
was experiencing financial hardship and wanted to ask if he could make lower monthly 
repayments. Sainsburys agreed to reduce the amount.
Mr C also contacted Sainsburys in December 2018 because he could afford to start 
repaying the loan at the normal rate. In February 2019, Mr C raised a complaint because he 
understood his account had been defaulted. Sainsburys responded in February 2019. They 
said they had sent the notice of default in July 2018 and didnt know why he hadnt received 
it. They agreed to remove the default if he repaid the arrears in full. He repaid the arrears in 
March 2019 and Sainsburys removed the default. 
Mr C also says he set up a direct debit for the agreed monthly repayments in January 2019. 
He says nothing had been collected and he discovered this in June 2019. He contacted 
Sainsburys and says he was told his account was in default and there was nothing he could 
do.
Sainsburys responded to Mr Cs complaint in June 2019. They said that Mr C had not 
contacted the previous complaint handler to confirm he accepted their offer. They say she 
wouldve told him he needed to reset his direct debit. Sainsburys also said they wouldve 
expected him to check his account to ensure his personal liabilities were met. Mr C was 
unhappy with Sainsburys response and asked us to investigate.
The investigator felt the default had been unfairly registered because Sainsburys hadnt told 
Mr C the direct debit had been cancelled. The investigator asked Sainsburys to remove the 
default and refund interest and charges added to the account because of the missed 
payments. Sainsburys responded and offered to remove the default if Mr C was able to 
repay the arrears. Mr C didnt accept this. Therefore, the case has passed to me.
  
I reviewed the information and issued a provisional decision in February 2021. I said: 
First default 
Although Mr C was on a repayment plan, he was paying less than the agreed amount 
for the loan repayments. Ive reviewed the contact notes from July 2018 provided by 
Sainsburys. They made a note about explaining to Mr C that the repayment plan 
wouldnt prevent the account from going into recoveries and that they advised him of 
the impact to his credit file. Mr C has also told us that Sainsburys advised him the 
account could go into default.
Sainsburys said they sent a notice of default in July 2018 but recognised that Mr C 
didnt receive it. They agreed that if he could repay the arrears in full then they would 
remove the default. Mr C made the payment and the default was removed. 
Im persuaded Sainsburys acted fairly and reasonably here. This is because they 
agreed a repayment plan with Mr C and explained how this could impact his credit 
file. Also, when Mr C said he hadnt received the default notice, Sainsburys gave him 
the opportunity to pay the arrears. I appreciate this was a significant amount, but Mr 
C was able to pay it and the default was removed.
Second default 
In January 2019, Mr C contacted Sainsburys to set up a direct debit to make ongoing 
loan repayments. Sainsburys explained the direct debit was cancelled because it 
was set up with the recoveries team. Ive not seen evidence to satisfy me that Mr C 
was informed, and I wouldnt expect him to necessarily understand that it had been 
set up with the wrong department. 
 
Sainsburys sent a default notice in April 2019. Although Mr C said he didnt receive 
this, Im content it was likely to have been sent as they have provided a template and 
it is referenced in their account history. I can also understand what Sainsburys have 
said about Mr C checking his account. They also say that when Mr C did make the 
loan repayments, he paid 21p less than the agreed amount. 
However, Sainsburys still shouldve informed Mr C that the direct debit had been 
cancelled. Mr C was clearly under the impression he had arranged for the payment to 
be made. Im persuaded that had he been informed he wouldve set up the payments 
correctly. Mr C could then have made the repayments in the normal way until the 
loan was fully repaid.
Mr C did ask the investigator about making the normal repayments. But Sainsburys 
said this would extend the duration of the loan beyond what had been agreed. 
Therefore, they needed him to bring his account up to date before they could remove 
the default. However, this wouldve meant Mr C had to pay the outstanding arrears 
on top of the agreed loan repayments.  
Considering the above, Im not persuaded Sainsburys fairly defaulted the account. 
As Mr C wasnt notified, I think its fair that Sainsburys treats the missed payments 
as a break in the loan agreement. This means Mr Cs account shouldnt be defaulted, 
or at least that the default should be removed now the issue has come to light.
Putting things right 
As a result of the default, Mr C has experienced concern about the adverse 
information on his credit file. I also note he was upset when he found out that 
payments hadnt been taken because the direct debit had been cancelled. The 
missed payments also attracted additional interest and charges which wouldnt have 
been added to the outstanding balance had it been treated as a break in the loan 
agreement. 
As the debt is no longer in Sainsburys name, it might be unable to amend the credit 
record. If Sainsburys isnt able to remove the default itself, it should take appropriate 
steps to assist with its removal by the new owner. I know this may be disappointing 
for Mr C, but they can notify the new owner of the debt and Ive explained this below.
  
In response to my provisional decision, Mr C confirmed he accepted the decision. But has 
explained that he would prefer both parties (Sainsburys and the new owners of the debt) be 
mandated to remove the default by a certain date. He has asked for this to be no longer than five working days. He is concerned about the continued impact to his business and does not 
trust them to expedite the removal of the default. 
Sainsburys also accepted my provisional decision. Theyve added that they can work with 
the new owners of the debt to take the remediation actions very quickly. But if issues arise it 
could take a few months. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from the conclusion I reached in my provisional 
decision. 
However, I appreciate Mr Cs concerns about how Ive asked Sainsburys to put things right 
and have given this careful thought. I cant specifically ask the new owners of the debt to 
remove the default because my decision isnt about them. Its about Sainsburys. I also cant 
give Sainsburys a deadline by which they have to comply because they will need to work 
with the new owners of the debt, and there is no guarantee how quickly this can be done. 
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint as Im of the view Mr Cs account was unfairly defaulted. 
Sainsburys Bank plc should take the following steps to put things right: 
1. Remove from Mr Cs credit file the April 2019 default and any missed 
payments recorded between January and June 2019.
2. If Sainsburys cant carry out the actions under point one, it must notify the 
new owner of the debt that the default in April 2019 and missed payments 
between January and June 2019 should never have been recorded on Mr Cs 
credit file.
3. Provide Mr C with a copy of the letter notifying the new owner should he need 
to contact them about the matter.
4. Amend their own records to remove any reference to the default and missed 
payments.
5. Refund Mr C with any additional charges and interest that were added 
because of missed payments between January 2019 and June 2019.
6. Pay Mr C £150 to recognise the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman