DRN-2570651
The complaint
Mr I says Provident Personal Credit Limited trading as Satsuma didnt properly administer 
his request to cancel his loan. He says he was told when he started the loan that he could 
cancel it within two weeks of the start period at minimal cost. But when he tried to do this, he 
found it difficult to contact Satsuma so he couldnt do this. He paid an increased amount to 
settle the loan. 
And when he had repaid the loan in full it still appeared on his credit file and Satsuma was 
still requesting repayments. He says that this affected his credit rating and sorting it out was 
problematic and expensive as he was overseas. 
What happened
This complaint is about one instalment loan Satsuma provided to Mr I on 28 May 2019. Mr I 
borrowed £750. He says that he intended to repay the loan within two weeks so it would be 
considered as cancelled. He says Satsuma told him he would pay around £2 interest a day if 
he did this. He says he was also told he could repay the loan online.
Mr I says he had the funds to repay the loan on 10 June 2019. But he says there was no 
option to withdraw from the loan online. Satsuma later confirmed the loan needs to be 
cancelled either in writing or over the telephone. 
Mr I says that when he tried to call Satsuma he was put on hold for long periods of time. 
Because of this, he says he wasnt able to speak to someone at Satsuma until 12 June 
2019, which was one day outside of the 14 day withdrawal period. Because of this he now 
needed to pay an early settlement balance of £963 by 12 July 2019 to surrender the loan. Mr 
I paid this amount on 9 July 2019. 
Satsuma failed to mark the loan as fully repaid on his credit file. Mr I received repayment 
reminders over the coming weeks until this was rectified on 23 August 2019. Mr I needed to 
contact Satsuma about this a number of times. He says this was not always straightforward 
as he was overseas during this period of time. 
Mr I then made his complaint to Satsuma and it partly upheld it. It didnt think it acted 
wrongly in respect of when Mr I contacted it to withdraw or surrender the loan. But it did think 
it should have marked Mr Is loan as repaid and it offered £50 compensation for the 
inconvenience putting this right caused Mr I. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He didnt think Provident was wholly 
responsible for Mr I not contacting Satsuma within 14 days. And he wasnt persuaded that 
this situation had materially affected his credit standing. This is because there was no 
adverse information about this loan on his credit file and the Satsuma loan was shown as 
being repaid early. 
But he did think that Mr I had been unnecessarily inconvenienced by Satsuma not marking 
his loan as repaid. He thought a further £50 was reasonable compensation for this. Making 
the total compensation award £100. 
Mr I disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. He said that:
Satsuma made it too difficult to withdraw from the loan
the loan not showing as surrendered over July and August did affect his credit rating
he wanted compensation for the increased surrender value he paid and his overall 
costs were £319. And he thought he should receive further compensation for the 
trouble and upset this matter caused him. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending  including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. Applying this to 
the circumstances of this particular complaint, I have reached the same outcome as our 
adjudicator, for essentially the same reasons.
I can see that Mr I did intend to withdraw from the loan in June 2020. I havent been able to 
fully consider if he was, or wasnt told, that he could withdraw from the loan online. But in 
any event he did become aware that he would need to contact Satsuma by telephone (or in 
writing) if he wanted to cancel the loan. And he took steps to do this.  
Its clear Mr I had difficulty in doing this. This was partly due to him having to wait to be able 
to speak to someone at Satsuma. But it also seems reasonable to say that this was because 
Mr I was only able to make calls at certain times of the day, or for shorter times. And whilst 
this is unfortunate, and I dont think its reasonable to say that Satsuma being busy 
prevented him from cancelling the loan, or was the only reason this didnt happen. So, Im 
not upholding this part of Mr Is complaint
Mr I also says that his credit rating was affected by this, and the loan staying in force for 
longer than intended. But there is no adverse information about this loan on his credit file. He 
says that another business reduced his credit limit on a credit card. But third party credit 
decisions can be made for a large number of reasons. And Ive no way of knowing, with any 
degree of certainty, that this was solely due to the situation with the Satsuma loan. Or any 
number of other factors. 
I accept that this caused Mr I some inconvenience. That said, it is reasonable to say that 
sometimes things do go wrong. And whilst Satsuma should have done better here when 
Mr I repaid the loan it is fair to say that some inconvenience can be expected when 
problems happen. And Satsuma did put this right reasonably quickly when it found out 
about the mistake.
So having thought about all of the circumstances surrounding this issue I think its 
reasonable that the compensation I should award here is modest. I think the £100 in total 
that the adjudicator recommended is fair.
Putting things rightSatsuma should pay Mr I £100 in total. If it has already paid Mr I £50 it only needs to pay a 
further £50. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I partly uphold Mr Is complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman