DRN-4282120
The complaint
Mrs H complains about how Santander UK Plc dealt with her Individual Savings Account.
What happened
Mrs H says she attended a Santander branch on 20 September 2022 to transfer her two 
existing Individual Savings Accounts (ISA) to it. She says the account was a one-year fixed 
interest rate paying 3% interest but decided a few days later to cancel the transfer. Mrs H 
says she also told her existing ISA providers not to transfer the money and believed 
Santander would not request the money. The money was transferred to Santander. Mrs H 
says she spoke to Santander and was concerned about the tax status of the money. She 
says she instructed Santander to open a new ISA which paid interest at 3.35% but then 
received a letter telling her the account was closed with a cheque for the full balance. Mrs H 
says she spent time speaking to Santander about what took place and was caused distress.
Santander says the money is now in the account paying 3% interest as Mrs H intended. It 
doesnt accept making a mistake.
Mrs H brought her complaint to us, and our investigator didnt think Santander had made a 
mistake. The investigator accepted there may have been some confusion about what took 
place, but the money was now in an ISA.
Mrs H doesnt accept that view and in summary says she told Santander to keep the account 
open and transfer the money to the account paying 3.35% interest which is what she was 
told would happen.
I asked both sides for more information and for Santander to provide the call recordings. It 
has not provided them but says it will pay interest at the higher rate as a gesture of goodwill.
Mrs H says there is now an account paying a higher rate but says her ISA status has not 
been lost.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and said as follows.
I said that I intended to uphold this complaint.
I was satisfied that Mrs H told Santander not to proceed with the ISA transfer. I appreciated 
Santanders systems may have had problems when she called but that is not something I 
could fairly hold Mrs H responsible for and thought she also tried to make sure the transfer 
did not go through. I thought the important point was that Mrs H made clear that although 
she didnt want the transfer to go through, she didnt want her money to lose its ISA status 
and so told Santander to open a new account.
I had no doubt Mrs H was caused distress and inconvenience when Santander told her the 
account had now been closed and sent her cheques for the money. I could see Mrs H spoke 
to Santander about the problem and it seems that it then agreed to open the new ISA paying 
3.35% interest. I didnt think Santander had explained why it didnt transfer Mrs Hs money 
into that new account and I made clear that I hadnt been provided with the telephone call 
recordings to understand exactly what took place.
I said that there is no dispute that Mrs H didnt lose her ISA status, but I was satisfied 
Santander told her that her money would be put into the newer account paying 3.35% 
interest. I could see that Santander fairly agreed as a gesture of goodwill to pay that interest 
rate for the time period and should do from when the account ought to have been opened 
until its expiry. I said I cant fairly order Santander pay interest at the higher rate as Mrs H 
suggests as that (3.35%) is the account, she intended to pay her money into. And I didnt 
think it matters if the previous account no longer exists.
I thought Mrs H was caused distress and inconvenience. And that she would have been 
concerned about her ISA status. I couldnt see any reason why Santander didnt deposit the 
money in the newer account as it appears it said it would. For those reasons I thought Mrs H 
should be paid £100 compensation which I thought fair and reasonable and reflected the fact 
that she didnt lose her ISA status but would have been concerned for some days about it.
I said that Santander should calculate the interest difference from when Mrs H asked it to 
open the new account and it agreed, to the end of the one-year fixed term ISA. It appears 
that date was about 5 October 2022, but no doubt Santander can check its records.
Santander has agreed with my provisional decision and says the interest calculation is 
£241.16.
Mrs H questions why the interest payment is referred to as a gesture of goodwill and says 
the compensation should be about £300.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view that I reached in my provisional 
decision and for the same reasons. I appreciate Mrs Hs point about the term gesture of 
goodwill and make clear I am simply repeating what Santander said about that point. I 
would have ordered that amount be paid if Santander hadnt agreed to pay it. I dont think 
the complaint justifies further compensation.
Putting things right
Santander should pay £100 compensation and the interest payment of £241.16.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Santander UK Plc to pay Mrs H 
£100 compensation and the interest calculation of £241.16.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman