DRN-4023587
The complaint
Mr K1, Mr K2 and Mr K3 run a business, which Ill call B, as a partnership. They have 
complained about Hiscox Insurance Company Limiteds settlement offer in relation to a claim 
for business interruption cover under their business insurance policy. 
Mr K1 has dealt with the complaint on behalf of all three partners throughout, so for ease I 
will therefore just refer to Mr K in this decision.
What happened
Mr K runs a recording studio, which can be used as a rehearsal space and also provides 
production, recording and tuition services. 
In March 2020, Mr K contacted Hiscox to make a claim for business interruption, as a result 
of the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr K said that as a result of the Government restrictions imposed 
in March 2020, it had to close its business from March 2020 to 21 June 2021, which resulted 
in a loss of revenue. 
Hiscox initially refused the claim but reviewed it in light of the Supreme Courts judgment in 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) business interruption insurance test case. The test 
case asked the courts to consider a sample of policy wordings and how they should respond 
to the pandemic. One of the policies considered in this case had the same wording as Mr Ks 
policy with Hiscox. The Supreme Court handed down its judgment in January 2021. 
Hiscox confirmed in July 2021 that it accepted that Mr K was required to close in March 2020 
and therefore that his claim was covered under the policy. Hiscox offered £3,947 in 
settlement of the claim to reflect the losses incurred between March and 4 July 2020, which 
is when it says Mr K could reopen the studio. Hiscox says that on renewal in August 2020 a 
communicable disease exclusion was added to the policy. Which means the later lockdown 
periods (in November 2020 and January 2021 when many non-essential businesses were 
again required to close) were not covered. 
Mr K is very unhappy about this and says it was not able to reopen in July 2020 and the loss 
for the entire 17 month period they had to remain closed was just under £22,000. Mr K has 
made a number of submissions in in support of the complaint. Ive considered everything Mr 
K has said but have summarised the main points below: 
Social distancing rules and other measures imposed by the Government meant he 
was unable to use the premises for the entire period between 23 March 2020 and 21 
June 2021. There is no ventilation in the studio; masks cannot be worn when singing; 
singing was not allowed and social distancing could not be maintained as the 
premises were small. 
The Government restrictions it had to abide by were enforceable by law and 
companies, especially gyms, were prosecuted for not properly maintaining social 
distancing. 
He knows others in the same industry have had their claims paid in full but have 
been unable to give details, as they were required to sign confidentiality agreements. 
He questions whether Hiscox are treating customers the same and whether he is 
being treated unfairly. 
Covid-19 related claims were excluded from the policy at renewal in August 2020 
(which he wasnt aware of at the time) but the key point is that the business suffered 
continuous interruption past 4 July 2020. 
The policy doesnt refer to any mandatory restriction period and he would expect 
cover to continue up to the indemnity period limit of 12 months. 
Hiscox said that the social distancing measures were guidance and did not have the 
necessary force of law or mandatory compliance requirements that The Health Protection 
(Coronavirus, Restrictions) (England) Regulations 2020 (the March Regulations) issued in 
March 2020 had. It also said the guidance about social distancing measures said that it was 
to be adhered to as far as is reasonably practicable meaning that if it was not possible 
businesses were still able to operate. And in any case, they did not amount to an inability to 
use the premises, only a requirement that people behave in a certain way when using them. 
Hicox however offered in June 2022 to pay interest on the settlement it had paid from the 
dates it would have made interim payments if the claim had been accepted at the outset 
(starting in May 2020) to the date it was paid (amounting to a total of £292.23) and £500 
compensation for any distress or inconvenience Mr K might have suffered in relation to the  
claim.
Hiscox also said that it had treated all its customers fairly and but the wording of different 
policies might mean some customers had more cover than others.
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. He did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld, as he was satisfied Hiscox was entitled to limit the indemnity period to March to 4 
July 2020. 
Mr K does not accept the Investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its evident from Mr Ks submissions that the Covid-19 pandemic has had a significant 
financial impact. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why. 
Business insurance policies provide protection for some of the common things which might 
happen to a business. No policy will cover every eventuality however and each policy may 
provide different cover. This is why some other customers, in seemingly similar situations, 
may have different outcomes to their claims. 
I have considered Mr Ks entire policy carefully. The business interruption section of the 
policy provides cover for a number of events, most of which clearly do not apply to the 
circumstances of this claim, as they require damage to the insured premises or property 
nearby. The part of the policy that it was agreed did provide cover for Mr Ks claim is the 
public authority clause.  
Public Authority 
This part of the policy provides cover for business interruption losses caused by: 
your inability to use the insured premises due to restrictions imposed by a public 
authority during the period of insurance following b. an occurrence of any human infectious or human contagious disease, an outbreak 
of which must be notified to the local authority  
The business interruption section of the policy also defines the indemnity period, being the 
period that cover will be provided for, as follows: 
Indemnity period
The period, in months, beginning at the start of the insured damage or insured  
failure or the date of the restriction imposed, and lasting for the period which your 
income is affected as a result of such insured damage, insured failure or restriction, 
but for no longer than the number of months shown in the schedule.
 
The maximum indemnity period is stated as 12 months in the schedule. 
It is clear that Mr K suffered losses beyond 4 July 2020 as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic 
but, in order to determine if Hiscox is responsible for any of those losses, the question for me 
to consider is whether or not Mr K suffered an inability to use the premises after 4 July 2020, 
as a result of restrictions imposed by a public authority.   
The term inability to use in relation to policies with the same wording as Mr Ks was 
considered as part of the FCAs test case. Paragraph 129 of the Supreme Courts judgment 
said: 
The public authority clauses in Hiscox 1-4 (set out at para 111 above) do not cover 
all business interruption due to restrictions imposed by a public authority following 
an occurrence of a notifiable disease. They apply only where the interruption is 
caused by the policyholders inability to use the business premises due to such 
restrictions. 
The court went on to say, at paragraph 136: 
 an inability of use has to be established; not an impairment or hindrance in 
use. 
The court also made it clear that it may be possible for a business to claim for losses that 
arose out of an inability to use its premises for a discrete part of its business activities. As 
such, this policy term would provide cover to a business that had been caused an inability to 
use their insured premises, for all or for a discrete part of its business. 
In my opinion it is clear from the quote above that the court determined that impairment or 
hindrance of use would not be enough to trigger cover under these terms; the inability to use 
the premises, or a discrete part of them, would have to be absolute. 
Hiscox agreed that the March Regulations imposed a restriction on Mr Ks premises that 
meant he was unable to use them from March 2020. From 4 July 2020, many of the 
Government restrictions were lifted and many non-essential businesses and shops, that had 
been required to close in March 2020, were allowed to reopen. I have not seen any evidence 
that businesses such as Mr Ks were not allowed to operate from 4 July 2020.  
I also note that in the second lockdown period in November 2020 the Government made 
clear that recording studios were not required to close. 
There were some other requirements introduced that restricted peoples behaviour, which   
Mr K has detailed such as wearing of masks etc. Even if this did amount to restrictions 
imposed by a public authority, I am not persuaded that they caused an absolute inability to 
use the premises.  Mr K has also referred to the responsibility he would have had to ensure compliance with 
social distancing measures and that he would have faced sanctions for not doing so 
properly. I make no finding on the enforceability of these measures. However, even if they 
were enforceable and Mr K had to change the way the premises were used, I dont think this 
caused an inability to use them. The Supreme Court made clear policies like Mr Ks  provide 
for inability to use only. Therefore, I do not think that Hiscox acted unfairly in limiting the 
cover for the claim to the period March to 4 July 2020.  
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K1, Mr K2 and 
Mr K3 to accept or reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman