DRN-3888505
The complaint
Mr D complains about a fall in the value of his SIPP (self invested personal pension) fund 
following a transfer of servicing to Sandringham Financial Partners Limited (Sandringham). 
Mr D also says Sandringhams charges were higher than hed been paying before the 
transfer. 
What happened
Mr Ds adviser, now with Sandringham, worked for another advisory firm when Mr D became 
a client. The adviser recommended in July 2013 that Mr D transfer several personal 
pensions into a SIPP with AEGON. When the adviser moved to Sandringham in May 2017 
he retained Mr D as a client and arranged for the servicing rights for the SIPP to be 
transferred to Sandringham. Mr D signed the relevant transfer of servicing and agency letter 
on 5 September 2017. I understand that the underlying investment has remained the same 
throughout  the Cirilium Moderate Portfolio (the Fund).  
In February 2020 Mr D told the adviser hed arranged a transfer to a new provider and he no 
longer required the advisers services. The transfer was completed on 6 April 2020. The 
Fund was sold down (encashed) a few days earlier for £174,250.62. 
Mr D later complained, through his representative, to Sandringham. The complaint letter 
said, amongst other things, that after Sandringham had been appointed, Mr Ds pension fund 
had suddenly started to drop in value - from over £220,000 to less than £175,000 in a short 
space of time. Mr D had raised his concerns with the adviser. But he wasnt given any 
reassurance or a plan to rectify the continuing drop in fund value so hed decided to appoint 
a new financial adviser and transfer away from AEGON.  
Mr D held Sandringham and its adviser responsible for the significant drop in the value of his 
pension fund. Mr Ds representative said, prior to transferring the funds, Mr Ds attitude to 
risk was very conservative. Hed been presented with several investment choices for his 
SIPP but had invested as advised. Hed since suffered considerable financial loss. The 
advice hed been given fell short of the relevant legal and regulatory standards and he was 
entitled to compensation. 
In its final response letter dated 13 May 2021 Sandringham didnt uphold the complaint. A 
summary of Mr Ds contact with the adviser was set out. Sandringham said its adviser hadnt 
made any investment recommendations. It had been noted that Mr D was considering 
investing in property and had later confirmed hed bought a buy to let property through a 
limited company set up for that purpose. 
About investment values Sandringham referred to systemic risk and said Mr D had decided 
to transfer (without any advice from Sandringham) at a time which followed the government 
announcement (on 23 March 2020) of a national lockdown which had led to global market 
falls. A performance chart for the Fund showed overall growth but a significant dip around 
the time Mr D decided to move away. That meant the cash value was locked in at a time 
when it was lower than it had previously been. And Mr D wouldnt benefit from any positive 
movements in the fund value after hed transferred.  
Sandringham didnt think there was anything to say that Mr D shouldve been advised earlier 
to use a different investment fund. The Funds performance was acceptable in context and 
Mr Ds circumstances didnt dictate a change. Nor had he expressed any dissatisfaction with 
the Fund, which had shown consistent growth during the period Sandringham was the 
servicing agent. 
The complaint was referred to us. One of our investigators looked into what had happened 
but she didnt think Sandringham needed to do anything. She did say that Sandringham 
hadnt provided us with its file but I think Sandringham had in fact supplied information in 
response to our requests. The investigator agreed with Sandringham that systemic risk was 
responsible for the sudden drop in the Fund value. She said that global stock markets 
started to drop steeply from mid February 2020 in response to the pandemic, which was 
unfortunately around the time Mr D had arranged to transfer. The Fund had dropped in value 
by 16.7% on 23 March 2020, recovering by 8 June 2020. Due to the transfer, Mr D had 
crystallised the loss. 
Mr Ds representative asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman as Mr D 
had confirmed that, if he hadnt been advised to combine all his pensions to transfer, he 
wouldnt have suffered a loss.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All Im considering is a complaint against Sandringham and whether it is responsible for any 
losses Mr D has suffered. Sandringham wont be responsible for anything that happened 
prior to Mr D becoming a client of Sandringham. That was in September 2017 when the 
servicing and agency arrangements were transferred to Sandringham. 
It seems the transfer Mr Ds representative is referring to in response to the investigators 
view was the consolidation of several personal pensions held by Mr D into the AEGON 
SIPP. That was in 2013 and before Mr D became a client, by virtue of his adviser moving 
firms, of Sandringham. So Sandringham wont be responsible for any advice to combine or 
consolidate those personal pensions and transfer them into the AEGON SIPP and any 
losses which Mr D considers hes suffered as a result.  
And, if its the more recent transfer in April 2020, it seems that was Mr Ds own decision and 
reached without any advice from Sandringhams adviser. So again I dont see Sandringham 
will be responsible for any losses Mr D has suffered in consequence of transferring when he 
did. 
I agree with whats been said about how any losses in connection with that transfer arose. 
The timing was unfortunate for Mr D and coincided with severe falls in the markets and 
investment values generally triggered by the pandemic and the UK lockdown. Transferring 
meant that the underlying investments had to be sold and converted into cash. Which, as 
has been pointed out, crystallised the then fund value and any loss at that point. But any loss 
could be made up if the pension fund was reinvested following the transfer, depending on 
what investments were selected and how they performed. 
Looking at the complaint from a wider perspective, Sandringham says Mr D didnt express 
any dissatisfaction with how the Fund was performing. But, from what Mr D says, it seems 
he was unhappy with performance and he raised that with the adviser but didnt get the 
response he expected. Ive looked at if the Fund was suitable for Mr D. Although Sandringham didnt recommend 
the Fund initially, once Mr D became a client, the adviser shouldve reviewed things at some 
stage to ensure the Fund remained suitable for Mr D. 
But I havent seen anything to suggest the Fund was unsuitable for Mr Ds pension fund. It 
seems to have matched Mr Ds attitude to risk. Although its been suggested he was a low 
risk or very cautious investor, from what Ive seen, Mr Ds attitude to risk was higher. The 
questionnaire he completed in early 2018 indicated he was a Medium High risk investor but, 
after discussion, that was revised to Medium. I havent seen anything to suggest that taking 
a medium degree of investment risk was inconsistent with his circumstances generally, 
including his age and his investment time horizon. 
I think the Fund was suitable for a medium risk investor. Looking at the Fund fact sheet and 
the asset allocation, it comprises equity (68.20%), fixed income (19.20%), alternatives 
(5.40%), derivatives (5.30%) and cash (1.90%). Thats an up to date breakdown but Id 
assume its fairly representative of the Fund generally and over the period of Mr Ds 
investment. Its in line with what Id expect for a moderate or medium risk fund. 
And, overall, Mr Ds fund value increased. Sandringham has pointed to an increase of 
£26,131.76, some of which could be attributed to regular contributions being paid into the 
plan, but still representing growth of some 19%. From the figures given the Fund has shown 
fairly consistent growth during the period Sandringham was the servicing agent for the SIPP.  
I dont think Sandringham is responsible for any investment losses Mr D has sustained. 
Charges have also been mentioned  its been suggested that Sandringhams ongoing fees 
were more than Mr D had previously been paying. But Sandringham has confirmed its 
charges remain unchanged from those that Mr D was previously paying (0.5% pa) before the 
adviser moved to Sandringham.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and Im not making any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman