DRN-2556092
The complaint
Ms S has complained that Sure Wise Limited mis-sold her a policy for a storage unit.
What happened
Ms S had insurance for storage units that she rented. When Ms S stopped using the 
storage units, she emptied the storage units and realised that a number of items that had 
been stored in them were missing. Ms S made a claim on her insurance policy. The claim 
was turned down because there was no evidence that the theft of the items involved force 
and violence.
Ms S complained to Sure Wise as she said it should have highlighted the exclusion under 
the theft part of the policy and discussed the policy terms with her. When Sure Wise 
replied it said the policy was bought online and all of the terms and conditions were 
available both before and after purchase. There was also a 14 day cooling off period to 
read the documents. Sure Wise confirmed the policy did insure theft but not where there 
was no violent and forcible entry.
Ms S complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said 
she didnt think the policy had been mis-sold or was unsuitable for Ms Ss needs.
As Ms S did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This policy was bought online and was a non-advised sale. This meant that Sure Wise 
needed to provide Ms S with information in order for her to make the decision on 
whether this was the right policy based on her needs.
Sure Wise has explained that the policy terms and conditions were available on the 
website, including before a policy was purchased. It also provided the statement that Ms S 
had to agree to in order to take out the policy, which included:
I understand I have a 14 day cooling off period to check my certificate of insurance 
and refer to the policy wording for full terms and conditions.
So Im satisfied that Sure Wise highlighted the need for Ms S to check the documents 
and that she had a cooling off period.
Ive also looked at the policy wording. In the main policy document, there was a one 
page summary of the policy coverage. This said it provided cover for loss or damage by 
theft or attempted theft and that:
The policy does not cover:

Theft or attempted theft for loss or damage, unless it involves violent and forcible entry to 
or exit from your individual storage unit.
So I think that the policy was clear about what it did and didnt cover.
Ive also read the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID). Im aware that Ms S was 
unhappy about the layout of this document. However, I note that the layout and sections of 
the IPID are specified in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Insurance Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (ICOBS) and describes what must be listed in each section. For the 
restrictions on cover section, this must contain the main exclusions where cover cannot be 
made.
In this particular IPID, it said that theft and attempted theft was covered and also 
said: Are there any restrictions on cover?

Loss or damage by theft unless entry or exit was effected by forcible and violent means.
So, on that basis, I think that the policy included the information that was required and that 
it did this based the relevant industry requirements. I also think the wording of the IPID was 
clear. Sure Wise also said that the full terms and conditions should be read and I think the 
combination of these two documents made it clear that theft wasnt covered unless there 
was forcible and violent entry.
Ive also thought about the exclusion itself. I dont think it is an unusual exclusion in a 
policy. Its purpose is to exclude situations such as where, for example, a policyholder 
hasnt taken basic security measures. An insurer is entitled to limit the risks its prepared to 
cover, which is what it did through this exclusion. So, I dont think that Sure Wise needed to 
specifically highlight this as something that was unusual or untypical of a policy.
So, thinking about all the above, I dont uphold this complaint. I havent seen evidence 
that persuades me that the policy was mis-sold and I dont require Sure Wise to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
Louise OSullivan
 
Ombudsman