DRN-4359008
The complaint
Miss W and Mr W complain that Santander UK Plc failed to refund transactions they didnt 
recognise. 
What happened
As Miss W was primarily involved with the disputed transactions, Ill generally refer to her to 
make reading this decision easier.
Miss W was alerted to unusual activity on the joint account she held with Mr W. Shed 
received three One Time Passcodes (OTPs) relating to transactions being made through the 
account. 
Miss W then went on to her mobile banking app using her registered phone and found that 
three payments had been taken from the account leaving less than a pound balance. Miss W 
asked Santander for a refund because she didnt recognise these payments or authorise 
them. Miss W was told by Santander that the payments were confirmed by the use of OTPs 
sent to her registered device (mobile phone) and because Santander received the 
appropriate response, the payments were completed.
Miss W strongly denied making these payments and complained to Santander about the lack 
of refunds and their treatment of her and Mr W whilst they were trying to deal with the 
situation. Miss W and Mr W explained that theyd had messages from other providers 
including their email provider, that unknown devices had logged into their accounts or 
attempts to obtain private data about them had been attempted.
Santander investigated the complaint and recognised they let both Miss W and Mr W down 
with their service. In their final response, Santander apologised for causing unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience. They credited their account with £40 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Santander didnt accept that theyd made an error concerning the disputed transactions and 
continued to hold both Miss W and Mr W liable for them. Santander said that theyd review 
the complaint again if evidence was obtained showing how their information could have been 
compromised (banking logon details and access to the OTP).
Unhappy with how Santander dealt with their complaint, Miss W and Mr W brought it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review where it was looked into by one of 
our investigators.
Both parties were asked for information about the complaint and Miss W and Mr W provided:
Screenshots showing OTPs and requests to reset passwords. 
Confirmation that their email had been accessed by an unknown device.
Evidence that a different mobile phone number had been associated with one of their 
accounts (not Santander).
Its their case that their account was compromised, and the payments taken from it without 
their permission. Miss W pointed out that the IP address data was different to that usually 
used by them and the device used to make the payments wasnt theirs. They also pointed 
out that this account wasnt used for payments of this sort and that they didnt have any 
relationship with the merchant who received the payments (a betting company). 
Miss W went on to say that her phone was protected by biometrics and a passcode that 
wasnt known to anyone else and her bank account was also protected through biometrics 
(for mobile banking) and a passcode. She said that no one else could have seen her phone 
at the time of the disputed transactions and the OTPs werent given to anyone. She 
confirmed she hadnt been approached to reveal any sensitive information about her 
account. She was genuinely puzzled how these payments could have been allowed to leave 
her account.
Santander provided system data about how the account was operated and the audit of what 
happened at the time of the disputed transactions. In summary this showed that:
A login from the internet was made to the account and re-access requested 
requiring an OTP to be sent to Miss Ws mobile phone, which was successfully 
completed.
Access to Open Banking was provided through a third-party merchant on behalf of 
the betting merchant. This required knowledge of Miss Ws online banking details in 
order to log in to the account.
Additional OTPs were sent to authorise each of the three payments  all to Miss Ws 
mobile phone.
Miss W successfully logged on to her account via her mobile device, shortly after the 
three transactions had been completed.
Theres no explanation how the necessary information and OTPs could have been 
obtained by someone else.
After reviewing the evidence, the investigator recommended no further action be taken by 
Santander and didnt uphold Miss W and Mr Ws complaint. It was commented that:
Miss Ws phone was protected via biometrics and a password which no one else had 
access to. 
No details were shared with anyone else, and they werent written down anywhere.
The OTPs received werent shared with anyone.
The IP address was different to that usually used by Miss W and Mr W, although this 
wasnt conclusive evidence that someone else was responsible.
Miss W was able to successfully log on to her account shortly after the disputed 
transactions were completed using her mobile device which contained the OTPs. 
Theres no explanation how they could have been obtained by anyone else.
Santanders payment of £40 was a fair way to recognise their level of customer 
service experience by Miss W and Mr W.
Both Miss W and Mr W disagreed with the outcome and said that:They reiterated the different IP address and unknown device used to make the 
payments.
They believed the time between the OTP being sent and the authorisation didnt 
allow time for the messages to be read and checked.
Evidence was supplied showing unauthorised access to their accounts (email and 
others).
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has now been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss W and Mr W wanted the issue of the disputed transactions reviewing, so I havent 
further considered the response by Santander to the customer service aspect of the 
complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that Santander can hold Miss W and Mr W liable for the disputed payments 
if the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that they made them or authorised 
them.
 
Santander can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Miss W 
authorised the transactions, but Santander cannot say that the use of internet (open) 
banking conclusively proves that the payments were authorised. 
Unless Santander can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the 
payment or to debit Miss W and Mr Ws account and any such transaction must be regarded 
as unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed 
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools 
issued to Miss W. Ill now need to consider the information provided by both parties to 
determine whether theres sufficient evidence to hold Miss W and Mr W responsible for the 
disputed transactions or not.
The disagreement between the parties centres around whether the joint account was 
compromised by unknown third parties to allow them to make the three disputed 
transactions or whether the evidence points towards Miss W being liable herself.
I recognise the evidence supplied showing other devices (mobile phones) having access to 
their email account and the account of their phone provider. Its apparent that other unknown 
parties were able to access these accounts for a short while before they were secured.
Theres no evidence or explanation about the specific information available from these 
accounts, for example what details were kept on them. Neither Miss W nor Mr W have said 
they kept their banking details on these accounts, so its difficult to see how someone could 
obtain the necessary information to enable them to log into the account.
Regarding the OTPs, Im unable to see any explanation how they could have been obtained 
by other parties because they were sent to Miss Ws registered phone and responded to. A 
number of these OTPs were provided, including those that needed extra steps in order to 
log in to the account using the internet.The Open Banking referred to above relates to how access was provided between the 
Santander account and the betting account. This required the private security information for 
Miss Ws account to be entered and permission given to take payments for the betting 
merchant. As Ive already mentioned, I havent seen a plausible explanation how this 
information could have been obtained, despite the evidence of the email breach.
The IP address data referred to in this complaint is different to those addresses usually used 
by Miss W and Mr W. It can be an indicator of misuse, but its also not always conclusive 
and here, there are various addresses scattered throughout the UK which make it difficult to 
establish any particular pattern  one way or the other.
Note: IP addresses are a means to identify physical locations that online transactions are
connected to and can be the actual physical location or other locations connected to the
provider of the data services.
I examined the timing issue mentioned by Miss W and its apparent from the audit 
information that those OTPs (for the disputed transactions) were each responded to. There 
was a gap of between about 40  50 seconds between them being sent and the response 
received by Santander. I dont think this is a particularly unusual time window or noteworthy.  
Ive thought whether Miss Ws phone itself could have been taken over by a third party which 
could account for the OTPs being obtained. But, if that were the case, its unlikely that she 
herself would have continued access, which wasnt the case here because she was able to 
continue to use it and retained access to her account. 
I also considered why an unknown third party would choose to use a betting merchant if they 
had access to the online banking account? Its the case here that in order to give permission 
for Open Banking, the online bank account was accessed using Miss Ws credentials and 
the OTP from her phone. If I accepted that this was done by an unknown third party, Id 
question why they used those funds with a betting company when it would have been fairly 
straight forwards to send them to another type of account where they could take those funds 
and use them rather than gamble with them.
So, I think theres a question why someone would go to the trouble of obtaining Miss Ws 
details and somehow get the OTPs to then use them with a betting merchant, rather than 
take the funds themselves.
Overall, and whilst Im sure that both Miss W and Mr W will disagree with me, I think on 
balance, after an objective review of the evidence, that its more likely than not that Miss W 
was responsible for making these transactions herself or allowing someone else to carry 
them out with her permission. I think it's both fair and reasonable that Santander held them 
liable for the payments and I wont be upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman