DRN-2283129
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R have complained about QIC Europe Ltds decision to decline their claim under
their home insurance policy for storm damage to the exterior and interior of their property.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R contacted QIC to explain that heavy rainfall had damaged a roof covering a
single storey part of their property, causing it to leak. This, in turn, had caused damage
inside their property.
QIC told Mr and Mrs R that the wind speeds which prevailed at the time the damage
occurred were insufficient to meet the policys definition of a storm and there was no cover
under the policy for damage caused by heavy rainfall. In view of this, it said it was declining
the claim.
Mr and Mrs R were unhappy at QICs decision. QIC therefore agreed that a surveyor should
visit the property. The surveyor was of the opinion that the roof, which was under repair at
the time of his visit, hadnt suffered any storm displacement. QIC continued to decline the
claim on the basis that there had been no storm and furthermore the roof didnt display
damage consistent with storm winds. It considered the reason the rain had penetrated the
roof was because the roof was in poor condition due to wear and tear, which meant the
resultant damage was excluded from cover under the policy.
Mr and Mrs R thought QIC had acted unfairly by declining their claim. They referred their
complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint in part. 
My findings were as follows:
QIC has said that, apart from anything else, the claim for storm damage cant succeed
because there was no storm. This is because the policy defines a storm as winds of Force
10 or above which equates to 55mph or above. The weather reports from the time of the
claim show that the windspeed in the area of Mr and Mrs Rs property reached only 17mph.
However, as the investigator has explained, we generally take the view that exceptionally
heavy rainfall in a concentrated period of time can also constitute a storm. Many other
insurance policies generally available on the market include heavy rainfall in their definition
of a storm, so QICs term is unusual. It should therefore have highlighted it to Mr and Mrs R
in the policys key features document. It didnt do this, and so I consider it cant reasonably
rely on the narrow definition to decline the claim.
Mr and Mrs Rs area was subject to up to14.2mm of rainfall in an hour, and 37.6mm in
24 hours, around the time of the claim, which I consider could reasonably be regarded as a
storm. Given that QIC cant rely on its narrow definition of a storm, I consider it is reasonable
to say that a storm took place for the purposes of assessing the claim under the policy.
The next issue to address is whether the damage is consistent with a storm. The investigator
considered that this was the case. QIC disputes this, bearing in mind that the rainfall was not
accompanied by high winds. It says that the roof would be designed to withstand any level of
rainfall.
I tend to agree with QIC. I wouldnt expect a pitched, tiled roof (which this was) to become
damaged by rainfall alone. And even if the windspeed were higher than 17mph (QIC noted
that in the weeks before the claim it had reached a maximum of 31mph), it doesnt appear to
have reached the sort of speed at which a well-maintained roof would be likely to suffer
damage.
Unfortunately, by the time QICs surveyor attended the property, Mr and Mrs R had already
arranged for a roofer to start repairs. The roofer had stripped off the tiles and told the
surveyor he was installing new underfelt because the old underfelt had allowed the water to
ingress. I note that Mr and Mrs R say the roofer was unreliable and that in fact no new
underfelt was installed. Nonetheless, the fact is that by them embarking on repairs in this
way, it wasnt possible for the surveyor (who attended the property just over a week after the
claim had been made) to examine the damage to the roof.
Overall, although the surveyor wasnt able to confirm this due to the repairs having already
been started, I consider it very unlikely that the damage to the roof was suddenly caused by
the storm, bearing in mind that this storm consisted of rain rather than heavy winds.
I consider it far more likely that the roof was already suffering from wear and tear, and that
the storm rain merely highlighted this problem. On this basis, I consider it reasonable for QIC
to decline the claim for damage to the roof on the basis that it was not storm-related but was
instead due to wear and tear.
However, even though QIC may decline the claim for the external damage on the grounds it
was caused by wear and tear, this doesnt necessarily mean it is fair to exclude the claim for
the internal damage on the same basis. In this case, Mr and Mrs Rs lounge ceiling partially
collapsed and the walls suffered water stains. QICs surveyor didnt suggest there was any
indication of internal damage before the storm. This means water apparently wasnt getting
in when rainfall was at normal levels and the damage appears to have been caused by the
sudden ingress of water as a result of the storm event. While the damage to the roof was
probably due to wear and tear, I consider that the proximate cause of the resultant damage
to the interior of the property was the storm. I therefore consider that QIC should fairly
accept the claim for internal damage under the policy cover for storm damage.
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs R accepted my provisional decision in respect of which element of their claim 
should be covered. However, they thought they should also receive compensation for 
distress and inconvenience. This was because they considered that QIC had acted 
unprofessionally in its handling of the claim and had furthermore repeatedly made contact 
with Mr R even after they requested it stop doing so due to the fact hed recently suffered a 
stroke and found such contact stressful. They also said the internal damage was more 
extensive than QIC had implied and they submitted an itemised invoice for the work which 
had been carried out.
QIC didnt accept my provisional decision. It reiterated that the prevailing weather conditions 
at the time of the event did not meet the policys definition of a storm. It agreed that the 
internal damage had been caused by water ingress as a result of the external damage to the 
roof, thus allowing the water to enter the property. However, it therefore reasoned that the 
proximate cause of the internal damage had to be the same as the proximate cause of the 
external damage. Given my provisional ruling that the claim for external storm damage had 
been correctly declined, this meant the claim for internal storm damage must also be declined. And, because Mr and Mrs R didnt have accidental damage cover under their 
buildings policy, there was no other insured peril under which the claim might fall. It therefore 
maintained that the claim for the internal damage wasnt covered under the policy.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While QIC declined the claim in its entirety, I dont consider that it acted unprofessionally. 
I consider it dealt with the claim in a timely way. Furthermore, after Mr and Mrs R were 
unhappy at its initial decision that the claim would be declined because there had been no 
storm, it agreed to send a surveyor to their property which I think was reasonable. I 
appreciate that Mr and Mrs R had to live with internal damage for a time but QIC couldnt 
have set about repairing this in any case until the external damage had been fixed, and the 
external damage was Mr and Mrs Rs responsibility.
With regard to QIC contacting Mr R against the wishes of Mr and Mrs R, this wasnt part of 
the complaint which they referred to this service. They will therefore need to raise this as a 
fresh complaint with QIC in the first instance.
In view of the above, I see no need to make QIC pay compensation to Mr and Mrs R for 
distress and inconvenience.
QIC has argued that the storm definition in its policy wasnt met. However, I have already 
explained in my provisional decision why I consider the policys definition should be 
disregarded and why Im satisfied that, for the purposes of assessing this claim, it should be 
accepted that a storm took place.
QIC has also argued that the proximate cause for the internal and external damage must be 
the same, meaning that the entire claim must be declined. I disagree. It is the longstanding 
position of this service that even if a claim for storm damage to a roof is excluded from cover 
due to the storm merely highlighting an existing defect such as wear and tear, the resulting 
internal damage may still be eligible for cover under the heading of either storm or accidental 
damage. Im satisfied that this is the situation which applies in this case. While the claim for 
the external damage was correctly declined, the claim for the internal damage should 
nonetheless be accepted as the proximate cause of it was the storm; although the roof had 
been suffering wear and tear, the property only became damaged internally during the 
storm. 
Mr and Mrs R have submitted an itemised invoice for the internal work which has been 
carried out which they say was necessary due to the water ingress. I note that this work is 
more extensive than the work which QICs surveyor thought was necessary when he 
attended the property. I cant say whether the additional work which Mr and Mrs Rs 
contractor carried out was necessary due to the ingress of water. I cant therefore award 
Mr and Mrs R a particular sum of money. Instead, QIC will have to assess the claim and 
agree the settlement amount with Mr and Mrs R. I should point out, however, that because 
QIC was wrong to decline the claim for the internal damage and Mr and Mrs R have now 
paid for this work to be done, any settlement should be based on the cost which Mr and 
Mrs R incurred for the eligible work, rather than the amount which QIC might have paid its 
own contractors to do the work.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.I require QIC Europe Ltd to accept Mr and Mrs Rs storm claim for internal damage only and 
to deal with this claim in accordance with the policys remaining terms and conditions but 
subject to my comments above regarding the basis for settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2020. 
David Poley
Ombudsman