DRN-3135537
The complaint
Ms K complains about stock price information she received on a trading platform provided by 
Halifax Share Dealing Limited trading as IWeb Share Dealing (IWeb).
What happened
In March 2020, Ms K invested in some stock. But the trade was executed at a much higher 
price than shed expected to pay. So, Ms K complained that shed been given the stock at an 
incorrect price.
IWeb investigated Ms Ks concerns but didnt agree the price shed brought at was incorrect, 
IWeb said any price quoted prior to the trade is indicative only.
Ms K referred her complaint to our service. She said shed since established the indicative 
exchange rate used on IWebs platform to value existing stock in the same company in GBP 
was unrealistic and last achieved three months prior. As a result, Ms K said she was misled 
by IWeb into proceeding with the order.
One of our investigators looked into things but didnt think IWeb had done anything wrong. 
She thought IWebs terms and conditions explain they cant promise all their information is 
accurate and that investors must satisfy themselves that market information is reliable before 
making any decisions or taking actions based upon it.
Our investigator was satisfied Ms Ks trade was executed at the best price available at the 
time, so she didnt think IWeb needed to do anything to put things right.
Ms K said she accepts the final price she received - including the exchange rate applied - 
was correct. But its the exchange rate IWeb recorded on their platform - and have visible to 
customers - that shes unhappy about. Ms K asked for an ombudsman to review her 
complaint, so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After reviewing the complaint, I didnt agree with our investigator. So I issued a provisional 
decision on 28 October 2021. In this I said:
Ive looked at the information available to Ms K prior to her placing her trade. It would appear 
Ms K has formulated an expectation based on the information shown within the valuation 
screen of her exisiting holdings with IWeb, and then used this to base her expectations as to 
what price she would purchase at when making a new trade.
The valuation screen states 'The latest price is a fifteen-minute delayed mid-price. All non-
UK currencies have been converted to sterling by an indicative foreign exchange rate.'
IWeb say the indicative foreign exchange rate used on the valuation screen for their 
customers exisiting shareholdings is the closing FX rate of the previous days trading.
Ive looked at the closing rate for the day in question and Im unable to see where this was 
the case on the valuations provided. The closing FX rate in question was 1.2951 whereas 
Ms Ks valuation appears to be calculated on a rate of 1.3393.
Ive asked IWeb for an explanation as to why there is such an apparent difference in the 
rates, but their data provider has been unable able to provide historic data therefore IWeb 
have been unable to provide further comment.
The discrepancy in the exchange rate used in IWebs valuation is unreasonable. To be 
indicative, the rate they used to value stock should have been closer to the actual rate that 
would be used when buying stock.
In addition, IWebs disclaimer advising Please note: the information on this page is 
indicative so you should independently check the data before you make an investment 
decision wasnt present when Ms K obtained the valuation. So I can see why she was 
surprised when she didnt get something closer to the valuation she saw. 
In the terms and conditions Ms K signed up to, IWeb say:
We are not responsible for any decision or action that you take or any loss that you 
or anybody else may suffer as a result of a decision or action taken on the basis of market 
information provided by us.
But I dont feel that removes IWebs responsibility to make sure the market information they 
provide is accurate. Here it wasnt accurate, and the discrepancy influenced Ms Ks 
investment decision. 
I understand Ms K wants her trade to be revised to the price she saw when deciding to buy 
the stock, and to be compensated for the distress the matter has caused her, as well as the 
time and effort she's had to spend on it.
My starting point for putting things right is to think about where Ms K would be if the service 
provided by IWeb had been reasonable. In this case, I feel a reasonable service would have 
given Ms K a valuation of her existing stock closer to what she achieved. The share price 
she received on her valuation was never available, so Im not inclined to say she should now 
get a different deal for the stock.
I take the point that Ms K might not have made the purchase, if shed seen a more accurate 
valuation. That would maybe have led to her making a different investment decision. But Im 
not certain what that would have been, or if the investment she would have achieved a better 
 or worse return.
So Im not going to try and compensate for a financial loss in this case. 
But I do appreciate how upsetting this matters been for Ms K. That upset  at not getting the 
deal she thought she was  comes from IWebs poor service. I cant undo that upset, but I 
find it will be suitable for IWeb to pay compensation to Ms K, to recognise the impact on her.
In considering the right amount of compensation to award, Ive thought about what Ms Ks 
said to us and IWeb about her complaint. But Ive also considered that theres no definite 
financial loss, or financial hardship involved in the case. 
With all that in mind, Ive decided £100 will be a fair amount of compensation to award in this 
case. 
As Ive explained above, I think Ms K got the deal she always shouldve got and the stock 
she purchased mayve gone up or down. Im satisfied there is no firm loss here, I dont know 
what return  or loss  Ms K mightve achieved had she invested elsewhere. So I consider 
this amount to fairly compensate her for the poor service shes received.
Neither Ms K nor IWeb agreed with my provisional decision. Ive considered their comments, 
but my decision remains the same. Ill explain why.IWeb point to my acknowledgement Ms K agreed to the conditions of her account, which 
also say market information provided is not guaranteed to be accurate and so should not be 
the sole source of information considered before making an investment decision. They argue 
by going on to say IWeb do have a responsibility to provide accurate data, my decision is 
based upon a contradiction which negates the opportunity for them to limit their liability.
But my role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. The 
conditions IWeb set out also say they use sources they believe are reliable to provide market 
information and they will use all reasonable care and skill to choose that provider. In this 
specific instance the rate that appears to have been used was last achieved some three 
months prior, despite IWeb saying they believe the rate used was the closing FX rate of the 
previous days trading. 
At the time of obtaining her valuation Ms K received a price in GBP and was informed All 
non-UK currencies have been converted to sterling by an indicative foreign exchange rate
So whilst I dont think it wouldve been reasonable for Ms K to have formed the expectation 
shed pay the exact price she received through her valuation, because there was such a 
difference in the rate used compared to the rate achievable that day, I dont find it fair nor 
reasonable for IWeb to say it was an indicative rate used as Ms K was led to believe. 
And it remains, Ms K shouldve received a live disclaimer at the time of obtaining her 
valuation reminding her to independently check the data she was receiving, but she didnt. 
So, I remain of the opinion the service provided by IWeb was not reasonable on this 
occasion.    
Whilst Ms K agrees she paid the actual market price for the stock, she remains of the 
opinion she should be given the purchase price that IWebs systems led her to believe she 
would receive but I dont agree for the reasons Ive previously explained.
Its important to say where I find an error has occurred my role is not to punish a business, 
nor is it to place someone back into a better position than they wouldve been in had the 
error not occurred.
The share price Ms K was led to believe she would receive was never available. Had Ms K 
received a valuation on her existing stock closer to the price she paid I simply dont know 
what impact this wouldve had on the investment decision she mightve made, nor can I say 
if shed have received a better  or worse return.
Because of this, whilst I acknowledge Ms K disagrees, I remain satisfied that £100 is fair 
compensation taking into account the circumstances of this complaint.  
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Halifax Share Dealing 
Limited trading as IWeb Share Dealing to pay Ms K £100 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Halifax Share Dealing Limited trading 
as IWeb Share Dealing.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021. 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman