DRN-3026004
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with what Inter Partner Assistance SA did after he made a claim on his 
travel insurance policy following an accident abroad. 
All references to Inter Partner includes its agents and claims handlers. Mr B is being 
represented by his husband (Mr S) but for ease Ive referred to his submissions as being 
made by Mr B.
What happened
In April 2019 Mr B was on holiday overseas in country A when he was unfortunately involved 
in a road traffic accident and was admitted to hospital. Mr S contacted Inter Partner on 10 
April. It sought information on Mr Bs condition from the treating hospital which said surgery 
was required. Inter Partners medical team advised the same day he should be medically 
evacuated to a nearby country (country B) as he required complex interventions not 
available locally and from a medical perspective this patient must be evacuated ASAP. 
As cover hadnt yet been confirmed for Mr Bs claim Inter Partner asked him to sign a 
disclaimer accepting that as the case was still under investigation then any medical 
expenses would be referred to him if cover was declined. Mr B did so and was medically 
evacuated to country B where the surgery took place on 13 April. On 22 April Inter Partners 
medical team agreed he was fit to fly home with medical support but said a decision on 
cover was still awaited. 
Following further investigation Inter Partner turned the claim down on 29 April. It said this 
was because at the time of the accident Mr B was riding a motorbike which wasnt permitted 
by his licence. It provided support to Mr B to make his own arrangements for a repatriation 
flight and he returned on 10 May and was admitted to an NHS hospital. 
Mr B was unhappy his claim had been turned down and didnt believe he was riding a 
motorbike at the time. He also said if Inter Partner had repatriated him direct to the UK from 
country A or hed been treated there he wouldnt have incurred the medical bills from country 
B. And he disputed that he was in a fit state to sign the disclaimer agreeing to the transfer. 
Our investigator reviewed the evidence and didnt think Inter Partner had unfairly turned 
down Mr Bs claim. She thought the evidence did suggest he was riding a motorbike and that 
he didnt have a valid licence for it. And she didnt think Mr B would have been medically fit 
to return to the UK at the point he was transferred to country B. She listened to the calls 
between him and Inter Partner and thought he was able to understand and agree to the 
disclaimer. It was in any case medically necessary for him to receive treatment in country B. 
Mr B accepted as he couldnt remember the circumstances of the accident he wasnt able to 
dispute what Inter Partner said about this. But he continued to feel he wasnt in a fit state to 
sign the disclaimer. He said if hed stayed in country A he could have been treated there and 
wouldnt have incurred the costs of evacuation to, and treatment costs in, country B. So I 
need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, its clear this has been an extremely distressing experience for both Mr B and Mr S. I 
can see this was a holiday to mark an important anniversary for them and I appreciate that 
will have made Mr Bs accident even more upsetting. I was really sorry to learn about the 
significant injuries Mr B was caused by the accident and the ongoing health problems he still 
has. But the question I need to consider is whether Inter Partner did anything wrong when 
dealing with the claim Mr B made. 
The decision on the claim
Ive thought first about whether Inter Partner was right to turn the claim down. The terms and 
conditions contain general exclusions which say you will not be paid for claims directly or 
indirectly as a result of..
Your injuries caused by Your negligence or failure to follow the laws and regulations of the 
country where You are travelling.
In this case Inter Partner says Mr B was riding a motorbike when he was involved in an 
accident which caused his injuries. And I can see Mr B had hired a motorbike at the time of 
the accident and Ive seen photographs after the accident date which show damage to that 
bike. I appreciate at the time Mr B told Inter Partner that hed been walking (with the owner 
of the villa they were staying in) but because of his injuries Mr B now has no memory of what 
happened. And despite making efforts to do so Inter Partner wasnt able to speak to the villa 
owner.
However, Inter Partner did speak to a witness who said he saw the accident and assisted 
Mr B afterwards. His recollection was that Mr B was riding a motorbike and collided with 
another bike that was overtaking a car coming round a corner. So, although I accept the 
evidence is limited, I think Inter Partner has made adequate inquiries into what happened 
and I dont think it was unreasonable of it to conclude Mr B was riding a motorbike when the 
accident took place. 
It doesnt appear Mr B had a local licence from country A for motorbikes and his UK licence 
doesnt cover him to ride one with this engine size (and even if it did I understand hed have 
needed an international driving permit for this to be valid in country A). So I think Inter 
Partner are right to say he hadnt followed the laws and regulations of country A in respect of 
this. And as his accident (and injuries) were related to this I dont think Inter Partner acted 
unfairly in turning down the claim he made. The handling of the claim
Ive gone on to consider whether Inter Partner did anything wrong in its general handling of 
the claim. It appears to have responded promptly to the initial contact from Mr S and sought 
information from the treating hospital on Mr Bs condition. Theres clear advice from its 
medical advisers that the hospital in country A wasnt able to carry out the surgical 
procedures Mr B required. 
The notes also indicate Mr B wasnt fit to fly home to the UK at that point. I think thats 
supported by the fact that even after his surgery had taken place Mr B was only assessed as 
fit to fly to the UK around a week later. On that basis I dont think Inter Partner did anything 
wrong in recommending Mr B be medically evacuated to country B. 
Mr B says he wasnt in a position to sign the disclaimer Inter Partner sent him at the time. 
Ive reviewed the evidence and I note Inter Partner has provided a medical report which says 
(following a review of his medical notes) that Mr B wasnt neurologically compromised by his 
head injury. However, I appreciate his husband and friends who were there at the time have 
drawn attention to the drugs he was on and say he was confused, distressed, in pain and 
didnt understand what he was being asked to sign. 
But I think the question is whether there was anything that would have reasonably suggested 
to Inter Partner when speaking to Mr B that he wasnt in a position to sign the disclaimer. Ive 
listened to the call he had with Inter Partner and in that he was able to engage with the 
adviser, provide his recollections of what had happened, describe his injuries and ask 
relevant questions about the claim and the reasons why the disclaimer needed to be signed. 
I dont think theres anything in that call which would have reasonably led Inter Partner to 
question whether Mr B was capable of signing the disclaimer. Im also mindful of the fact that 
if hed stayed in country A the medical advice was that the hospital there wasnt able to carry 
out the surgery he required. I note during the call Mr B expressed particular concern about 
the treatment he was receiving in hospital in country A. So that does suggest remaining 
there could have led to a worse clinical outcome than was achieved from the successful 
surgery in country B. 
Ive also considered whether there was any delay by Inter Partner in reaching a decision on 
Mr Bs claim. I note in particular that after his surgery took place he was assessed as fit to fly 
(with medical team escort) from 22 April. I appreciate that staying in hospital in country B 
after that date increased the medical costs for which hes now responsible.  
But I think it was reasonable of Inter Partner to carry out investigations into whether the 
claim was in fact covered before progressing matters further. And I can see those 
investigations included gathering evidence from country A (such as finding the hire 
agreement for his motorbike) as well as speaking to a number of witnesses in country A 
about how the accident had taken place. 
I dont think there was any significant or avoidable delays in those investigations being 
progressed or a decision then being reached on the claim. And I think Inter Partner told Mr B 
as soon as it was in a position to do so that cover for his claim was being declined. So I dont 
think it has done anything wrong here. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 James Park
Ombudsman