DRN-1489325
 
The complaint
Mr Q complains about charges he incurred when he transferred money from his account with 
HSBC UK Bank Plc. 
What happened
Mr Q says HSBC advertised that international payments made through on-line banking 
would cost only £4.
When he made a transfer on-line from his HSBC current account it cost him more than that. 
He says he incurred costs of £4 plus $25.
Mr Q complained to HSBC who told him the $25 charge had been levied by another bank 
who'd acted as an intermediary in the transaction. They said this was outside their control 
and they'd not made any error.
Mr Q wasn't happy with this outcome and complained to us. Our investigator looked into it 
and didn't think HSBC had done anything wrong. 
Mr Q disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC's website - and marketing material - suggest customers can send payments on-line 
for a £4 fee. The operative word is "send".
Mr Q transferred a payment in dollars to another account in his own name. HSBC charged 
him £4 as the customer sending the money out of their account. Which is what their website 
says they will do.
There are two things which make this more complicated.
First, Mr Q was also the recipient of the transfer - which was made to another account in his 
name. And HSBC don't make any promises about what the recipient might be charged by 
third parties - either by the recipient's own bank or by an intermediary bank.
They make this clear in the terms and conditions of the account. And when a transfer is 
made on-line, it's also made absolutely clear that there may be charges for the recipient. 
Indeed, before the on-line transfer can be confirmed, a pop-up box asks whether the person 
transferring the money wants to pay the HSBC fee (the £4) only, or whether they'd like to 
cover the fees which might be levied on the recipient too, or whether they'd like the recipient 
to cover all fees.Second, because Mr Q was transferring an amount in US dollars, US rules require the 
money to be diverted through a US bank. In this case - where the money was coming back 
out of the US - that means a US bank has to act as an intermediary. And in this case, the US 
bank took a fee of $25 for that service.
I'm satisfied HSBC couldn't do anything about that. And I'm satisfied their on-line payment 
process was absolutely clear - before Mr Q committed to sending the money - that other fees 
might be imposed by intermediary or recipient banks.
In short, Mr Q paid a £4 fee to HSBC for transferring the money from his current account 
with them. Which is what their publicity material says customers will pay to make a transfer 
of money out of an account. 
And he paid a $25 fee as the recipient of the money into his other account. Which was 
nothing to do with HSBC as the providers of the current account from which the money was 
transferred.
So, I can't see that HSBC have acted in any way unfairly or unreasonably in this case. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I don't uphold Mr Q's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2020.
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman