DRN-3294740
The complaint
Miss D complains charges unfairly applied to her account by Lloyds Bank PLC led to a
County Court Judgement (CCJ) being obtained in her name.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Miss D opened a student account with Lloyds in 2009. The overdraft limit was initially £500 
but later increased to £2,000. The student account shouldve been administered by Lloyds 
without charges.
Lloyds has confirmed that despite having a student account, fees and charges were 
incorrectly applied to Miss Ds account. And Lloyds accepts that the charges formed party of 
Miss Ds outstanding balance. Lloyds also accepts later charges (it says were correctly 
applied) may not have been incurred if her account had been correctly administered as fee 
free.
In 2013 Miss Ds account was closed and a default recorded on her credit file. Lloyds later 
sold the debt to a third party which successfully obtained a CCJ in Miss Ds name.
In 2019 Lloyds reviewed Miss Ds account and refunded a small amount of charges. Miss D 
went on to raise a complaint about the way her account had been handled by Lloyds and it 
issued a final response. Lloyds explained that, on review, it had found Miss Ds student 
account had been incorrectly charged as set out above.
Lloyds upheld Miss Ds complaint and took the following steps to try and resolve it:
- Arranged with new debt owner to have the CCJ removed from Miss Ds credit file
- Bought the debt back from new debt owner
- Refunded charges to the outstanding balance totalling £435.90
- Offered Miss D £450 for the distress and inconvenience caused
Miss D didnt accept Lloyds offer and referred her complaint to this service. An investigator 
looked at Miss Ds case but thought Lloyds had dealt with it fairly and didnt ask it to take any 
further action. Miss D asked to appeal and said the £450 compensation didnt reflect the 
difficulties caused by Lloyds error over the years. Miss D has explained she had an 
unnecessary default then CCJ on her credit file which has impacted her finances for many 
years and led to significant difficulties. As Miss D asked to appeal, her complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief in setting out the background above as all parties broadly agree 
concerning the timeline for Miss Ds complaint. And Lloyds accepts it incorrectly charged 
Miss D when her student account shouldve been administered on a fee free basis. Lloyds 
final response and complaint notes also accept the fees it incorrectly applied contributed to 
the overall position of Miss Ds account and the ultimate necessity to close it and take further 
action.
Ive looked at all the available information, I agree the way Lloyds says it applied fees had an 
unfair impact on Miss D and that incorrectly increased her account balance. Lloyds accepts 
the fees were, in part, responsible for the decision to close the account and record a default. 
And Lloyds accepts it may have been possible to deal with the overdraft before it reached 
the need to close and default. That, in turn, led to the CCJ being obtained by the new debt 
owner.
Im pleased that Lloyds bought the account back and took steps to ensure the new debt 
owner removed the CCJ from Miss Ds credit file. I can also see that Lloyds has refunded the 
fees that were incorrectly applied, totalling £435.90. Lloyds says the fees were refunded to 
the outstanding balance. Whilst I havent seen anything that shows Lloyds is actively seeking 
to collect the remaining balance from Miss D, I havent seen anything that confirms its been
written off either.
Given the timeline in this case and overall circumstances Miss D has raised, I think the 
fairest approach would be for Lloyds to ensure she isnt pursued for any remaining balance 
owed.
Ive reviewed Lloyds Recoveries notes. I think its important to highlight it was aware Miss D 
had concerns about the interest and charges applied to her account going back to 2013. Its 
diary entry from 23 August 2013 says Miss D had raised concerns about fees and been 
asked to provide information to show shed been incorrectly charged. But, I think Lloyds (as 
the bank account provider) shouldve been able to demonstrate it had acted in line with the 
account terms and applied charges correctly when Miss D raised her concerns. Its unclear 
why Lloyds asked Miss D to provide evidence instead  it was able to review her account 
after she complained more recently. Had Lloyds looked into Miss Ds concerns at the time 
and applied the refund its recently made, its possible Miss D wouldnt have had a CCJ 
recorded against her.
Miss D has given us details concerning the overall impact of Lloyds error. She says the 
default and following CCJ have caused lots of problems and significant financial hardship. 
Miss D says shes only been able to obtain high cost credit and that her finances have been 
severely affected for around a decade. Thats caused problems obtaining high street credit 
and housing for a period of around a decade.
Miss D has also told us the situation has caused a substantial amount of distress. Miss D 
has explained she thought her actions had led to the account being closed and subsequent 
CCJ which caused a large amount of upset. Miss D further says this was made worse after 
finding out the default and CCJ were unfairly obtained following errors by Lloyds.
Miss D says the £450 compensation offered by Lloyds doesnt reflect the impact of its error 
and I agree.
Ive considered how to fairly resolve Miss Ds complaint. I dont doubt that the default and 
CCJ obtained in relation to her student account have impacted her over the years. I agree 
that £450 doesnt fairly reflect the significant level of distress and inconvenience caused to 
Miss D. In my view, the compensation should be substantially increased to take into account 
the long-standing nature of the issues raised and the seriousness of the impact on Miss D. And, as Ive said above, I can see Miss D unsuccessfully tried to raise her concerns about 
fees and charges applied to her overdraft in 2013 but wasnt assisted by Lloyds. Im satisfied
that added to the level of upset caused to Miss D in this case.
Based on the information Ive seen, I intend to uphold Miss Ds complaint and increase the 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to £1,500. I think that figure more 
fairly reflects what happened and how Miss D was affected over the years.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments or information they wanted 
me to consider before I made my final decision. Lloyds confirmed it accepted. Miss D 
responded in detail and explained she felt the compensation should be substantially 
increased to take into account her consequential losses. Miss D also provided a detailed 
explanation about how the issues raised had impacted her. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Miss D for the level of detail shes given us in her response. Im not going to 
respond to each and every point made. If I dont refer to a point Miss D has made in the 
response, it isnt because I havent considered it. I have. But my decision will focus on what I 
feel are the key issues of Miss Ds case. My approach is in line with the informal nature of 
this service and no discourtesy is intended. 
Ive reviewed the additional background information Miss D has given. I can see this adds 
more detail to what Miss Ds already said and includes more information about the fees and 
charges applied to her student account. As I said in my provisional decision, the account in 
question shouldve been free for Miss D. I understand Lloyds applied interest and charges 
that formed part of the debt and added to Miss Ds overall hardship. But I need to take into 
account that those additions will be refunded to the account if Miss D accepts the decision. 
In addition, in my provisional decision I said that Lloyds should confirm it wont chase Miss D 
for the remaining balance. Whilst I agree that Lloyds significantly added to Miss Ds 
hardship, I also have to take into account the majority of the funds remaining willve been 
used by her when the account was open. When considering how to resolve Miss Ds case, I 
wanted to ensure she could draw a line under the matter without fear of Lloyds contacting 
her to request payment again in the future. Lloyds has confirmed it wont chase Miss D going 
forward if she accepts. 
Miss D has provided detailed private information about her health and how its been 
impacted over the years. Again, this is in line with what Miss D told us during the 
investigation but adds detail. I dont doubt what Miss D has told us and its certainly backed 
up by the information provided. In my provisional decision I awarded £1,500 for the 
significant level of distress and inconvenience caused to Miss D in the years that have 
followed. The award sought to recognise the seriousness of the situation and how it 
impacted Miss D. In reaching my final decision, Ive reviewed the whole file again in addition 
to the information Miss D has recently sent. I remain of the view that £1,500 is a fair level of 
compensation and takes into account how the issues raised have affected Miss D.
Miss D has also sent in copies of credit agreements that show shes paid high interest rates 
over the years. Miss D has told us this was the result of Lloyds actions and the CCJ that was 
obtained. Whilst I accept Lloyds actions willve made it harder for Miss D to obtain credit at 
lower interest rates, the credit agreements alone dont show the basis on which each of the lenders considered the applications. And because of the passage of time since the CCJ was 
recorded, the information that wouldve shown on Miss Ds credit file has now dropped off.
I think its reasonable to say that there are a range of factors lenders take into account when 
assessing an application. Im very sorry to disappoint Miss D but I dont think its possible to 
verify whether it was solely Lloyds actions that led to the higher interest rates and costs 
shes provided examples of. I know Miss D wants me to increase the award to cover the 
higher interest rates and costs shes told us about, but I havent found grounds to do so.
It's clear that the CCJ and issues raised by Miss D have had a substantial impact. And whilst 
I havent been persuaded to increase the award further I dont seek to minimise the impact 
on Miss D over the years. But having considered all the available information, I remain of the 
view that the settlement I set out in my provisional decision is the fairest way to resolve 
Miss Ds complaint. As a result, Im going to proceed and uphold Miss Ds in line with my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Miss Ds complaint and direct Lloyds Bank PLC to settle as 
follows: 
- Refund interest and charges totalling £435.90 to the outstanding balance
- Confirm Lloyds will not pursue Miss D for the outstanding balance
- Pay Miss D £1,500 for the distress and inconvenience caused by its actions
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman