DRN-3603189
The complaint
Mr A complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) unfairly closed his 
account.
What happened
Mr A opened a personal account with Amex and after several months he was told the
account was being reviewed. Amex suspended it while they carried out the review and
asked Mr A to supply information about another account he held. Mr A supplied this
information and after Amex completed their review, they notified Mr A they were closing his
account immediately.
At the time, Mr As account didnt hold any balance, so Amex refunded (on a pro rata basis)
Mr As membership fee and closed the account. Mr A complained to Amex about the closure
and was critical of the lack of response from them when he was expecting a call back. Amex
accepted theyd failed to contact Mr A when theyd indicated they would and credited £75.00
to him for the poor service. But, Amex didnt accept theyd closed the account unfairly.
Mr A also held a business account with Amex which is subject to a separate complaint.
Mr A was unhappy with how Amex had handled his situation and brought a complaint to the
Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review. It was looked into by one of our
adjudicators who asked for information from both parties about the complaint. Mr A
explained what had happened and couldnt understand why his account had been closed, he
believed that the closure had affected his ability to obtain other financial products and was
unhappy about the way Amex had handled the complaint.
Amex supplied details of their internal review and the information theyd relied on when they
closed the account. During the review process, Amex had learned of information registered
by a different financial business about Mr A. Amex had asked Mr A for supporting
documentation, and when they received it, they werent convinced the information was
genuine. This prompted Amex to issue an immediate notice to close the account.
After reviewing all the evidence, the adjudicator didnt think that Amex had treated Mr A
unfairly and didnt uphold his complaint. Mr A disagreed and asked for a further review of his
complaint, which has been passed to me and I issued a provisional decision where I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My reasoning doesnt differ greatly from that of the adjudicator here, but Im issuing this
provisional decision to separate the two complaints that Mr A now has. This one is
concerned with his personal Amex card and the additional complaint deals with a business
owned by Mr A.
When Amex received reports lodged by another financial business, these reports concerned
possible involvement in financial fraud, so its understandable that Amex would carry out
such a review. Amex have an obligation to look into such reports and decide if they wish to
continue to offer their services to Mr A. The terms of the account allow such a review to take
place, including its suspension whilst the review is completed.
Information supplied by Mr A during the review process was primarily linked to his business,
the assessment of that information convinced Amex that the information wasnt genuine.
This prompted Amex to rely on the terms and conditions associated with the account to
close it immediately. Amex believed Mr A had provided them with false or misleading
information.
Ordinarily, Amex would have been required to issue Mr A with a two-month notice to close
the account, but because they believed hed given them false or misleading information, the
notice to close was immediate.
I asked Mr A to provide the details of the information passed to Amex. These were
statements he held with another financial business  Ill refer to them as J. They were asked
about the statements which they later confirmed were genuine.
The closure of an account is something that either party can choose to do. For Amex, its a
commercial decision and here they decided, based on information theyd received, that they
were going to close the account. I dont think this was an unreasonable decision for them to
take and was in line with the terms of the account.
Whilst I think it was reasonable for Amex to close the account based on the financial
information theyd received, I think that theres an argument here, based on the terms of the
account closure, that Mr A should have been provided with notice, rather than be faced with
the immediate closure of his account.
But, I have to consider the situation as a whole and whilst I think that Amex should have
provided the usual notice to Mr A, I dont think that this would have changed the outcome.
Thats because the account had a zero balance (so Mr A didnt have an outstanding debt to
Amex), Amex refunded the membership fee (on a pro-rata basis) and the account was
suspended. So, even if Amex had given the notice, I think it unlikely that they would have
lifted the suspension and allowed further payments to be made against the account.
I understand Mr A believed hed been prevented from accessing other financial products as
a result of Amexs actions, but they confirmed they hadnt lodged any fraud markers against
him. Its unlikely that Amexs actions would have been responsible for any other issues
experienced by Mr A, particularly when there were fraud markers already lodged by another
business. I recognise that Mr A thinks that these markers are incorrect, but as far as Amex
were concerned at the time, they were entitled to rely on the information to inform their
position on whether to continue to offer Mr A financial services.
Overall, I think that Amex acted fairly when they decided to close the account but could have
issued the appropriate notice to Mr A because he hadnt given them false or misleading
information. But, my current thinking is that I dont think that would have changed the
situation for Mr A as it would likely have resulted in the continued suspension of the account
whilst the notice period was run down. Essentially, all that would have been different was the
date of the closure. There was no substantive impact on Mr A once Amex suspended the
account.
I think that Amex made a fair offer of compensation for their customer service issues, the
£75 was in recognition of a failed call back and I dont think this warrants any further
payment.I invited Mr A and Amex to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to
consider before issuing my final decision. Amex didnt have anything further to add and in 
summary Mr A said:
he believed the error made by Amex when they reviewed his documents influenced 
the closure of the account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as neither party had anything that would change my opinion, I see no 
reason to reach a different conclusion. So, this final decision confirms the findings set out in 
my provisional decision. 
I considered the additional point made by Mr A in his response. Essentially he argues that 
had Amex not misidentified the additional evidence, the eventual closure of the account may 
not have happened. 
The evidence, which Ive already discussed, shows that the review started due to external 
information regarding Mr A. I think it likely that this, on its own, would have resulted in the 
closure of the account. The additional, albeit incorrect, assessment of the evidence resulted 
in the use by Amex, of the immediate closure terms laid out in the agreement.
The assessment of that additional information may well have confirmed what Amex were 
already considering, but I think the only additional impact was the immediate closure as 
opposed to Amex reaching a wholly different decision.
Considering the type of information that Amex had received, I think it unlikely they would 
have continued their relationship with Mr A  although I accept that hes challenging the 
accuracy of those reports in a separate complaint, which is the proper place for them to be 
considered. I do recognise that Mr A feels strongly that its unfair his account was closed 
because of them. But, I dont think it was unreasonable for Amex to rely on the content of 
those reports to make their decision to close the account. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman