DRN-3625886
The complaint
Mr N complains about actions taken by Saxo Capital Markets UK Limited (Saxo) on his CFD 
account. He complains that Saxo didnt allow him to receive a scrip dividend in shares 
instead of cash. And he complains that Saxo closed all of his open positions after a margin 
call, when it ought to have only closed a small number of his trades. He says if it had done 
so hed have lost less money.
What happened
Mr N held a range of CFD positions in his account with Saxo. In November 2020 these 
included a long position based on the price of a share Ill call A. The company A announced 
a dividend which shareholders could elect to receive as a scrip dividend (which meant being 
allocated more shares) or as cash. Mr N wrote to Saxo to say he wanted to take up the scrip 
dividend on his holding. 
Saxo explained to Mr N that it didnt offer scrip dividends for holders of CFDs, and it simply 
paid him the cash dividend as a credit to his account. 
Around the same time Mr N exchanged emails with his account manager at Saxo, which 
included Saxo offering a partial stop out facility  which it said meant if Mr N reached 100% 
Margin Utilisation on his account, initially Saxo would only close a small portion of his open 
positions, rather than its usual practice of closing all of a clients trades. Mr N asked to make 
use of this facility.
Just under a month later, at the start of the trading day Mr Ns positions moved against him. 
He tried to close some trades to keep his Margin Utilisation under 100% but wasnt able to 
do so. His account breached the 100% level and Saxo closed all Mr Ns open positions, 
crystallising a large loss.
Mr N complained, saying that under the partial stop out option hed signed up for, Saxo 
should only have closed a few of his positions. He said if had done that, the market soon 
moved in his favour and hed have suffered much lower losses.
Saxo didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said Mr N hadnt been moved to the partial 
stop out profile, and that because it hadnt confirmed the change, Mr N should have known it 
hadnt happened and it was his responsibility to manage his positions. Mr N then brought his 
complaint to our service.
Saxo continued to say it shouldnt be held responsible for any losses Mr N suffered. 
Although it did acknowledge it hadnt moved Mr N to the partial stop out profile when he 
asked, and offered to pay him £1,000 to say sorry.
Our investigator gave an initial assessment of the matter. She thought it was reasonable for 
Saxo not to have allowed Mr N to receive a scrip dividend, and Saxo explained on its 
website it didnt offer that facility for CFD positions.
Regarding the margin call, the investigator said Saxo should have actioned Mr Ns request to 
change profiles. She said it should compensate him if hed suffered a loss by not having his 
account subject to a partial close out.
Saxo reiterated its position that it didnt need to have carried out a partial close out. It said 
the overall account terms, and the terms of the partial stop out facility, say that Saxo can still 
close all open trades when Margin Utilisation breaches 100%.
It went on to say that it had nevertheless carried out an analysis of what would have 
happened had Mr Ns account been subject to the partial stop out profile. It explained its 
algorithm would have closed small portions of Mr Ns holdings to reduce his margin 
utilisation. But it explained that given the market conditions at the time, Mr N would have 
experienced 6 consecutive partial stop outs in a very short space of time  because after 
each one his margin utilisation would quickly have exceeded 100% again. And it went on to 
say that the way its partial stop out profile worked was that the sixth close out would have 
been a full closure of all Mr Ns remaining open positions.
Saxo provided data to show that in its view, had Mr Ns positions been dealt with in this way, 
not only would all his trades have still ended up being closed a few minutes after they were, 
but that his overall losses would have been a few thousand pounds more. So Saxo argued 
that Mr N had in fact not been disadvantaged by the fact his account hadnt had a partial 
close out.
Our investigator issued another assessment. She said she was now persuaded that Mr N 
hadnt suffered a financial loss by being deprived of the partial close out facility. So she 
didnt think Saxo needed to do anything further.  But she noted Saxos offer to Mr N to pay 
him £1,000 to settle things remained available.
Mr N didnt agree with the investigators conclusions and asked for an ombudsman to decide 
the matter. In summary, he said that Saxos explanation of what would have happened 
under a partial stop out was wrong. He said that the orders Saxo placed in order to fully 
close all his positions distorted the market. He said had it closed smaller amounts the market 
wouldnt have fallen as far, and so he wouldnt have repeatedly experienced margin 
utilisation over 100% - and all of his trades wouldnt have been closed.
As the investigator wasnt persuaded to change her mind the complaints been passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two distinct issues here. Ill first address the scrip dividends part of Mr Ns 
complaint. Mr N held a long position in A, but he didnt hold A shares themselves. His CFD 
was a bilateral contract between him and Saxo whose value was linked to the share price of 
A. This didnt confer any rights of share ownership of A onto Mr N. I would of course expect 
the value of Saxos CFD to reflect any changes in the value of the underlying quantity of 
shares  whether that be through market movements or corporate actions. But I dont think 
holding the CFD meant Mr N had any right to expect to choose what ought to be done as a 
result of a corporate action on A shares where there were different options. I say this 
whether or not Saxo had in fact bought A shares to hedge its own exposure to Mr Ns CFD. 
Any such shares it held werent something Mr N had any rights or direct interest in.
Here, Saxo has explained that in circumstances where underlying shareholders are entitled 
to allotments of shares (such as in a scrip dividend) it will simply credit accounts with the cash equivalent. I dont think thats unreasonable. Mr N wasnt deprived of the economic 
impact of the corporate action in the sense that it affected the value of his CFD derived from 
the value of the A shares. And I note that Saxo makes the fact it will apportion cash in the 
event of a scrip dividend clear on its website. So in this matter I dont find Saxo to have 
acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr N, and dont require it to do anything.
I now turn to the margin call Mr N experienced in late 2020 and the way Saxo closed his 
positions.
Its common ground between the parties that Mr N had to maintain a margin requirement on 
his account, subject to the Margin Utilisation limit Saxo set out on its website, which was 
100%. In other words, the value of Mr Ns account (made up of cash and the running profit or 
loss on open positions) needed to remain at or above the level of margin required to support 
his open positions. The mechanism of this, or the values ascribed to Mr Ns account and the 
required margin calculations, arent in dispute.
Whats in dispute is the type of action Saxo ought to have taken once Mr Ns margin 
utilisation breached 100% on the day in question. Mr N argues it ought to have applied a 
partial close out policy hed signed up for.
Saxo does seem to acknowledge it was an error that Mr Ns request to have the partial close 
out policy applied to his account wasnt actioned. It said Mr N filled in the required form but 
it was not picked up by his relationship manager and applied to his account. It doesnt 
seem to have argued there was a question about whether it would have been applied had it 
been picked up. 
Saxo has instead argued that the overall account terms gave it the discretion to close all of 
Mr Ns trades in a margin call situation, and that in any event the terms of the partial close 
out policy say that Saxo retains the right to close all margin positions fully. It therefore 
argues it has acted within the scope of its contractual discretion to fully close Mr Ns trades 
when his margin utilisation passed 100%.
I dont find these arguments particularly persuasive. By Saxos own admission, it didnt 
exercise any discretion here. It hasnt suggested it thought about whether or not to fully close 
Mr N, and decided that was the right course of action. It simply defaulted to that course 
because it hadnt applied the partial close out policy. As Saxo said itself no decision was 
made to fully stop [Mr N] out. It was an automated process.
Saxo is correct to say that within its terms it explains in a few places that theres a chance a 
clients positions will all be closed in various margin related scenarios. But again these are 
explained at being at Saxos discretion. Of particular relevance I find clause 12.8 of the 
terms which say that:
Unless otherwise agreed in writing, the Client acknowledges that [] Saxo Markets may 
initiate, on the Clients behalf, compulsory close-out of any and all open Margined positions 
when the level of Margin Utilisation for the Account reaches or breaches the maximum level 
provided on the Website.
Here, I think matters were otherwise agreed in writing. Mr Ns relationship manager had 
emailed him Saxos partial close out policy. And said Currently when you reach 100% 
Margin Utilization all margin positions will be liquidated. If youd like to amend this to scale 
back positions if/when you reach 100%, then please respond to this email stating I have 
read and understood the terms stipulated in the Partial Close out document (attached).
Mr N replied to this email giving the required statement. Im therefore satisfied Saxo had agreed with Mr N, in writing, to take a different course of action under margin breaches. 
The partial close out policy document itself says that If the client has elected that they prefer 
a partial stop-out, then Saxo Bank will employ an algorithm designed to calculate a reduction 
percentage [] Once the calculation is complete, the system will place orders to reduce all 
net margin positions.
As noted above, the policy did reserve Saxos right to close all margin positions. But the 
starting point it gave was that after electing to take up the policy, Saxo will carry out a 
partial close out, rather than a full one. Taking all this together, I find that Saxo had agreed 
with Mr N that it would employ a partial close out in the event of margin breach. It had given 
itself the option of still closing all Mr Ns trades  but this wasnt positioned as the default 
option. I would therefore have expected Saxo to explain why it had deviated from the agreed 
partial close out path. It hasnt done that, its simply said the policy wasnt applied to Mr Ns 
account so he was automatically closed out fully.
It is obviously impossible to say with certainty what would have happened if the policy had 
been correctly applied. I acknowledge there is a possibility Saxo would have applied its 
discretion to still fully close Mr Ns positions. But Ive seen no evidence or arguments as to 
why it would have done so. I therefore find it fair and reasonable to proceed on the basis 
that, but for Saxos error in failing to pick up Mr Ns request, his account would have been 
subject to a partial close out when his margin utilisation breached 100%.
This leads us to the crux of whats in dispute. Saxo has argued, and our investigator agreed, 
that even had the partial close out algorithm been used, Mr N would have been left no better 
off. Its said that all his positions would still have ended up being closed out, and in fact his 
losses would have been slightly larger than they ended up being. To support this Saxo has 
provided a detailed analysis. It has shown what would have happened at each partial close 
out, and how much of the orders would have been filled in the market. Its explained how in 
its view Mr N would have remained above the margin utilisation limit after each close out, 
and that the partial close out algorithm would have then continued to kick in every ten 
seconds until after five attempts it would have fully closed Mr Ns positions on the sixth close 
out.
Mr N has disputed this, saying it was precisely the large orders generated by fully closing his 
positions that have led Saxo to its conclusions. He believes that a partial close out would 
have successfully reduced his margin, while retaining the majority of his positions, which 
would subsequently have moved in his favour and substantially reduced his losses.
Ive considered this very carefully. Its impossible to be completely certain what would have 
happened had events transpired differently. So I have to decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, what I think is more likely than not to have happened.
Ive given weight to Mr Ns arguments. Hes said that it was Saxos own orders to close his 
positions which depressed the market and mean Saxo think hed have remained in breach of 
his margin requirement. In effect, he says without the weight of those orders, his smaller 
partial close orders would have been filled, and the market would have risen, which would 
have negated the need for further close outs.
The market at the time was very illiquid, and Mr Ns positions were large. I can see the way 
these orders could potentially have impacted on the market levels, but I dont agree they 
have likely done so here to the degree its changed what would have happened.
Saxo has provided persuasive evidence that the lack of liquidity was such that even the 
partial close out orders to cut 10% of Mr Ns positions wouldnt have been fully filled. Im persuaded by the analysis it has provided which shows that with even those smaller 
unfulfilled orders in the market, Mr N would have remained in margin deficit for at least the 
60 seconds (six sets of ten) which it would have taken to eventually result in orders to fully 
close his trades. Im mindful that in reality it took around 17 minutes to close all Mr Ns 
trades.
This means that overall, Im satisfied that on the balance of probabilities, even if Mr Ns 
account had been subject to partial close out, within a minute hed have been in the same 
position hes in now in the sense of having had all his trades forcibly closed by Saxo. And 
that it would have been fair and reasonable for Saxo to do that. Im not persuaded Mr N 
would have been any better off financially by having had a partial close out. I also find that 
any distress Mr N suffered as a result of the closure of his positions would have happened 
anyway, and therefore wasnt caused by Saxos failure to apply the partial close out. So it 
follows that I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for Saxo to pay Mr N any 
compensation.
I note that since Mr N brought his complaint to our service, Saxo has offered him £1,000 by 
way of apology. Mr N should contact Saxo directly if he now wishes to accept this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont think Saxo Capital Markets UK Limited needs to do 
anything to settle the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Luke Gordon
Ombudsman