DRN-3921634
The complaint
Mr G and Mr C have complained about the early repayment charge (ERC) on their 
mortgage. Leeds Building Society gave Mr G incorrect information in a phone call about 
when they could remortgage without incurring an ERC, and they say they relied on that 
information to their detriment.
Whilst this was a joint mortgage, this has mainly been dealt with by Mr G as part of his 
intended remortgage was to take the mortgage into his sole name as hed separated from 
Mr C. Any reference to Mr G in this decision should be taken to mean him also acting on 
behalf of Mr C where appropriate.
What happened
Mr G and Mr C took out this mortgage in January 2018. The mortgage offer shows the 
interest rate was fixed until 31 March 2023, and that if the mortgage was repaid before that 
date then an ERC would be charged. That information was repeated in each of the annual 
mortgage statements that were issued.
On 24 May 2022 Mr G phoned Leeds. He was abroad at the time with no access to his 
paperwork and he wanted to know when he could remortgage to a different lender without 
incurring an ERC. He was told that the product came to an end on 31 March 2023, but that 
he could remortgage from 1 January 2023 without incurring an ERC.
Mr G followed up the call with a secure message to confirm that information Im just trying to 
clarify the exact date I could switch my mortgage without having to pay a penalty please?
Leeds responded on 27 May to say that there would be no ERC after 31 March 2023.
There was a further phone call on 1 June in which it was explained that the information given 
on 24 May was incorrect, and there would be an ERC charged if the mortgage was repaid on 
or before 31 March 2023. Mr G said that hed started an application for a new mortgage, and 
that whilst he could stop it he might not do so depending on the amount of the ERC.
Leeds issued a response to Mr Gs complaint on 6 June and in that it again confirmed the 
ERC would be payable up to 31 March 2023. It apologised for the incorrect information Mr G 
had been given on the phone on 24 May and offered £50 compensation for that. It said the 
ERC as at the date of the letter was just under £4,800.
Mr G and Mr C referred the complaint to us in July 2022 and in the meantime Mr G 
continued with his new application with the other lender. He received a mortgage offer from 
the other lender on 8 August 2022 and paid his broker a fee a few days later. He then 
instructed a solicitor, paying them on 24 September.
Our investigator looked at the complaint. He said whilst Leeds had initially given the wrong 
information to Mr G, that was corrected within days and long before Mr G had paid any fees 
for the new mortgage application. He said whilst he could understand why Mr G decided to 
proceed with the new mortgage application, hed done so in the knowledge the ERC would 
be payable if the mortgage was repaid on or before 31 March 2023. He recommended the 
compensation be increased to £175.
Mr G didnt accept our investigators findings and so the matter has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr G and Mr C wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in the 
way that I have. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to 
what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not 
considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right 
outcome.
Mr G has said that Leeds misled him into thinking he could remortgage from 1 January 2023 
without incurring an ERC. This is what we call a misrepresentation; that is, Leeds gave 
incorrect information to Mr G about the ERC on his mortgage with Mr C. 
When were looking at complaints about misrepresentation we consider the appropriate 
remedy is to place the consumer in the position they would be in if the incorrect information 
hadnt been given. We dont put them in the position they would be in if the misinformation 
had been correct (that is, Mr G could remortgage on 1 January 2023 without incurring an 
ERC). 
Mr G is already back in the position he would have been in had he been told on 24 May that 
he would incur an ERC if he remortgaged on or before 31 March 2023, as that information 
was given to him on 27 May (in a secure message), 1 June (on the phone) and 6 June (in an 
email which was Leeds response to the complaint). 
He could never have been in the position where he could remortgage sooner without 
incurring an ERC. For that reason, there are no grounds for me to order Leeds to do 
anything further in respect of this issue.
Our investigator looked into whether Mr G had incurred any irretrievable costs in those few 
days as we would then have ordered Leeds to cover those. But Mr G didnt incur any costs 
until he received his new mortgage offer on 8 August. Whilst I can understand why he didnt 
want to do so, Mr G could have pulled out of the remortgage entirely without cost up until 
that point and so I cant hold Leeds liable for Mr Gs costs as it was his choice to continue 
once Leeds had made the true position clear to him. 
Mr G has said Even when it became clear that I had been given the incorrect date, I still 
assumed (as it was their mistake) we would be able resolve the situation amicably. Whilst I 
appreciate that was Mr Gs assumption, theres nothing that Leeds said that led him to that 
mistaken belief. It was clear in its response to the complaint that the ERC was fairly due, and 
I cant order Leeds to do something just because Mr G assumed it would.
Whilst I acknowledge how frustrating it is when a business makes a mistake, mistakes do 
happen. In this case it was simple human error that meant Mr G was initially told that they 
wouldnt incur an ERC from 1 January 2023. As the mistake was corrected within days Mr G 
has already had the appropriate remedy in that he knew the true position before he was tied 
to remortgaging.Mr G put various offers to Leeds to end his mortgage early, such as Leeds just charging the 
remaining interest due until 31 March 2023 rather than the ERC. 
The rules of mortgage regulation include provisions about ERCs. In summary, they say that 
an ERC must be able to be expressed as a cash value and must be a reasonable 
pre-estimate of the costs resulting from early termination of the mortgage. But a lender can 
choose how it calculates an ERC and can calculate the same level of ERC across a group of 
mortgages of similar type, rather than for individual loans. 
Leeds is entitled to set an ERC based not on the actual cost to it of Mr G and Mr C ending 
their own mortgage early, but on a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs of early termination 
of a group of mortgages of similar type. And theres no obligation on Leeds to vary that 
amount just because Mr G and Mr C might repay their mortgage only weeks before the ERC 
period was due to end. 
Lenders generally raise money to offer preferential rates for their mortgage customers (both 
new and existing) on the wholesale money markets. Theres a cost to that, and its generally 
fixed in advance. But a lender expects to receive a return to outweigh those costs in the form 
of interest on the mortgages it makes using the money its borrowed. If a mortgage ends 
early, it doesnt get that interest, and so doesnt make back the costs in raising the funds to 
offer that preferential rate. 
Its complex and onerous for lenders to calculate individual losses as and when individual 
customers decide to terminate their contracts early. And it isnt possible to estimate, for any 
given individual, when or if they might do so. So Leeds is allowed to project how many 
customers, on average, are likely to terminate early and, on average, at what point theyre 
likely to do so, and to apportion that cost across the mortgages in the group. For some 
individual mortgages that will end up being an over-calculation, but for others it will be an 
under-calculation. But thats allowed; Leeds doesnt have to refund the difference, but 
equally it doesnt tell a consumer to pay the difference if it goes the other way. 
I understand Mr G thinks he and Mr C could have just made the last payment and then they 
would have made all the payments due in the fixed rate period, and that it would obviously 
have been a lot cheaper for them to pay that rather than the ERC. But it wasnt an ERC until 
a set amount of payments were made; it was an ERC until 31 March 2023. Even if Mr G and 
Mr C make the payment due in March 2023, they would still incur the ERC if they repay the 
mortgage in full before 31 March 2023. 
In the circumstances, Im satisfied Leeds are entitled to charge Mr G and Mr C an ERC as 
set out in their mortgage contract if they repay their mortgage early. Im also satisfied there is 
no requirement for Leeds to only charge an amount worked out based on Mr G and Mr Cs 
individual loan and date of redemption, instead it was allowed to charge an amount based on 
its pre-estimate of the costs of early termination of a group of mortgages of similar type.
Mr G has said that they took out the mortgage in January 2018 so it should end in January 
2023. But the fixed rate Mr G and Mr C applied for was always due to end on 31 March 
2023. That was explained in the contractual mortgage offer in December 2017. It didnt 
matter whether the mortgage completed in December 2017 or May 2018 (for example), the 
fixed rate would always run until 31 March 2023. 
Some lenders offer their fixed rates for a set time period (such as 60 months), others offer 
their fixed rates until a set date in time (such as until 31 March 2023). Neither is right or 
wrong, and both are completely acceptable ways to set up a fixed rate, provided the 
documentation sets out the details clearly. Its clear from the mortgage offer in this case that 
the fixed rate would end on a set date regardless of when it started and Mr G and Mr C accepted that offer. The 2018 preferential rate was sold to Mr G and Mr C by a broker acting 
on their behalf, so if they feel they were mis-advised on that basis then they would need to 
raise that complaint with their broker, not with Leeds.
Having considered everything I dont order Leeds to waive or vary the ERC because: 
Leeds is entitled to charge Mr G and Mr C the ERC set out in their mortgage contract 
if they repay their mortgage early.
There is no requirement for Leeds to only charge an amount worked out based on 
Mr G and Mr Cs individual loan and date of redemption, instead it is allowed to 
charge an amount based on its pre-estimate of the costs of early termination of a 
group of mortgages of similar type.
Leeds didnt have to treat Mr G and Mr C any differently to any of its other customers 
that redeem their mortgage whilst there is an ERC in force.
Mr G was told on 27 May, 1 June and 6 June that the ERC would be charged until 
31 March 2023, and so any potential misrepresentation was resolved at that point 
which was just days after the call where the initial misinformation was given.
Were not the regulator and its not our role to fine or punish a business and our awards 
arent punitive. Clearly no amount of compensation can change what happened; all I can do 
is consider the impact of a business actions on the consumer. I also look at the awards of 
compensation weve made in other similar cases. 
I can see Leeds offered £50 in its response to the complaint, but our investigator felt £175 
was a more reasonable sum
I agree with our investigator that £50 isnt enough bearing in mind the incorrect information 
that was given, and then the lack of response to Mr G after the final response was issued. 
Leeds didnt give our investigator any reason why it felt £175 was too much, and in the 
absence of any arguments, and having considered everything that has happened, I agree 
that £175 (which includes the £50 already offered by Leeds) to be fair and reasonable.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and order Leeds Building Society to pay £175 compensation 
to Mr G and Mr C (less any amounts already paid).
This is a joint mortgage so my award of compensation would normally also be joint. But as 
Mr G and Mr C have separated that wouldnt be appropriate in this case. 
I ask Mr G and Mr C in their response to this decision, to both individually confirm how that 
money should be split. In the absence of an agreement being received then it will be split 
equally between them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2023. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman