DRN-1847171
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G have complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) refused to pay their claim 
under their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G were due to fly out for their honeymoon which cost them around £5,500 in 
August 2018. Unfortunately Mr G suffered a severe panic attack at the airport and couldnt 
board the plane. He has a fear of flying and had previously sought medical help for it. 
However it had never before affected him this badly before.
They attempted to rebook but the travel agent could only quote them a price of £15,000 so 
they had to cancel without any refund. Consequently they made a claim to UKI as they had a 
travel policy through their bank account.  UKI told them in May 2019, that it wouldnt cover 
their claim.
Mr and Mrs G complained via their bank and UKI reinvestigated their claim and asked for 
medical evidence to support it. Mr G produced this from his GP. However in August 2019, 
UKI confirmed it still wouldnt deal with their claim.
So Mr and Mrs G brought their complaint to us. The investigator was of the view that it 
should be upheld. UKI disagreed so their complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint and Ill now explain why. 
In order to make a successful claim under this policy for the situation where the holiday 
wasnt taken, the claim needs to be made under the cancellation clause or the abandonment 
clause. The abandonment clause isnt relevant to Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances because 
there was no delay in getting to the airport which caused them to miss their flight and there 
was no delay at the airport so the clause wouldnt cover the circumstances of their claim as it 
requires such delay for abandonment.
Mr and Mrs G arrived at the airport after a fretful journey and being delayed by an accident 
on the motorway. However they were in time and could have caught their flight. It was their 
honeymoon, so it was very special and indeed cost a considerable sum of money being 
around £5,500. Very unfortunately Mr G then suffered a significant panic attack, breaking 
down and therefore was unable to board the plane. So they had to go home. They tried to 
rebook their holiday, but the travel agent could only do so at a cost of £15,000 which Mr and 
Mrs G understandably declined.
Mr G didnt seek medical advice at the time. He explained once the panic attack receded he 
was fine again but obviously extremely upset they had missed their honeymoon. I dont find 
it unusual or unreasonable that Mr G didnt seek medical attention at that time as mostly in a 
panic attack of that nature people need to get away from other people and once its over, all 
that lingers is a significant sense of embarrassment.
 
Mr G has a fear of flying and previously in 2010 and 2017 sought some medication for this in 
the form of tranquilisers. But he said it had never made him miss a flight like this before. So I 
dont consider Mr G had any idea his fear of flying would make him have this level of a panic 
attack and miss a flight and not one as important as this, being his honeymoon. I have no 
doubt however that he might have been somewhat apprehensive about having to undertake 
a flight.
UKI confirmed the correct policy wording, which incidentally wasnt the one it had originally 
given us. The cancellation clause of the policy says the following:
A  Cancellation
Please note! 
From the time that you book a journey, the cancellation element of this insurance 
contract becomes active. Therefore prior to booking a journey please refer back to 
the medical statements on page 17 to ensure that any claim relating to a pre-
existing medical condition will be covered if you have to cancel your journey. 
You must not be aware of any reason why your journey may be cancelled.
What you are covered for 
We will cover you up to £5,000 per insured person for your:
a) Unused deposits;
b) Accommodation and travel costs (including car hire, excursions and activities); 
and
c) Unused kennel, cattery, professional pet sitter or car parking charges;
That you have paid or legally have to pay if you unavoidably need to cancel your 
journey for one of the following reasons: 
1. Death or serious injury or illness to:
a) you;
b) a travelling companion;
c) a member of your immediate family or a business partner (whether they are 
travelling with you or not) who are all resident in the UK; or
d) a relative or friend in whose home you are intending to stay.
Journey is defined as that [which] begins and ends at the policyholders home address 
during the period of insurance that is outside the UK, which means it begins when the 
policyholder leaves their home address to go outside the UK and ends when the policyholder 
returns to their home address. So Mr and Mrs G had started their journey.
Clearly here, Mr G suffered an acute panic attack which rendered him incapable of boarding 
the plane. So I consider its reasonable to consider that  to be an illness. His GP confirmed 
that clearly in his letter and answers to the questions UKI asked of his GP. 
In the policy it says the following:
Claims conditions 
In addition to anything mentioned in the General Conditions, we will only pay: 

2. For claims that are a result of an accident or illness, when a medical practitioner 
confirms in writing that cancellation is medically necessary.UKI declined to consider his claim initially on the basis of the lack of any confirmation of the 
situation by a doctor. Once Mr G understood that and UKI requested him to do so, he 
consulted with his GP and got the necessary confirmation. Therefore I dont consider its 
reasonable for UKI to now say as it has, that this medical confirmation was too late, being 
dated some considerable time after the event. A medical practitioner on behalf of Mr G has 
confirmed that the extent of the panic attack he suffered at the airport was sufficiently 
serious that he had to cancel his trip and that he hadnt suffered this before, but he did have 
a fear of flying. UKI has laboured under an impression the medical evidence must be at the 
time of the event, but I dont consider thats fair and reasonable because of what Mr Gs 
medical issue was, namely a panic attack which once over doesnt continue to incapacitate 
the patient. Furthermore, given he was at the airport the ability to be able to seek medical 
attention would have been difficult in any event and furthermore in the middle of a panic 
attack I dont think he would have been able to think he needed medical attention for the 
purposes of this policy. As I said previously, once the panic attack is over its usual that the 
need for medical attention recedes considerably.
Further in UKIs file there is some considerable discussion over the fairness of its stance to 
refuse to pay this claim, which shows its lack of clarity and indecision over the issue. There 
is an email discussion between the FOS and Executive case handler and the underwriter in 
August 2019 which says the following: 
I wonder if you could please have a read below and let me know what your view is?
We have declined this claim as customer had a panic attack at the airport on 
19.08.18 and did not board the plane.
However, the claim was declined as he failed to seek medical advice.
He did not visit his GP until 15 January 2019 we wrote to his GP and it was 
confirmed Mr [G] was prescribed Diazepam in July 2017 for his fear of flying ..so we 
know he has a history He was also prescribed Diazepam on 02.07.2010 for fear of 
flying.
However, he was not prescribed any medication between 14.07.17 until 17.07.18 ..so 
no medication in the 12 months prior to his trip.
I realise customer did not seek medical advice and we have declined as we have no 
evidence this happened but we do know he does have a history of panic attacks 
although not in the 12 months prior to his claim(but I believe this is because he has 
not flown) but is there any chance that we could consider his claim and accept the 
panic attack was bad enough to prevent them from taking their trip
Customer has advised he suffers from mental health and so it is likely at that time he 
would not have been able to make good choices and seek medical help.. this trip was 
their honeymoon and I can only imagine the upset and stress both parties would 
have felt at the time it was happening and likely just wanted to get home and away 
from the situation.
Customer does argue that he could only ever have see his GP after the event. So if 
we are declining for lack of evidence can we not consider that customer does have a 
history to show that this is a genuine claim. The total cost of the claim is £5,288
Many thanks
The response from the underwriter was as follows:
Given the PH has a fear of flying and taken reasonable steps in the past by going to 
the GP for diazepam, you would expect the PH to do the same again for his 
honeymoon. Whilst I appreciate he had a panic attack whilst at the
airport, it is reasonable to expect this to happen if he has no medication for this.The PH comment regarding not being able to see the GP till after the event (5 
months later) supports our decision to decline as he visited his GP in advance of his 
previous planned trips and we would expect the same for the trip in question.
I dont agree its reasonable for Mr G to believe he would actually have a panic attack at the 
airport which ensured he couldnt board the plane (given he said this had never happened to 
him before) and so take these suggested steps. Certainly theres no policy condition 
requiring him to do so for any illness whether declared, known about or not. Its also quite 
easy to consider what someone should have done, after the event and with the benefit of 
hindsight. I think when someone has got married and is now going on honeymoon spending 
any time worrying about his fear of flying simply wouldnt be part of it. Mr G said his fear of 
flying never stopped him actually flying before, so its reasonable to consider that he had no 
idea this would happen to him. 
The conversation goes on between the executive case handler and the underwriter as 
follows: 
Can I just point something out.. it appears to me we would have covered the claim 
for panic attack if he had sought medical help ..this is what claims are saying
So it was declined due to no proof that the attack was severe enough to have 
cancelled..and he had not suffered from anxiety in the previous 12 monthsso it was 
not declared.
So I would believe the fact that he did not seek medical help before his journey is not 
a condition of the policy? And its just proof of the attack at the time we want and is 
why I believe his history supports it was likely that it happened??
Does this change things?
Sorry..I have just seen the Medical Statements
At the time of opening the account or before you book a journey (whichever is later):
You must tell us about each pre-existing medical condition for any insured person. If 
you do not tell us you may not be covered. This is any medical condition for which 
you answer yes to one or more of the five questions below:
4) Are you aware of any medical reason which makes it likely that you may not be 
able to go on the journey or continue with it;
I think the claims team should have used this for their decline as they failed to let us 
know ..so please ignore my email as the claim will remain a decline
With the response being:
No worries. I agree, this is what the claims team need to use for the decline.
Given the PH has a fear of flying and taken reasonable steps in the past by going to 
the GP for diazepam, you would expect the PH to do the same again for his 
honeymoon. Whilst I appreciate he had a panic attack whilst at the
airport, it is reasonable to expect this to happen if he has no medication for this.
The PH comment regarding not being able to see the GP till after the event (5 
months later) supports our decision to decline as he visited his GP in advance of his 
previous planned trips and we would expect the same for the trip in question.
Kind regards
However there is little evidence before me which shows Mr G previously always sought 
medical advice before he flew. He certainly did sometimes but that was because he had a 
fear of flying not because that fear of flying routinely ensured he had severe panic attacks 
which made him incapable of boarding a plane. Here the assumption in this conversation is 
that Mr G was fully aware of his propensity to have a panic attack. There is simply no 
evidence of that. So I dont consider its fair or reasonable for UKI to have based its decision 
on this claim on these assumptions. I do note however here in this conversation, both of these individuals have no doubt about 
the veracity of Mr Gs contention that he did indeed suffer a panic attack, which I also 
consider reasonable. Its only later in response to the investigators view that UKI queries 
whether Mr G had a panic attack at all. I think its very clear he did, as he and Mrs G have 
been completely consistent throughout as to what happened and there no evidence to the 
contrary. 
Thereafter UKI based its reasons for declining to pay Mr Gs claim on the basis he failed to 
disclose a pre-existing medical condition. But as the investigator clearly explained in his view 
this doesnt provide UKI with a reasonable argument to decline to pay Mr Gs claim either. 
The policy says the following as regards to pre-existing medical conditions:
5. Medical Statements
Call us on [number] to talk about your medical circumstances. 
You will not be automatically covered for any claims directly related to a pre-
existing medical condition. You should call us as soon as possible so we can talk 
to you about your condition(s) and work out whether we can cover them for free, for 
an additional premium or if we cant cover your conditions. We will write to you to 
confirm what we tell you over the phone. 
At the time of opening the account or before you book a journey (whichever is 
later):
You must tell us about each pre-existing medical condition for any insured 
person. If you do not tell us you may not be covered. This is any medical condition 
for which you answer yes to one or more of the five questions below:
1) Are you under investigation, awaiting diagnosis, receiving in-patient treatment 
or are waiting to receive treatment;
2) Have you been prescribed medication (including repeat prescriptions) in the last 
12 months, whether taking it or not for anything other than a Cold, the Flu, 
hormone replacement therapy or contraception;
3) Have you been diagnosed or treated with a heart or cancer related condition in 
the past 12 months;
4) Are you aware of any medical reason which makes it likely that you may not be 
able to go on the journey or continue with it;
5) Have you been given a terminal prognosis.
At the time of booking a journey or purchasing an upgrade: 
From the time that you book a journey or purchase an upgrade, the cancellation 
element of this insurance contract becomes active. You will not be covered if you 
cancel a journey for a reason which is directly related to a pre-existing medical 
condition unless you have told us about it and we have agreed to cover it.
Mr Gs answer to all of these questions at the time he booked his honeymoon was no. 
Therefore there was no valid reason for Mr G to declare his fear of flying as pre-existing 
medical condition. He also was not prescribed any medication for this in the 12 months prior 
to his intended honeymoon.
And finally UKI then returned to the issue that since Mr and Mrs G had started their journey 
as in left their home address it could only be a valid claim if Mr G had medical evidence at 
the time, showing why his journey and trip couldnt continue.  And since his medical 
evidence was obtained some months after the incident, its wasnt valid for this element of 
cover. But UKI asked Mr G to get the medical evidence, and he did and its valid medical evidence 
so its not fair to then discount it, simply because it was after the event given these 
circumstances. UKI said it was trying to find ways of validating this claim and instead once 
so validated, it then said it was out of time. Thats not reasonable or fair in my view.
Its very clear UKI were uncertain as to how to assess this claim. However I think its only fair 
and reasonable that where there are such uncertainties, its decided in the policyholders 
favour, not the insurers.
Theres little doubt in my view Mr G had a panic attack which prevented him and Mrs G 
boarding the flight for their honeymoon. Theres no dispute in my view that something like 
such a disabling panic attack, can be classed to be an illness for the purposes of this policy. 
I consider a known fear of flying does not mean it was reasonably foreseeable Mr G would 
have such a panic attack (when he hadnt had one before) and then therefore he should 
have disclosed it as a pre-existing illness. His claim has also been properly and medically 
verified by his GP.
Therefore taking everything together and in the very particular circumstances of this 
complaint, I consider Mr and Mrs G have a valid claim, which UKI should pay now with 
interest. 
UKI acknowledged its claims handling could have been much better and there were 
considerable delays. It agreed consequently it should pay Mr and Mrs G £80 compensation. 
The investigator considered this was insufficient and I agree. He suggested UKI should pay 
a further £100 compensation. In view of UKIs uncertainties in how to assess this claim and 
the consequent delay, I agree this is a reasonable figure of further compensation. 
My final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require U K Insurance Limited to do the following:
Pay Mr and Mrs Gs claim, adding interest of 8% simple per year from the date of the 
loss to the date of its payment subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy. If income tax is to be deducted from the interest, appropriate documentation 
should be provided to Mr and Mrs G for HMRC purposes. 
Pay an additional £100 compensation to ensure the total compensation paid to Mr 
and Mrs G is £180. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman