DRN-2445974
The complaint
Mr B complains that AXA Insurance Designated Activity Company has unfairly declined his 
claim for a broken septic tank.
What happened
Mr B said his septic tank broke in April 2020. He said he obtained an emergency pump and 
then had to get a new septic tank installed. He reported his claim to AXA, but in June 2020 it 
rejected this relying on the exclusion clause in the policy for damage that occurs gradually, in 
this case damage due to tree root incursion. 
AXA told Mr B that his no claims bonus was not affected. However, when Mr B renewed his 
policy he said the premiums had increased 50% because of the claim. Mr B complained to 
AXA about its decline of his claim and the premium increase. He said that his policy covers 
septic tanks and that the exclusion didnt apply as while roots grow over time the actual 
event of the damage occurred instantaneously and so the damage was immediate.
The firm that supplied a pump to Mr B tried to restore his septic tank. But reported, it was 
visible that the internals of the tank and the outer walls of the tank had become completely 
compressed and damaged due to the surrounding vegetation, shrubs and trees. The root 
growth of the trees, shrubs and vegetation had caused the damage to the tank. As a result, 
the tank in its current condition is/was no longer fit for purpose.
AXA sent a construction firm to inspect Mr Bs septic tank and said its investigations 
revealed the damage arose from Years of vegetation growth has compressed and damaged 
the tank. AXA said this is an ongoing issue, which has been happening for a number of 
years, and isnt not covered under the policy. AXA cited an exclusion clause in the policy.
7 Wear and Tear
Your policy is intended to cover you against unforeseen events like fire or theft.
It does not cover wear and tear or damage that occurs gradually over time.
Mr B was unhappy with AXAs response and referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said Mr Bs policy covers 
accidental damage which occurs suddenly and unexpectedly. But the damage to his septic 
tank from the tree roots had occurred over a long period and so was excluded by the policy.
Mr B disagreed and requested his complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman. He said 
accidental should be given its literal meaning as something that occurs by chance or 
inadvertently and this was his situation. He said the exclusion clause is ambiguous, AXA 
could have mentioned tree roots, but hadnt and it hadnt shown that it applied in his 
circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B said he is now out of pocket £7,644 for a new septic tank and his premiums increased 
by 50%. Ive looked at AXAs decision about Mr Bs claim to see if it has acted within the 
terms of his policy and treated him fairly. Ive Also considered the increase in his premium.
The claim
It is a policyholders responsibility to show they have an insured loss. Mr Bs policy covers 
him for accidental damage to a septic tank. It is then the insurers responsibility to support a 
decline of a claim by showing that an exclusion clause applies to the circumstances of the 
claim. AXA says Mr Bs septic tank failed due to a gradual cause (root incursion) which is 
excluded under the policy. 
I have looked at Mr Bs policy. In common with all other building insurance policies it carries 
an exclusion for damage such as wear and tear and the wording is fairly standard. It states 
that the policy provides cover against unforeseen events, but not wear and tear or damage 
that occurs gradually over time. 
Although Mr B said the damage was immediate, the cause of the damage was not. The root 
incursion would have occurred over a long period and this is supported by the firm that 
assessed the septic tank and the firm that provided the replacement tank. This means that 
the damage has occurred over a period of time and so the exclusion applies in these 
circumstances. 
By way of further explanation, when a garden wall collapses having been undermined by 
tree roots, the outcome is immediate, but the cause of the damage has occurred over a 
period of time and so is excluded by the policy term. This is similar to the background 
circumstances of the claim Mr B has made. 
The purpose of the clause is to distinguish between an insurance contract to protect 
policyholders against sudden and unforeseen events and the precautions and general 
maintenance that all householders have to undertake. AXAs decision to decline Mr Bs claim 
on the exclusion clause is consistent with insurers decision on very many similar claims and 
is in accordance with the wording of the policy.  
Premium increase
From what Ive seen from the records AXA has maintained Mr Bs no claims discount in its 
pre-claim position. This doesnt mean that AXA hasnt reassessed his premiums in line with 
its view of the risk he presents. An insurer is entitled to determine its appetite for risk and set 
the premiums accordingly. We wont interfere with this commercial process and so although I 
sympathise with Mr B about the increase in his premiums, I cant say that AXA has treated 
him unfairly.
I havent found that AXA has treated Mr B unfairly in declining his claim or in reassessing his 
premiums. I realise this will be an unwelcome outcome to Mr B and he should bear in mind 
that by rejecting this decision it will be of no legal effect and he can pursue his complaint by 
other means. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman