DRN-3890941
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain about QIC Europe Ltds (QIC) handling of a claim made under their 
buildings insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2022, Mr and Mrs L say the roof of their home was damaged by a storm, as a 
result, several tiles were lifted off and fell. Mr and Mrs L made a claim to QIC.
QIC arranged for a surveyor to visit the property. The claim was declined, and Mr and Mrs L 
complained. In April, QIC issued its final response. It said it was satisfied storm conditions 
occurred at the same time the damage did but given the roof had only been replaced five 
years earlier, it assumed the workmanship was not of a sufficient standard. QIC concluded 
the claim should be declined under the poor workmanship exclusion.
Mr and Mrs L didnt agree so they referred their complaint to this service. It was considered 
by one of our investigators who said she thought the claim should be upheld. QIC didnt 
agree and provided further reasoning to explain why it declined the claim. 
In December 2022, I issued a provisional decision. My findings were:
For ease, Ill set out the exclusion clause QIC is relying on to decline Mr and Mrs Ls claim:
The following exclusions apply to all sections of this policy
13. Poor workmanship
Loss or damage caused by poor workmanship, use of faulty materials (including
latent defects) or poor design
Ive considered the notes from QICs in house surveyor, who say theyve reviewed the field
surveyors report and photographs. The comment theyve made is that no defects should be
present on the roof, as it was only replaced five years ago. It seems the surveyor concluded
the workmanship must have been poor because the roof was damaged within five years of
being fitted.
QIC later provided more detailed comments for declining the claim. It stated the tiles were
not fixed to the roof in any way. They were interlocking and only appeared to be fixed onto
the roof verge by the mortar. And this mortar appears to be fixed underneath the tiles only on
the verge. It provided a further copy of one of the photographs obtained by its field surveyor
to support its conclusions. This photograph was shared with Mr and Mrs L.
Ive considered the further comments and photographs. Its clear from the photographs the
tiles are interlocking. Just above where the tiles have been dislodged, the tiles are held in
place by both the mortar on the verge and the lead flashing around the chimney. But when I
look closely at the last tile still on the roof, it doesnt appear the mortar runs all the way
underneath the tile. It appears to stop part way under the tile. This is supported by the
discolouration of the verge on which the tiles were laid. The discolouration runs in a straight
line down the verge and the discolouration seems to run in line with where the mortar stops
under the tile. This suggests the mortar didnt run under the entire tile.
Mr and Mrs L asked their roofer about QICs comments on the roof. He agreed the tiles were
interlocking and the batons didnt run the entire length of the roof. However, he said the tiles
were nailed down. And he said the photograph QIC is relying on isnt of sufficient quality to
show the roof tiles werent nailed down.
I agree its not entirely clear from that photograph whether the roof tiles are secured by nails.
However, there are other photographs of the roof provided as part of the field surveyors visit
and in none of those photos does it seem there is any evidence of the roof tiles being
secured by nails, as the roofer seems to suggest they should be. But there are other
photographs which seem to show the mortar may not have been placed all the way under
the tile. On this basis, Im not persuaded the tiles were fitted to the roof in the most secure
manner, as the mortar is only underneath a section of the roof tile, and this seems to be the
only part of the roof tile that was fixed to the roof.
I think these images, along with QICs argument there isnt any obvious indication of any
other method of tiles being fixed to the roof apart from the mortar, are persuasive. On
balance, Im more inclined to agree with QICs conclusion the storm conditions highlighted a
workmanship issue with the roof tiles, and the policy allows it to decline claims where there
has been evidence of poor workmanship. And it follows, Im not persuaded it acted unfairly in
declining the claim. Im not intending to require QIC to reassess or settle the claim.
Neither side have provided any additional information for me to consider within the 
timeframe I set, or have responded to our follow up emails. . 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive not been provided with any further evidence or comments to consider, I dont see any 
reason for me to depart from the conclusions I outlined in my provisional decision. On 
balance and for the reasons Ive given, I consider the information provided indicates QIC did 
not act unfairly in relying on the poor workmanship exclusion when declining Mr and Mrs Ls 
claim. Im not going to require it to take any further steps to put things right. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman