DRN-3828422
The complaint
Ms S has complained that she is unhappy with the quality of a car she acquired in 
September 2021 using a hire purchase agreement with Blue Motor Finance Ltd (Blue 
Motor).
What happened
Ms S acquired a used Nissan Qashqai in September 2021, using a hire purchase 
agreement. The cost of the car was £13,299, and of this, Ms S borrowed £10,299 over 48 
months. The monthly cost was £267.67. The car was just over five and a half years old and 
the mileage was recorded as 54,320 at the point of supply.
Ms S said that within three months, problems began to occur. The car made loud screeching 
noises when applying the brakes. The brake discs and pads were repaired at a local garage 
in January 2022, and a further MOT test carried out, at a cost of £300.19. Ms S sent in a 
copy of the invoice and I can see that it also notes that there was fluid leaking from the rear 
left suspension. Ms S also said that the battery died twice, unexpectedly, and she was 
advised to replace the battery, and the electronic locking system wasnt working as normal.
The most serious issue was that the car was shaking when idle, and was struggling to 
accelerate. Ms S said she took the car to a local garage, but was advised to take it to a 
Nissan garage for a full diagnostic test. This she did, in February 2022, at a cost of £342. 
The Nissan report states Engine is running rough due to low compressions, advise to 
replace engine and also advises that the car shouldnt be driven. 
After receiving this report, Ms S complained to Blue Motor, saying she wanted to reject the 
car. It commissioned an independent report on the car, which was carried out in March 2022, 
and the examiner concluded that in his opinion, whilst the car was, at that point, not fit for 
regular use, the symptoms had developed after the point of supply, and the most likely 
cause was in-service wear and tear to the fuel pump. Because of this, Blue Motor said that it 
didnt think the current problems were there at the point of supply, and therefore it didnt 
consider itself responsible for it. So it didnt uphold Ms Ss complaint. 
After this, in early April, Ms S said she was driving on a narrow country lane, smoke started 
coming out of the bonnet and the car lost complete power. The engine had caught fire and 
the fire brigade had to attend. This was very frightening, especially as Ms Ss young 
daughter was a passenger that day. 
Ms S then brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into this complaint, 
but didnt think Ms Ss complaint should be upheld. Ms S disagreed, and asked that it be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. In October 2022 I issued my provisional decision, in which I 
explained why I was minded to uphold Ms Ss complaint. As both parties have responded, I 
can now issue my final decision. Ms S told us she had nothing further to add. Blue Motor 
sent in further comments which I have considered below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Ms Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Because Blue Motor supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, its responsible for a 
complaint about the quality, and theres an implied term that the car was of satisfactory 
quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a reasonable person 
would expect, taking into account all of the relevant circumstances such as (amongst other 
things) the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. When considering satisfactory 
quality, I also need to look at whether the car is durable  that is, the components within the 
car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time.
In this case of course, the car was just over five and a half years old. And the price was 
lower than that of a new car. So its reasonable to expect that parts of the car would have 
suffered a degree of wear and tear, and that a car of this age would likely need repair and 
maintenance sooner than a newer car. 
Ive taken account of the relevant law, in particular the Consumer Rights Act 2015, (CRA). 
There are certain times, set out in the CRA, when a consumer is entitled to reject goods, in 
this case the car, if they dont conform to contract  a short term right to reject within 30 days 
of taking delivery, or a final right to reject if a repair or replacement hasnt resulted in the car 
subsequently conforming  that is, it then being of satisfactory quality.
I set out above the information that Ms S provided about the sequence of events. The first 
faults occurred after the first 30 days, so I am not considering the short term right to reject 
under the CRA here. 
Ive carefully considered all of the evidence provided by both parties. Blue Motor has 
provided copies of the hire purchase agreement, independent report, its contact notes 
relating to the complaint, and documentation sent by Ms S as part of her complaint. Ms S 
has provided a detailed sequence of events, the maintenance record for the car, and copies 
of all of the invoices and other documentation from the garages she has consulted about the 
car. Whilst the complaint has been with this service, Ms S has had the engine replaced so as 
to bring the car back into use, and she has sent in copies of the diagnostic report and 
invoices. 
The maintenance record for the car shows a full service having been carried out on 23 
September 2021  a few days before Ms S acquired the car. I would expect a full service to 
include a check on the brakes. I accept that the expected life of brake pads can vary greatly, 
but it seems unusual for them to be worn to the extent that they were affecting the brake 
discs within four months of Ms S taking possession of the car. Ms S said she was not told 
that the brake pads would need replacement in the short term, and Ive no reason to doubt 
that.
Ms S took the car to a garage where an MOT test (which the car passed) and repairs to the 
brakes costing £300.19 were carried out in January 2022 (and I understand that the selling 
dealership later made a contribution of £63 to these repairs). I note that on the invoice the 
mechanic noted fluid leaking from the rear left suspension. At the same time issues had arisen with the battery, and Ms S was advised by another garage to replace it. Ms S also 
said that noises were occurring at the front of the vehicle, and an engine warning sign was 
appearing. She was advised to take the car to a Nissan garage for a full diagnostic test, 
which she did at the beginning of February 2022 (at a cost of £342). I have a copy of the 
report which noted the fuel pressure was abnormal, and also following a compression test, 
that the Engine is running rough due to low compressions, advise to replace engine. Ms S 
was advised not to drive the car.
Blue Motor commissioned an independent report on the car, which was completed in March 
2022. The report said that the car was not presently fit for regular use due to the poor 
engine performance, and because of the issue with the brakes while the vehicle is reversing. 
The fault codes suggest the vehicle is suffering from low fuel pressure, which would impede 
the engine performance and could account for the symptoms that were noted at the time of 
our inspection. The most likely cause is that the vehicle is either suffering from an issue with 
the fuel pump, or there is a blockage in the fuel system. There is a strong possibility that the 
current symptoms are affecting the braking performance. Its inconceivable that the poor 
engine performance, and the issues with the brakes, were present at the point of purchase 
as the symptoms are easily noticeable and would have been identified, if present, at the 
collection point. Our opinion is that the symptoms have developed after the point of sale, and 
the most likely cause was in-service wear and tear to the fuel pump.
It went on to say that Our opinion is that this car was fit for purpose and in a road legal 
condition at the point of sale, and the current issue with the low fuel pressure has developed 
after this as the result of normal, in-service, age-related, general, wear and tear, with the 
most likely cause being in-service wear to the fuel pump. The issues with the brakes are 
almost certainly linked to this. The need to replace a fuel pump on a vehicle that is 
approaching 60,000 miles would not be considered unusual and would not be considered 
premature wear, therefore, it is our considered opinion that the sales agent bears no 
responsibility for the repair cost.
Ms S told us that, although the car wasnt deemed fit for regular use, the independent report 
didnt suggest it was unsafe to drive. As I noted above, Ms S said that in early April, smoke 
started coming out of the bonnet and the car lost complete power. The engine had caught 
fire and the fire brigade had to attend. Ms S sent in video evidence of the fire brigade in 
attendance. 
Clearly there is an inconsistency between the Nissan garage report and the independent 
report. Ms S said that the engine problems developed gradually, so it doesnt seem to be in 
dispute that they were not evident at the point of supply. And Ms S had completed 2,689 
miles between the date of purchase and the date of the report, and the car passed an MOT 
test in January 2022. But I have to consider the durability of the components of the car  that 
is whether they last a reasonable amount of time. 
After seeing the independent report, Ms S asked for a further diagnostic report from another 
garage, and this was carried out in early June at a cost of £132. This found the same issue 
as the Nissan garage, that is low compression, and again recommended replacement of the 
engine. This garage suggested that the fuel pump had recently been replaced and that the 
installation of a new fuel pressure pump would have increased fuel pressure and improved 
the engine performance for limited time. Ms S suggested that this could explain why the 
engine problems were not evident at the point of supply. The report also suggested the 
cause of low compression as bad engine service maintenance or rough driving in 
wintertime.
In August 2022, Ms S had the engine replaced so as to bring the car back into use, and she 
sent in a copy of the report and invoices (totalling £5,035.17). I note that Ms S had asked the Nissan garage to check the diagnostic codes relating to the fuel pump, and the report notes 
no stored codes relating to the fuel pump at the time of the test. As before, the report 
included a diagnostic test and it referred to internal failure of engine.
The evidence regarding the replacement of the fuel pump isnt conclusive, although I accept 
its possible. I note one possible cause of low compression as rough driving in wintertime, 
and of course Ms Ss period of ownership coincided with last winter. But I note that the 
independent report includes comments on the cars overall condition as follows  after 
doing a general condition check which showed the vehicle was in a good general condition 
and I went on to examine the specific faults and found the following: After confirming the 
vehicles general condition, which included an under-bonnet level check that revealed no 
cause for concern...
Those comments dont seem to me to indicate a recent period of rough driving, as I think it 
likely that that would have affected the general condition of the car. 
Taking all this into account, I dont consider that the reasonable person would expect to have 
to replace the engine in the car after less than 60,000 miles overall and a few months after 
they took possession. Ive no evidence to suggest that Ms S has caused or contributed to 
the faults that occurred. The independent report suggested the fuel pump as the likely 
cause, but was not definitive. And this wasnt borne out by the work actually done on the car 
when the engine was replaced. Ive also kept in mind the initial issue with the brakes. Overall 
I consider it most likely that the car was not of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
Ms S initially wanted to reject the car, but I understand she now wishes to keep it as the 
repairs have been done. So I consider it fair that Blue Motor should refund the cost of the 
repairs and diagnostic reports that Ms S has had to arrange. I also think it fair that Blue 
Motor should refund the hire purchase payment for the months that Ms S was unable to 
drive the car, and an additional £150 in recognition of the inconvenience caused by the 
faults. 
As I noted above, I issued a provisional decision in October 2022, explaining why I proposed 
to uphold Ms Ss complaint. Ms S had nothing further to add in response to my provisional 
decision. Blue Motor responded to say that it had spoken with the dealer and there was no 
new evidence. It also said that the dealer had reiterated that it had asked Ms S to bring in 
the vehicle to get repaired. It also offered to collect the vehicle, repair it, and drop it back to 
Ms S, but the vehicle was not taken back, and it had never seen the car.
Ive considered Blue Motors comments. During the course of the complaint, Ms S explained 
that she had lost faith in the dealership after the initial discussions about the brakes. And 
given the copious information from the other parties who have examined the car, as Ive 
described above, I see no reason to alter my findings.
Having considered the responses to my provisional decision, there is no new information or 
evidence that leads me to change my conclusions, and therefore I am upholding Ms Ss 
complaint. 
Putting things right
Blue Motor should:
Refund all monthly payments Ms S made under the hire purchase agreement from 1 
February 2022 to 31 August 2022.
Refund £474 in relating to the two diagnostic reports Ms S obtained, and £237.19 for the repairs to the brakes (this accounts for the amount already refunded by the 
selling dealership).
Refund £5035.17 in relation to the repairs carried out in August 2022.
pay 8% simple interest* on all refunded amounts from the date Ms S paid them to the 
date compensation is paid.
Pay £150 for the inconvenience Ms S experienced due to the faults with the car.
Remove any adverse information from Ms Ss credit file (if any has been added).
*if Blue Motor considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Ms S how much its taken off. It should also give Ms S a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I have decided to uphold Ms Ss complaint. Blue Motor 
Finance Ltd should pay Ms S the compensation Ive described.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman