DRN-3560082
The complaint
Mr S complains that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited, has rejected the claim he made 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel 
system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier (which Ill call S).
Mr S is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In July 2018, Mr S purchased a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his 
home. Mr S financed the purchase through fixed sum loan agreement with Omni that was 
repayable over ten years.
In August 2020, the CMC made a claim on Mr Ss behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Omni. The CMC said that the supplier had made a number of representations about the 
system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had 
induced Mr S to enter into the contract.
The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
Mr S could have a Solar PV System at absolutely no cost to him.
The system would be fully "Self-Funding" since the benefits would cover the loan 
repayments.
Omni responded to the claim and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr S or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
The CMC then made a complaint on behalf of Mr S. Omni issued a final response saying it 
thought its response to the claim was fair and reasonable. The CMC then referred the 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and asked the CMC to provide the 
estimated returns sheet provided to Mr S at the time of sale. The CMC said this was not 
provided and that the representation of the benefit to Mr S was verbal only. Our investigator 
then spoke directly to Mr S, who did have the estimated returns sheet, which he provided to 
us. Having considered all the evidence, our investigator didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. 
The CMC didnt agree with this. It said:
Mr [S] doesn't accept the [assessment]  and would like an Ombudsman to make a 
final decision on the complaint.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit.
As Mr S paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Omni agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mr S could claim against Omni, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way he could have 
claimed against S. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is fair in the 
circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr S and 
the supplier are deemed to have been conducted by S as an agent of Omni. 
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or their agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC, Mr S and Omni. 
These include the credit agreement, quotation, contract, estimated returns sheet, and 
contract variation form.
The estimated returns sheet and contract variation form were hand-written and provided to 
Mr S during a second meeting with the salesperson on 5 July 2018. Mr S recalls the 
salesperson doing calculations on his tablet and handwriting the figures on the forms. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be paid, the total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Information provided to Mr S
The quotation, contract and contract variation clearly show the basic price of the system was 
£9,999.00. The credit agreement is clear what the total amount payable is including the 
monthly repayments. So, I think that, although the basic price was £9,999.00, Mr S wouldve 
understood how much he had to pay monthly and over the full loan term.
The contract variation set out the benefits Mr S could expect as follows:While I dont think this document is very clear, I calculate that the maximum benefit in year 1 
shown on this form is £450.15, made up of FIT payments (generation £125.88 and export 
£82.24) and energy savings at a 50% self-consumption rate (£242.03). This is less than four 
months loan repayments, which were £127.96 per month. This form clearly stated that the 
price of the system had not changed  this despite the estimated benefit increasing. 
The estimated returns sheet was signed during the same meeting and clearly showed the 
benefits as follows:
So, this shows a total year one benefit of £450.15. This was calculated, written down and 
handed to Mr S during the meeting. He then signed it. So, I think it is highly likely that these 
figures were also discussed with Mr S, even if he does not now specifically remember these 
figures (which is understandable given the time that has passed). 
As mentioned above, the first-year loan repayments were far in excess of £450.15  which is 
the benefit Mr S was told he could expect to receive from the solar panels. So, I think it is 
unlikely that the salesperson wouldve misrepresented the solar panel system in the way 
Mr S has alleged.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im 
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by the supplier that induced Mr S 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman