DRN-3807846
The complaint
Mr A has complained about his motor insurer AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited 
because following an accident and a claim to it in May 2021, his car wasnt repaired.
What happened
Mr As car was damaged in May 2021 and in July 2021 he complained and contacted us 
because work hadnt progressed. AA assured Mr A that repairs had been authorised and, 
indeed, it thought theyd been completed. As they hadnt, Mr A complained again and AA 
issued a final response on 1 September 2021. My colleague then considered Mr As 
complaint and issued a final decision about what had happened up to the date of AAs 
1 September 2021 final response. 
But Mr As car was still not fixed and on 4 September 2021 he told AA that hed soon be 
facing additional transport costs for using his car in a congestion zone. He said hed been 
intending to sell the car before the charges came into effect in October 2021  but he 
couldnt sell it due to the unrepaired damage. 
The matter continued to be unresolved and in February 2022 AA noted its garage had been 
having some issues with arranging a courtesy car. AA emailed Mr A stating it would arrange 
a hire car for him and the garage would contact him again soon regarding getting the repair 
booked. Mr A didnt hear from the garage until 30 March 2022. AA issued a final response 
that day which accepted the claim had been delayed to that point because it had failed to 
manage the claim proactively. AA made no reference to Mr As reported financial loses and 
offered no compensation. 
Our Investigator felt that AA had failed Mr A. She said it should pay £750 compensation and 
reimburse any proven congestion charges to the point AA had contacted Mr A in 
February 2022. She also said it should arrange for the car to be repaired.
AA said it felt £750 was too much compensation. It didnt object to the recommendation for 
congestion charges to be paid and said it was still keen to repair the car. 
Mr A said £750 was not enough compensation and he didnt think wed taken account of the 
fact that AA had breached its policy obligations to repair the car. He said he wanted £5,000 
compensation for that breach. He also advised that in July 2022 hed had to sell the car for 
scrap, so it could no longer be repaired.  
The complaint was passed to me for an Ombudsmans decision. I felt a provisional decision 
was needed. My provisional findings were:
I intend to maintain the compensation award suggested by our Investigator. But I think the 
award regarding congestion charges needs extending to 30 March 2022, with interest also 
being applied. Im aware that the delayed repair issue continued after that time and Mr A has 
ended up selling the car but I cant take that into account as part of this complaint, where 
I can only look at activity up to 30 March 2022. But because the car has now been sold, 
I wont be maintaining the recommendation made by our Investigator for the car to be fixed. 
In fact, given the further activity post March 2022, which I cant consider here, I wont make 
any finding in this decision about what needs to be done in respect of resolving the repair 
claim for Mr As car  including what AA should do as a result of it not having been repaired 
in the period up to and after 30 March 2022. I will focus here on Mr As losses  financial and 
non-financial  caused by AAs failure to repair the car in the period 2 September 2021  
30 March 2022 inclusive. 
To be clear, I cant change or go behind the decision issued by my colleague about what 
happened up to 1 September 2021. But the fact of delays to that point is very relevant to the 
situation I am considering here. In short, at the point my consideration begins, AA knew that 
repairs had not been done and that Mr A was already very frustrated about the fact they 
were still outstanding. And as of 4 September 2021 AA also knew that Mr A was facing 
additional financial costs as a result of its delays. The fact of that financial impact naturally 
caused Mr A more worry and stress on top of that caused by the delayed repairs. And that 
was the position Mr A started with at the beginning of the period I am considering. 
Importantly, for me, AA then did nothing meaningful to progress the situation and alleviate 
any of Mr As ongoing frustration, stress or worry. Not even in February 2022 when it said it 
could look at arranging a hire car. It seems it called Mr A and left a message, and then sent 
an email. But the content appears to have been that it was still being put back to the garage 
to contact Mr A to arrange repairs. The only difference was AA would then arrange a hire 
car. AA noted in its final response of 30 March 2022 that it should have been more proactive 
 and I think that is correct. It should have been. It should have managed the claim rather 
than let it sit in abeyance for so long. AA failed Mr A and he suffered distress and 
inconvenience as a result. I think £750 is fair and reasonable compensation in the 
circumstances.
I also take Mr As word for it that congestion charges were suffered during this time. I dont 
think AAs contact in February 2022 was enough to forestall its liability for this cost. As 
I noted above it should have done more to progress things. If Mr A presents proof of the 
costs he incurred for driving in the congestion zone between 26 October 2021 and 
30 March 2022 (inclusive), AA should reimburse them. And add interest* to each charge 
from the date Mr A paid it until settlement is made. 
I know Mr A is looking for payment of £5,000 as damages for AA breaching its contract with 
him. To be clear, I think AA did fail Mr A in this situation. But the remedy I find to be fair and 
reasonable for that is £750 compensation and reimbursement of the congestion charges, 
plus interest. I note Mr A is aware of an example from our website of a situation where more 
compensation would be awarded than Ive found reasonable here. But I think the 
circumstances of that example are quite different to those experienced by Mr A. They relate 
to non-financial loss caused in the circumstances of a home insurance claim where the 
policyholder had to live away from home for an extended period with their property repairs 
taking around a year. Here I am looking at a seven month period of upset and whilst Mr A 
had significant worry and upset during that time, he was still able to use the car as before  
whereas, in the example, the delays meant the everyday life of the policyholder was 
severally changed and impacted from what they should have been experiencing. In the 
circumstances here, Im satisfied that £750 compensation for non-financial loss, is fair and 
reasonable.
I know Mr A no longer has his car. And I know the claim for the damage the car suffered in 
2021 is still outstanding. I also know Mr A was still unhappy with AAs conduct as things 
progressed after 30 March 2022. So Mr A and AA now need to discuss the concerns Mr A 
has about the claims progress post 30 March 2022 and work out what can be done to 
resolve things, including the outstanding claim. If Mr A is unhappy with AAs response, he 
can make a further complaint.AA said it agreed with the outcome. Mr A raised some concerns. He said the car was sold in 
June 2022, not July as I had stated. He felt his costs should be awarded to the date of sale, 
rather than only to the end of March 2022. Mr A said he wanted to better understand the 
£750 compensation award and that he was unsure what the term non-financial loss meant. 
Our Investigator pointed Mr A to our website for more detail about our compensation awards. 
And confirmed that in my provisional decision I had explained that £750 was being awarded 
for the distress Mr A had been caused by AAs failure. Mr A made no further objections to 
my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr As clarification that the car was sold in June. But the detail he provided 
previously gave a date of 6 July 2022. In any event  I am not considering the sale of the 
vehicle, as that activity occurred after the end of the period I am considering, marked by 
AAs final response letter dated 30 March 2022.
I was aware when making my provisional decision that Mr A continued to incur congestion 
charges after 30 March 2022. But I was also aware that the claim continued in that period 
too. Whilst I have been able to consider what happened up until the 30 March, which has 
enabled me to conclude AA failed Mr A at that time, I have not looked at what happened 
after that. So I simply dont know if AA continued to fail Mr A. It may have done. And it may 
be that it should fairly be meeting further congestion charges. But that is not for me to say, 
conclude or direct here in a complaint where I can only take into account what happened up 
until 30 March 2022. 
As I explained provisionally, I considered the upset and inconvenience Mr A suffered during 
the seven-month period of delay which I am taking into account here. My award is made in 
light of our guidance on compensation and is in line with other awards made by this service 
in similar circumstances. It takes into account that Mr A was still able to use his car, albeit it 
its damaged state, and that he suffered worry and frustration throughout that period. I remain 
of the view that my suggested compensation of £750 is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Putting things right
I require AA to:
Pay Mr A £750 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Upon sight of proof of costs incurred, reimburse Mr As outlay for using his damaged car 
in the congestion zone between 26 October 2021 to 30 March 2022. To each cost Mr A 
paid, add interest*, from the date of payment until settlement is made. 
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs requires AA to take off tax from this interest. If 
asked, it must give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to provide the 
redress set out above at Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman