DRN-3592939
The complaint
Miss M complains Creation Financial Services Limited didnt default her credit card in 2016 
when she thinks they should have.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant element below, and they form part of this final decision.
In 2014 Miss M unfortunately ended up in a situation with a lot of debt and got advice from a 
debt charity. Following this she began making nominal payments to her creditors. These 
payments were accepted by all creditors, and they all subsequently defaulted her accounts 
with them  apart from Creation.
Creation sold the debt to another company, who Ill call L, in February 2016 but didnt default 
the account then either. More recently Miss M was applying for a mortgage, but said the 
account not being defaulted was causing problems with the application, so she complained 
to Creation. 
Creation replied to Miss M and told her as the account was owned and being reported to the 
credit reference agencies (CRAs) by L, then shed need to speak to them.
Unhappy with Creations reply, she asked us to look into things as her complaint was about 
them not defaulting her account before it was sold to L. 
One of our Investigators found Creation didnt default the account when they should have  
so asked them to record a default from February 2016. She also awarded £100 
compensation for Creation not dealing with Miss Ms queries properly.
Creation didnt agree with the outcome, saying Miss M was keeping to the arrangement 
theyd made, so didnt think itd have been fair to have defaulted her. Because of that, the 
complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Information Commissioners Office has issued guidance about when defaults should 
generally be applied. This says a default shouldnt generally be registered any earlier than 
three months worth of payments being missed, or any later than six months worth of 
payments being missed.
Here, Miss M had entered into an arrangement to pay. These are generally agreed for a 
short term, but the expectation is if theyre going to go on for a long time they should be 
reviewed regularly  usually every three to six months.
From what I can see Miss M entered into an arrangement to pay in 2014, and the account 
was sold in 2016. From at least July 2014, until the account was sold to L in February 2016, 
Miss M was only making payments of £6  and Creation only appear to have reviewed this 
once in 2015. Creation have pointed out they werent adding interest or charges, and thats 
true I can see that in the statements.
But the statement produced in February 2016 shows Miss M had a balance of £3,474.52. 
So, in effect, I think the payment arrangement Miss M had was for token payments only  
given the £6 per month wouldnt pay off the balance for around 48 years.
When only token payments are being made, creditors like Creation are entitled to follow their 
usual collections and recovery processes  this would usually result in a default being 
registered. So, the key question to establish is whether Creation should have defaulted the 
account or not. 
Ive thought carefully about Creations point that it wouldnt have been fair to default Miss M 
while she was keeping to her payment arrangement. And, while I do understand their point, I 
agree with our Investigator that the length of time the matter went on for means they should 
have defaulted Miss M earlier. Defaults are only registered once  so by not defaulting the 
account previously, this means if Miss M doesnt keep to her current agreement the account 
could be defaulted. This wouldnt be fair, given Miss Ms financial difficulties started in 2014.
A natural time to have registered the default would have been when the debt was sold to L, 
so Ill be requiring Creation to arrange for the account to be defaulted as of February 2016. 
As defaults only last for six years, I dont expect this to appear on Miss Ms credit file as a 
result of this  but this action does fairly protect Miss M from L recording a default later on if 
she doesnt keep to the payment arrangement. 
I do though need to make it clear to Miss M that L are entitled to continue reporting the 
balance of the account to the CRAs. So, although Ive noted she says some of the accounts 
previously defaulted no longer appear on her credit file, defaulting this account doesnt 
automatically mean the balance cant be reported  as it can be. Naturally, if Miss M thinks L 
arent reporting her debt correctly to the CRAs after Creation have arranged for the default 
to be applied, then she can raise a complaint about that.
I do also think compensation is due. I dont think Creation properly got to grips with the query 
Miss M was raising, which resulted in her speaking to L unnecessarily. I think that added to 
her distress, so Im also going to require Creation to pay Miss M £100 compensation.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss M said she was under the impression if the default is backdated then L wouldnt be 
reporting the account as itll have passed its six-year defaulting stage and should be 
removed from her file. Miss M says she understands Ive said she can complain to L if shes 
unhappy with how they report her data going forward, but shed prefer a clear set of 
instructions for L to follow.
Creation didnt reply by the deadline.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive noted Miss Ms point, but the registering of a default doesnt automatically mean the 
account cant be reported by the legal owner of the debt. This complaint is against Creation, 
so Ive no power to require L to do anything or give them clear instructions on what should 
happen going forward.
L can choose to still report the debt if theyd like to, and that likely wouldnt be wrong, as 
Miss M does have a debt with them. But, if she is unhappy about the way L report her 
account, after Creation have arranged for a default to be recorded, then she can complain to 
L and subsequently our service if she remains unhappy.
As Miss M didnt say anything that made me think I should change the decision Id reached, 
and Creation didnt reply, I still think Creation should do the below actions.
Putting things right
I require Creation to:
Arrange for the default to be recorded in February 2016
Pay Miss M £100 compensation
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Creation Financial Services Limited to carry out the 
actions in the Putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 August 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman