DRN-3446160
The complaint
Miss B complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with Blue Motor Finance Ltd (BMF).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss B, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file and looked at all of the information that was available 
to the investigator and that Miss B and BMF provided. Ill concentrate my comments on what 
I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take 
it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Miss B acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it. I 
understand that Miss B had issues with the car she was previously financing and that that 
car has been exchanged. Im only considering here the car that is being financed under this 
finance agreement. 
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says, amongst other things, 
that the car should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then BMF, 
who are also the supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality 
of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other 
relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Miss B. The car here was about 
six years old and had already completed about 88,000 miles. So, I think a reasonable person 
would expect quite a bit of wear and tear to be present.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when BMF were responsible for the cars 
quality. Ive not seen evidence to demonstrate there have been issues with the radio, 
speakers and dashboard electrics as Miss B suggests. But I have seen evidence of a flat 
battery that occurred after about five months. I dont think thats something a reasonable 
person may expect on a vehicle of this age and mileage. By that point Miss B had covered 
nearly 3,000 miles in the car and I think a battery failure could fairly be considered wear and 
tear. 
When faults occur after six months the relevant legislation explains that the responsibility to 
demonstrate the fault was present or developing when the vehicle was supplied, shifts to the 
consumer. Ive reviewed the RAC call out sheets that show issues with a flat tyre, a snapped 
inlet pipe and clogged diesel particulate filter (DPF) but I dont think it would be fair to 
suggest there is evidence these issues were present or developing when the car was 
supplied. I think if they were Miss B wouldnt have been able to drive the car as far as she 
did. Ive not seen evidence the DPF regenerations were due to an underlying fault and I 
dont think its unusual to need to regenerate a DPF on a car of this age and mileage.
Ive also reviewed the health check report from the garage who identified a fault with the 
turbo (amongst other things) in September 2020. By that time Miss B had been able to cover 
a little over 14,000 miles in the car and I think if the turbo had been failing when the car was 
supplied there would have been signs of failure before that. The September 2020 report 
shows that an engine control unit update was carried out at that point and I understand that 
Miss B believes a failure to complete that update earlier was the route of problems she had 
with the car. Unfortunately, theres no further evidence to corroborate that assertion and Im 
not persuaded theres sufficient evidence to suggest any failure to update the engine control 
unit was responsible for problems with this vehicle.
Overall, whilst I can see that Miss B has had a difficult time with this car, I dont think it would 
be fair to suggest BMF are responsible for the issues shes experienced and Im not asking 
them to take any further action.
I can see that Miss B also has concerns about whether this agreement was affordable for 
her. The investigator explained that that isnt something the business has yet had a chance 
to consider. So, if Miss B remains concerned about affordability she should in the first 
instance complain to BMF and if shes dissatisfied with their response she can then escalate 
the complaint to this service.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman