DRN-2834674
The complaint
Mrs K has complained about the way Chubb European Group SE (Chubb) has handled her 
claim for total disability benefit.
What happened
Mrs K has accident and sickness policies, underwritten by Chubb. 
In 2018, Mrs K made a claim for total disability on three policies she holds with Chubb, which 
Ill refer to as policy A, B and C.
Mrs K was suffering from widespread pain. Chubb accepted the claim and wrote to Mrs Ks 
doctor to ask for further information about her various medical conditions. Based on the 
information it received, it treated her knee problems as her most debilitating condition. 
The policies pay a monthly benefit for total disability, up to a maximum of 12 months. For 
policies A and B, if Mrs K suffers from the same condition for any subsequent claim, this 
would be treated as a continuation of the previous claim, unless she was symptom free for at 
least 12 months.
 
As Mrs K had previously claimed for a knee problem, and she hadnt been symptom free for 
at least 12 months, Chubb paid the remaining benefit (four months) on policies A and B. 
Eight months of benefit had previously been paid under a different claim for knee problems. 
Mrs K complained and unhappy with Chubbs response, referred her complaint to this 
Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Chubb had done anything wrong 
as it had correctly applied the policy terms to Mrs Ks claim. 
Mrs K disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. And so the case has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld and largely for the same 
reasons as already explained by the investigator.
I should start by saying that my decision is limited to Mrs Ks complaint about the amount of 
benefit she has received for her knee claim under the three policies outlined above. It 
doesnt include any other complaints she has raised with Chubb separately.
The relevant industry rules and guidance say an insurer should handle claims promptly, fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
 Policies A and B include a recurrent disability clause which says:
Successive periods of disability occurring during the term of the policy for the same 
or related covered sickness, will be treated as one period of disability unless each 
such period is separated by at least twelve continuous months during which the 
insured presents no symptoms of such covered sickness.
Policy C doesnt include the above clause and so Chubb paid the full amount (12 months) of 
benefit. Mrs K says it should have done the same on policies A and B.
Chubb treated Mrs Ks knee condition as the most debilitating based on the medical 
information it received from her GP. I think that was reasonable. 
But it treated Mrs Ks knee condition as a recurring disability as she had previously claimed 
for knee problems for which Chubb had paid benefit for eight months. This meant Mrs K only 
received four months of benefit for the claim in 2018 as she had previously already received 
8 months of benefit for knee problems. 
From the available medical evidence, knee issues were ongoing since Mrs Ks previous 
claim for related problems. And as she hadnt had a period of 12 months where she was 
symptom free, I dont think Chubb unfairly or incorrectly treated her knee problems as a 
recurring disability. 
I think the terms are clear and I dont think Chub incorrectly paid a reduced benefit. So I cant 
fairly ask it to pay any more than it already has done.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman