DRN-2906627
The complaint
Mr K complains that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined a claim under his 
motor insurance policy. 
Where I refer to Skyfire, this includes its agents and claims handlers.
What happened
In late 2020, Mr K was involved in an accident in a supermarket car park whilst on his way 
home from work. He made a claim on his motor insurance policy. Skyfire declined the claim. 
It said Mr K had been commuting when the accident occurred and his policy only covered 
use of his car for social, domestic and pleasure purposes. 
Mr K accepts that he isnt covered for commuting. He says this is something he wasnt 
aware of and that hell be changing his policy. But he disputes that the part of his journey in 
question was his commute. He says hed stopped his journey home from work when he 
parked his car at the supermarket. And that it was a different journey when he was travelling 
home from the supermarket when the accident occurred.
Mr K later added that he was intending to visit another supermarket after the accident. And 
that hed driven home before attending the first supermarket, therefore bringing his commute 
to an end prior to the accident. 
Skyfire maintained its decision to decline the claim. It said Mr Ks version of events was 
inconsistent and that it was entitled to rely on the information provided at the outset of the 
claim. Mr K says he didnt mention the additional events when he initially made the claim 
because he was in shock from the accident. 
As he wasnt happy with Skyfires decision, Mr K brought his complaint to our service. But 
our investigator didnt uphold it. He said Mr Ks initial recollection of the accident was likely to 
be the most accurate and that it was fair for Skyfire to rely on what was said. And as Mr K 
went to the supermarket on his way home from work, it would form part of his overall 
commute. 
Mr K didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that Mr Ks policy only covers the use of his car for social, domestic and 
pleasure purposes. What I need to decide is whether Skyfire has fairly determined Mr Ks 
journey as being a commute. And Im satisfied it has. Ill explain why.
Ive listened to the initial call Mr K made to Skyfire. He clearly states that he was driving 
home from work when he stopped at the supermarket. On leaving the supermarket car park, 
the accident occurred. 
Approximately a week after his claim was declined, Mr K added that he was intending to visit 
another supermarket after the accident. So he believed the purpose of his journey had 
changed from a commute to a social and domestic one. He provided statements from family 
members confirming that this was Mr Ks intention. 
The following day, Mr Ks version of events changed when he confirmed hed stopped at 
home between work and the supermarket. This wasnt mentioned on any of the previous 
calls and Mr K says hed forgot to mention it as he was shocked by the accident. 
Whilst I acknowledge Mr Ks reasons for changing his testimony, I dont think its 
unreasonable for Skyfire to be concerned about the change in his recollection of what 
happened. 
I think its fair to say that Mr Ks recollection of the accident would be most accurate at the 
time it happened, rather than a week later. And that had he known hed returned home 
before the accident took place, its likely he wouldve mentioned this at the time or at least 
immediately after the claim was declined as being a commute. 
Instead, Mr K has provided many reasons why his journey wasnt a commute, and only later 
mentioned that hed returned home. Its these inconsistencies that have cast doubt over his 
testimony.
From the information Ive seen, Im satisfied Skyfire were entitled to rely on Mr Ks initial 
statement when deciding the claim. And Im not persuaded that running an errand on the 
way home from work alters the intention of the journey from a commute to one of social, 
domestic or pleasure purposes. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman