DRN-4208558
The complaint
Mr H is complaining that Barclays Bank UK PLC have not refunded payments he made from 
his savings account to invest in a property company, which he now believes to be fraudulent.
What happened
Mr H was contacted by a cold caller who told him about an opportunity to invest in a property 
company. Mr H was sent brochures and documents about the company which appeared 
convincing and professional. On 9 February 2018 Mr H made two separate online faster 
payments of £50,000 to an investment company which he believed was acting as an agent 
of the property company. 
Mr H received three dividend payments between July 2018 and July 2019, totalling around 
£10,000. He now believes the dividend payments were not genuine dividends, but were paid 
from new funds from other investors to supply a false security. 
The dividend payments stopped after July 2019, and at some point after this Mr H suspected 
hed been the victim of fraud. In October 2022 he contacted Barclays through a third party 
representative to raise a complaint. Mr Hs representative then referred the complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into Mr Hs complaint, but he didnt think Barclays should refund the 
payments Mr H had made to the investment company. Mr H didnt accept the investigators 
view, so his complaint has now been passed to me for review and a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to say firstly that I do understand that this experience must continue to be a very 
upsetting one for Mr H, and Im sorry that hes found himself in this situation. It appears that 
he's lost out significantly here and I can see why hed think he should receive a refund of the 
money he paid to the investment company. But I dont think that I can fairly say that Barclays 
should refund the money Mr H lost. Ill explain why.
Mr Hs representative has mentioned the Lending Standards Boards Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) code, which is a voluntary code designed to protect 
customers from Authorised Push Payment (APP) Scams. But this code didnt come into 
force until May 2019  over a year after Mr Hs payments were made  and it isnt 
retrospective. So, I cant consider his complaint with this in mind. 
Mr Hs representative has provided a lot of information about why they believe the property 
company he invested in behaved fraudulently, much of which appears to have come to light 
some time after he made the payments in question. But I must make my decision based on 
the information that was available to both parties at the time Mr H made the investment  in 
order to decide what, if any, action Barclays should have taken at the time, and whether any 
action they did take would have made a difference to what happened.
Its not in dispute that Mr H authorised the payments. And Barclays have a duty to act on his
instructions. But in some circumstances a bank should take a closer look at the
circumstances of the payments  for example, if they ought to be alert to a fraud risk, 
because the transaction is unusual, or looks out of character or suspicious. And if so, the 
bank should intervene, usually by contacting the customer directly, before releasing the 
payments.
Barclays didnt intervene here, and theyve explained why  and I consider their explanation 
to be reasonable. Its true that the payments here were high value, and that Mr H hadnt 
made any payments to this investment company before. But Barclays have explained that 
Mr H had made a number of similarly high value payments before hed made the payments 
in question  and from reviewing his statements I can see this is the case. In this context, the 
payments he made to the investment company didnt look unusual or suspicious. And 
Barclays have pointed out that the investment company itself was a legitimate company 
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). I accept that at that time Barclays had 
no reason to suspect that it was involved with fraud.
Ive thought carefully about the circumstances here and overall I dont think there was 
anything suspicious or unusual about the payments such that Barclays should have been 
alerted to intervene. But even if Barclays had intervened here, for example by contacting   
Mr H directly to ask some questions about the investment as his representative has 
suggested, I dont think this would have made a difference to his decision to proceed with it. I 
say this because Mr H had clearly been led to believe this was a genuine investment 
opportunity and a safe place for his money. The documents hed been supplied with about 
the property company were professional and convincing, and the investment company he 
made the payments to was regulated by the FCA. Ive not seen anything to show Mr H had a 
reason to doubt the legitimacy of the investment at that time. So, I think Mr H would have 
told Barclays to proceed with the payments. And I dont think Barclays would have had any 
grounds to do otherwise.
Once Mr H told Barclays he suspected he had been the victim of fraud, I would have 
expected them to attempt to recover his money from the beneficiarys bank immediately. 
Often in these circumstances, funds are moved on from the beneficiarys account very 
quickly to prevent successful recovery. But Barclays have said that it didnt make any 
attempt to recover Mr Hs money, because by the time he reported his suspicions it was too 
late for there to be any reasonable prospect of successfully recovering it. 
It's not clear when Mr H first reported his suspicions to Barclays. His representative says it 
was around the time the dividends stopped, which was in July 2019. But on reviewing his 
contact history with Barclays I cant see any evidence of Mr H contacting them about this 
before October 2022. But even if I accept Mr Hs version of events, it was over a year after 
the payments were made. So, I agree with Barclays that there was no reasonable prospect 
that recovery would have been successful after that time, even if theyd attempted it. So, I 
dont think Barclays ought to have done more to recover Mr Hs money. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr H. However, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think 
Barclays should have done more to prevent his loss. So, it wouldnt be reasonable for me to 
ask them to refund the payments he made.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2023.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman