DRN-1690880
The complaint
Mr M complains that Next Risk Solutions Limited mis-sold him a motor insurance policy as 
he said he wasnt the person who took out the policy. He wants it to refund the outstanding 
balance and stop chasing him for a debt.  
What happened
Mr M took out a policy through Next Risk Solutions. In the sales call, an advisor went 
through Mr Ms details. He confirmed they were correct. The policy documents were then 
sent to Mr M, but he didnt tell Next Risk Solutions they included any inaccuracies. The 
policys underwriter then avoided the policy (treated it as if it didnt exist) and retained the 
premiums as it thought the proof of No Claims Bonus (NCB) was fraudulent. 
The underwriter later gave Mr M a partial refund as he thought fraud had taken place. He 
said he hadnt taken out the policy but had given his details to someone on a social media 
site. Mr M wanted a full refund, but Next Risk Solutions is pursuing him for the outstanding 
balance.  
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Mr Ms 
details had been inputted online and confirmed in the sales call. She saw that Mr M had 
passed his details to another person on social media. But she didnt think this was Next Risk 
Solutions responsibility. She didnt think it needed to stop chasing Mr M for the outstanding 
balance. 
Mr M asked for his complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. He thought Next Risk 
Solutions should waive the outstanding balance as they had both been conned.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like the investigator, I havent considered the decision made by the insurer to avoid the 
policy. This is because its a separate business to Next Risk Solutions. So if Mr M is 
unhappy with this decision, he should first complain to it directly.
Mr M said a friend had set up the policy and Mr M had paid him an amount into his bank 
account. Mr M has lost his initial payments to his friend and Next Risk Solutions are now 
seeking the outstanding balance.  
I was sorry to hear about this and I can understand that it puts Mr M in a very difficult 
position. Like the investigator Ive considered whether Next Risk Solutions has made any 
errors in its administration of the policy. 
Next Risk Solutions said Mr M took out a quote through its online site. It said he then called it 
to check his details and complete the sale. During this call, Mr M confirmed his licence and 
NCB details, amongst other things. He was asked to provide proof of his NCB within 14 
days. A welcome pack was then sent to Mr M for him to check that his details were accurate. 
I can see that this was sent to the same email address that Mr M has provided to us. But he 
didnt make any changes. 
Mr M said hed provided his details to his friend on social media. Ive seen the information he 
provided, and I can see that some of this was used to set up the policy. But Mr M didnt have 
had the NCB claimed. 
But Next Risk Solutions wasnt to know this at the time of the sale. I think it confirmed the 
information provided online with the caller. Mr M said this wasnt him, but the person used 
the details Mr M had provided to obtain a policy for him. I think Next Risk Solutions then sent 
Mr M his documents to check, but he didnt correct them. So I cant say that Next Risk 
Solutions mis-sold the policy to Mr M.   
Next Risk Solutions explained that Mr M owed £880.62 following the policy avoidance. The 
insurer then made a partial refund of £622.87, charging Mr M for his time on cover. Mr M 
then owed £257.75 which Next Risk Solutions collected. Mr Ms initial deposit of £355.22 
and a further £257.75 that had been collected were then charged back to Mr Ms account. 
So Next Risk Solutions said Mr M owed it £612.97 and I think this has been correctly 
calculated.
As I dont think Next Risk Solutions made any errors, I think its entitled to collect the balance 
outstanding. And so I dont require it to make Mr M any further refunds or waive the 
outstanding balance. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman