DRN-4234532
The complaint
Mr M complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk 
irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr M complains that MoneyBoat irresponsibly lent two loans to him. He says at the time of 
the loans he was indebted and MoneyBoat should have carried out better checks. He says 
had it done so, it would have seen he couldnt afford further borrowing.
MoneyBoat lent Mr M two loans, the first loan was lent on 16 January 2023 for £400 over a 
six-month term, the monthly repayment was £110.12. Mr M repaid the first loan on 25 
January 2023. MoneyBoat lent Mr M a second loan on 10 March 2023 for £250, the loan 
was due to be repaid in two monthly instalments of £150.68. Mr M repaid the second loan on 
29 March 2023.
When Mr M complained to MoneyBoat, it didnt uphold any part of his complaint and so he 
referred it to the Financial Ombudsman Service where it was looked at by one of our 
adjudicators.
Our adjudicator didnt think MoneyBoat was wrong to lend any of the loans and didnt 
recommend that Mr Ms complaint be upheld. Mr M disagreed saying MoneyBoats checks 
didnt go far enough and had it requested bank statements and payslips, it would have seen 
he couldnt afford the loan. Mr M also says he borrowed to repay the loans.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out reasonable and proportionate checks to 
make sure Mr M could repay the loans on time, without suffering financial detriment, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments and without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as 
how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and 
expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income). 
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MoneyBoat was required to establish 
whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
As stated above, it wont be unexpected in the early stages of the lending relationship that 
less thorough checks would be reasonable and proportionate. Ive considered MoneyBoats 
checks and any factors that may have prompted MoneyBoat to go further with its checks.
Before lending either loan, MoneyBoat has provided evidence to show it asked Mr M about 
his monthly income and living costs including credit commitments. Mr M declared an income 
for £3,800 for loan 1 and £4,000 for loan 2. Mr M declared £1,200 for his monthly living costs 
and credit commitments for loan 1 and for loan 2 he declared £1,925. 
MoneyBoat searched Mr Ms credit file before lending both loans and from what I can see, 
Mr M didnt have any defaulted or delinquent accounts. There was also no County Court 
Judgements (CCJs) recorded against him at the time of either loan.
Mr M had some active credit accounts but the repayments on all his accounts were up to 
date and so there was nothing to suggest he wasnt managing his credit commitments. 
MoneyBoat says it reacted to the information it found on Mr Ms credit file by increasing the 
amount of his monthly credit commitments. Based on MoneyBoats checks and adjustments, 
Mr M was left with left with disposable income of around £2,483 for loan 1 and £1,480 for 
loan 2. This suggested to MoneyBoat that he had sufficient disposable income to afford the 
loan repayments over their term.
Given the loan amounts and the stage of the lending relationships, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for MoneyBoat to have relied on the information Mr M provided - asking about 
his monthly income and expenditure was reasonable in the circumstances. It also wasnt 
unreasonable for MoneyBoat to rely on the information Mr M provided.
I can see from the results of the credit search that Mr Ms credit commitments were higher 
than what MoneyBoat estimated. Looking at the information on Mr Ms credit file and what he 
declared his monthly expenditure for loan 1 was around £2,450 and around £2,770 for loan 
2. Given his declared income, even with the higher expenditure Mr M was left with sufficient 
disposable income to afford the loan repayments.
Mr M has said MoneyBoat should have carried further checks by looking at his payslips and 
bank statements. There is no requirement for MoneyBoat to request payslips and bank 
statements. The rules required it to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks but didnt 
prescribe what those checks would be.The overall circumstances of the lending here dont persuade me to conclude that 
MoneyBoat should have requested bank statements and payslips before lending to Mr M, 
I think its checks in the circumstances went far enough and those checks showed Mr M 
could afford the loans without suffering financial detriment.
Mr M has said he had to borrow to repay the loans. This isnt something that was apparent to 
MoneyBoat through its reasonable checks at the time and there was nothing suggesting 
Mr M was likely to have to borrow to repay either loan.
Overall, I think MoneyBoat did enough before lending and based on those checks, Mr M 
could afford to repay both loans so I dont think MoneyBoat lent when it shouldnt have.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman