DRN-1612116
The complaint
Mr P complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) undervalued his car after it was declared 
a total loss, and a claim made under a car insurance policy. 
What happened
In July 2019, Mr Ps car was hit by a third-party driver while parked outside his home. Mr P 
made a claim on his car insurance policy. 
UKI deemed the car beyond economical repair. It offered a claim settlement of £493, which it 
considered to be the market value of the car based on its age, condition and mileage. As the 
policy excess was £500, UKI didn't make any payment for the claim. 
Mr P believes the car is worth in the region of £1,500. He says it was a high-performance 
model with optional extras such as heated leather seats. He says that hed planned on 
keeping the car for at least another 10 years as he believed it would become a classic. And 
he says a local garage thinks the car is worth more than what UKI valued it at. 
Our investigator was satisfied that UKI had settled the claim fairly. She said the policy was 
clear that it would pay no more than the market value of the car at the time of the accident. 
And based on the motor trade guides, UKIs valuation was reasonable. 
Mr P didn't agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I wont be upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Like most car insurance policies, UKI will pay the market value. The policy defines this as 
the cost of replacing the car with another of the same make and model and of a similar age 
and condition at the time of the loss.
The key issue I need to decide is whether UKI has offered a market value of the car that is in 
line with the terms and conditions of the policy and whether it's fair and reasonable in the all 
circumstances. 
In deciding whether an insurer has offered a fair market value we consider valuations from 
motor trade guides. We find these guides persuasive, largely because their valuations are 
based on nationwide research of likely sales figures. The guides also consider regional 
variations as well as the make, model and other specifications. So, we generally find them to 
be more reliable than other resources such as adverts. Although we do take adverts into 
account, we also consider other available evidence; for example, engineers reports.
Mr Ps car had pre-existing damage, which Im satisfied is more than general wear and tear, 
and thats had an impact on the value UKI offered. The engineer thought the car's condition 
was poor and a fair reduction on the market value was £457. Having looked at the guides I can see that one suggests a market value for below average condition at £305, while the 
other is £855 before any deduction for condition. 
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr P has told us in respect of the condition of the car 
and the additional extras it had. But I havent seen anything to persuade me that the motor 
trade guides and the engineers report are wrong or shouldn't be relied on. And while the car 
may have become a classic in ten years time, the market value only reflects what a car was 
worth at the time of the loss, not the future. 
Im satisfied UKIs offer is in line with market value, and fair in all the circumstances. I know 
Mr P will be disappointed with my decision, but I wont be asking UKI to increase its 
settlement offer.
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2020.
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman