DRN-4042937
The complaint
Miss B and Mr C complain Openwork Limited didnt make them aware theyd have to pay 
fees to both the broker and lender when they arranged their mortgage. 
Where I refer to Openwork, I include their appointed representative that Miss B and Mr C 
dealt with.
What happened
Miss B and Mr C were looking for a new property. When they found one they wanted to buy, 
the estate agent involved referred them to Openwork to arrange their mortgage. Although 
they had a decision in principle from a lender, they felt under pressure to agree to that. They 
say the estate agent told them it would help their chances of an offer being accepted by the 
property seller if they used Openwork. 
Miss B and Mr C spoke to Openwork soon afterwards. They understood from them theyd 
have to pay fees of around £895 in relation to the mortgage. That was more than they 
understood the other lender would charge. But to secure the property, they decided to 
accept it. They found out later an additional fee was payable. They said if theyd known that 
at the start, they wouldnt have agreed to use Openwork and would have got their mortgage 
from the lender theyd lined up.
Miss B and Mr C complained to Openwork. In response, Openwork said their fee had been 
payable once the mortgage offer had been issued and the mortgage illustration theyd sent 
to Miss B and Mr C on around 2 March 2022 had explained that clearly. It had also set out 
that their fee was separate from the booking fee they were obliged to pay the lender to cover 
the cost of reserving their mortgage product. Since Miss B and Mr C said theyd agreed to 
pay the fee once the transaction had gone through and theyd be happy to pay it then, 
Openwork had agreed to that. And theyd sent Miss B and Mr C an amended fee agreement 
to reflect that, which Openwork felt made things clear. In the circumstances, they didnt 
uphold the complaint.
Miss B and Mr C didnt agree with Openwork. They said Openwork hadnt explained things 
clearly or provided them with any of the documents they relied on. So, they brought their 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator thought Openwork had 
made clear to Miss B and Mr C at the outset the fees theyd have to pay. And he didnt 
uphold their complaint. Since Miss B and Mr C didnt accept our investigators view, their 
complaints been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Miss B and Mr Cs strength of feeling. I note they felt under pressure from 
their estate agents to arrange a mortgage through Openwork. And Im sorry to hear of the 
problems they had with the condition of the property once the purchase had gone through. 
I dont have the power to consider a complaint about the estate agent. And Im not 
considering the lenders actions here or concerns about the survey that was carried out. Im 
only looking at the complaint Miss B and Mr C originally brought to us about Openwork as 
the broker who arranged the mortgage with the lender. That complaint is, in essence, about 
the information Miss B and Mr C were given about the broker fees theyd have to pay and 
whether its fair they should have to pay them now. 
I may not mention everything the parties have told us. No discourtesy is intended by that. It 
simply reflects the informal nature of the service we provide. Ill focus on what I think is key 
to my decision. Theres some conflicting information, including about what happened when. 
So, I come to my decision based on what I think is more likely than not to have happened 
based on what Ive seen. As Ill explain, Ive come to the same outcome as our investigator 
for broadly the same reasons.
Miss B and Mr C understood there was a close relationship between the Openwork 
appointed representative they dealt with and the estate agent which led to the referral. They 
were concerned about the financial arrangements that might exist between them. They felt 
the speed with which Openwork contacted them and began processing their mortgage 
application put further pressure on them to use their services. And they say Openwork failed 
to let them know theyd have to pay two fees until they were too far down the line in buying 
their property for them to change their minds about using them.
I appreciate house buying can be stressful and I acknowledge Openwork started work very 
soon after Miss B and Mr C had shown interest in the property. But Im not persuaded the 
evidence shows Miss B and Mr C were pressurised by Openwork to use their services. And I 
havent seen anything to suggest Openworks relationship with the estate agent was 
improper. But Id expect Openwork to have provided Miss B and Mr C with information about 
the fees associated with the mortgage that was clear, fair and not misleading - in line with 
Financial Conduct Authority guidance  so they could make an informed decision about 
whether to use their services to arrange a mortgage. Equally, Miss B and Mr C were making 
an important financial commitment by entering into a mortgage. So, Id expect them to have 
listened to or read any information they were given carefully, and to have asked Openwork 
questions if anything was unclear.
Openwork discussed things with Miss B and Mr C in around late February 2022. They say 
they explained on the call, amongst other things, that theyd charge them a fee for their work. 
Miss B and Mr C say they understood thered be one fee. They dont recall the broker telling 
them thered be another fee to pay the lender in connection with the mortgage. And they feel 
Openwork havent been honest about what was discussed.
Unfortunately, the call recordings arent available. But the broker emailed Miss B and Mr C 
shortly afterwards. I think its reasonable to rely on that written evidence here. Openwork 
attached their brochure to that email. It set out, amongst other things, that theyd charge a 
minimum fee of £795 for their services in arranging a mortgage; it would be payable when a 
mortgage offer was issued; theyd be paid commission by the lender about which Miss B and 
Mr C could ask for more information; and theyd receive a mortgage illustration which would 
tell them about any fees relating to the mortgage. The email itself said there would be an 
£895 fee payable when the mortgage was offered.
Miss B and Mr C dont recall seeing the email at the time. And now theyve reviewed it, they 
dont think it made clear the fees theyd be charged. But, read with the information set out in 
the brochure, I think it was clear, fair and not misleading that the fee Openwork would 
charge for their work was separate from any fee Miss B and Mr C might have to pay in 
connection with a mortgage they might be offered at some point in the future. Until a suitable 
mortgage had been found, the terms of that mortgage and any additional fees that might be payable wouldnt have been known. So, Openwork wouldnt have been able to tell Miss B 
and Mr C then if theyd have to pay one, or what it might be. 
Openwork produced a mortgage illustration in early March 2022. They say they posted it to 
Miss B and discussed its terms, including the fees associated with the mortgage, on the 
phone with her. When Miss B confirmed she was happy to go ahead, Openwork completed a 
full mortgage application and received an offer through the lenders on-line portal. And they 
say they posted the offer to Miss B once theyd received it. Openworks evidence broadly 
reflects the sort of process Id expect to have taken place. The documents suggest that 
process took place here in part at least, although its unclear Openwork posted the 
documents. 
If Miss B and Mr C had seen the illustration and/or offer, Id expect them to have understood 
what fees were payable when, as the information was clear. They set out that the amount of 
the loan was going to be £200,999. That included a £999 booking fee to secure the 
mortgage product Miss B and Mr C were taking that would fix the interest rate they were 
paying for five years. The documents explained the booking fee of £999 would be added to 
the loan. Other fees, including the brokers fee of £895, and when they were payable were 
set out separately and clearly explained. 
On balance, I think its more likely than not Miss B and Mr C saw the mortgage offer, if not 
the illustration. Firstly, Id expect them to have seen it when they were dealing with their 
conveyancer and before they exchanged contracts, given the important information it 
contained about how the mortgage would work. And secondly, Miss Bs told us she and Mr C 
were working to a budget. They were expecting to pay a fee of £875 and make monthly 
payments for their mortgage of around £1,200. The monthly instalment set out in the 
illustration and offer was around £1,218 for the first five years. Their budget was broadly in 
line with that. 
But even if Im wrong about that, as Ive explained, I think Openwork had set out clearly 
enough when they emailed Miss B and Mr C at the end of February that a broker fee was 
payable in addition to any fees associated with the mortgage itself. 
Miss B and Mr C say they would have risked losing the house and gone ahead with the 
lender whod given them a decision in principle if theyd understood the fees theyd have to 
pay by using Openwork. Even if I thought Openwork had misled Miss B and Mr C, its too 
speculative to conclude they would have been better off by doing that. Its difficult to know if 
their full mortgage application would have been accepted by that lender or whether the terms 
of any offer, including any fees, would have been acceptable to them. 
Miss B and Mr C chose to add the £999 booking fee to the mortgage. That meant they didnt 
have to pay it up front, although they will pay interest on it within the monthly mortgage 
payment of £1,200 theyd budgeted for. But they werent obliged to find additional funds for 
the £895 fee due to Openwork as theyd factored that in. I appreciate they feel the fee is high 
based on what other brokers have told them. I wouldnt generally interfere in the fees a 
broker charges, but Openworks fee here doesnt seem unreasonable given the work they 
carried out. 
In all the circumstances, I dont think its unreasonable for Openwork to have charged the fee 
and I think its fair Miss B and Mr C should pay it. Bearing everything in mind, whilst I 
understand they will be disappointed, I dont uphold their complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss B and Mr Cs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr C 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 May 2023. 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman