DRN-1488654
 
Complaint
Ms W complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her monthly premium mortgage 
payment protection insurance (MPPI) policies.
Background
Ms W was sold a MPPI policy in 1998 during a meeting. The MPPI would have provided a 
monthly benefit for up to 12 months per claim if Ms W was off work sick or lost her job. 
In 2004 Ms W took out a further advance and was again sold a PPI policy. This PPI policy 
covered not only the further advance but also the original borrowing. It would have paid out 
for up to 12 months per claim if Ms W was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt think the 1998 policy was mis-sold and so didnt think Ms Ws 
complaint should be upheld in relation to that policy. But he thought that Ms Ws complaint in 
relation to the 2004 policy should be upheld as he thought Lloyds had mis-sold the 2004 
policy.
Ms W agreed with the adjudicator that the 2004 policy was mis-sold but didnt agree with the 
adjudicators view on the 1998 policy and so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ws case.
Having done that, I agree with the adjudicator that the policy sold in 1998 was not mis-sold 
but that the policy sold in 2004 was mis-sold. So I partially uphold Ms Ws complaint. I will 
now explain why. For ease of reference, I have considered the sales separately under the 
headings 1998 sale and 2004 sale. 
1998 sale
First of all Ive considered whether Ms W was eligible under the policy. Based on Ms Ws 
age, employment and circumstances at the time of the sale, Im satisfied that Ms W was 
eligible under the policy at the time of the sale.
Lloyds had to make it clear to Ms W that the MPPI was optional and needed her consent 
before it could be applied to Ms Ws account. Ms W says that she was sold the policy under 
duress and she was made to feel it was compulsory. She says she was told she had to take 
PPI as she was a single applicant. She says she did not need the policy as she had sufficient existing repayment provisions. Lloyds say they made it clear that policy was 
optional.
I cant know for sure what took place during the sale. So Ive thought about what Ms W and 
Lloyds have told us and looked to the documents from the time of the sale to help me decide 
what is more likely to have happened.
In particular, Ive seen a copy of the mortgage application form and a separate MPPI 
application form. Just above where Ms W signed the mortgage application, it stated that the 
mortgage was not conditional upon her taking out other products. I havent seen anything in 
the mortgage application form or the actual MPPI application form which would suggest Ms 
W had to take PPI or that she should take it out because she was a single applicant. Ms W 
completed a separate MPPI application form to take MPPI and also completed a separate 
direct debit mandate.  
So all in all, while I appreciate what Ms W has told us  and of course its possible that she 
was told otherwise, based on the evidence available to me I cant say its more likely that 
Lloyds didnt present MPPI as optional or that Ms W didnt choose to take it out.  
Lloyds accept they advised Ms W to take MPPI. This means they had to check it was 
suitable for Ms W. I dont know if Lloyds took all the steps they should have to check if the 
MPPI was suitable for Ms W but I do think the policy was suitable for Ms W. I say this 
because:
 
Ms W has told us she was entitled to six months full pay followed by six months half 
pay. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to this and could have been 
particularly useful when Ms Ws sick pay reduced to half. I understand the comments 
Ms W makes about having a secure job, but the point of MPPI was to provide cover if 
the unexpected were to happen.
 
Ms W doesnt appear to have been affected by the terms in the policy which would 
have made it difficult for her to make a successful claim under the policy. 
 
I havent seen any evidence to suggest that the MPPI itself was unaffordable for Ms 
W at the time of the sale.
 
Ms W could have cancelled the MPPI at any time without losing out financially if she 
no longer wanted or needed it.
 
As well as checking that the MPPI was suitable for Ms W, Lloyds also had to give her clear 
information about the MPPI  in particular about the costs, benefits and main exclusions in 
the policy  so that she could make an informed decision about whether or not to take it out.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Ms W wasnt as clear as it should have been but 
this in itself doesnt mean the policy was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether 
better information would have put her off taking it out. And I dont think it would have. I say 
this for the same reasons I think the MPPI was suitable for her.So having taken everything into consideration, I dont think Lloyds mis-sold Ms W this MPPI 
policy in 1998. I appreciate what Ms W says about her other complaints being upheld but 
each case is decided on its own merits.
 
2004 sale
Lloyds accept they advised Ms W to take MPPI. As set out above, this means that Lloyds 
had to check that the policy was suitable for Ms W. I dont know what steps Lloyds took to 
check if the policy was suitable for Ms W but I dont think it was suitable. 
This is because the policy would have prevented Ms W from making a claim for a pre-
existing medical condition in certain circumstances. Ms W has told us about a condition 
which she suffered from for some time. She had surgery for this condition twice as the first 
time it was unsuccessful. The second surgery was in 2003, just the year before the sale of 
this policy. Although Ms W has told us she has been fine since this surgery, given the 
background to this condition and the proximity of the sale to her second surgery, I dont think 
Lloyds should have recommended this policy to her because she wouldnt have been able to 
make a claim for this condition if complications arose. And if they had discussed this with Ms 
W as they ought to have done, I don't think Ms W would have taken the policy out.
So I think Lloyds mis-sold Ms W this policy and I require them to pay Ms W the 
compensation as set out below.
Fair compensation (2004 policy only)
Lloyds should put Ms W in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI in 2004. 
The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Lloyds should:
 
Pay Ms W the amount she paid each month for the PPI
 
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
 
If Ms W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Lloyds can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her. 
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Ms W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Ms Ws complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC in relation to the policy sold in 2004 and 
require them to pay Ms W the compensation set out above. I dont uphold Ms Ws complaint 
against Lloyds Bank PLC in relation to the policy sold in 1998. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2020.Navneet Sher
Ombudsman