DRN-2403279
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Phoenix Life Assurance Limited:
wont provide forms to allow her to put her pension policy into trust, 
wont transfer her to another policy that allows beneficiaries to be added, and 
will impose an unfair market value reduction (MVR) on her pension pot if she 
transfers it to another provider before age 65.
What happened
In the late 1980s Mrs M took out a with-profits pension policy with Provider N. Sometime 
later Phoenix took on responsibility for the policy. 
In 2019 Mrs M contacted Phoenix to ask about nominating beneficiaries to receive her 
pension pot if she died before it vested. Phoenix wrote to her on 8 May 2019 indicating that 
the age of the policy she had meant it wasnt issued under the terms of Phoenixs 
discretional death benefit that came into force for plans issued after the end of 1994.
 
Phoenix said that Mrs Ms options were to appoint beneficiaries for the death benefits in her 
will, or to declare a trust. It said it didnt provide the documentation necessary to establish a 
trust, and it recommended she seek her own independent advice. It gave some further 
information about what the content of the trust needed to be. 
A short while later Mrs M received her annual statement for her Phoenix pension under 
cover of letter dated 19 May 2019.
By letter dated 7 June 2019 Mrs M wrote to Phoenix with several queries and complaints. 
These related to two issues:
(a) Death benefits
Mrs M wished to nominate her children as beneficiaries of the death benefits under 
her pension plan. She thought Phoenix was putting costly and complicated barriers in 
the way of her nominating beneficiaries. 
(b) Transfer value 
Mrs M noted that her recent statement showed that her transfer value was around a 
third less than her fund value. She saw this as a barrier to transferring, which 
compounded her complaint about the nomination of death benefit beneficiaries.
In early July Phoenix wrote to Mrs M in relation to some of her queries and requests for 
information. It explained that the difference between the fund value and the transfer value 
was a market value adjustment (MVA or MVR). It said that the MVA was intended to ensure 
that the policy proceeds represent fair value based on the actual performance of the with-
profit fund over the policy term. It added that the MVA applied on transfer and if the policy 
was claimed before age 65. Phoenix provided a copy of the terms and conditions for her 
policy and said that the annual management charges were implicit and taken into account 
when the bonus and bonus interest rates are calculated. 
Phoenix responded to her complaint in early September 2019. In relation to the nomination 
of beneficiaries for death benefits, it said that it was a business decision that it no longer 
provided forms to nominate beneficiaries or create a trust.
In relation to the MVR it said that it wasnt an exit charge. It was set so that the cash in value 
of the units (in the with-profits fund) reflects the actual returns achieved by the fund, after 
tax, charges, and other profits and losses. Phoenix enclosed a sample policy schedule with 
the parts relating to the MVR highlighted. It explained that Mrs Ms policy has a guaranteed 
growth rate of 4% and the fund her policy has been invested in hasnt matched this. The 
MVR is the difference between the real value and the guaranteed growth rate. If Mrs M 
chooses to take her policy before 65, then Phoenix will only give Mrs M the underlying true 
value of the policy in line with the terms and conditions. It said it would pay Mrs M £100 
because it hadnt responded to her queries in a timely way. 
Phoenix wrote to Mrs M again in late September 2019 providing further information about 
death benefits. It said it no longer provided trust forms because this created a legally binding 
commitment and it wants to ensure customers are made fully aware of the legal implications. 
It explained that a pension policy to which its discretional death benefits basis applied, would 
protect the fund for the purposes of inheritance tax where it exercised its discretion. As it 
was closed to new business, transferring Mrs Ms policy to another product wasnt an option. 
It was unable to allow her to nominate a beneficiary due to the terms and conditions of the 
policy. 
In mid-October 2019 Mrs M brought her complaint to our service in a detailed letter. To 
summarise, she said that all she wanted to do was to exercise her legal right to ensure her 
fund was protected for inheritance tax purposes. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that Phoenix had followed the terms of 
the policy in not allowing Mrs M to add her daughters as beneficiaries. She didnt think it was 
unfair of Phoenix to apply the terms of the policy. And the policy terms only allowed for the 
death benefit to be paid to a legal personal representative or into a trust. She understood 
Mrs M also wanted Phoenix to transfer her to a new policy which did allow beneficiaries to 
be added, but our investigator accepted the explanation from Phoenix that it was unable to 
do this since it was closed to new business.
In relation to the MVR, our investigator said that the policy allowed for the deduction of an 
MVR if Mrs M transferred her policy before 65. She added that MVRs were very common 
with these types of policy and everyone who has such a policy is subject to it  so Phoenix 
was treating Mrs M the same as others. She understood Mrs M was unhappy with the 
amount of the MVR. But our investigator thought that the explanation provided by Phoenix 
for the difference between the fund and the transfer value was satisfactory. 
Mrs M disagreed with our investigators view. She thought it was inconceivable that Phoenix 
couldnt change her policy into a trust. She says that she was told during a phone call that it 
could, if she insisted. And she said that the decision to withdraw trust forms was a business 
decision  a cost saving measure  not in the interests of customers. She still thought the 
MVR was too high. And she said itd never been explained to her when she took the policy 
out. She feels aggrieved that she was sold this policy, which she is now stuck with. Others 
she knows have been able to transfer similar with-profits policies without these issues. 
Surely the situation was contrary to the principle that pensions should be portable. Our investigator responded a couple of times to Mrs M, before and after shed listened to the 
call of late April 2020 Mrs M had with Phoenix. In summary, our investigator said:
The MVR was so high because the underlying investments have underperformed.
Mrs M can transfer her policy, but she will be charged an MVR if she does so before 
65.
If she is unhappy with how she was sold the policy, she can complain to Provider N. 
After listening to the late April call, our investigator said that Phoenix didnt say that Mrs M 
could have a trust form. Even if it was said on one of the other calls, it wouldnt change our 
investigators view because Phoenix no longer provide trust forms. Phoenix can make a 
business decision to cease to do so. 
The complaint then came to me for a decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mrs M is very frustrated that she isnt easily able to protect her pension pot from 
inheritance tax as she would be able to do if she had a newer type of policy or if Phoenix still 
provided trust forms. And shes annoyed that if she were to transfer to another provider 
which enabled her to either add beneficiaries or to put the death benefits into trust, the 
transfer value would be a third less than the fund value. Its understandable that she is 
frustrated and annoyed. But Im afraid Im going to have to disappoint her as Im not going to 
uphold her complaint. Ill explain why. But before I do so, I should say that my decision is 
going to concentrate on the issues I need to determine in order to fairly resolve the 
complaint. I wont deal with every point and issue raised if its not necessary to do so to 
reach a fair and reasonable decision. I mean no discourtesy in taking this approach; we are 
an informal service which is an alternative to the courts.
Protection of pension death benefits from inheritance tax
Mrs M wishes to take steps to ensure that any pension death benefits arent subject to 
inheritance tax. She believes that nominating her daughters as beneficiaries to a pension 
policy holding her fund, or establishing a trust to receive any death benefits, will achieve this. 
In her complaint to us, Mrs M said it could be resolved by Phoenix:
allowing her to nominate her children as beneficiaries of the lump sum benefit 
to be paid by them on a discretionary basis, or 
providing the necessary documentation to allow her to nominate her children 
or set up a trust (which she says she was told on the phone that it used to, 
but no longer, do) or 
transferring the policy to another Phoenix Life product (without deduction) 
which does allow Mrs M to nominate beneficiaries, or
transferring the policy to another provider, e.g. her workplace pension which 
does allow Mrs M to nominate, without charging an exorbitant fee of more 
than a third of the fund.
Mrs Ms contract with Phoenix is for the provision of pension benefits in line with its terms 
and conditions. Those terms dont allow for the nomination of beneficiaries to receive the 
death benefits. Newer Phoenix policies do, but Phoenix says it is closed to new business.
Having considered it carefully, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to compel 
Phoenix to take action that isnt required by its contract with Mrs M. This is because in my view Phoenix cant reasonably be expected to facilitate Mrs Ms tax planning to the extent 
she wishes it to. I dont think it is unfair of Phoenix to deal with death benefits in line with the 
terms of the contract it has with Mrs M. 
And newer policies will have different terms that may well be much less favourable to Mrs M, 
who currently has a guaranteed interest rate on investments, for example, which is a feature 
not seen in more recently issued contracts. So I dont think it is a simple thing to allow Mrs M 
to transfer to another policy that does allow nomination of beneficiaries, even if it were 
possible. 
Phoenix isnt preventing Mrs M from establishing a trust to receive any death benefits from 
the pension policy. But it has ceased to provide standard forms to facilitate this. It says this is 
a business decision and applies to all its policies. 
Although I appreciate this will disappoint Mrs M, I dont think it would be fair for me to 
interfere with this decision by Phoenix. Ive looked carefully at the explanations provided to 
Mrs M by Phoenix. I see that in its letter dated 24 September, Phoenix said that it no longer 
issues trust forms to customers because the signing of such a legal document creates a 
binding legal commitment. It wants to ensure customers are made fully aware of the 
implications and recommends that customers seek advice from a qualified adviser. I dont 
think this is an unreasonable position. Phoenix isnt in the business of providing inheritance 
tax and trust advice and providing it doesnt form part of its contract with Mrs M. Mrs M isnt 
being prevented from putting the death benefit into trust  rather she must seek her own 
independent advice and get the documentation prepared herself. Im not persuaded this is 
unfair, for the reasons Ive given. 
Phoenix also said this was a business decision to stop providing trust forms. Again, I dont 
think that is unreasonable. I can envisage that there well may be sound business reasons 
not to prepare the documentation for a trust as it could expose a business to legal and other 
types of liability if it was to be defective. There could be changes in the law over time, or 
changes in family circumstances that made a trust less suitable. This isnt to say that this is 
the reason Phoenix itself ceased doing so, Im merely pointing out some issues that may 
arise. 
To summarise, Phoenix is complying with the terms of its contract with Mrs M in relation to 
options for payment of death benefits, and for the reasons I give above, Im not persuaded to 
compel it to provide the options Mrs M requests.
The MVR
Finally, Mrs M still thinks the MVR is too high and presents an unfair barrier to her being able 
to transfer her fund to another policy which does allow nomination of beneficiaries on a 
discretionary basis. 
Im not going to repeat again the explanation that Phoenix have given for what the MVR is 
based on as Ive done that already. Like our investigator, I think it is a reasonable 
explanation. But it might be helpful if I explain a bit further the regulation of with-profits funds 
and MVRs, since Mrs M still thinks the MVR is too high. 
Mrs Ms pension pot is invested in Phoenixs with-profits fund. This is a form of pooled 
investment where Mrs Ms contributions are added together with others and invested in a 
wide range of assets. I appreciate that the MVR to be applied by Phoenix if Mrs M transfers 
her pension pot may seem arbitrary and unfair. But Phoenix must administer its with-profits 
fund in line with the requirements of its regulator, the FCA. The FCA requires Phoenix to have and publish a document called Principles and Practices 
of Financial Management (PPFM). This explains how it manages its with-profits funds 
including the nature and extent of decisions it takes to manage the fund and how it applies 
discretion to treat customers fairly. Among other things, the PPFM sets out how policy 
values are calculated, and Phoenixs practices in relation to market value reductions. 
Phoenix must manage its with-profits funds in line with the PPFM and in subject to FCA 
oversight in this Ive no reason to think that the FCA is concerned about Phoenixs 
management of the with-profits fund. Since one of the purposes of the PPFM is to ensure 
fairness between different investors in the with-profits funds, this is a further reason why it 
wouldnt be reasonable of me to tell Phoenix to reduce the MVR. 
I understand Mrs M has friends who have been able to transfer from with-profits funds 
without such an MVR being applied. I dont doubt her, but I must decide this complaint on its 
own facts. I also appreciate that the MVR may represent a barrier to transfer however Mrs M 
isnt prevented from transferring her pension pot. And as I think that Phoenix has a 
reasonable basis for imposing it, Im not going to ask Phoenix to do anything in relation to 
the MVR amount. 
 
In conclusion, for all the reasons Ive given above, Im not going to uphold Mrs Ms 
complaint, although I appreciate this will disappoint Mrs M
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Helen Wheatley
Ombudsman