DRN-3612026
The complaint
Mr C complains that Experian Limited (Experian) has been sending him unwanted emails 
when he asked it not to. He would like to be compensated for this.
What happened
Mr C has a free Experian account and in January or February of 2022 he started to receive 
unwanted emails from them. He says he received around six in total. He responded to the 
emails to let Experian know he shouldnt be receiving them, but he never got a reply to his 
responses.
Mr C complained to Experian about receiving the service emails and about their not 
responding to his emails. He said that he had a similar issue in 2018 where he received 
unwanted marketing emails, the result of his complaint then was Experian told him they 
would no longer send him emails and paid him £25 or £30 in compensation.
Experian didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. They said, that when Mr C had complained to them 
in 2018, they had opted him out of receiving all emails, they were sorry he had started 
receiving them again, but they had opted him out again now. They went on to explain that he 
hadnt received responses to his emails as he had been sending them to an unmanned 
email account.
 Mr C wasnt happy with this response and brought his complaint to this service. He didnt 
see what difference it made if the email account was manned or not and felt that wasnt a 
good enough reason for Experian not to reply to his emails. He didnt think the apology 
Experian had given was sincere and felt he should be compensated as he was previously, 
when he complained about the similar issue. He felt around £250 would be reasonable for 
this. 
Our investigator didnt think this was a complaint that should be upheld. In summary she 
said:
Mr C had reactivated his free Experian account in 2019 and the alerts were 
reactivated at the same time leading to the emails. Experian had stopped this once 
Mr C complained and made them aware. She didnt think compensation was 
necessary for this and felt the apology was enough.
The emails Mr C had received make it clear that if he wants to contact Experian, he 
should do so using the contact page, and so Experian not replying had been down to 
Mr C not contacting them by the methods theyd provided.
Mr C disagreed with the investigators response. He argued that a judge would look at a 
repeat offender differently to a first-time offender and so he should be compensated. He felt 
the investigator wasnt taking into account his personal circumstances and by not 
compensating him was saying that the emails he received this time were less troublesome to 
him than those in 2018.
The matter has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have to tell Mr C that I wont be upholding his complaint and for broadly the 
same reasons as the investigator, Ill explain.
When Mr C complained to Experian in 2018, it was because he had received what Experian 
calls service emails. Experian upheld his complaint as it could see that he had asked in 
2017 to be opted out of these. So, they had done something wrong by sending them against 
his wishes, and they apologised and compensated him for their error and made sure he was 
opted out of emails. After this Mr Cs account was inactive
On 11 November 2019 Mr C reactivated his Experian account, when he did this, he didnt 
opt out of servicing emails, this means he effectively told the system it was ok to send him 
emails again. So, I cant fairly say that the emails he received were as a result of an error on 
Experians part. As they werent sent in error this makes the situation different from his 
complaint with them in 2018 when they did send emails in error. And so, its not a repeat 
offence as Mr C suggested but a standalone incident where there was no error. It follows, I 
dont think Experian needs to compensate Mr C for sending the emails to him this time.  
Experian didnt respond to Mr Cs emails because they went to an unmanned account. 
Having looked at the emails I can see they say:
This is a service-based email that has been sent by Experian. The service emails we 
send you contain essential information relating to your Experian account. If you think 
you have received this email in error, please notify us via our contact page.
The underlined section that says contact page in the paragraph is a link directly to the 
contact page. If Mr C had used this link to contact Experian the email would have gone 
directly to a manned inbox and Experian would have likely responded to him.  
I understand that to Mr C it may seem logical to reply to the email that you have been sent if 
you want to speak to the business, but its very common for this type of email to be sent out 
from an automated account and for that account not to be manned for replies. The emails 
gave Mr C the correct details he needed to contact Experian, if he thought he shouldnt be 
receiving them, but he didnt use them. Im satisfied that had he used the correct contact 
method Experian would have dealt with his query, as they did when he raised the complaint. 
I appreciate that Mr C might not have realised he should have contacted them using the link. 
But I cant hold Experian responsible for that. 
Mr C has told us that he suffers from a condition that is worsened by stress. And, while I fully 
appreciate that this issue has caused him stress. It wasnt because of any errors on 
Experians part. It follows I wont be asking Experian to do anything different here to put 
things right for Mr C.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman