DRN-3517880
The complaint
Mr M, as a partner in S  a business, complains about how Lloyds Bank PLC handled a 
chargeback complaint.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both S and Lloyds. In my decision, Ill 
focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
S had a merchant services contract with Lloyds for their hotel business. This enabled S to 
take customer payments by credit and debit card. S business was affected by the COVID-19 
lockdowns and one of their customers raised a chargeback against S through their card 
issuing bank in late 2020. S provided a defence to the chargeback, but it was unsuccessful 
and their account was debited £170.
S was unhappy with Lloyds and made a complaint. Lloyds didnt uphold their complaint and 
S referred their complaint to our Service for an independent review. Our investigator 
considered the complaint but didnt recommend that it be upheld. As S didnt accept the 
investigators recommendations, their complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. Where theres a difference 
in opinion between both parties, Ive to reach my decision based on what I think is more 
likely than not  based on the available evidence. 
When Lloyds were notified of the chargeback being raised, they let S know. S were then 
given an opportunity provide a defence. Lloyds passed over the defence to the issuing bank 
- but it was unsuccessful and Lloyds debited S for the chargeback value. This is what Id 
have expected to happen and is in line with the terms of the agreement between S and 
Lloyds.  
At that point  where Lloyds and the card issuing bank have different positions on the 
outcome of the chargeback, there are two realistic options. One party stands down, accepts 
the outcome of the chargeback and its not contested further, or - the chargeback continues 
to be contested and is progressed towards pre-arbitration or arbitration. Arbitration is where 
an arbitrator on behalf of the card scheme decides the outcome of the chargeback.
In this case, Lloyds decided not to contest the chargeback further and my decision will 
mainly focus on whether this was fair and reasonable  based solely on the defence 
provided at that time - not anything provided as part of a defence at a later date.
Ive considered the evidence S provided to defend the chargeback. S told Lloyds in an email 
dated 29 October 2020 that they pro-actively contacted their customer (the card holder) on 
18 May 2020 and explained that there was still a possibility that they might reopen. 
In that email, S says they told the customer they had a number of options. They could keep 
the reservation and wait and see what happened, or transfer the reservation to another date, 
or they could issue a voucher to be used in the future. S says the customer chose to receive 
a voucher as the party theyd intended traveling with had cancelled their stay  so effectively 
the card holder would be staying by themselves.
As part of their defence, S also provided a copy of an email sent to the card holder on 18 
May 2020. I will highlight some important information from it that is relevant here:
Once again I would like to offer our apologies that your reservation has had to 
be cancelled. 
This could reasonably be interpreted as it was S cancelling the reservation - as theyre 
apologising to the customer. 
As explained during our conversation, you originally made the non-refundable 
reservation via [third party website name redacted by Ombudsman] made a payment 
of £170. Under the circumstances, we do not believe that it is fair on anyone to 
enforce this policy and therefore we are happy to transfer this deposit onto a future 
dated reservation. 
This suggests that S were choosing to not enforce the non-refundable part of the terms 
given the COVID-19 situation at that time. 
Thank you so much for your understanding during this difficult period 
Again, the tone here suggests that it was S that instigated the cancellation. I appreciate that 
S has told us that wasnt the case, but when deciding whether or not to continue trying to 
defend the chargeback, Lloyds had to consider the evidence that had been provided by S 
against what the card holder had said.
Its important to state that in the absence of a call recording that preceded this email, and as 
the card holder offers an alternative version of events - this email is the only 
contemporaneous evidence. I do accept that the content of that phone call may well have 
influenced the tone and give context to some of the statements in the of this email. 
Ive then considered if Lloyds were reasonable in taking the actions they took. On balance, I 
find they were. I say this because the above extracts suggest - possibly unintentionally, that 
the cancellation was enacted by S  not the card holder. When Ive carefully considered the 
text above that Ive highlighted in bold, alongside the charge back, what was happening 
more widely with COVID-19 and the associated restrictions around 18 May 2020 - I dont 
finds Lloyds decision to not contest the chargeback further to be unreasonable or outside the 
range of reasonable actions they could have taken - given the evidence. 
Ive then considered what was happening more widely around this time. A review of the 
associated restrictions around 18 May 2020 doesnt support what S told Lloyds about telling 
the customer that there was still a possibility that theyd be open by 5 June 2020. I say this 
because on 10 May 2020 (around one week prior to S calling the card holder), the Prime 
Minister at the time addressed the country about COVID-19 restrictions. In that speech 
[https://www.gov.uk/government/speeches/pm-address-to-the-nation-on-coronavirus-10-
may-2020], he said: In step two  at the earliest by June 1  after half term  we believe we may be in a 
position to begin the phased reopening of shops and to get primary pupils back into 
schools, in stages, beginning with reception, Year 1 and Year 6.
And step three - at the earliest by July [bold added for emphasis by Ombudsman]- 
and subject to all these conditions and further scientific advice; if and only if the 
numbers support it, we will hope to re-open at least some of the hospitality 
industry [bold added for emphasis by Ombudsman] and other public places, 
provided they are safe and enforce social distancing.
Although the booking terms have been referenced, its the card scheme rules that would 
have taken precedent here.  Ive also kept in mind the Competition and Market Authoritys 
(CMA) statement on COVID-19 and consumer contracts. It can found here: 
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/cma-to-investigate-concerns-about-
cancellation-policies-during-the-coronavirus-covid-19-pandemic/the-coronavirus-covid-19-
pandemic-consumer-contracts-cancellation-and-refunds
Of relevance here, as set out in the statement: 
Contracts that cannot go ahead due to lockdown laws
In some circumstances, due to lockdown laws, a contract cannot go ahead as agreed 
or at all, and is therefore frustrated. A contract will be frustrated as a matter of law if, 
due to no fault of the parties, something happens after the contract was entered into 
which means it can no longer be performed at all or performance would be radically 
different to what was agreed.
As a result, the contract comes to an end and, where consumers have paid money in 
advance for services or goods that they have yet to receive, they will generally be 
entitled to obtain a refund.
In particular, for most consumer contracts, the CMA would expect a consumer to be 
offered a full refund where:
no goods or services are provided by a business because this is prevented 
by the lockdown laws
a consumer is prevented from receiving any goods or services, because, 
for example, lockdown laws in the UK or abroad have made it illegal to 
receive or use the goods or services And    
                                                                                                                                            
Non-refundable payments and fees
In the CMAs view, for consumer contracts the above rights to a refund will 
usually apply even where the business says part of the payment is a non-
refundable deposit or advance payment. [bold added for emphasis by 
Ombudsman]
This is because the contract will have been frustrated and terms which allow a 
business to provide no service but keep a consumers money (including deposits or 
advance payments) are likely to be unfair, and therefore unenforceable under Part 2 
of the Consumer Rights Act 2015. And:Credits and re-booking
Consumers can normally be offered credits, vouchers, re-booking or re-
scheduling as an alternative to a refund, but they should not be misled or 
pressured into doing so. A refund should still be an option that is just as 
clearly and easily available. [bold added for emphasis by Ombudsman]
.businesses should not give consumers the impression that they are not 
entitled to a cash refund where that is their legal right, and in the CMAs 
view this would be likely to breach consumer protection law. [bold added 
for emphasis by Ombudsman]
Whilst I cant safely conclude what the outcome of any arbitration wouldve been (and the 
card scheme rules under which a chargeback would ultimately be decided dont fall under 
our Services remit) - based on the evidence Ive seen, the likelihood of S winning at pre-
arbitration or arbitration appears to have been relatively low. Its also worth noting that the 
time and money costs of arbitration here (which are often then passed onto the merchant) 
likely wouldve been much greater than the transaction that was being disputed. 
Summary
Overall, having considered all of the evidence, on balance I find that:
Lloyds havent acted unreasonably here when choosing not to contest the 
chargeback further based on the defence provided.
Had they contested the chargeback further, its reasonable to conclude that the 
chances of S succeeding were relatively low. 
I dont find that S has lost out because of anything Lloyds have done here when 
defending the chargeback. 
My decision will disappoint S, but it brings to an end our Services involvement in trying to 
informally resolve their dispute with Lloyds.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman