DRN-4106205
The complaint
Ms W complains about the advice she got from the appointed representative of HL 
Partnership Limited whist she was in a Debt Management Plan (DMP).
What happened
Ms W applied for a mortgage though HL in 2019. At the time Ms W had received a divorce 
settlement and had £60,000.00 available for a deposit on a property. Ms W was earning 
about £24,000.00 yearly. Ms W wanted to buy a house for £105,000.00 and so required a 
mortgage of £45,000.00. Ms W also was in a DMP following the breakdown of her mortgage 
of about £29,000.00.
Ms W bought the property in March 2020 and had a two-year fixed rate product. Ms W was 
looking for another product but found out from her lender that very little of the mortgage 
balance had been paid off and that the interest rate was 9.9% pa as she had understood the 
rate was to be just under 6%pa.
Ms Ws understanding from speaking to other mortgage advisors that it would have been 
better for her to pay off the DMP and pay half the deposit. Without the DMP she might have 
been able to get a lower rate of interest and pay off more of the mortgage balance and now 
have a greater choice of mortgages with the DMP several years behind her.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as he didnt feel that 
HL had done anything wrong. Ms W disagreed saying in summary that she feels that she 
wasnt given any advice at all.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There appear to be two main issues here. Firstly, whether Ms W should have been told to 
pay off her DMP before applying for her mortgage and so increasing the amount of the 
deposit and whether she should have been aware of the interest rate she would have to pay.
Ms W approached HL to get a mortgage to buy a house. Ms W realised that because she 
had a poor recent credit history that she might have difficulties getting this otherwise as she 
says herself she could have gone to her bank. HL says that if she wanted to buy the house 
and pay off the DMP  which cost £53 per month, that her monthly mortgage costs would 
have gone up from £288 per month to £757. HL says that asking Ms W to increase these 
payments would have been irresponsible given the fact that previously Ms W had difficulty 
maintaining her credit agreements sparking the DMP. Secondly HL says that, in any case 
her lender wouldnt have lent the extra £30,000. So, HL says that it the advice to keep the 
DMP and take a mortgage of £45,000 was the most suitable advice in the circumstances. 
It seems to me that if Ms W wanted to buy a house for £105,000 given her financial 
circumstances that the advice from HL was suitable. I can see the benefit of paying off the 
DMP, but I cant see from the evidence how buying the property would be affordable if that 
were done. Ms W says that it might have been more sensible to not buy the house and wait 
a few years if she had been advised to do that. But Ms W came to HL for a mortgage to buy 
a house and I cant fault HL if it provided her with the mortgage most suitable to her 
circumstances. Ms W had already been to a debt management adviser and would have 
been aware that with time and with payments being repaid promptly that her credit profile 
would improve but she approached HL for a mortgage to buy a property at that time and I 
believe that HL discharged its duty to Ms W by recommending the most suitable mortgage 
for her circumstances that would allow her to do it. 
It was then for her to decide whether given her poor credit situation if she wanted to accept 
that advice or not and go ahead with the purchase.  I note that in her recent email to us Ms 
W suggests that its possible she could have got a better deal in 2020 than she got. But I 
dont consider that the evidence she has produced is sufficient to challenge the evidence 
produced by HL that suggests it obtained the most suitable mortgage for Ms W in the 
circumstances.
The other issue is that Ms W had several quotes and was shocked to learn the interest rate 
that she is now paying given that she was quoted a lower figure. I note that the broker 
approached several lenders in December 2019 and had to get several quotes because of Ms 
Ws credit record. Ive seen quotes at 5.99%, 7.9% and finally 9.99%. The mortgage 
illustration for this last rate was produced on 7 January 2020 and resulted in mortgage offer 
dated 4 February 2020 based on that rate. Its clear that the broker and lender made Ms W 
aware of the interest rate and the payments she would have to make. 
It was then Ms Ws decision whether to proceed with it, but I cant see that the broker has 
done anything wrong. Ms W says that at the time she became aware of the cost of the 
mortgage that she had gone too far in the moving process to turn back. But her decisions in 
regard to the house purchase process are not the brokers who is only sourcing a mortgage 
for her. Ms W appears to have decided to make a number of decisions before being aware 
of what mortgage she was going to get - paid solicitors, movers, gave her notice in at work, 
gave her notice in on her tenancy  so that she felt pressured to take the mortgage on offer 
and seeks to blame the broker for that. But those decisions were her own and not the 
brokers. Ms W says she wasnt informed of the rate change before she made these 
decisions. 
But Ms W had no mortgage offer before the rate of 9.99% so any of these decisions were 
made by her before she had a mortgage offer. I see no evidence that the broker confirmed 
that she would get a mortgage at a lower rate than 9.99%. There were certainly quotes but 
not offers. Ms Ws decision to proceed with these decisions and incur the expense she did 
before getting a mortgage offer is a matter for her rather than the broker but certainly 
suggests that Ms W was eager to purchase this property. But after considering this matter at 
length I cant say that the broker did anything wrong and I cant fairly uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman