DRN-2811447
The complaint
Miss E complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC are holding her liable for transactions which 
she disputes. Miss E is also unhappy that Barclays have decided to close her account 
without giving her an explanation.
What happened
In January 2020 Miss E ordered a new card and PIN from Barclays. Shed recently moved 
address and Barclays sent the new card to Miss Es old address in error. Miss E contacted 
Barclays and they sent another card and PIN to her new address.
Miss E hadnt received her new card and checked her online banking. She noticed 
transactions had been debited from her account which she hadnt authorised, so she called 
Barclays to report them. 
Barclays temporarily credited Miss Es account with the total amount (around £1,000) she 
disputed and investigated the fraud claim.
Barclays didnt uphold the claim  they decided to hold Miss E liable as the genuine card and 
PIN were used and they didnt find a reasonable explanation as to how the card and PIN 
were compromised. As part of their investigations, they tried to contact Miss E by phone and 
letter, but she didnt respond. They wrote to Miss E to explain their decision and let her know 
theyd be re-debiting the amount they temporarily credited.
In June 2020, Barclays made the commercial decision to end their banking relationship with 
Miss E and gave her 60 days notice that her account would close.
Unhappy with their decision, Miss E brought the complaint to our service.
The investigator didnt uphold Miss Es complaint. She said the card which was sent to the 
wrong address was never activated. And the transactions which Miss E disputed were 
similar to genuine transactions shed made before  at the same places for the same 
amounts. The investigator also thought it was unusual that no balance enquires had been 
carried out, and that money remained in the account. Overall, she thought it was likely 
Miss E who carried out the transactions.
Miss E didnt agree. She said she didnt ever receive the card or PIN. As an agreement 
couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out the full facts and the transactions. Miss E 
and Barclays have read the investigators view. So, I wont repeat every detail here, only 
those which form the basis of my decision. Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Miss E, 
but Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. Ill explain why. 
The disputed transactions
Generally speaking, if the evidence suggests its more likely than not that Miss E authorised 
the payments, Barclays is entitled to hold her liable. The relevant regulations, to this effect, 
are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 2017). Miss E says she didnt make 
the disputed transactions, so my primary concern is to decide about whether or not I think 
Miss E authorised the transactions by either making them herself or allowing a third party to 
do so. 
Having reviewed Barclayss technical evidence, Im satisfied that Miss Es genuine card 
details were used to make the disputed transactions and that they were authenticated using 
the correct PIN. But, the regulations relevant to this case, say that this is not on its own 
enough to enable Barclays to hold Miss E liable for them. So, I also need to think about 
whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Miss E consented to the 
transactions being made or whether she is the victim of fraud as shes alleged.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable to conclude Miss E, or somebody she 
knew and gave permission to, carried out the transactions. I say that because;
The first card which was sent to Miss Es old address in error was never activated or 
used.
When the new card started to be used, Miss Es old card stopped being used. Ive 
reviewed the bank statements and I find it unusual that Miss E wouldnt have 
attempted to use her debit card herself over the period of the disputed transactions 
as she used her card regularly. And if she didnt receive the new card like she claims, 
she would have continued to try and use the old card which was in her possession.
I question how an opportunistic fraudster would know Miss E was expecting two 
separate letters which contained her debit card and PIN.
Its difficult, and by no means an exact science to say what is typical fraud behaviour. 
But I find it surprising that if an unauthorised person did carry out the transactions, 
how they knew that money was available without carrying out a balance enquiry. And 
why they didnt maximise any financial benefit by clearing the account of all the 
money rather than leaving around £500 in there.
If an unauthorised individual was carrying out fraud, then I would also have expected 
them to have kept going until the card and PIN were cancelled by the account holder. 
That means attempts should have likely been made after Miss E reported the fraud  
but they werent.
Miss E has made several other fraud claims and I would have expected her to 
regularly check her online banking, and her post, especially if she was concerned 
about the people she lived with intercepting her post. The first disputed transaction 
was made on 24 January 2020, and Miss E didnt log on to her online banking until 
27 January 2020.
So given what Ive said above, and after considering all the evidence and arguments, Im 
persuaded its more likely than not Miss E consented to the transactions she is disputing.  In 
saying this, Ive also considered Miss E may likely have given someone else authority to 
carry out the transactions. But that still means she consented to them.
Account closureBanks sometimes choose to end their relationship with customers  and I can see Barclays 
made the commercial decision to withdraw Miss Es banking facilities. Im pleased to see 
Barclays gave Miss E 60 days notice and having reviewed the terms of the account Im 
satisfied they acted appropriately and were fair to do this. I appreciate Barclays hasnt 
shared any information with Miss E about why they closed her account  but theyre not 
obliged to. I would however, like to reassure Miss E that based on the evidence Ive seen, 
the circumstances of this complaint and the terms and conditions of the account, Im 
satisfied Barclays were fair in their actions. 
This service wont generally intervene in a banks commercial discretion. Barclays 
appropriately reviewed Miss Es account and then exercised their right to no longer offer her 
banking facilities. I've seen nothing to suggest that theyve made an unfair decision. So, I 
cant fairly ask them to do anything differently.
Overall
In summary, Im persuaded the transactions Miss E disputes were most likely authenticated 
and consented to by her, or somebody she authorised. So I find Barclays decision to hold 
Miss E liable fair. Im also satisfied that Barclays closed Miss Es account fairly and in line 
with the terms, with appropriate notice.
So I wont be asking Barclays to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Miss Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman