DRN-2780791
The complaint
Mr G complains that esure Insurance Limited (esure) unfairly cancelled his car insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr G took out a car insurance policy with esure in May 2020. He had a credit agreement 
covering the policy premium that required monthly direct debit payments to be made, with 
the first payment due at the start of June 2020. His car insurance was cancelled in August 
2020 by esure due to a missed direct debit payment in July 2020. 
In June 2020 Mr Gs first direct debit payment failed. So esure wrote to Mr G on 19 June 
2020 to request payment in full or the policy would be cancelled. It then applied for the July 
2020 direct debit payment due on 1 July 2020. Mr G called esure on 2 July 2020 and paid 
the remaining outstanding balance (the annual premium less the July 2020 payment esure 
was in the process of collecting). After this payment had been made, esure removed the 
cancellation from the file. 
But on 3 July 2020, esure realised that the July 2020 direct debit payment hadnt gone 
through. So esure wrote to Mr G to request the outstanding payment, explaining that without 
payment the policy would be cancelled. It wrote again on 23 July 2020 to make the same 
request. But Mr G didnt contact esure.  
So on 7 August 2020 esure cancelled Mr Gs policy. The payments he made were returned 
to him. Mr G contacted esure on 10 August and asked if the policy could be reinstated. But 
esure wouldnt reinstate the policy unless he made a payment in full, which he was unable to 
do at that point.
Our investigator upheld the complaint in his first view. He asked esure to offer Mr G the 
chance to reinstate the policy and pay it back either monthly, or in two payments. esure 
disagreed with his findings and provided new information, showing that his suggested 
solution wasnt possible. So our investigator revised his opinion. 
In his second view he said he thought esure had cancelled the policy in error, as he couldnt 
see that any arrears had built up, given the large lump sum payment made on 2 July 2020. 
He said esure should pay Mr G £250 for the trouble and upset itd caused him. esure 
disagreed. It felt Mr G was in arrears and that there was no cancellation error. So the 
complaint has come to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 24 March 2021. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I dont intend to uphold this complaint. 
My decision is based on determining that esure acted fairly and reasonably when it 
cancelled Mr Gs policy. To reach this point, I needed to be satisfied that Mr G was in fact in 
arrears when esure wrote to him on 10 July and 23 July 2020. Having considered all the 
evidence, Im persuaded that he was. So the cancellation was fair and reasonable under the 
circumstances. Ill explain why.
Under the terms of Mr Gs credit agreement, he had to pay monthly amounts of £151.10 
starting on 1 June 2020 and ending on 1 March 2021 (10 payments in total). But the first 
direct debit payment failed. So at this point, Mr G was in arrears. 
So esure wrote to Mr G on 5 June 2020 and 19 June 2020. The 5 June letter stated Failure 
to keep up to date with your payment plan may result in your policy being cancelled and a 
cancellation fee being charged. It also said Any further missed payments within your period 
of cover will result in the removal of the monthly instalment facility and full payment will be 
needed for your policy to continue. The 19 June 2020 letter confirmed that the only way for 
Mr G to retain cover under the policy was if he paid for the policy in full. 
The terms of Mr Gs credit agreement are clear. Section 3 of that agreement covers the 
primary consequences of not keeping up with repayments, as follows:
Failure to pay your instalments on or by the relevant due date will be a breach of your 
running account credit agreement.
In the event of a late or missed payment your credit agreement may be terminated, 
your insurance policy will cease to exist and you will no longer be insured by us.
So I can see that Mr G had clear information from the credit agreement and from the June 
letters about what would happen if he didnt meet the terms of that agreement. As soon as 
hed gone into arrears with the June 2020 direct debit failure, he needed to pay for the policy 
in full if he didnt want the policy to be cancelled.
Mr G contacted esure on 2 July 2020 and made a payment of £1,187,73. This amount didnt 
include the July 2020 direct debit payment, as esure expected that wouldve already been 
paid separately. So when, on 3 July 2020, esure became aware that the July 2020 direct 
debit payment hadnt gone through, Mr G wouldve been in arrears again, when measured 
against the requirement to have paid for the policy in full after going into arrears in June 
2020.
I think all parties accept that the timing here is unfortunate. esure has noted that if the July 
payment had already failed, or if it hadnt been applied for, the amount esure asked Mr G to 
pay them to settle his outstanding balance on 2 July 2020 wouldve been higher. And he 
wouldnt have been back in arrears a day later. But esure notes that the July 2020 direct 
debit payment was missed. And so its letters to Mr G of 10 July and 23 July requesting 
urgent payment were in line with its terms and conditions. esure notes that it wouldnt 
normally send a second letter in cases like these, but that it did so to give Mr G more time to 
respond given the circumstances leading to the arrears. esure has also said that it was only 
after we had no contact from the customer following the most recent correspondence that we 
cancelled the policy.
Soon after the policy was cancelled, Mr G contacted esure. He said he wasnt able to pay 
the full amount required to reinstate the policy at that time. But he could pay £1,000 in 
August 2020 and the remaining amount the following month. But esure wouldnt accept this. 
esure said Had the customer called and it came to light, for example that he was unable to 
pay the outstanding July instalment immediately, but say, for example, he could in a months 
time, we couldve delayed the cancellation appropriately. However, as the customer failed to contact us at all, the policy was cancelled correctly and in line with the policy terms, after we 
wrote to the customer in advance.
So Im satisfied that Mr G couldve avoided having his policy cancelled if hed contacted 
esure before 7 August 2020, when his policy was cancelled. While I have sympathy for Mr G 
under the circumstances, I cant hold esure responsible for following its own terms and 
conditions. And Im not persuaded that it cancelled his policy in error.
I can see that esure did consider alternative solutions to resolve this complaint. Its 
provided screenshots from its systems which show that its not possible to allow a policy
to be paid monthly after its been cancelled. The only option esure can allow in that 
circumstance is for a full payment to be taken once a policy has been cancelled. So Im 
satisfied that esure couldnt do anything differently and has treated Mr G fairly. 
Response to my provisional decision
Neither esure or Mr G responded to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
No new information has come to light to change my opinion. So I remain of the view I set out 
in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman