DRN-3955670
The complaint
Miss A complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund the money she lost in a scam.
What happened
What Miss A says
Miss A says that in June 2022 she received a message about a job as a network assistant 
from someone who said she was from a recruitment company. Miss A says she had been 
applying for jobs, so the message didnt surprise her. After confirming her preferred contact 
details, Miss A says she was advised that someone would be in touch via a messaging app 
to discuss the role and next steps. Miss A then received a message from someone Ill refer 
to as W from a company Ill call C  a marketing agency. W said hed been provided with 
Miss As details by the recruitment company.
W discussed with Miss A an exciting opportunity to market one of her products. Miss A was 
interested as she had been selling hair products on a social media platform and hoped to 
reach more buyers. Miss A says she researched C and was satisfied it was a legitimate 
company which had worked with big brands. W explained that C could push Miss As 
products and promote them on online platforms. He also gave Miss A access to a platform 
that allowed her to see how her products were being pushed.
W opened an advertising account for Miss A and made two deposits into it as part of a 
welcome package and told her that she would also need to make payments. On 28 June 
2022 W told Miss A it was a good day to push her products and this view was reinforced by 
comments from others on a group chat Miss A had been added to. Miss A made the 
following payments to four different accounts. She says she thought these were advertising 
accounts. 
Date Time Amount
28/06/22 14:31 £1,690
28/06/22 15:12 £1,000
28/06/22 15:15 £1,665.29
28/06/22 16:15 £1,237.20
Total £5,592.49
On the same day, Monzo blocked Miss As account and discussed in its chat a credit to her 
account with her but she says no mention was made of the payments she had already 
made. 
W then asked for £7,000 and said C wouldnt push Miss As adverts if this amount wasnt 
paid. Miss A became concerned and contacted C via different methods. She received a 
response which said that the genuine company C was being targeted by a scammer. W 
didnt work for C. Miss A reported the scam to Monzo on 4 July 2022 via its chat. 
Monzos response
Monzo hasnt signed up to the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement 
Model Code (CRM Code) but has agreed to consider claims in line with it. Having done so, 
Monzo didnt agree to provide Miss A with a refund. 
Miss A was unhappy with Monzos response and brought a complaint to this service. She 
said she should receive at least 50% of her loss. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. She said 
Monzo didnt need to provide effective warnings under the CRM Code as a scam risk 
wouldnt have been evident when the payments were made. And Miss A didnt have a 
reasonable basis to believe C was genuine or she was making a payment for a genuine 
purpose. This was because she didnt receive documentation, had no reason to believe W 
was connected to C and hasnt said she saw her adverts as expected. 
Miss A didnt accept the investigators findings, so her complaint has been passed to me to 
consider. In summary, she said:
- Monzo spoke to her on the day the payments were made but only asked questions 
about a deposit into her account.
- The payments made were unusual and out of character and were made in quick 
succession. Monzo owed her a duty of care to provide warnings but failed to do so. 
The payments also amounted to nearly £6,000  which is a substantial amount. 
- She was convinced that W was legitimate, and he had built her trust over a few 
weeks. Miss A had looked at Cs website to check it was a genuine company and 
checked its registered office. She also monitored her account with C.
- Miss A referred to the Quincecare duty and the case of Philipp.
- Miss A provided a copy of a final decision that has been published which she thinks 
is similar to hers. The customer in that case made a scam payment of £9,000 and 
was awarded 50% of it at final decision. 
- Some of her money was refunded by another bank meaning she has a strong case 
(Miss A has provided evidence of a credit to her account of £1,119 from a bank she 
doesnt recognise in July 2022). 
I issued a provisional decision on 26 September 2023 in which I asked Monzo to refund 50% 
of the final payment Miss A made.
I have set out below what I said in the What I provisionally think  and why section of my 
provisional decision.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether Monzo 
should have reimbursed Miss A under the provisions of the CRM Code and whether it ought 
to have done more to protect her from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Miss A was tricked into making the payments. But this isnt 
enough for her to receive a refund of the money under the CRM Code. Under the CRM 
Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that: 
-The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate
-The customer ignored an effective warning by failing to take appropriate steps in 
response to that warning.There are further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code that do not apply to this case. 
Did Miss A have a reasonable basis for belief?
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of Miss 
A and the complexity of the scam, I think the concerns Monzo has raised about the 
legitimacy of the transactions Miss A made are enough to support its position that it can rely 
on an exception to reimbursement set out in the CRM Code. I dont think she had a 
reasonable basis for believing that the person she transacted with was legitimate or that the 
payments were for a genuine service. I say this because:
-The premise of the scam wasnt plausible. Miss A was contacted out of the blue by 
someone who claimed to be from a recruitment agency and who discussed a role as 
a network assistant. She was told that the role involved helping Cs merchants 
improve their products on the platform. Miss A then received messages from W 
who claimed to be from C. But there was no mention of the job role and Ive not been 
provided with any evidence to explain how the job opportunity morphed into helping 
Miss A to sell her own products. I find this to be really concerning.
-W was purporting to represent a genuine company, C. But the website Miss A says 
she was given isnt the right one for the genuine company.
-Miss A wasnt provided with anything to confirm that W actually worked for the 
genuine company C and didnt seek this confirmation.
-Miss A was asked to pay four different accounts, at least three of which were in the 
names of individuals. I dont consider she was given a plausible explanation for this 
and think Miss A ought to have been concerned that she wasnt paying C.
-Miss A wasnt provided with any documentation to set out what was agreed and there 
were no invoices for the payments she was asked to make. I consider this to be 
unusual and that Miss A ought reasonably to have had concerns and taken additional 
steps before making the payments. 
- The only communication Miss A had with W was via a messaging app. The photo 
used by W when the messages were sent was that of a baby. This isnt what Id 
expect of a genuine company. 
-W said he had added funds to Cs account. I dont believe a genuine company would 
do this. 
-Its not clear how C was helping Miss A to sell her products. She has said W talked 
about a good time to push her product but not what this means.
It is the combination of these factors that leads me to conclude Monzo acted fairly in relying 
on an exclusion to reimbursement. 
Should Monzo have provided effective warnings or intervened?
Monzo has an obligation to provide an effective warning if it identifies an APP scam risk in a 
payment journey. I dont think Monzo ought to have recognised a scam risk when the first 
payments were made though. I appreciate the amounts lost had a big impact on Miss A, but 
the individual payments were for relatively small amounts and Miss A had made similar 
transactions just before the scam. So I think the generalised warning Monzo provided that 
asked, Could someone be trying to scam you and advised Miss A to stop in certain 
circumstances went far enough.  
I think that by the time Miss A made the final payment of £1,237.20 the position changed, 
and an unusual pattern of payments had emerged. When this payment request was made 
Monzo needed to go beyond the generalised scam warning it provided. This final payment 
request was the fourth one Miss A had made in less than two hours. The total amount transferred was also much greater than on any other day in the past. So I consider Monzo 
ought reasonably to have intervened.  
I can also see that Miss A contacted Monzo via its chat function at 15:23, after her account 
was blocked. By this time Miss A had made three of the payments in the table above, but not 
the last. Miss A told Monzo she was in a desperate situation which was why she needed to 
transfer funds out of her account. Monzo asked Miss A about large transfers she had sent or 
received, and Miss A said shed made a lot of payments as she was moving from abroad. 
Miss A went on to say, I will be finished if I cannot do this last transfer and repeated that 
the matter was urgent, and she needed help. At 15.41 Miss A provided Monzo with a text 
from her workplace, although Im uncertain which message she sent. 
Given the nature of these messages and the account activity referred to above Im 
persuaded Monzo should have reviewed the payments Miss A had made and asked her 
questions about them and the subsequent payment she said she urgently needed to make. If 
Monzo had done so, I think the scam would have been uncovered. If Miss A had explained 
why she was making the payments Monzo ought to have had concerns and highlighted 
these to Miss A, as well as explaining the prevalence of scams involving unexpected contact 
via a messaging app or social media. The generalised online warning didnt go far enough in 
respect of this final payment.
After carefully considering these points, Im provisionally minded to require Monzo to refund 
50% of the final payment Miss A made. 
Recovery
Ive been provided with evidence which shows that Monzo contacted all four receiving banks 
the day after the scam was reported and each one responded to say that no funds remained. 
Evidence this service has obtained shows that by the time the scam was reported to Monzo 
all funds had been removed from two receiving banks. The £1,119 Miss A has received 
related to the £1,665.29 payment. Im uncertain how this amount came to be refunded as the 
evidence provided to this service shows that Miss As funds were removed within minutes of 
crediting the account. This isnt something I need to look into though. The other electronic 
payment institution hasnt replied. 
The evidence provided shows that funds were removed from the receiving accounts very 
quickly, and before Miss A reported the scam. Whilst one firm hasnt replied to this services 
request for information, I find it very unlikely any funds would still have been in the account 
by the time the scam was reported, given the other evidence and my knowledge that 
scammers usually remove funds straight away. If this service receives a response before I 
issue a final decision the parties will be updated.  
The fact that some funds have been recovered doesnt affect my consideration of Monzos 
liability though, as Miss A suggests. 
Additional points raised by Miss A
Miss A has referred to two court cases. The case of Phillip went to a higher court. The ruling 
in this case doesnt support Miss As case though.
Miss A has also refenced a decision issued by this service. Each case referred to this 
service is decided on the individual facts of the case. There are many differences between 
the case Miss A referred me to and hers which I dont propose to detail here.  
Monzo responded to my provisional decision and let me know that it agreed to refund 
£618.60. Miss A asked me to reconsider her complaint and raised the following points:
- She has lost a lot of money which is having an impact on her and her future plans.
- Monzo should refund all her loss, or at least 75% of it. Miss A referred to a published 
decision.- Transactions of £1,000 were significant given previous account activity and Monzo 
should have identified an unusual pattern of payments. 
- Monzo knew something was wrong and contacted her about a credit to her account 
but did nothing to protect her.
- Monzos service was poor when she notified it of the scam  it resorted to victim 
blaming and asking questions it already had the answers to.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the same reasons I set out in my provisional decision (which I have reproduced above), 
my final decision is that Monzo should refund 50% of the final payment of £1,237.20. Monzo 
accepted my recommendation and none of the points raised by Miss A have persuaded me 
to reach a different decision.
I appreciate Miss A has lost a lot of money overall, but I can only ask Monzo to refund her if I 
think its done something wrong. I dont consider Monzo should have intervened when Miss 
A made the payments in the table above until she made the final payment  when a pattern 
of payments emerged that looked unusual and Monzos interaction with Miss A ought 
reasonably to have caused concern. Prior to that, the payments were for relatively small 
amounts and werent so unusual and out of character that Monzo ought reasonably to have 
intervened. Theres a balance that must be struck  banks have obligations to be alert to 
fraud and scams, but they cant reasonably be involved in every transaction as this would 
cause huge disruption to legitimate payments. 
Miss A has raised Monzos interaction with her in respect of a credit to her account. As I said 
in my provisional decision, Monzo asked Miss A about a credit after the first three payments 
had been made. I agree that when Monzo sent Miss A messages about this credit it should 
have asked her about the payments she was making, but a discussion at this point could 
only have prevented Miss A from making the final payment. 
Miss A says she was convinced her dealings with W were legitimate. I dont doubt that, but I 
need to decide if this was a reasonable conclusion to reach. For the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision, Im not persuaded it was. Miss A has referred to one of the points I 
raised in support of my conclusion that Monzo could fairly rely on an exclusion to 
reimbursement in the CRM Code and said that she often deals with small companies that 
dont offer contracts. As I said in my provisional decision though, I felt Miss A didnt have a 
reasonable basis to believe the opportunity was genuine for a number of reasons that should 
be considered as a whole. I also covered in my provisional decision the fact that this service 
decides each case on its own merits and the published decision Miss A has highlighted to 
me involves a different set of circumstances. 
Ive looked into the points Miss A has made about the service she received. I can see that 
Monzo asked appropriate questions to understand what had happened and provided its 
claim response within the timescale Id expect. Monzo also referred Miss A to a specialist 
team who signposted her to other services as Miss A was abroad at the time Monzo 
considered the scam clam. Im satisfied Monzo treated Miss A fairly. 
Overall, whilst Im sorry to hear about the impact this scam has had on Miss A, I cant 
reasonably ask Monzo to do more than pay 50% of the final payment in the table above.   
My final decision
I require Monzo Bank Ltd to:
- Refund Miss A £618.60;- Pay interest on the above amount at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date of 
loss to the date of settlement.
If Monzo is legally required to deduct tax from the interest it should send Miss A a tax 
deduction certificate so she can claim it back from HMRC if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman