DRN-2281193
The complaint
 Mr O complains that a car supplied with finance from Startline Motor Finance Limited (SMF) 
wasnt of satisfactory quality.   
What happened
 In December 2018 Mr O was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase 
agreement with SMF. At the point of supply the car was almost 9 years old.
Shortly after purchasing the car, Mr O experienced issues with the engine overheating and 
emitting smoke. He contacted the supplying dealer who arranged for the car to be inspected 
and the head gasket was replaced.
In April 2019 Mr O experienced further issues with the car. The car was booked into a third-
party garage for repairs, the costs of which were covered by the supplying dealer under the 
warranty.
Mr O continued to experience issues with the coolant and complained to SMF. SMF 
arranged an independent inspection of the car in September 2019. The engineer identified a 
fault with the engine coolant system which he said wouldve been present at the point of 
supply. The engineer also said that previous repairs had failed and recommended that the 
car shouldnt be driven until further repairs had been completed.
Following the report, SMF contacted the engineer and asked him to comment further. It 
asked him whether the fact that Mr O didnt take the car back to the supplying dealer after 
the head gasket had been replaced to have a flush could have contributed to the further 
issues with the car. The engineer stated that because the flush wasnt done, this potentially 
caused further issues with the car.
Based on what the engineer said, SMF issued a final response to Mr O rejecting his 
complaint on the basis that his failure to have the engine flushed contributed to the further 
issues hed experienced with the car. 
Mr O was unhappy with the response and complained to this service. He wants SMF to 
cover the cost of repairs.
Our investigator upheld the complaint and thought it was unlikely that the head gasket had 
been replaced in January 2019 and was satisfied based on the evidence provided by Mr O 
that hed had the engine flushed in any event. The investigator didnt think the car was of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply and said SMF should cover the cost of repairs, 
refund Mr Os payments since October 2019 and pay compensation. 
SMF didnt agree. It acknowledged that the engineer had concluded that the fault was a 
point of supply fault but said Mr Os failure to return the car for a flush could have contributed 
to the issues. It also said it was Mr Os responsibility to ensure that there was sufficient water 
and that his failure to do so may have contributed to the radiator issues. It said it had no 
reason to doubt that the supplying dealer had replaced the head gasket.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because SMF has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied 
term that it is of satisfactory quality.  Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would expect, taking into account all of the relevant circumstances 
such as the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. I would expect a second hand car 
 such as that supplied to Mr O  to have a degree of wear and tear. So, in order to uphold 
this complaint I would need to be satisfied that there was an inherent fault with the car, as 
opposed to a fault caused by general wear and tear. 
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, theres a 
presumption that it was present or developing at the point of supply. The business is allowed 
one opportunity to repair the fault. After 6 months its up to the consumer to show that the 
fault was present at the point of supply.
Mr O and SMF dont disagree about whether the car had a point of supply fault, but SMF has 
said that Mr Os actions in failing to get the engine flushed and not monitoring the water level 
contributed to the issues with the car.
Ive looked at the independent report. This identifies a point of supply fault with the engine 
cooling system and concludes that previous repairs werent successful. In subsequent 
comments, the engineer said that a failure to flush the engine after the head gasket was 
replaced couldve contributed to the further issues .
Mr O says he didnt get the engine flushed by the supplying dealer because despite several 
attempts he was unable to book the car in. But he says he got the engine flushed by his local 
garage and hes provided evidence to support this. Based on what Ive seen, Im persuaded 
that Mr O did have the engine flushed. So I dont think the post inspection comments by the 
engineer are relevant.
I can see that when Mr O took the car to the third party garage for repairs in April 2019, there 
was no water in the reservoir. Ive thought about whether this could have contributed to the 
issues but theres no evidence to suggest that it did. The independent engineer is very clear 
that the fault with the engine cooling system wouldve been present at the point of supply. I 
think its more likely that the fault caused the water to be used up quickly, taking into account 
what Mr O has said about the overheating and the high engine temperature he was 
experiencing.
Im satisfied , based on the conclusion of the independent engineer, that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Because of this, SMF is responsible for putting 
things right.
Putting things right
  I have concerns about whether the head gasket was replaced in January 2019. Theres no 
evidence that it was, and despite several attempts by SMF to obtain confirmation of the 
repair from the garage, this hasnt been provided. I mention this because Im recommending 
that the fault is repaired in order to resolve Mr Os complaint. So this is likely to include a 
replacement head gasket if it transpires that this wasnt done in January 2019.
Im satisfied that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. SMF should 
arrange for the car to be repaired at no cost to Mr O. On the recommendation of the independent engineer, Mr O hasnt used the car since October 2019. So I would expect SMF 
to refund all payments ,made by Mr O since then up until the car is repaired. If Mr O hasnt 
made payments, then no refund should be made. However, SMF must remove any adverse 
information from Mr Os credit file.
Mr O has been without use of the car for over a year and hes been caused inconvenience 
by this. SMF should pay compensation for the inconvenience. 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Startline Motor Finance Limited must:
Arrange for the car to be collected and arrange repairs at no cost to Mr O
Refund any payments made by Mr O since October 2019 with 8% simple interest 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement
Remove any adverse information from Nr Os credit file 
Pay compensation of £200 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman