DRN-1574083
The complaint
Mr S has complained about poor repairs when he made a claim to Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc. Mr Ss claim was for accidental damage under a joint home insurance policy 
with Mrs S. 
What happened
In May 2019 Mr S reported damage to the roof of his home following heavy rain. Water 
damage had come through to the ceiling of their utility room. 
RSA instructed a contractor to manage the claim. They instructed a Surveyor to inspect the 
damage. The Surveyor said the external damage to Mr and Mrs Ss roof wasnt covered as it 
had been caused by a gradual deterioration of materials. But their claim for repairs to the 
damaged ceiling was covered under the accidental damage section of their policy. 
RSA asked Mr and Mrs S to obtain two estimates for repairs, which they did in June 2019. 
RSAs contractor discussed the lower of the two estimates with the builder who provided it. 
The contractor said his price was a little higher than the sum set out in the contractors 
Scope of Works (SOW). They negotiated a reduction in price for the works with the builder. 
RSA settled Mr and Mrs Ss claim by paying a cash settlement to them to pay the builder. 
In August 2019 Mr S contacted RSA. He was very unhappy with the state of repairs carried 
out by the builder. Mr and Mrs Ss ceiling is artexed. The builder had replaced part of the 
ceiling and patched up the area. The builder told Mr S hed carried out the works as 
discussed with the contractor. Mr S believed the builder didnt do a good job because RSA 
had asked him to reduce the estimate.
RSA said the issue was of poor workmanship and between Mr and Mrs S and the builder. 
Mr S asked us to look at his complaint. Mr S said he wasnt given the option to use one of 
RSAs contractors to carry out the repairs. Mr and Mrs S told us that they are in their 70s and 
Mr S has a disability. They had to arrange removal of white goods from the utility room 
before the first set of works was carried out. They are upset and worried about the prospect 
of having to arrange this for a second time.
Our investigator found that RSA hadnt sent Mr and Mrs S a copy of the SOW. The Surveyor 
had recommended the removal of the remaining artex, emulsion paint to the new textured 
ceiling and for the full ceiling to be re-artexed. But the cheaper quote accepted by RSAs 
contractor didnt include the full SOW to remove the remaining artex and re-artex the whole 
ceiling. 
So although RSA had settled the claim by paying a cash settlement to Mr and Mrs S, she 
thought the responsibility of the works rested with RSA. 
She didnt feel this was a case of poor workmanship. She thought RSA had acted 
unreasonably as its contractor accepted a cheaper quote which didnt include the full SOW it 
recommended. And therefore Mr and Mrs S hadnt been put back in the position they should 
have been before the loss. 
The investigator thought RSA should do the following to put things right: 
Arrange for one of its contractors to rectify the repairs to their ceiling.
Arrange for their white goods to be removed (and put back) as part of the 
remedial works and;
Pay Mr and Mrs S £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Mr S has asked for the walls to also be redecorated. But the investigator said this shouldnt 
be necessary if the ceiling is repaired satisfactorily. 
Mr and Mrs S accepted the investigators view.
RSA didnt agree. It said as the costs of the repairs were less than £1,000, its contractor 
wouldnt carry out the works and this is why it asked Mr S to obtain two estimates. It said Mr 
S was advised of the SOW in a phone call. Its contractor discussed the scope of repairs with 
the builder (who provided the cheaper estimate.) If the builder subsequently carried out sub-
standard repairs, this isnt something RSA is responsible for. It doesnt agree it made a 
mistake in dealing with the claim. 
Our investigator didnt change her mind. She felt that because of the arrangement between 
RSA and its contractor, Mr and Mrs S unfairly lost their protection under the policy. She 
reiterated that RSA didnt appear to have ever sent Mr and Mrs S a copy of the SOW. And 
she explained that RSA was aware of the full SOW and so only it could check if the builders 
estimate(s) covered the works. RSAs contractor discussed the works with the builder. So as 
the full SOW wasnt completed by the builder, it isnt fair for RSA to say its Mr and Mrs Ss 
responsibility. 
RSA said its contractors can carry out the work, but this is at the discretion of RSA and its 
contractors. It said the works agreed in this case included a patch repair of the ceiling and 
for the entire ceiling to be re-artexed. 
If the patch repair is visible, then Mr and Mrs Ss own builder hasnt completed the works as 
per the agreement. So it said neither RSA nor its contractor is responsible for poor 
workmanship. 
RSA wants an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In general, a consumer should be indemnified for the quality of repairs carried out under an 
insurance claim.
Ive looked at the estimate which RSAs contractor discussed with the builder. The contractor 
agreed a reduction in the price of the estimate by £18 to bring it in line with its own estimate 
for the SOW. 
In relation to the ceiling, the builder wrote the following on the estimate which RSAs 
contractors accepted:Remove damaged area of ceiling so that no damp remains. Supply and fit new 
plasterboard, Re-artex to match existing. Re-paint ceiling.
I dont think its clear from the estimate that the builder quoted to re-artex the entire ceiling. It 
suggests he will re-artex to match existing artex. But RSA says the SOW included the full 
ceiling being re-artexed. And that this is what was agreed between the builder and its 
contractor. 
Photos provided by Mr S show there is a visible difference in the new part of the ceiling that 
has been repaired and re-artexed. 
We asked RSA for a recording of the call between the contractor and the builder as its notes 
dont detail what was discussed and agreed. The recording provided shows that the 
reduction in price was for £18. There was no discussion in relation to the ceiling. 
We asked for a recording of the call(s) between RSA and Mr S explaining the SOW before 
he obtained the estimates. RSA isnt able to provide these. 
Im not satisfied from the information available that RSA has dealt with Mr and Mrs Ss claim 
reasonably. I dont think its fair that the onus was on Mr S to provide correct estimates 
without sight of the SOW. RSAs contractor agrees the SOW included re-artexing the entire 
ceiling. But the phrase re-artex to match existing in the builders estimate isnt clear that the 
whole ceiling will be re-artexed. From what Ive seen, only RSA  not Mr and Mrs S  knew 
what the SOW said. And so I think it was the contractors responsibility - acting on behalf of 
RSA - to ensure the agreed works with the builder included that. As the estimate didnt 
clearly include re-artexing the entire ceiling, I think its for RSA to put things right in relation 
to the repairs. 
So I agree with the investigators recommendations. I think Mr and Mrs S have been caused 
some distress and inconvenience. And I think its for RSA to ensure any future 
inconvenience is minimised by arranging for the removal, storage (if applicable)and return of 
their white goods while its contractor carries out remedial repairs to the ceiling. I think RSA 
should pay Mr and Mrs S £150 compensation for the worry and upset caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
to do the following:
Arrange for one of its contractors to carry out remedial repairs to Mr and Mrs Ss 
utility room ceiling as per the full scope of works.
Arrange for the removal, storage and return of their white goods while the 
remedial repairs take place.
Pay Mr and Mrs S £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 September 2020.
 
Geraldine NewboldOmbudsman