DRN-1588331
Complaint 
Mr M complains John Lewis Financial Services Limited charged him a fee for several non-
sterling transaction on his credit card. He says he was unaware of the potential charge for 
using his card and wouldnt have used it had he known. 
Background 
In March 2019, Mr M used his credit card to make several purchases when he was abroad. 
When he received his next statement, he noticed that he had been charged non-sterling 
transaction fees of approximately £500 in total. Mr M complained to John Lewis that he was 
unaware of this fee and isnt charged when he uses other cards abroad. He asked for the 
fees to be refunded. 
John Lewis responded and said the fees were applied in line with the terms and conditions 
of Mr Ms account, so it wouldnt refund them. It said the fees were set out clearly in the 
terms and conditions and on Mr Ms monthly statements. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr M referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator 
found there were no grounds to ask John Lewis to refund the fees, so was unable to uphold 
the complaint. Mr M didnt agree. He said he always pays the balance in full and never pays 
any interest charges. He also didnt think the charges were set out clearly on his statement. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case has come to me for a decision. 
My findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, Ive not found reason to uphold Mr Ms complaint  Ill explain why. 
Ive seen the terms and conditions that apply to Mr Ms account. Ive also reviewed the 
information that was contained in his statements that were sent monthly. The back page of 
the statements set out the fees and charges that will apply to the account. The charges are 
set out in a grid and there is a section in bold print that says Foreign usage  this then 
details the non-sterling transaction fee. Im satisfied that they clearly state that a fee of 
2.75% will be charged for non-sterling transactions. So, Im satisfied that John Lewis did 
make Mr M aware of the terms and conditions on the account. For this reason, I dont think 
John Lewis has acted unfairly in the way it has acted by applying fees in accordance with 
terms and conditions.
I know Mr M wasnt expecting to pay a fee when he used his John Lewis card. He also 
mentions having another card where he isnt charged a fee for making transactions abroad, 
but that is a different contract. I dont find that John Lewis has done anything wrong in this 
situation as it was Mr Ms choice to use his John Lewis card to make the transactions.
Ive also noted Mr Ms comments about frequently using his card and always paying his 
balance in full, to not incur interest charges. Whilst this does give an indication of how Mr M managed his account, I dont think it means John Lewis must refund other fees that have 
been fairly applied in line with the terms and conditions of the account. 
I know Mr M will be disappointed with my decision, but I have come to the same conclusion 
as the investigator and for similar reasons. I dont feel that John Lewis has done anything 
wrong here, so Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision 
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2020.
 
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman