DRN-1488641
The complaint
Mrs F  on behalf of Company B  complains that Bespoke Insurance Ltd failed to pay her 
insurance premiums which led to her insurance policy being cancelled. 
What happened
Mrs F approached her broker  Bespoke Insurance  for a public liability and indemnity 
policy for Company B in August 2018. Bespoke subsequently sourced a suitable policy with 
Hiscox Insurance through another broker (Movo). 
Bespoke Insurance sent Mrs F an invoice on 28 August 2018 for the payment of £543.27 in 
premiums and fees. She paid the amount owing and was issued with a receipt the following 
day, along with confirmation from Bespoke that the cover had been placed for twelve months 
effective from 28 August 2018.
Mrs F came to renew the policy the following year but was unhappy to discover that no 
policy had ever been put in place. The insurer said that no premiums were ever received 
from her broker so the policy was cancelled. Movo told Mrs F that Bespoke insurance said 
they would be paying the premiums directly to Hiscox, and that the money was never given 
to them. So they said the amount she paid would still likely be held by Bespoke Insurance. 
Bespoke insurance said that they never received a statement from either Hiscox or Movo 
asking for payment, so the premiums were not paid. They submit that any investigation into 
this matter ought to be focused on the wrongdoing of these two parties as Bespoke were 
never informed that the policy had been cancelled and so assumed cover was in place.
Our investigator upheld the complaint as he accepted that Bespoke Insurance had failed to 
pay the premium as instructed by Mrs F. He said they should refund the amount she paid as 
well as £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused by their error. Bespoke Insurance 
disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it 
for the same reasons as the investigator. 
I appreciate that Bespoke Insurance want this service to consider the actions of Movo and 
Hiscox as the primary focus of this complaint. But Mrs F has not complained about either of 
these parties; she has complained about Bespoke Insurance Ltd. So this final decision is 
concerned solely with their actions and omissions as the respondent of Mrs Fs complaint. 
Therefore, I will not be commenting on any of the perceived failings of Movo or Hiscox. If 
Mrs F wants to raise a complaint about either of these parties for failing to inform her that the 
policy was cancelled, then such is her prerogative. It is not for Bespoke Insurance to tell her 
 or indeed, this service  whom her complaint ought to be about. Particularly when there 
are clear failings on the part of Bespoke Insurance in this matter. Mrs F paid the premiums to Bespoke Insurance on 28 August 2018, and has evidenced that 
this amount was debited from her account. The broker also emailed her a receipt for the 
amount paid. So Im satisfied that Bespoke insurance received the money she paid, and that 
it was then incumbent on the broker to ensure this money was paid to Hiscox in 
consideration of the insurance contract.
However, Hiscox have confirmed that no premiums were ever paid, and Movo similarly claim 
that they did not receive the funds to pay the insurer either. As a result, the policy was 
cancelled. Bespoke say the premiums were not paid because they did not receive a 
statement requesting payment. But given that Mrs F had paid the broker with instructions of 
placing the insurance for her company, I consider it was for Bespoke to ensure that the 
premiums reached the insurer  irrespective of whatever their usual process was with other 
insurers. And when they did not receive any statement for payment, Bespoke ought to have 
at least chased this up with the insurer in order to fulfil their obligations to Mrs F.
Bespoke say they assumed the cover had been put in place because they did not receive 
any indication that it had been cancelled. But I do not consider this to be a reasonable 
assumption for the broker to have made, as they ought reasonably to have known that the 
premiums had not been paid. And given that the money paid was not transferred to the 
insurer as it should have been  and given that no policy was ever put in place   Bespoke 
Insurance should now refund this amount to Company B. 
Bespoke Insurances failure to pay the premiums could have also had serious implications 
for Company B, who were left uninsured for the entire period the policy was supposed to be 
in place. The investigator awarded £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused. And 
given that there were seemingly no claims made against Company B during this period or 
any further detriment caused, I consider this amount to be fair compensation in the 
circumstances.
Putting things right
In order to put things right, I direct Bespoke Insurance Ltd to:
Refund £543.27 to Company B; and
 
Pay 8% simple interest per annum on this amount from the date it was originally paid 
to the date of settlement.
 
Pay £100 compensation to Company B for the inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint. Bespoke Insurance Ltd should pay 
compensation in line with my directions within 28 days of receiving Company B's acceptance 
of my final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F  on behalf 
of Company B  to accept or reject my decision before 14 June 2020.
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman