DRN-3686703
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc breached his data by sending a letter intended for 
him to the wrong address.
What happened
Around August last year, Mr S loan application was declined by Santander. After Mr S 
enquired about a letter explaining this, Santander discovered that the letter had been sent to 
an incorrect address. 
After Mr S complained, Santander established that it had two profiles in Mr S name, but it 
was unable to determine how this happened. The bank explained that Mr S application was 
automatically assigned to the profile with the incorrect address and this led to the letter being 
sent to the wrong place. 
The bank offered Mr S a total of £425 compensation, which included the £25 fee Mr S would 
need to pay if he chose to act on Santanders advice to register his details with the fraud 
prevention service (known as CIFAS). The bank also removed any searches related to the 
application from Mr S credit file and informed him he could apply for the loan again under 
his correct address. Santander confirmed it had taken steps to remove the incorrect profile 
from its system.
Mr S remained unhappy and asked this service to impartially review his complaint. He wants 
more compensation for the stress and worry the bank caused him. Mr S is concerned his 
personal details have been compromised and points to a letter he received, that he says is 
proof that an unknown third party has used his address. 
Our investigator decided that Santanders offer was fair. Mr S didnt agree, so the complaint 
has been passed to me for a final review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, in my opinion Santander has proposed a fair resolution to this complaint  
Ill explain why.
Santander already accepts that the letter in question was sent to the wrong address due to a 
failing on the banks part. I know Mr S wants to know how the bank ended up creating a 
separate profile for him with the wrong address. Santander already looked into this and it 
was unable to determine the cause. Because of this, Santander decided that the only 
explanation is that this was due to an error by the bank. Given there isnt anything that 
suggests otherwise, I think this was a reasonable conclusion to reach.
Mr S is concerned about his personal details being compromised and I understand why. He 
also points to a letter received at his own address in the name of an unknown third party. Ive 
seen a copy of the letter Santander sent to the wrong address and, like the bank points out, 
it doesnt seem like Mr S financial information was compromised. And I cant say for certain 
that the third-party letter Mr S received was solely the result of Santanders error, given the 
only details compromised was Mr S name and address. 
Santander already referred Mr S to CIFAS if he wishes to further protect himself from fraud, 
and it offered to cover the £25 fee hed incur by doing so. So Im satisfied the bank has since 
done enough to help Mr S protect himself from being the victim of fraud. 
Santander has offered Mr S £400 compensation, which is in the region of what I wouldve 
asked it to pay had it not offered anything at all. The bank has also removed the credit 
search related to Mr S loan application, so its unlikely Mr S credit file has been impacted. I 
think this is a fair way to put things right for Mr S. I know he remains concerned about his 
personal details being used in an unauthorised way, but I cant see evidence that this has 
indeed happened because of what Santander has done wrong. So I dont think its 
reasonable to ask the bank to do anything more in relation to this.
In summary, although its unclear how the wrong address was entered onto the banks 
system, I think Santander has taken reasonable steps to put things right. So I wont be 
asking it to do anything further. If Mr S would like to accept Santanders offer of £425, he 
should reach out to the bank directly to do so.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, its my final decision that Santander UK Plc has offered a fair 
resolution to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman