DRN-3748967
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as C complains Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited 
has turned down a claim it made on its business protection insurance policy.
What happened
After an investigation spanning many months, C concluded one of its employees had been 
regularly stealing from it. It made a claim to RSA for that loss after it was unable to recover 
the money from the individual.
RSA turned down Cs claim saying that while it had cover for Money loss, there was an 
exclusion which said only thefts discovered within seven days of occurrence would be 
covered. It said the Money loss section of the policy wasnt designed to cover the loss C had 
experienced. There was an optional section of the policy, which C had not taken, which 
covered fraudulent and dishonest acts by employees. C complained about RSAs decision 
but, upon review, it didnt change its position.
Our Investigator looked at the complaint, but he didnt think RSA had acted incorrectly. He 
said C had a way of identifying thefts and therefore it should have been able to do this more 
quickly than it did. He thought RSA were entitled to rely on the exclusion.
 C disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
My provisional findings 
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 29 September 2022. I said I did not 
intend to uphold the complaint for the following reasons:
I understand C has strong views about what has happened. I want to assure it Ive read and 
considered carefully everything that it has said. However, my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not all the points raised. This isnt meant as a 
discourtesy. But the purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties 
have raised or to answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence 
presented by C, and by RSA, to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision based 
on the facts of the case.
Having done so, I dont intend to uphold the complaint for the following reasons:
The specific term in the money section of the policy refers to one loss and specifies 
cover for instances such as money being removed from the till in business hours, 
being taken from a safe, lost in transit and loss from an overnight bank deposit box 
prior to the bank taking responsibility. Arguably each instance of the employee 
stealing from the business could be considered one loss, however this isnt the way 
C has presented its claim. It has presented a claim for an estimated amount, over a 
prolonged period based on differences between stock and till data. So, I agree this 
section of the policy isnt designed to cover the claim C has presented.
RSA has cited an exclusion which states thefts which arent discovered in seven 
days wont be covered. C has argued this exclusion isnt workable in practice and 
therefore has implied it is unfair. It is for an insurer to decide what risks it wishes to 
cover, so I cant interfere in that, however I have considered whether the exclusion is 
unfair or unworkable.
Given the examples RSA have given of circumstances this section of the policy is 
intended to cover, I dont think the exclusion is unfair or unworkable. Theft from a 
safe or overnight bank deposit are losses that would be noticed immediately. As 
would a customer leaning over and removing money from a till for example. So, 
notification of those losses in seven days wouldnt be unreasonable. And I think that 
is the point here, this section of the policy isnt designed to cover the prolonged 
instances of theft of small amounts of money, i.e. the claim C wishes to make.
Even if I thought each individual theft should be covered, I have to consider if RSA 
has been prejudiced by the delay in reporting the claim. It has said it has been, as C 
took actions which potentially prejudiced its ability to recover the money from the 
thief. I think it has a reasonable point here, so I even if I thought the claim was suited 
to this section of the policy, I think it would be unfair to direct RSA to accept a late 
claim where its position has been prejudiced. Ive considered the rest of the policy 
and the optional Fidelity insurance which C did not take out. This section does cover 
fraudulent and dishonest act(s) by employees.
So I think, given the claim is more suited to this section of the policy, this supports 
the fact the money section, under which C has made the claim, isnt intended to 
provide the type of cover required for Cs claim to be accepted.
Response to my provisional findings
Both parties confirmed they had received my provisional findings but had no further 
comments to make. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has put forward anything further for me to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the findings I made in my provisional decision. 
So, for the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Cs complaint. I think RSA have acted 
fairly and reasonably in declining the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I reject Cs complaint against Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman