DRN-3273642
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are represented by a claims management company (CMC) in bringing their 
complaint. It says an adviser from Mortgage Advice Bureau (Derby) Limited (MAB) failed to 
assist them in setting up their protection policies when their existing cover lapsed. This 
meant that Mr and Mrs M were unable to pursue critical illness and income protection claims.   
What happened
Mr and Mrs M met with the adviser in May 2018. At that time, they held life and critical illness 
and family income benefit policies with Legal & General, but the life and critical illness cover 
was due to end in November 2018.  
The adviser proposed three new policies  life cover, critical illness cover and income 
protection policies, all with Royal London. These recommendations were accepted by Mr 
and Mrs M and applications were submitted to Royal London that same month.  
Royal London did not accept the applications, as it required further information regarding 
Mrs Ms medical circumstances. Through the adviser, consent forms were supplied to Royal 
London for access to Mrs Ms medical records.  
In June 2018, Royal London received the medical information but it was not satisfied based 
on the information received. It therefore couldnt provide insurance terms. In July 2018, it 
asked for additional medical information to make a further underwriting assessment.  
Thereafter, several months of correspondence ensued between Royal London and Mrs Ms 
GP. However, Royal London did not receive satisfactory information to be able to offer 
terms.  
On 30 November 2018, the Legal & General policy lapsed. Later that month, Mr M sadly 
became unwell and attended hospital with chest pain. This sadly led to a diagnosis of a rare 
type of cancer.  
Mr and Mrs M arranged to meet with MABs adviser in January 2019. They did this as they 
believed cover was in place and theyd need to make both critical illness and income 
protection claims. However, it became apparent at that time that the policies never started 
with Royal London.  
Legal & General agreed to a backdated claim for Mr M and paid £22,000 of critical illness 
benefit. However, no claim could be put to Royal London as the policies had never started. 
And, as a consequence of becoming unwell, Mr M now couldnt seek cover elsewhere.  
In October 2020, the CMC complained on Mr and Mrs Ms behalf.  
MAB issued a response to the complaint in December 2020. It said its adviser was not 
responsible for the delays occurring between Royal London and Mrs Ms GP  and any 
failing of the insurance to go on risk before Mr M became unwell was not the fault of MAB. 
However, it did accept that from a good customer service perspective its adviser could have 
done more to chase the parties. To acknowledge this, MAB offered £2,500 compensation.
Further correspondence continued between the CMC and MAB, but the matter remained 
unresolved. The CMC therefore brought the complaint to this service. It explained that Mr 
and Mrs M remained unhappy with MABs response. They did not think that £2,500 
accounted for the errors of MABs adviser. In their view, if he had done what he should have 
at the time, theyd be able to make a £60,000 critical illness claim, as well as up to 60 
months of family income benefit claims at over £2,000 per month.  
An investigator reviewed the complaint but did not believe it could succeed.  
He explained that the adviser had correctly assessed Mr and Mrs Ms needs, made an 
appropriate recommendation  which was accepted  and passed the relevant details to the 
insurer. He said that once the applications were submitted in May 2018, the adviser hadnt 
been liable for the delays happening thereafter  which were a combination of issues 
between the Royal London and Mr Ms GP. 
Though he felt the adviser did not have control over the time it took to process the 
applications, he did agree that from a customer service perspective, the adviser could have 
done more in terms of chasing the parties and assisting with the administration issues. 
Though this would not have altered the fact Mr M did not have insurance in early 2019, he 
agreed that MABs offer of £2,500 was appropriate, taking into account that Mr and Mrs M 
had clearly suffered sustained distress by realising they didnt have the cover they needed.   
MAB accepted the view of the investigator, but the CMC said Mr and Mrs M disagreed. It 
submitted detailed written submissions for consideration. I will not be repeating these here, 
but confirm I have read them in full. In summary, the CMC on behalf of Mr and Mrs S said:
the investigator hadnt looked further at the suggestion made by the adviser in early 
2019 regarding an indemnity claim being made to MABs insurer;
however, the adviser refuted this took place yet Mrs Ms evidence on it is more 
compelling;
MABs adviser had failed in respect of four different Principles of Businesses as set 
by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), those being:
oPrinciple 2. Skill, care and diligence
oPrinciple 3. Management and control
oPrinciple 6. Customers' interests; and
oPrinciple 7. Communications with clients. 
in their view, the advisers failings under the various principles had directly resulted in 
Mr Ms predicament and his and Mrs Ms inability to make claims to Royal London;
the adviser was Royal Londons point of contact;
it believes MAB was required to keep Mr and Mrs M appropriately informed before, 
during and after the point of sale, which the adviser did not do;
it highlighted other Financial Ombudsman Service decisions which had relevant 
findings;
for example, one decision concerned an advisers failing to ensure an enterprise 
investment scheme application was processed in time;
in that complaint it was made clear that where time was of the essence a business 
should be responsible to ensure that time limits were not missed;
the adviser knew how critical the policies were;
this complaint ought therefore to be regarded in the same context;
another relevant complaint was where an insurer did not send a renewal reminder for 
a personal accident policy and the policy lapsed without the customers knowledge;the ombudsman in that decision set out the requirements of good business practice 
to ensure a consumer doesnt suffer unfair financial consequences of a mistake;
MABs website suggests that it is responsible for ensuring that the policies it advises 
on are put in place;
the website says (MAB) will take care of everything from explaining all of your 
options and helping you select the right mortgage, to choosing the most suitable 
protection for you and your family, and handling the whole application process;
it must be inferred from this that MABs responsibilities do not end prior to the new 
policy being put in place;
to that end the CMC has also spoken with a representative from MAB who told it how 
everything is taken care of from start to finish;
the adviser was fully aware that there should have been a seamless continuity in the 
policies, and he should have had controls in place to ensure that this occurred;
the investigator did not give any reference to other decisions when deciding that the 
£2,500 offer was fair and reasonable in the circumstances;
in any event the offer is not the correct outcome  as there can be no question in this 
circumstance that MABs breach has resulted in Mr and Mrs Ms losses. 
The complaint was therefore referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I go any further, Id like to send my best wishes to Mr and Mrs M as I realise things 
are very difficult for them. Though I realise this decision will not be what they have hoped for, 
I do not believe it should succeed, so I wont be asking MAB to meet any assumed claim 
values under the Royal London policy applications. Ill explain my reasons for this below.  
I realise that in its submissions, the CMC has made points about how MABs adviser 
communicated with Mr and Mrs M in relation to the loss of their claim. There is no 
determinative evidence as to what was said in the meetings following the realisation that Mr 
M wasnt able to pursue claims to Royal London in early 2019. 
However, I dont believe this matter is material to the complaint put to MAB  which was that 
the its adviser was liable for the policies not starting before December 2018 and therefore he 
has caused the loss of the right to claim now. Its worth noting that complaints brought to this 
service must be about (or ancillary to) regulated activities  in this case, that is arranging 
(bringing about) deals in investments, including pure protection contracts. I have considered 
the complaint carefully, in that context.  
As well as the rules applying to this service, I am also mindful of relevant laws, industry 
guidance and best practice when reaching my decision  and that includes the FCA 
Principles as they apply to MAB and its appointed representatives.  As Ive set out above, 
my remit at this service under those rules is to determine what I believe to be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As known to the parties, there was ongoing and protected correspondence between Royal 
London and Mrs Ms GP  from July 2018 onwards after Mr and Mrs M had sent back their 
confirmation forms allowing consent to write to the GP. This was chased initially with the 
adviser, who in turn referred the consent forms to Mr and Mrs M in June 2018.  
By July 2018, Royal London needed more information  and it told the adviser about that via email on 18 July 2018. I can see that the adviser did inform Mr and Mrs M of that further 
contact and told Mrs M to contact her GP directly, as he did not have any such consent to do 
so.  
Thereafter, the adviser wasnt party to the ongoing correspondence, and so he did not have 
anything to forward to Mr and Mrs M.  
I do not disagree with the CMC that, in terms of consideration of the FCA Principles and the 
requirement of good business practice, it would have been prudent of the adviser to 
undertake further communications with Mr and Mrs M in respect of their applications, given it 
was clear that from 1 December 2018 their mortgage protection policy would end (though 
the family income benefit would not). 
However, MABs advisers responsibility did not extend to the regulated activity of assisting 
in the administration and performance of a contract of insurance. FCA guidance in the 
Perimeter Guidance Manual (at PERG 5.7) explains how generally an activity will either 
amount to assisting in the administration or assisting in the performance but not both. The 
adviser did not have the authority to liaise with Mrs Ms GP, nor did he have any control over 
Royal Londons underwriting decision. He also didnt assist with performance of the 
contracts, because they did not come into force.   
At the time Mr M sadly became unwell, no firm decision had been made by Royal London in 
respect of offering the insurance to Mr and Mrs M. While I agree that the adviser fell short of 
good customer service by keeping Mr and Mrs M informed of that fact, I disagree that MAB 
is liable for the loss of the right to claim on either policy thereafter.  
Firstly, the original L&G family income benefit policy hadnt ended. But even if it had done (in 
the same way as the term assurance policy) the advisers actions were not consequential to 
any ability to claim to Royal London. The delay was not of MABs making  it was caused by 
protracted communication between Mrs Ms GP and Royal London. I cannot hold MAB 
accountable for the ramifications of the delay, because the adviser could not have expedited 
that process  what he could have done is made Mr and Mrs M aware of it. 
I recognise the CMC or Mr and Mrs M may argue that if they had known of an update 
regarding the delay they could then have sought cover elsewhere. Though the argument 
hasnt been put forward, it is not, in my view, a demonstrable consequence either  such that 
I should conclude MAB is liable for a lost claim. I say that because Mr and Mrs M knew they 
had applied for the policy, they were aware the term assurance was ending and they knew 
Royal London had required consent for ongoing communication to Mrs Ms GP. While it is 
not their fault that the underwriting took a protected time either, I cannot disregard that they 
also could have taken active steps in respect of the cover ending on 30 November 2018. 
The CMC also asserts that the outcome in different complaints dealt with by other 
ombudsmen determines that this complaint ought to be upheld. I do not accept that. No two 
cases are factually identical; that an ombudsman may have upheld a complaint with similar 
circumstances does not set a precedent nor does it compel me to reach the same 
conclusion. In any event. the examples do not have similar circumstances to this complaint.  
Instead, I must look at the evidence and reach a fair and reasonable outcome by making 
findings on the specific facts in this complaint. Having done so, I agree that MABs adviser 
could reasonably have undertaken sufficient diligence to ensure accurate updates were 
given from July 2018 onwards. MAB accepts this; it upheld the complaint on that basis.  
Compensation in this particular complaint should not be payment of the claims that might 
conceivably have been made on a policy -  if Royal London had decided to offer it - because the adviser did not have authority over medical or underwriting decisions and his inaction did 
not cause the insurance decision to be ongoing at the time Mr M became unwell. The right 
redress here is a payment which recognises the distress and upset that this error has 
caused to Mr and Mrs M upon discovering in January 2019 that they did not have insurance 
in place (albeit noting that neither MAB nor Royal London suggested otherwise).
Though the CMC has referenced it, I cannot look at any communication between MAB and 
the CMC about compensation that communication took place before the complaint came 
here, and is subject to legal privilege.    
In the open circumstances, MAB has offered £2,500 to Mr and Mrs M in its final response 
letter, and I am pleased to note that it is still available. In terms of the offer itself, awards are 
not made on a prescribed basis such that I can point to other decisions or a framework. 
Instead, we consider appropriate compensation based on the effect it has had on 
complainants  noting that our awards are not punitive, as we are not the regulator.  
I am not making an award the proposed compensation was offered by MAB before the 
complaint came to this service. I do however believe in the circumstances, noting Mr Ms 
particular ill health, that the award is a reasonable sum to propose. However, for the reasons 
given, I cannot otherwise uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
Despite my sympathy for Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances, I do not uphold this complaint or 
make any award.  
I leave Mr and Mrs M to liaise with Mortgage Advice Bureau (Derby) Limited in respect of the 
distress payment which remains open for them to accept, if they wish to do so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 June 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman