DRN-2696524
The complaint
Mr H complains he was told he had to take out a decreasing term life assurance policy as a 
condition of being offered a mortgage by The Co-operative Bank Plc (Britannia).
What happened
Mr H and his partner at the time took out a joint mortgage with Britannia in 2009. At the 
same time Britannias adviser recommended Mr H take out a decreasing term life assurance 
policy to protect the borrowing in the event of his death. 
Britannias adviser also recommended both Mr H and his partner take out critical illness and 
total permanent disability cover, but they opted not to do this.
Mr H complained to Britannia after his financial adviser pointed out to him that hed not 
needed the policy and that the money paid in premiums couldve been adding to his pension 
pot. Mr H said hed been told by Britannias adviser at the time that without taking the policy 
out, he and his partner wouldnt be given the mortgage, so he felt pressured into taking it.
Britannia didnt agree the policy had been mis-sold. They said the Mortgage Offer and Key 
Facts Illustration which Mr H and his partner received, confirmed that it wasnt compulsory 
for him to take out the policy. Britannia also noted Mr H had declined their advisers first 
recommendation of protection and didnt think the cover his policy offered was comparable 
to Mr H paying additional funds into his pension. 
Mr H remained unhappy so asked our service to investigate. He said he had enough money 
to cover his share of the mortgage held in premium bonds at the time, but hed been told he 
had to take out the protection policy otherwise the mortgage wouldnt be approved.
Our investigator looked into things but didnt uphold the complaint. She said she didnt think 
the evidence from the time of the sale showed that taking out protection was a requirement 
of obtaining the mortgage and whilst she acknowledged Mr H saying he had savings, she 
didnt think that this meant it was wrong for Britannias adviser to have made a 
recommendation. Our investigator thought the type of policy Mr H had taken out had been 
clearly explained so didnt think Britannia had done anything wrong.
Mr H accepted hed received the documentation and that he should have read it in detail but 
said hed put his trust in Britannia. He couldnt get over the fact hed been blatantly lied to, so 
he didnt agree with our investigators opinion. As no agreement could be reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, although I appreciate itll be a disappointment to Mr H, Im not upholding his 
complaint and for much the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Mr H says he was told he had to take protection out as a condition to being offered the 
mortgage. He says he told the adviser he had savings in premium bonds to cover his 50% of 
the borrowing, and when told he would still need to take cover, he asked for a policy to cover 
his half of the mortgage only, but Britannias adviser said he had to take a policy to cover the 
full amount of the borrowing.
Ive reviewed a copy of the mortgage offer; this made it clear that Mr H wasnt obliged to take 
out any insurance cover through Britannia. It also confirmed the only insurance he and his 
partner had to take out was buildings insurance. However again, it wasnt compulsory this 
was taken out through Britannia. If the approval of Mr H and his partners mortgage 
application was dependent on Mr H taking life cover, I think this wouldve been set as a 
condition in the mortgage offer. As it wasnt, I think Mr H wouldve known the insurance 
recommended to him was optional.
I can also see that the adviser recommended both Mr H and his partner take out critical 
illness and total permanent disability cover in addition to life cover for Mr H. But the 
recommendation letter shows both Mr H and his partner turned down the recommendation 
for critical illness and total permanent disability cover, proceeding with a policy providing life 
cover for Mr H only. I think this further shows Mr H understood the optional nature of the 
cover and that he knew he could turn down any recommendations made to him.
Ive also considered whether the policies recommended were suitable for Mr Hs needs and 
circumstances. I understand he feels he couldve relied on the savings he held in premium 
bonds to cover his half of the mortgage, so he didnt have a need to take a life cover policy 
out. But I would generally expect a mortgage applicants insurance needs to be reviewed 
when taking on new borrowing.
The protection recommendation letter completed by the adviser following the advice given 
shows Mr H and his partner were taking on a new repayment mortgage of £44,000. It also 
shows that whilst his partner held existing life cover, Mr H had no protection in place at the 
time. So, I think it was reasonable for the adviser to ensure Mr H and his partner had thought 
about how theyd repay the borrowing if either of them died or became seriously ill.
The recommendation shows that Mr H didnt have any life, critical illness or total permanent 
disability cover in place. Mr H was self-employed, so he also wouldnt have had any 
employee benefits to fall back on. So, I think Mr H Had a need for the protection and an 
appropriate amount was covered with this policy. The cover matched the amount and ended 
shortly after the original expected term of the loan. I acknowledge Mr H says their intention 
was always to repay the borrowing much earlier, but at the time of taking it out that wasnt 
guaranteed so, I dont think the advice he was given was unsuitable for his situation.
I think a clear need at the time was established for a policy providing Mr H with life and 
critical illness cover for the full mortgage amount and term, and the adviser acted reasonably 
when providing their recommendation.
I understand Mr H has a strong recollection of his meeting with the adviser and feels he was 
lied to in order to make him take out a policy, despite questioning at the time his need for 
one. And I can understand him wanting to place trust in a company hed been using for 
many years. Ive thought about this carefully, but it isnt enough to persuade me that Mr H 
was pressured to take this policy out. I think he wouldve known the policy was optional and 
that he could turn down the recommendation if he didnt want to proceed. And I think the fact 
that he turned down the critical illness and total permanent disability policy the adviser also 
recommended shows he knew he didnt have to agree to it if he didnt want the cover.
On balance, I think Mr H accepted the recommendation as he understood the need to 
protect such a large debt with life cover. For this reason, I dont think the policy was mis-sold 
and I dont think Britannia need to do anything to put things right.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman