DRN-2327878
The complaint
Mr C complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (Hargreaves) did not 
offer a stop loss facility on his investment. He says that having no price protection in place 
caused him to suffer a financial loss.
What happened
Mr C opened an execution only account with Hargreaves and placed an instruction to invest 
£9,000 in an American company that I will call Company A. Over the next 10 months, the 
price of Company As shares dropped in value until Mr C sold the shares and received 
£1,267.00 in sale proceeds.
Mr C complained to Hargreaves that as they did not offer a stop loss facility, he was unable 
to protect himself against any fall in the price of overseas stocks. He says that it is not clear 
on the Hargreaves website that this facility is not offered, and he would not have invested 
had he known.
Hargreaves investigated Mr Cs complaint but did not think that they had done anything 
wrong. They said Mr C could have tracked the share price of Company A on the website and 
they were not responsible for the trading decisions of clients using the execution only 
service.
Unhappy with Hargreaves response, Mr C referred his decision to the service. One of our 
investigators reviewed his complaint but agreed with Hargreaves. The investigator did not 
think that they had provided misleading information on the website and did not uphold his 
complaint. Mr C did not accept the investigators view and asked for an ombudsman to look 
as his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr C but Ive reached the same view as the investigator and will not 
be upholding his complaint. I understand that Mr C feels strongly about his complaint and I 
will explain why I have arrived at this decision.
Mr C opened an execution only account with Hargreaves. This means that the client is 
responsible for all investment decisions and advice is not provided. Mr C placed the 
purchase instruction without advice from Hargreaves and placed his sale instruction again 
without receiving advice from Hargreaves. I have reviewed the terms and conditions for the 
service and its clear that Hargreaves dont offer any advice under this service.
Mr Cs complaint is that he believes that Hargreaves should have offered a stop loss facility 
for overseas shares in the same way that they do for UK shares. He says its not clear that 
this facility is not available on the website.
Ive reviewed what Hargreaves say about stop losses within the documentation that is 
available to clients. It says:
Limit orders are available on UK listed stocks, however we reserve the right to amend the 
range of stocks for which limit and stop loss orders are available.
I note that that this clause does not specifically say that stop loss orders are only available 
for UK stocks but conversely, it does not say that stop losses are available for overseas 
stocks. I sympathise with Mr C that these terms do not explicitly exclude overseas stop loss 
orders but neither do they say that they are permitted.
Mr C says that the absence of stop loss orders meant that he could not protect himself 
against any losses and that if these types of functions were available, he would not have 
made such a big loss. In order to consider Mr Cs claims, I have looked at what other 
information was available to Mr C during the time he held shares in Company A. I note the 
following:
The execution only service allows users to look at their portfolio online at any time. In 
practice, this would have meant that Mr C would have been able to see the performance 
of his shares at any point.
The service also allows users to view up to date share price information. This would 
have allowed Mr C to see how much his shares were worth at any point.
Although I sympathise that the wording of stop losses on the website is not explicit to say 
that overseas stop losses are not covered, I think that information was available to Mr C 
which would have allowed him to track the performance of his shares and the current price 
so he could take appropriate action.
I have not seen any evidence that suggested Mr C contacted Hargreaves to discuss whether 
they offered a stop loss facility so I cant see that they have provided any misleading 
information.
Mr C also says that Hargreaves does not provide an alert to notify clients if the price has 
dropped to a certain level and says that this option is greyed out for overseas stocks. I 
understand that this may have been helpful to Mr C but as he was aware that this option was 
not available, I think that he could have taken other measures to ensure he was aware of the 
stock price.
The service cant decide how a business should design their systems or products and we 
cant tell them how to run their business. The service can only look at whether a business 
has done something wrong and if so, ask them to put the client back into the position had the 
error not occurred.
In reviewing this complaint, I cant see that the business has done anything wrong.  They 
provided an online service which included information which would have allowed Mr C to 
review the performance of his investment and the up to date price of his shares. They were 
not responsible for providing advice to Mr C on when to sell to avoid a loss.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaintUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman