DRN-3193155
The complaint
Mrs and Mr M complain that Chaucer Insurance Company Designated Activity Company 
rejected their travel insurance claim. My references to Chaucer include its claim handlers. 
What happened
On 26 February 2020 Mrs and Mr M bought a single trip travel insurance policy, insured by 
Chaucer, to cover a holiday abroad from 30 May 2020 to 6 June 2020 which they booked in 
2019.
On 14 March 2020 the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO  formerly 
the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but essential travel to the 
relevant country and that advice remained in place on the date Mrs and Mr M were due to 
begin their trip.
In April 2020 the accommodation provider cancelled Mrs and Mr Ms accommodation and 
didnt refund the cost. The airline cancelled their flight in May 2020 and it refunded the flight 
costs. Mrs and Mr M claimed on the policy for the accommodation cost of £1,518.07. They 
were able to get a partial refund of £1,017 from their bank through a chargeback claim. Their 
claim on the policy is now for the unrefunded £501.07, which wasnt paid for with a credit 
card.
Chaucer declined the claim saying the policy didnt cover cancellation due to FCDO advice. 
Mrs and Mr M complained to us. They said their trip wasnt cancelled due to the FCDO 
advice but because the accommodation and flight were cancelled by the respective 
providers.
Our investigator explained why she thought it was fair and reasonable for Chaucer to treat 
the claim as covered under the cancellation section of the policy. She recommended 
Chaucer reconsider the claim under the remaining policy terms and conditions.
Chaucer disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision explaining why I was intending to not uphold the complaint. 
I said:
Mrs and Mr M say they had to cancel the trip because the accommodation provider and 
airline cancelled and not because of FCDO advice. But I think its most likely that the 
providers cancelled due to the FCDO advice against all but essential travel to Mrs and
Mr Ms intended destination. The cancellation notice from the accommodation provider gives 
the reason for cancellation as the travel ban. So in effect Mrs and Mr M had to cancel 
because of the FCDO advice.
Im intending to not uphold this complaint. Ive seen Chaucers detailed response to our 
investigators view but for broadly the same reasons given by our investigator, which Ive 
summarised below, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Chaucer to treat the claim as 
covered under the cancellation section. However, I think there are other policy terms which 
are relevant to the outcome of this complaint.
I dont think Mrs and Mr Ms accommodation costs were irrecoverable so there is no cover 
for those costs, as Ill explain below.
Industry rules and guidance
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly.
ICOBS also says that insurers should give consumers appropriate information about a 
policy in good time and in a way that is easy to understand. This should include an 
Insurance Product Information Document (IPID), giving a consumer a summary of certain 
things  including excluded risks.
The relevant documentation
Ive considered the policy terms and conditions and the IPID in this case. The policy terms 
and conditions on page 20, Section A (Cancellation or Curtailment Charges) says Chaucer 
will pay Mrs and Mr M up to the amount shown in the schedule of benefits for their proportion 
of any irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs which theyve paid in specific 
listed circumstances.
Mrs and Mr M trip was cancelled because of the FCDO advised against all but essential 
travel to their intended destination. This isnt one of the specific, listed insured events for 
which cancellation cover is provided.
This means Mrs and Mr Ms claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions of the policy.
However, having taken into account industry guidelines and the relevant law I dont think its 
fair or reasonable in the circumstances for Mrs and Mr M to have no cover when they had to 
cancel their holiday. Ill explain why.
On page 11 of the policy terms and conditions under the General Exclusions Applicable to 
the Whole Policy section, sub-section 18, it says theres no cover for:
Any claim arising as a direct result of a situation highlighted by the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office where you have travelled to a specific country or to an area 
where, prior to your trip commencing, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office have 
advised against all (but essential) travel.
On page 1, under the What is not insured section of the IPID, it says:
Travelling to a country or to an area where, prior to your trip commencing, the FCO
have advised against all (but essential) travel.
This exclusion means if Mrs and Mr M had travelled they would have been acting against 
FCDO advice and they would have had no cover whatsoever under their policy. So if they  
had travelled the policy would have been of no use to them.The effect of this exclusion is that Mrs and Mr M wasnt covered if they followed FCDO 
advice and cancelled their trip, but they also had no cover if they travelled.
I dont think the exclusion of cover from claims arising from changes to FCDO advice was 
clearly highlighted to the consumer in the IPID, and I dont think this was easily 
understandable from the policy documents either. The cancellation section of cover doesnt 
list changes in FCDO advice as an exclusion so Mrs and Mr M would need to read the terms 
and conditions of the policy from beginning to end to understand the full effect of the policy.
I dont think this is fair or reasonable, and I think a reasonable consumer would expect an 
exclusion like this to be brought to their attention in a more prominent and transparent way.
Overall, I think the way the documents were presented means the combined effect of the 
policy wasnt clear to Mrs and Mr M. They had no cover at all when FCDO advice changed 
and I think this created a significant imbalance between the rights of Mrs and Mr M and the 
rights of the insurer. I dont think this is fair and I dont think its likely Mrs and Mr M would 
have bought the policy if they realised there would be no cover under the policy if FCDO 
advice changed after the cover was purchased.
So I dont think it was fair and reasonable for Chaucer to decline the claim on the basis that 
the policy didnt cover cancellation due to the FCDO advice.
However, the cancellation policy terms cover irrecoverable unused paid accommodation 
costs. The accommodation provider offered Mrs and Mr M a full credit voucher for the value 
of the booking less an administration fee of £50 as an alternative to cancellation. The credit 
voucher was valid for any alternative date in the property but a seasonal price difference 
would apply.
Mrs and Mr M chose cancellation saying to the accommodation provider that they didnt 
know when they could travel again and they wanted specific dates taking into account school 
holidays and avoiding high season. I understand why Mrs and Mr M chose to have the 
cancellation option but as they have been offered a credit voucher Ive taken into account 
whether the terms of the voucher are so restrictive it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to 
expect Mrs and Mr M to accept it in the circumstances.
The credit voucher appears to be open ended for any alternative date and for the full 
amount, save for the £50 administration fee which isnt an unreasonable amount. I dont 
have any evidence that Mrs and Mr M couldnt reasonably use the credit voucher. So on the 
evidence I have I dont think the terms of the voucher are so restrictive that it wouldnt be fair 
and reasonable to expect Mrs and Mr M to accept it in the circumstances. That means the 
accommodation costs arent irrecoverable so there is no cover for the costs under the policy.
Ive considered whether Chaucer should pay the £50 administration fee which is 
irrecoverable. The excess for the claim is £99 per person, so more than the £50 Mrs and 
Mr M would be seeking to claim, meaning Chaucer wouldnt have to pay.
Finally, I note Mrs and Mr M have concerns about the time Chaucer took to respond to their 
complaint. The rules we operate under say a business has eight weeks to respond to a
consumers complaint and Chaucers final response was well within that period. So I think 
Chaucers response time was reasonable.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs and Mr M said they had no additional comments other than it was unfair that their  insurance didnt cover them whether they did or didnt travel which made them question the 
point of having travel insurance.
Chaucer said for the reasons it had already given it didnt agree with my findings that: no 
cover was given if Mrs and Mr M had travelled and if they had not travelled; the policy 
exclusions werent clear and/or highlighted to Mrs and Mr M; they wouldnt have purchased 
the policy if Mrs and Mr M had realised no cover would be given if the FCDO advice 
changed following purchase.
But Chaucer agreed with my findings that Mrs and Mr Ms loss wasnt irrecoverable so the 
claim wasnt payable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has given me any new evidence in their responses and Ive no reason to 
change my mind from my provisional findings. For the reasons Ive given above I dont think 
it was fair and reasonable for Chaucer to decline the claim on the basis that the policy didnt 
cover cancellation due to the FCDO advice.
However, as I still dont have any evidence that Mrs and Mr M couldnt reasonably use the 
credit voucher offer from the accommodation provider I dont think the terms of the credit 
voucher offer are so restrictive that it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to expect Mrs and 
Mr M to accept it in the circumstances. On the evidence I have the accommodation costs 
arent irrecoverable so there is no cover for the costs under the policy.
Ive also no reason to change my provisional findings that Chaucers response time to 
Mrs and Mr Ms complaint was reasonable.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman