DRN-3737548
The complaint
Mr L complains that ReAssure Limited have provided a poor service, which caused delays 
that prevented him from completing his pension transfer.
What happened
Mr L has two pension policies with ReAssure. 
Mr L explains that he initially instructed an independent financial adviser (IFA) to correspond 
with ReAssure to obtain information about his ReAssure pensions in July 2020. He explains 
that met with little success and he appointed a different IFA in November 2020 to try to move 
things along.
Mr L explains that he wanted information on the value of his pensions so that he could 
transfer to an alternative pension scheme. 
Mr Ls IFA  Firm H  sent ReAssure an email on 3 November 2020 that included a letter of 
authority signed by Mr L, and a request for pension information and transfer documentation. 
ReAssure wrote to Mr L on 16 November 2020 to explain that the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) had placed special requirements on Firm H. It let Mr L know that it would not 
provide information to Firm H without confirmation from it that it was complying with the FCA 
requirements for any advice Mr L was acting on. 
Firm H continued to chase ReAssure for the information it had requested through November 
and December. And on 29 December 2020 ReAssure wrote to Mr L explaining that it would 
be unable to communicate directly with Firm H, for the reasons it had outlined on 
16 November 2020. 
Mr L complained to ReAssure about the service hed received and the obstacles that he 
thought it had put in his way to prevent his transfer. ReAssure considered Mr Ls complaint 
and agreed that it hadnt delivered the service that it should. It apologised and offered Mr L 
£75 in compensation.
Mr L remained unhappy with ReAssures response, and still hadnt been able to transfer his 
pension in the manner that he wanted to. He referred his complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into what had happened and agreed that ReAssure had caused some unnecessary 
delays in communicating with Mr L. And suggested that ReAssure pay Mr L £400 in 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience hed been caused. 
Mr L didnt agree with our investigators view and this case has been referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at everything that has taken place in this case, Im going to uphold Mr Ls 
complaint for similar reasons to those given by our investigator. 
I should start out by clarifying the extent to which Im considering Mr Ls issues. Mr L brought 
us the complaint that he made to ReAssure about its failure to provide him with the 
information he and his IFA needed to decide on a transfer of his pension fund. And, like our 
investigator has explained, it is this complaint that Im deciding on. 
I make this point because Im aware that Mr L still hasnt transferred his ReAssure pensions. 
The current sticking point seems to be Mr Ls refusal to accept the current transfer valuation, 
which he says is significantly lower than the one initially quoted to him. I understand Mr Ls 
frustration that his complaint is still unresolved. And I dont think its fair to drag this 
complaint out when Mr Ls transfer remains unresolved. As our investigator explained, 
issues occurring after our investigator issued her view will be new complaint points that 
should first be raised with ReAssure to enable them to investigate and try to resolve. I 
cannot see that this has been done. As and when that happens, Mr L will then be able to 
refer that complaint to us if he is unsatisfied with ReAssures final response to it.
Mr L has expressed his frustration that no progress was made regarding his transfer with the 
IFA he had from July 2020 until November 2020. Ive seen no specific evidence regarding 
what happened in that period. Neither ReAssure or Mr L have provided correspondence 
from that period. I cant offer any explanation for what may have held things up in that 
period. But it certainly doesnt appear that ReAssure were given a direction to transfer.
What is documented is what appears to have happened after Mr L appointed Firm H as his 
IFA. Firm H contacted ReAssure requesting information on Mr Ls policies and transfer 
discharge paperwork. Instead ReAssure wrote to Mr L, 13 days later, to explain it had 
identified a concern with Firm H.
ReAssure was Mr Ls pension provider. And it had regulatory rules and guidance that it had 
to follow. At the time that Firm H was requesting this information ReAssure were expected to 
follow guidance that was in place to safeguard consumers from potential fraud risks. It meant 
that a level of due diligence was required of ReAssure. 
I think the due diligence checks should have included checking whether the IFA was 
regulated by the FCA. In this case it was, but the FCA database indicated that Firm H was 
subject to a requirement under section 55L of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. 
ReAssure explained this to Mr L, setting out the requirements. This included that Firm H had 
to appoint an independent third party compliance consultant to conduct pre-sales monitoring 
for compliance with regulatory requirements for pension transfer advice.
Being in possession of this information, I think it was reasonable of ReAssure to positively 
respond to it. In its letter to Mr L it explained that it would need to see evidence from Firm H 
that it was complying with the requirement.
I cant see that ReAssure ever responded to Firm H though to explain why it wasnt 
responding to its request for information. Firm H continued to press ReAssure for the 
transfer information it wanted. So I have to infer that, its more likely than not that Mr L didnt 
contact Firm H to inform it what it needed to do either during that period.
ReAssure did however write to Mr L again at the end of December 2020. That letter made its 
position regarding Firm H even clearer. It explained that it wasnt prepared to communicate 
with Firm H directly. It is apparent that this decision had the effect of causing a delay as Mr L 
was relying on Firm H to pursue the information that it needed. But I think ReAssures 
decision not to communicate with Firm H directly was reasonable in the circumstances. So, even though I can see that Firm H continued to email ReAssure, I dont think ReAssure 
did anything wrong in not responding to those requests. Not without first receiving the 
assurances that it asked for. Or the restrictions on Firm H were removed.
Nonetheless, ReAssure were slow to send Mr L the information that he requested. He lived 
overseas. And written correspondence to him was sent via normal post. Which meant that 
he didnt receive letters for over four weeks at times. Which caused delay and a 
considerable amount of annoyance for Mr L.
ReAssure sent Mr L three risk questionnaires to complete. The first in May 2021. Then a 
second one at the beginning of July 2021 for transferring to a Qualifying Overseas Pension 
Scheme. Which wasnt what Mr L was asking to do. Then a third one later in July 2021, to 
replace the first one. I can understand how this caused further annoyance to Mr L. I can see 
from the initial form completed that there was an inconsistency in two of the answers relating 
to whether or not financial advice had been provided. But sending the wrong form the 
second time again caused an unnecessary delay.
These questionnaires were necessary for ReAssure to be able to carry out the due diligence 
that was expected of it. The regulatory rules and guidance placed a responsibility on 
ReAssure to identify if there were any risks with Mr Ls proposed transfer. And to highlight 
and act on those if there were. But, in order to treat Mr L fairly, ReAssure needed to carry 
these things out in a timely way.
It hasnt demonstrated to us that it did. It appears that Mr L sent ReAssure the request to 
transfer towards the end of December 2021 with transfer release forms. And hed already 
completed the risk assessment questionnaire. ReAssure took almost two months to respond. 
Only to highlight a discrepancy with the questionnaire itd had for a long time. I dont think 
that this was reasonable. It highlights poor customer service and a lack of urgency to help 
Mr L action what seems a straightforward request.
This delay pushed the transfer back, by which time the FCA had issued a notice against 
Mr Ls intended receiving SIPP. The FCA restrictions on the SIPP in early March 2022 
indicated a problem with the financial viability of Mr Ls intended receiving SIPP. But the 
SIPP was restricted from receiving new business. I understand that Mr L argues that 
ReAssure should have completed the transfer anyway. But I think that ReAssures position, 
which is that transferring his pensions was new business, was not unreasonable. Ultimately, 
it was a decision intended to protect Mr L from potential harm. 
All things considered though, I agree that the service ReAssure provided was poor. Ive 
highlighted some of the failings that I think delayed matters for Mr L. Chief of which was 
ReAssures insistence on mailing communication to him, when I can see he asked for 
emails. 
This impacted Mr L because his pensions didnt have a simple transfer value. His pensions 
had historically been transferred from occupational pensions schemes (OPSs) that had 
defined benefits. And, at some point previously, the pensions had been subject to the 
Pension Review. And as a result Mr Ls pensions had a Pension Review Guarantee. It 
meant that a review would be done at the time of taking the benefits  inline with regulatory 
guidance  in order that Mr Ls pension provided benefits equivalent to those that have been 
guaranteed in his OPSs. These calculations are admittedly complex and are undertaken by 
actuaries. It takes weeks to get the quote, and that is only valid for three months. So losing 
over a month of that whilst the letter is in transit is unfair. It removed some of the time that 
Mr L had to decide what to do with the offer.
Ive considered the impact on Mr L from the delays. For various reasons he has been unable to transfer in the way that he wanted to. But he was always in a position to take his tax free 
cash straight away if hed wished. He had his retirement options in January 2021 which set 
that out for him clearly. He would still have had the option of transferring the remaining part 
of his fund.
The presence of the Pension Review Guarantee meant that the value of his pension wasnt 
quite dependant on investment performance of his fund. In this case his fund value was in 
the region of £90,000. But the valuation after the Pension Review calculations were done 
were somewhere around £500,000. The protection he had from the Pension Review 
Guarantee remained in place the whole time. So the delay didnt adversely affect that. 
Meaning he retained benefits equivalent to at least those he ought to have had from his 
OPS.   
But Mr L was caused far more inconvenience than should have been normal for a transfer 
request. And over a much longer time than was reasonable. Taking too long to provide 
requested information, or to email him that information so that it was received promptly 
meant that ReAssure failed to act in his best interests. ReAssure should pay Mr L £400 for 
the distress and inconvenience these failings caused him. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ls complaint.
ReAssure Limited must pay Mr L £400 for the distress and inconvenience he has suffered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman