DRN-2920524
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream was irresponsible in its 
lending to her.
What happened
Mrs D was provided with nine loans by Lending Stream between March 2017 and June 
2019. Further details of the loans are set out below.
Loan Date Repaid Amount (£)
1 28-03-2017 12-07-2017 400
2 21-06-2017 12-07-2017 180
3 04-09-2017 22-11-2017 570
4 12-04-2018 06-08-2018 250
5 06-08-2018 25-10-2018 450
6 30-05-2019  120
7 02-06-2019  120
8 07-06-2019  120
9 19-06-2019  250
Mrs D raised a complaint with Lending Stream saying that the loans were unaffordable. She 
said that she was in a spiral of debt and that adequate checks werent carried out before the 
loans were provided.
Lending Stream issued a final response letter in May 2021. It said that before the loans were 
provided it asked Mrs D about her employment and monthly income as well as her 
expenses. It said it checked the information received against independent data sources and 
checked the amounts given for other credit commitments with a credit reference agency. 
Lending Stream said that based on its checks loans 1 to 6 were affordable for Mrs D. It said 
that loans 7 to 9 also appeared affordable but given the number of loans provided by this 
time it thought it might not have been a good idea to provide these loans. Therefore, it 
upheld Mrs Ds complaint regarding loans 7 to 9 and offed to refund all interest paid on these 
loans along with 8% simple interest and to remove any adverse information about these loan 
from Mrs Ds credit file.
Mrs D didnt agree with Lending Streams response and referred her complaint to this 
service.
Our adjudicator noted that Lending Stream had upheld loans 7 to 9 and didnt consider these 
loans further. They considered the timing of the loans and thought that a second lending 
chain started with loan 6. Regarding loans 1 to 6, our adjudicator didnt think they had seen 
enough to say Lending Stream was wrong to provide these loans. 
Mrs D didnt agree with our adjudicators view. She said she took out new loans because she 
was struggling to make repayments on existing debts and had to borrow to make her priority 
payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mrs D could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Mrs D could sustainably repay her loans - not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ds complaint.
As already set out, Lending Stream upheld Mrs Ds complaint in regard to loans 7 to 9. It 
offered to refund the interest and charges on these loans and to remove any adverse 
information regarding these loans from Mrs Ds credit file, therefore I havent considered 
these loans further. This decision relates to loans 1 to 6. I have considered the timing of loans 1 to 6 and given the break of over seven months 
between when loan 5 was repaid and loan 6 provided, I agree with our adjudicator that the 
loans should be considered as two separate lending chains. The first lending chain includes 
loans 1 to 5 and the second includes the remaining loans - although for the purpose of this 
decision I have only considered loan 6 in this lending chain due to the offer made on loans 7 
to 9.
Before the first loan was provided information was gathered about Mrs Ds employment, 
income and expenses. She declared a monthly income of just over £1,000 and expenses of 
£449. However, I note Lending Streams comments about the possible adjustments it makes 
to the information received based on its verification checks and I can see it recorded Mrs D 
has having disposable income of £238 at this time. The loan was repayable over six months 
with the highest repayment amount being £173. A credit check was carried out and I can see 
that there was adverse information noted in the result. However, I do not find that this was 
enough to say that further checks were required at this stage. 
As this was only the first loan provided by Lending Stream to Mrs D and considering the 
repayment amount compared to Mrs Ds income I think the checks carried out before this 
loan was provided were proportionate. As these suggested the loan was affordable I do not 
find that I can say it was wrong for Lending Stream to provide this loan.  
Loan 2 was taken out while loan 1 was still outstanding. Information was gathered about 
Mrs Ds income and expenses and a credit check undertaken. An additional default was 
recorded in the credit results between the loan 1 check and loan 2 check. This could have 
raised concerns and further questions could have been asked to ensure the loan was 
sustainably affordable. However, having considered the loan repayments due on this loan 
and the previous loan, and considering the other information gathered, the loan appeared 
affordable and so I do not find I have enough to say this loan shouldnt have been provided.
Mrs D repaid the first two loans early and then didnt take out a third loan until almost two 
months later. The third loan was for a higher amount with the highest monthly repayment 
being around £251. This was reasonably high compared to Mrs Ds monthly income 
however, based on the information gathered the loan repayments appeared affordable for 
Mrs D and noting this along with the other information gathered including Mrs Ds borrowing 
history, I do not find I have enough to say that this loan shouldnt have been provided.
Loan 3 was repaid and loan 4 taken out over four months later. While I do not think this gap 
was enough to say that new lending chain had started I have taken it into consideration. 
Loan 4 was for £250 and as the loan repayments appeared affordable I do not find I can say 
this loan shouldnt have been provided.
Loan 4 was repaid early and a larger loan, loan 5 taken out on the same day. By loan 5, I 
think that it would have been reasonable for further checks to have taken place to ensure 
that the loan was sustainably affordable. However, I have nothing to suggest that had this 
happened it would have been apparent that the loan wasnt affordable for Mrs D. Therefore, I 
do not find I have enough to say this loan shouldnt have been provided.
Overall, I do not find that I have enough evidence to say that Lending Stream should have 
realised the loans that formed part of the first lending chain (loans 1 to 5) were unaffordable 
for Mrs D. I also do not find the pattern of Mrs Ds borrowing was such that Lending Stream 
should have considered her persistently reliant on the loans.
Loan 5 was repaid early and Mrs D then didnt borrow from Lending Stream for over seven 
months. Therefore, I have considered loan 6 as the start of a new lending chain. Loan 6 was for £120 with the highest repayment amount being around £40. Given Mrs Ds monthly 
income and that this was the first loan in the new lending chain I think the checks carried out 
were reasonable. As these didnt raise concerns that meant further checks were needed and 
as they suggested the loan was affordable, I do not find I can say Lending Stream was 
wrong to provide this loan.
Overall, I do not find that I have enough to say loans 1 to 6 shouldnt have been provided.
My final decision
My final decision relates to loans 1 to 6 provided by Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending 
Stream (as an offer was made regarding the other loans) and I do not find I have enough 
evidence to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman