DRN-3105479
The complaint
Mr C complains that MBNA Limited wont do more to help him recover a payment made on 
his MBNA credit card.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C made a payment for around £2,500 on his MBNA Visa credit card in May 2019. At the 
time Mr C believed he was making a cryptocurrency investment through a broker hed first 
discovered on social media. Mr C says this turned out to be a scam and that his loss extends 
well beyond the payment made using his MBNA card  this complaint is solely about this 
one payment. 
Mr C has referenced several codes of practice and parts of industry guidance to suggest 
why he thinks MBNA ought to have done more. Ive considered all of these, but Ill be 
keeping my findings to what I think is relevant to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a 
discourtesy and is just a reflection of the informal nature of our service. 
Sometimes there can be spending on a card which might be indicative of either the card 
being compromised, or of the accountholder being in the process of being a victim of fraud. 
But I dont think there was any plausible reason why MBNA ought to have stopped the single 
payment that Mr C made on his credit card at the relevant time.
Once Mr C reported to MBNA that his payment was made as the result of fraud, he was told 
he was too late to raise a chargeback. In these circumstances, MBNA are bound by the 
requirements of the scheme operators (VISA in this case) rules. I agree that Mr C was 
beyond the relevant time limit. But even if Mr C were in time, he would still be required to 
provide very specific information for a successful chargeback.  
I know from his linked complaints that Mr C wasnt able to provide the required information. I 
appreciate this wasnt his fault as by that point the information was likely not available to him. 
But this doesnt change the rules of the scheme which MBNA must follow. There arent any 
other chargeback reasons that I think would have been an option for Mr C in these 
circumstances. Taking all of this together, I think MBNAs decision to not raise a chargeback 
was fair and reasonable. 
Our investigator also considered whether MBNA ought to have raised a claim under Section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act. For this to have been a valid option there must have been an 
unbroken chain between the debtor (Mr C), creditor (MBNA) and the supplier (In this case 
the merchant that Ill refer to as T). And any claim being made would have to have related 
to a breach of contract and or a misrepresentation between Mr C and T in relation to a 
contract that was funded by the MBNA credit card. 
But in this case, there is nothing to link the payment to T. On his credit card statement the 
payment was shown as going to a different business. And there is nothing to link that other 
business to T. I dont think there is sufficient evidence to support that the debtor creditor 
supplier chain was unbroken. As such, I cant fairly criticise MBNA for not raising a claim 
under Section 75. 
Im sorry Mr C lost this money. But Im not persuaded that there is a reasonable basis upon 
which I can tell MBNA to reimburse him. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman