DRN-3661084
The complaint
Mr S on behalf of the estate of his late mother, Mrs S, has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC 
mis-sold two mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policies. Mr S has also 
complained about the service he received from Lloyds Bank PLC when trying to sort out his 
mothers affairs.
What happened
Mrs S was sold the first policy in 2004 when re-mortgaging her property. The second sale 
took place in 2005 when Mrs S took out a further advance, at which time the policy was 
amended to cover the original mortgage and further advance amounts.
Our adjudicator didnt think that the PPI had been mis-sold and so did not uphold that part of 
the complaint. However, as she thought that Mr S had been subject to poor service and 
delays during his contact with Lloyds, she recommended that Lloyds pay £50 compensation.
Mr S disagrees with the adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S says his mother didnt know she had PPI associated with her mortgage, meaning that it 
was added without her knowledge or consent. 
Ive seen some paperwork from both sales. On the 2004 mortgage application form, there is 
a tick in the yes box indicating that Mrs S wished to apply for PPI. Ive also seen the PPI 
proposal form that Mrs S has signed and dated. For the 2005 sale, Ive seen the personal 
summary and our recommendation form which shows that Mrs S was advised to top up her 
existing PPI cover to cover the increased mortgage amount. Mrs S has signed this form 
together with a separate customer declaration section. She has then additionally signed the 
PPI proposal form.
Based on the available evidence, Im satisfied that the PPI was discussed with Mrs S in both 
2004 and 2005 and that it was presented as optional. It seems to me that Mrs S decided to 
buy the PPI, knowing that she didnt have to.
As these were advised sales, Lloyds needed to ensure that the PPI met Mrs Ss needs. And 
from what I know of her circumstances at the time, the policies were suitable for her.
Mrs S would have received sick pay from her employer. But the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than Mrs S would have received full pay 
for. The money from the mortgages was used to make investments for her retirement. In 
addition, she also had two savings accounts with different banks. However, having the PPI 
would have allowed her to retain her savings or use them to cover other outgoings at what 
would have been a difficult time. It could also have avoided the need to cash in any 
investments early for which penalties might have been incurred. On balance Im satisfied 
that Mrs S had a need for the PPI and could have benefitted from it.
Lloyds also needed to provide Mrs S with sufficient information for her to be able to make an 
informed choice about whether or not the PPI was right for her.
I think that Mrs S would have known something about the PPI  that it would cover her 
mortgage repayments if she was unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment 
 because I dont think shed have decided to take it out without knowing anything at all 
about it. And I can see from the available paperwork that the costs were made clear to her, 
so she would have known how much shed be paying for it each month.
Its possible that Lloyds didnt provide as much information as it should have about the PPI, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mrs S wasnt affected by any of those 
things. For example, she didnt have any pre-existing medical conditions that might have 
been excluded. As I consider that she had an interest in the PPI and decided to buy it, I dont 
think that further information would have caused her to change her mind. So Mrs S was no 
worse off as a result of anything Lloyds may have done wrong, so theres nothing that Lloyds 
needs to do to put things right. It follows that I do not uphold the mis-sale complaint.
On another matter, Mrs S had to give up work due to ill health in 2012. Mr S says he 
contacted Lloyds at that time to enquire as to whether Mrs S had a PPI policy that could be 
claimed on and was told that she didnt. Lloyds has provided evidence that the PPI was 
cancelled in October 2006. Therefore, Lloyds correctly advised Mr S in 2012 that his mother 
didnt have a current PPI policy.
Our adjudicator has set out the delays and poor service that Mr S received during his contact 
with Lloyds, so I wont repeat it here. I agree that £50 is an appropriate amount for Lloyds to 
pay Mr S for his time, trouble and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the mis-sale complaint. However, I do uphold 
the part of the complaint about poor service and delays and require Lloyds Bank PLC to pay 
Mr S £50 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs S 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 September 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman