DRN-2219981
The complaint
Miss P has said Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 188 Money) (Madison CF) lent to 
her irresponsibly. Miss P said she was accepted for three personal loans, when Madison CF 
should have known these werent affordable for her.
What happened
In April 2017 Madison CF lent £2,000 to Miss P. This loan agreement was for a period of 24 
months  with Miss P due to repay £3,660.24 by the end of the term. At the time of applying 
for the loan, Miss P said that the loan was for everyday spending. Miss P paid off this loan in 
June 2017.
But, in August 2017, Miss P applied for a further loan with Madison CF. And it lent to her 
again. CF Madison lent Miss P £3,500  repayable over 24 months. By the end of the 
payment term, Miss P was due to repay £6,429.84. Miss P had said this loan was for 
consolidating existing borrowing. This loan was repaid in March 2018. Miss P has said this 
loan, as well as the initial one, were repaid with further lending.
In December 2018. Madison CF lent to Miss P again. This loan agreement was for another 
£3,500  again repayable over 24 months. By the end of this payment term, the total amount 
Miss P was due to repay was £6,624.96. This loan appears to have been repaid in March 
2019.
Miss P felt Madison CF did the wrong thing by lending to her on all three occasions. She has 
explained that at the time of taking out each loan she had a large amount of credit 
commitments already in place, and this had increased in between the time each of the above 
loans were taken out. Miss P felt that given the credit she already had in place when 
applying for the loans with Madison CF, it should have known that she was in financial 
difficulties. And, it should have known the borrowing would have been unaffordable for her.
Because Miss P was unhappy with this, she raised a complaint with Madison CF. Madison 
CF responded and said it felt it had lent to Miss P responsibly, in respect of the loans taken 
out in April and August 2017. But it didnt think it had completed enough checks into Miss Ps 
situation when she applied for the third loan, in December 2018. Because of this, it agreed to 
refund all interest Miss P had paid on this loan  so that she had only paid back the £3,500 
she had borrowed and had use of. It also said it would be providing Miss P with 8% interest 
on the interest it was refunding.
Miss P didnt agree with Madison CFs response. She explained she still felt that lending the 
first two loans to her had been the wrong thing for Madison CF to do. As Miss P remained in 
disagreement, she referred her complaint to this service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should upheld. She considered 
that Madison CF had completed proportionate checks when deciding whether to lend to Miss 
P in April and August 2017. And, she didnt think there was any information brought to light 
in these checks that suggested any concerns - or that Madison CF should have looked into 
Miss Ps situation further. 
In respect of the lending in December 2018, our investigator said she could see Madison CF 
had accepted it didnt complete enough checks at the time of lending, and that Madison CF 
had already offered to refund the interest  and provide 8% interest on this amount too. So, 
she detailed that she didnt need to look into this loan any further.
Miss P responded, dissatisfied with the outcome our investigator had reached. In summary, 
Miss P noted that she didnt feel Madison CF had completed reasonable and proportionate 
checks when the loans were taken out. And she reiterated that the level of debt she already 
had should have meant it was clear to Madison CF that the loans were unaffordable. Miss P 
also said she didnt feel that Madison CF had used the information it gathered from her credit 
checks as it should have done. 
Because Miss P didnt agree with our investigators opinion, this complaint has been referred 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I do appreciate Miss P feels 
strongly about this matter, and I understand the outcome of the case will disappoint her. Ive 
explained the reasons for my decision below.
Its important to highlight that when coming to my decision Ive taken into account the 
relevant law, rules and guidance in relation to concerns about irresponsible lending. And, 
having considered these, and the circumstances of Miss Ps complaint, I dont think Madison 
CF lent to Miss P irresponsibly, in respect of the loans provided in April and August 2017.
When considering Miss Ps complaint, Ive needed to consider the below key issues;
Did Madison CF complete reasonable and proportionate checks, to satisfy itself that Miss P 
would be able to make repayments on the loans in a sustainable way?
If Madison CF did complete the above  was a fair decision made, in respect of whether to 
lend to Miss P?
If Madison CF didnt complete the above, would reasonable and proportionate checks have 
shown Miss P would have been able to make repayments in a sustainable way?
Did Madison CF act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss P in any other way?
Ive done this in relation to both the loans provided to Miss P in April and August 2017. And 
have addressed these separately below, as well as the loan taken out in December 2018.
April 2017 loan
At the point Madison CF provided this loan to Miss P, it was required to carry out a 
reasonable assessment of whether Miss P could afford to make the loan repayments in a 
sustainable way. And, when carrying out checks to make sure this was the case, the checks 
had to be borrower focused. So, this means Madison CF had to consider the impact the 
lending would have on Miss P  not just how likely it was that Madison CF would receive its 
money back by the end of the term.
As above, Madison CF also had to make sure the checks completed were proportionate to 
the circumstances of the loan. Whether a check is proportionate will depend on the circumstances of the loan being applied for. So, checks could include a number of things, 
including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the borrower (e.g. their 
financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial 
difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
So, Ive considered this in relation to the loan agreed in April 2017. To do this, Ive looked at 
what checks Madison CF completed, and what information it gathered at the time of lending, 
to see whether the checks it made were proportionate enough for Madison CF to be 
confident the lending would be sustainable for Miss P.
And having done so, whilst I appreciate Miss P doesnt feel this was the case, Im satisfied 
Madison CF did make proportionate checks, before agreeing to lend to Miss P in this 
instance.
I can see that for this first loan Madison CF considered Miss Ps income and expenditure 
and worked out what disposable income she should have at the end of each month, taking 
into account the monthly repayment Miss P would need to pay for the loan she was applying 
for too. 
Madison CF asked Miss P what her income was  and on the online application form she 
completed, Miss P declared this as £2,771 a month. And, I cant see Madison CF had any 
reason to doubt this information was correct.
Madison CF also considered Miss Ps expenditure. From Miss Ps application, it established 
that her rent was £400 a month. And it took note of the other expenses Miss P said she had 
at that time, including other bills, utilities and credit commitments. Miss P had declared that 
her outgoings were £1,074 a month. But it didnt think these figures seemed correct. So, it 
completed its own calculation into Miss Ps expenditure. It did this using a copy of Miss Ps 
credit report, taking into account the open credit commitments this showed. It also took into 
account Miss Ps rental figure, as well as allowing 25% of her income for other living 
expenses  such as food and utility bills. This meant, it calculated Miss Ps expenditure to be 
£2,235 a month  more than what was declared.
Miss P did have a number of credit commitments at the time she applied for this loan. 
Madison CF did review these  looking at Miss Ps credit report, and noting what accounts 
were open, and what these were for. The credit report showed Miss P wasnt in any arrears 
on the accounts and had no defaults, or county court judgments. Rather, it showed the 
accounts she did have were managed well. 
Taking the above into account, Madison CF worked out that if it were to accept Miss Ps 
application for this loan, after the monthly payment of £151.51 for it, she would have an 
amount of £383.49 disposable income at the end of the month  suggesting the loan would 
be affordable for Miss P.
Given the amount Miss P was asking to borrow, the terms of the loan, and the level of 
checks Madison CF completed, I do think it completed reasonable and proportionate checks 
when deciding whether to lend to Miss P. And, I think it acted in a borrower focused way 
when checking whether this loan would be sustainable for Miss P. 
Having completed reasonable and proportionate checks, Ive also needed to consider 
whether Madison CF made a fair decision on whether to lend to Miss P. And, I think it did. I 
understand Miss P has highlighted she had other credit commitments when taking out this 
loan. But these were taken into account when the decision to lend was considered. And 
having seen the checks Madison CF completed, I dont think there was anything within these 
checks that should have caused it to ask for further information, or complete additional checks. So, I dont think Madison CF did anything wrong in agreeing to lend to Miss P in this 
instance.
Ive also considered whether Madison CF acted unfairly in any other way. And I cant see 
that it did. So, I dont require it to do anything more in respect of this loan.
August 2017 loan
Ive also thought about whether Madison completed proportionate, borrower focused checks 
at the point Miss P was applying for this loan. As with Miss Ps previous loan, Madison asked 
Miss P what her monthly income was  and she noted that this was £2,780 a month. Miss 
Ps application noted that her employer was the same as that noted on her previous loan 
application. And, I again cant see any information provided to me by both parties, to show it 
Madison CF had any reason to doubt this was correct.
Madison CF again reviewed Miss Ps expenditure. Miss Ps application form noted her rent 
was £450 a month. Madison CF reviewed the other expenses Miss P said she had at the 
time  so, this again including other bills, utilities and credit commitments. Miss P declared 
that her outgoings were £835 a month. 
But Madison CF did its own calculation of Miss Ps expenditure. It used the information on 
Miss Ps credit report, which showed the open credit commitments Miss P had at that time, 
as well as those settled. It also took into account the figure of £450 for rent  as well as 
allowing 25% of Miss Ps income for other living expenses. This meant it calculated Miss Ps 
expenditure to be £2,093 each month. 
As with the last loan application process, Madison CF reviewed Miss Ps credit commitments 
at the time of applying for this loan. It again noted there were no defaults or county court 
judgments against Miss P, and that the accounts she did have open were managed well.
Given the above information, Madison CF worked out that if it were to accept Miss Ps 
application for this loan, after the monthly loan payment of £267.91, she would have a 
disposable income of £267.91 at the end of the month. This suggested the loan would be 
affordable for Miss P  and she would be able to repay this in a sustainable way.
Having considered the above checks Madison CF carried out, the amount of money Miss P 
was asking to borrow, and the length the loan was for (24 months), I do think the checks 
Madison CF completed were reasonable and proportionate. Im satisfied it did act in a 
borrower focused way when checking whether this loan would be suitable for Miss P.
Ive also considered whether in terms of this loan, Madison CF made a fair decision to lend 
to Miss P. I dont think the checks, which were proportionate, provided any information which 
Madison should have been concerned with, or asked further information about. And the 
reason for the loan was debt consolidation  the aim being that this loan would put Miss P in 
a more advantageous position, by being able to pay off some other borrowing. So, I dont 
think Madison CF acted unfairly in agreeing to lend to Miss P on this occasion.
Ive considered whether Madison CF acted unfairly in any other way. And I cant see that it 
did. So, I dont require it to do anything more in respect of this loan.
December 2018 loan
I havent considered this loan in detail  because I havent need to. Madison CF has already 
said it thinks it should have done more at the time the loan application was considered. It has already agreed to refund the interest Miss P paid on this loan  so that she only paid 
back the capital amount - £3,500  that she had use of. Madison CF did also agree to pay 
Miss P 8% interest on the amount to be refunded to her  which takes into account the time 
Miss P was without funds she should have had in her account.
Given that Madison has agreed to refund Miss P as above, which is often what this service 
requires a lender to do if it lent irresponsibly, Im satisfied this offer is fair. If Madison CF 
hasnt already paid this to Miss P, it should do so. 
My final decision
In light of the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Im satisfied 
Madison CF UK Limited doesnt need to do anything more in respect of the loans taken in 
April and August 2017. And, I do think the offer made to Miss P in relation to the December 
2018 loan is fair. If Madison CF UK Limited hasnt paid this to Miss P already, it should now 
do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman