DRN-3576002
The complaint
Mr A complains that OAKBROOK FINANCE LIMITED (Oakbrook), trading as Likely Loans, 
provided him with a loan when it was clear he wouldnt be able to repay it. 
What happened
Oakbrook approved a loan of £1,500 for Mr A in March 2020. The loan was to be repaid at 
£92.61 per month over a 24 month period and was repaid in March 2022.
Mr A says Oakbrook were wrong to provide credit as it wasnt affordable for him.
Oakbrook disagreed. They said that when they approved the loan they checked a pay slip to 
confirm Mr As earnings and reviewed his credit file. That showed them there had been no 
missed payments towards his creditors and they also noted he hadnt been late with any 
payments in the last six months, had not defaulted on any accounts and didnt have any 
Crown Court judgments registered against him. They estimated Mr As expenditure and 
concluded that he had sufficient disposable income to sustainably afford repayments and 
that the loan was therefore affordable for him.
Our adjudicator agreed with Oakbrook, but Mr A didnt. He said hed missed payments 
towards two credit accounts in the period leading up to the lending decision and he 
suggested that Oakbrook hadnt therefore completed adequate checks. He therefore asked 
for a final decision by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable here. 
I think Oakbrook completed reasonable and proportionate checks before approving the loan. 
I say that because they gathered evidence of Mr As income and they validated it against a 
payslip. They also considered Mr As expenditure. As he hadnt provided details of his 
outgoings they used statistical information to assess the likely expenditure and they also 
considered payments to his creditors. Their calculations suggested Mr A would have about 
£395 of disposable income from which to fund the payments towards this new loan of about 
£92. 
Oakbrook also considered Mr As Experian credit file. That showed Mr A had missed a 
payment of £424 towards a loan in late 2019. Oakbrook dont appear to have noticed that 
missed payment, perhaps because the loan was settled the next month and before Mr A 
applied for finance with Oakbrook. I dont think that missed payment would have been cause 
for concern as the account performance on that loan had, otherwise, been very good and the 
loan was now paid off. The credit file Oakbrook reviewed didnt show any other missed or 
late payments in the last six months and it didnt show that Mr A had defaulted on any 
accounts. I think that, along with the disposable income calculation, would suggest that 
repayments towards this new loan of £92.61 per month would be affordable for Mr A. 
Mr A has provided information that suggests he missed another payment in late 2019 
towards a credit card. I cant see that missed payment on the Experian file the business 
reviewed. That may have been because Experian hadnt identified that missed payment.  
Oakbrook didnt have to consider information from all the major credit file providers but even 
if they had seen that information, I dont think it would have been enough to suggest further 
checks were required. Mr As performance on his credit accounts had otherwise been 
strong, and the evidence hes provided of this missed payment shows it was only was one 
missed payment and that subsequent payments, up to the time of Oakbrooks lending 
decision, were made on time.
Mr A says he was utilising much of the credit that had been provided for him. I think it would 
be fair for Oakbrook to take into account the credit limits available to Mr A and to consider 
what would happen if Mr A did have to repay that credit in a reasonable space of time. But 
having considered that, I still think the business would have been likely to conclude Mr A had 
sufficient disposable income to afford the loan they were providing.
Reviewing all the information that Oakbrook had I think their checks were reasonable and 
proportionate and I dont think they were irresponsible when they provided the loan to Mr A. 
Im not therefore asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman