DRN-1544098
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that they were mis-sold a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy associated with their mortgage by Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds).
What happened
In November 1994 Mr and Mrs M applied for a joint mortgage with Lloyds and at the same 
time they also applied for a PPI policy to cover Mr M only for the benefits of the policy. Both 
mortgage and PPI commenced in January 1995.
Mr and Mrs M have complained that the PPI was mis-sold. Lloyds didnt agree the policy 
was mis-sold and so didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs M were unhappy with what Lloyds said, so brought their complaint to this 
service. 
Our adjudicator said they didnt think the PPI was mis-sold and what Lloyds had said was 
fair. 
Mr and Mrs M remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to consider their complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms case. 
In this decision I am only considering the PPI taken out by Mr and Mrs M that commenced in 
January 1995 with their mortgage. Mr and Mrs C did refer to other matters they were 
unhappy with relating to Lloyds, but I am only considering here the sale of the PPI and if it 
was mis-sold. 
Mr and Mrs M have told us when they took out their mortgage the PPI was a hard sell. 
They recall a lot of talk about the cost that would be higher, but that had to be set against the 
risk of the possibility of losing their house. Mr and Mrs M say they wanted some time to think 
about things, but Lloyds were keen to process the sale and complete the application.
I have seen a copy of the application form that was completed for the mortgage and PPI. 
Within the mortgage application form there is a section about the PPI. This provides tick 
boxes for Mr and Mrs M to select if they want the PPI. If they say yes, there is another 
section where more information is filled in about what cover is wanted and in what proportion 
the PPI should provide cover. They chose for only Mr M to have the cover and the benefit 
was selected for £400.
From what Mr and Mrs M have said and also from the detail on the application form there 
clearly was some discussion at the time the form was completed, which I understand was 
done in branch. I cannot know exactly what was said in that meeting, but I do think the 
application form and Mr and Mrs Ms recollections make clear they knew they had a choice 
about taking out the PPI. And Mr and Mrs M chose at the time to have the policy as the yes 
box is ticked and they have then made further choices about the PPI cover.
There is some basic information about what the policy covers on the application form and as 
Ive already said, Mr and Mrs M obviously made choices about the cover -choosing to have 
cover only for Mr M if he was unable to work, at a level of £400. So, at the time, which was 
over 25 years ago, I think Mr and Mrs M knew they had a choice about taking out the policy 
and they chose to take it out at they thought it would be of benefit and possibly provide some 
reassurance.
I have then considered if the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs M.  I cannot be sure exactly 
what was said at the time of the sale and if full information was provided about the policy and 
the terms and conditions that applied. But looking at Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at the 
time, I think Mr M was eligible for the policy. And it doesnt look like he was affected by any 
of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. For example, Mr M didnt suffer from any pre-
existing medical conditions that would have restricted claims relating to medical issues. 
Even though Mr M had some employment benefits if he was off sick, the PPI would have 
paid out in addition to this and would have enabled any other income Mr and Mrs M had to 
pay for other household and living expenses, at what could have been a difficult time. So, it 
would have been useful for Mr and Mrs M to have the cover. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs M at the time of the sale about the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it could have been. But I think they chose to take out the PPI  so I dont 
think better information about the PPI would have put Mr and Mrs M off taking out the cover 
as they werent affected by any restrictions. And from the information Ive seen it also looks 
like the PPI was affordable. 
Ive also taken note of Mr M and Mrs Ms response to our adjudicators recommendation. 
They indicate their understanding is that the test for mis-sale is whether the PPI was 
essential to enable for them to keep their house if Mr M lost his job, and Mr and Mrs M say 
they have demonstrated that would have been possible without the PPI.
I would like to clarify issues that can mean a PPI policy is considered to be mid-sold. It isnt a 
question of whether the policy is essential, it is whether the consumers want to take out the 
policy having been given adequate information about it.  This is an insurance policy that 
generally a consumer has a choice to take out or not. A PPI policy should be offered to a 
purchaser with information to explain what it is, what it costs, what the benefits are and with 
enough detail about the policy terms and conditions to see if it is suitable for the purchasers. 
PPI could be looked at in the same light as other optional insurance such as life insurance, 
pet insurance or accidental damage insurance. With optional insurance types of this sort it is 
for the consumer to decide whether they want to take it out on the basis of it being suitable 
and whether the reassurance the policy offers is worth the benefit and risk it covers for their 
circumstances.
Mr and Mrs M may have been able to afford to pay their mortgage if Mr M wasnt working for 
some reason, but they themselves say it would have been tight on only one salary. The 
purpose of the PPI was to provide the mortgage payments to make it easier to manage in 
what could have been difficult and trying times. It provided a benefit and some reassurance. 
Providing the PPI policy bought would have paid out and provided the benefits expected and 
the purchaser of such a policy was given a choice about taking it out, then then it wouldnt be 
considered mis-sold. In summary I have seen nothing to show the PPI with this mortgage, taken out in 1995, was 
mis-sold to Mr and Mrs M. I think at the time they did agree to take it out as they felt it would 
be of benefit to them should they have needed to make a claim. Mr M wasnt caught by any 
restrictions in the terms and conditions, so further information about those terms would not 
have had any effect on their decision at the time, to take out the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold by Lloyds Bank Plc to 
Mr and Mrs M and Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 August 2020.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman