DRN-2535373
The complaint
Mr J has complained about Phoenix Life Limited. Hes unhappy about the way his annuity 
was sent up in 2014 and about the fact that he cant cash it in.
What happened
Mr J complained to this service in 2020. He felt that his annuity hadnt been arranged as he 
wished. He said that he had only wanted to have access to his tax-free cash. He hadnt 
wanted regular annuity payments. Hed now been told he couldnt access the remaining 
pension funds.
Phoenix hadnt upheld the complaint. It said that the annuity had been arranged in 
accordance with Mr Js instructions. It couldnt cash-in the annuity now.
The complaint was considered by an investigator at this service. She didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. She explained, in summary:
Phoenix wasnt advising on the annuity. It wasnt authorized to.
Phoenix had explained Mr Js options, he could buy a lifetime annuity (retirement 
income), take the open market option with another business, transfer the pension 
fund to another pension provider, or delay taking the benefits.
Phoenix had sent sufficient information that was reasonably clear and allowed Mr J to 
make an informed decision.
The record of the call from September 2014 confirmed that Mr J had selected a tax-
free cash lump sum and an annuity. 
When Phoenix wrote to confirm the annuity had been set up and when the first 
payment would be made, this confirmed that he would receive an annual income and 
that he had 30 days to cancel the arrangement.
Phoenix could only offer an annuity, this meant the remaining money in the pension 
pot, after taking tax-free cash, was used to buy the annuity. It was converted into an 
income for life. So, there is no remaining pension pot.
Mr J probably wasnt eligible to take the whole pension plan as cash. 
Mr J didnt agree with the investigator. He said that he felt as if he was being punished for 
his lack of understanding.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the difficulties Mr J faces. I can appreciate his frustration in being unable 
to access these pension benefits as a cash lump sum. It is his pension after all, and I can 
see why he may have expected to have had greater choice about what he does with it. 
However, pensions are highly regulated and there are restrictions on what can and cannot 
happen with pension funds. Annuities themselves are not the most straightforward product, 
and there is a degree of finality and inflexibility about them which doesnt help Mr J in his 
situation now, wanting access to cash. Im afraid I cant change all of that, and all I can 
decide is whether Phoenix have done what they should have done. 
Having considered all the evidence, I agree with the investigator and with her conclusions. I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Phoenix wasnt authorised to provide advice on Mr Js choices, but they were required
to provide him with sufficient information for him to make an informed decision. He was sent 
a retirement pack, this highlighted the importance of the decision he was making and 
recommended he take financial advice. He was provided with signposting to advice services.
Mr J was given options. Phoenix set out that some of the options werent available with it, 
and would require a transfer such as leaving the money invested.
Mr J chose to take an annuity which is something Phoenix did offer. I think he was, or ought 
reasonably to have been, in a position to make an informed decision. I think the information 
he had was clear enough.
Mr J spoke with Phoenix after he received the retirement pack and the record of that call 
suggests he selected a tax-free lump sum and an annuity.
When Phoenix confirmed his choice by letter, it confirmed the annuity and gave 30 days to 
cancel. The annuity has now been in payment for over six years.
So, I dont think there is any real doubt that Mr J chose an annuity and that Phoenix acted in 
accordance with his instructions. He may not have fully understood all the consequences of 
his choice, but I dont think it would be fair to blame Phoenix for that, as Ive said, I think it 
provided enough clear information. It also recommended he take advice.
Mr J may not have understood the finality and inflexibility of an annuity. It is perhaps unusual 
for a financial product to be so restricted, but the annuity pack did explain this, it said:
Buying an annuity is a one-off decision that will set your income throughout your retirement 
and cannot be changed.
There are some limited circumstances where an annuity can be cashed-in. The investigator 
has referred to these in her view, and Mr J may wish to seek advice about that now or in the 
future.
I appreciate that this decision will come as a disappointment to Mr J, but I can only uphold a 
complaint when its fair and reasonable to do so and where a business has got something 
wrong. I dont think that is the case here.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 Keith Taylor
Ombudsman