DRN-4410780
The complaint
Mr J complains that Revolut Ltd didnt do enough to protect him from the financial harm 
caused by an investment scam company, or to help him recover the money once hed 
reported the scam to it.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mr J came into contact with a broker working for a company Ill refer to as E. The broker 
advised him to download AnyDesk software to his device and to purchase cryptocurrency 
through a cryptocurrency exchange company and then load it onto an online wallet. Between 
2 February 2023 and 17 April 2023, he made nine payments totalling £4,145.55 using a 
debit card connected to his Revolut account.
Mr J was able to make a small withdrawal on 21 March 2023, but he realised hed been the 
victim of a scam when he tried to make a withdrawal and the broker asked for more money 
and eventually blocked him. He contacted Revolut in the app on 17 April 2023 and raised a 
chargeback claim. But it refused to refund any of the money, and it said it attempted to 
recover the funds from the recipient account within 24 hours of the report, but the attempt 
was unsuccessful. 
It said that by choosing to proceed with the payments, Mr J had confirmed he was the owner 
of the cryptocurrency address, so it wasnt liable for any foreseeable loss. It also said Mr J 
was told the transactions were irreversible and in proceeding with the transactions, he had 
agreed to its terms. And the transactions occurred over several months, which normalised 
the activity. Finally, it said it had no chargeback rights as the service was provided by the 
merchant.
Mr J wasnt satisfied and so he complained to this service. He explained the financial 
implications of the scam had a significant impact on his well-being and mental health, 
leading to insomnia, weight loss and depression. And he argued Revolut should have 
intervened due to the unusual and recurring pattern of the payments, which would have 
prompted suspicion and saved him from financial loss. 
Revolut said Mr Js account had only been open for three months and most of the payments 
were to a well-known cryptocurrency exchange platform. It said he was adding funds to his 
own cryptocurrency account, there were no payments from Revolut to the scammers, and 
there was no possibility of a successful chargeback request because the cryptocurrency 
exchange had provided the service it was required to provide. 
It explained Revolut is an Electronic Money Institute (EMI), and it is typically used to 
facilitate payments to cryptocurrency wallets, so the payments werent out of character with 
the typical use of an EMI account. It said the sole purpose of the account was to add money 
and transfer it to other cryptocurrency platforms, and as the account was newly created, 
there was no information to determine what could be deemed as unusual activity. Finally, it 
said the stated the reason for the account was to gain exposure to financial assets, so the 
transactions were in line with what it would expect.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He noted the account was 
newly opened, so there was no account activity to compare the payments with. He said the 
values of the payments werent significant and they were spread over a period of almost 
three months, suggesting Mr J wasnt under pressure and had sufficient time to reflect after 
each payment. And there were sufficient funds available before each payment. He explained 
its not uncommon for customers to buy cryptocurrency, and the payments werent out of 
character with the typical way an EMI account is used. 
He said the first payment of significant value was £2,000 on 17 April 2023, but the payee 
was no longer a new payee, so he didnt think Revolut needed to intervene. And as Mr J 
didnt speak to or interact with Revolut at the time of the payment, it didnt miss an 
opportunity to identify the payment was being made in relation to a scam.
He also said he wouldnt expect Revolut to recover the money as Mr J was paying his own 
cryptocurrency wallet and the money had already left the account. He agreed there was no 
prospect of a successful chargeback as the payments were made to a legitimate 
cryptocurrency exchange and Mr J had received the cryptocurrency. Finally, Mr J wasnt 
entitled to any compensation as the main perpetrator was the scammer, and Revolut wasnt 
responsible for his loss.
Mr J has asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. He said the scammer 
used AnyDesk to execute the transactions which should have raised red flags, and Revoluts 
duty of care extends beyond accepting transaction requests and should encompass 
measures aimed at safeguarding customers from scams.
He has said that on 14 April 2023, he received a loan payment into the account and paid the 
same amount out three days later leaving £47 remaining in the account, which should have 
raised suspicion. He has also said Revolut took two hours to respond to his complaint, which 
caused inconvenience and considerable mental distress, for which he feels he is entitled to 
compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Mr J has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know he 
feels strongly about this complaint, and this will come as a disappointment to him, so Ill 
explain why. 
Ive thought about whether Revolut could have done more to recover Mr Js payments when 
he reported the scam to it. Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it will 
ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved 
between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme 
 so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases 
is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether 
the regulated card issuer (i.e. Revolut) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or 
choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (Mr J).
Mr Js own testimony supports that he used cryptocurrency exchanges to facilitate the 
transfers. Its only possible to make a chargeback claim to the merchant that received the disputed payments. Its most likely that the cryptocurrency exchanges would have been able 
to evidence theyd done what was asked of them. That is, in exchange for Mr Js payments, 
they converted and sent an amount of cryptocurrency to the wallet address provided. So, 
any chargeback was destined fail, therefore Im satisfied that Revoluts decision not to raise 
a chargeback request against either of the cryptocurrency exchange companies was fair.
Im satisfied Mr J authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although he didnt intend the 
money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his 
bank account, Mr J is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Revolut hasnt disputed that this was a scam, but although Mr J didnt intend his money to go 
to scammers, he did authorise the disputed payments. Revolut is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, but where the customer 
has been the victim of a scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to 
reimburse them even though they authorised the payment.
Prevention
Ive thought about whether Revolut could have done more to prevent the scam from 
occurring altogether. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Ive 
seen, the payments were made to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange company. However, 
Revolut had an obligation to be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of a 
wider scam, so I need to consider whether it ought to have intervened to warn Mr J when he 
tried to make the payments.  If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, Id 
expect Revolut to intervene with a view to protecting Mr J from financial harm due to fraud. 
The payments didnt flag as suspicious on Revoluts systems. Ive considered the nature of 
the payments in the context of whether they were unusual or uncharacteristic of how Mr J 
normally ran his account, and I dont think they were. All the payments were to a legitimate 
cryptocurrency exchange, none of them were for particularly large amounts  the largest 
payment was £2,000  and even though Mr J had a loan paid into the account during the 
scam period, they werent made in quick succession. Further, the nature of the payments 
was in line with the reason Mr J gave when he opened the account, so the fact he was 
paying a cryptocurrency merchant wasnt a cause for concern. Therefore, I dont think 
Revolut missed an opportunity to intervene.
Overall, Im satisfied Revolut took the correct steps prior to the funds being released  as 
well as the steps it took after being notified of the potential fraud. Im sorry to hear Mr J has 
lost money and the effect this has had on him. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont 
think Revolut is to blame for this and so I cant fairly tell it to do anything further to resolve 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman