DRN-4142745
Complaint
Mr P has complained about personal loans Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday 
Loans) provided to him. He says the loans were irresponsibly lent to him.
Background
Everyday Loans initially provided Mr P with a first loan for £1,500.00 in August 2016. The 
total amount to be repaid of £2,945.76, including interest, fees and charges of £1,475.76, 
was due to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of just under £125. This loan was settled 
early with some of the proceeds from loan 2.
Everyday Loans then provided Mr P with a second loan for £2,100.00 in July 2017. 
£1,028.48 of the proceeds from this loan went towards settling the outstanding balance on 
loan 1. The total amount to be repaid of £6,408.72, including interest, fees and charges of 
£4,308.72, was due to be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of just under £180. 
Everyday Loans then provided Mr P with a third loan for £1,000.00 in June 2018. The total 
amount to be repaid of £1,870.56, including interest, fees and charges of £870.56, was due 
to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of just under £80. This loan was settled early with 
some of the proceeds from loan 4.
Everyday Loans then provided Mr P with a fourth loan for £3,100.00 in June 2019. £720.86 
went towards settling the outstanding balance on loan 3. The total amount to be repaid of 
£7,117.20, including interest, fees and charges of £4,017.20, was due to be repaid in 36 
monthly instalments of just under £200. This loan was settled early with some of the 
proceeds from loan 5.
Finally Everyday Loans provided Mr P with a fifth loan for £4,057.87 in May 2020. £3,057.50 
went towards settling the outstanding balance on loan 4. The total amount to be repaid of 
£7,342.20, including interest, fees and charges of £3,284.33, was due to be repaid in 36 
monthly instalments of just under £205. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Ps complaint and he thought Everyday Loans didnt do 
anything wrong when providing loans 1, 2, 3 and 4 but that it ought to have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided Mr P with loan 5. So he thought that Mr Ps complaint should be 
partially upheld. 
Mr P agreed with our adjudicators conclusions. But on the other hand Everyday Loans 
disagreed. So the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision as per the next 
stage our of dispute resolution process. As the parties appear to be in agreement on the 
outcome reached for loans 1 to 4, this decision is only looking at whether Everyday Loans 
should have provided Mr P with loan 5.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ps complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain 
why in a little more detail.
Everyday Loans needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Everyday Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr P could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
The information Everyday Loans has provided suggested that it carried out credit checks 
and obtained bank statements before loan 5 was provided. The results of which showed that 
Mr P was significantly more indebted than he was at the time he was provided with loan 1.
Im also concerned that Mr Ps indebtedness and reliance on high-cost lending was growing. 
After all hed begun with a loan of £1,500.00 requiring payments of £125 for two years. Yet 
approaching four years later (almost double the period the first loan was meant to last) Mr P 
was provided with a further loan for over £4,000.00 requiring monthly payments of over £200 
for a further three years. The information Ive been provided with also shows that Mr P was 
making payments to at least one debt collection agency at this time too. 
All of this leaves me persuaded by what Mr P has said about already being in a difficult 
financial position at the time. And while its possible Mr Ps financial position wasnt as a 
result of financial difficulty, Id add that my experience of these types of cases suggest this is 
unlikely, in the absence of any reasonable or plausible arguments from Everyday Loans, Ive 
been persuaded to accept Mr Ps version of events here. 
As this is the case, I do think that Mr Ps existing financial position meant that he was 
unlikely to be able to afford the payments to loan 5, without undue difficulty or borrowing 
further. And Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more like than not 
have shown Everyday Loans that it shouldnt have provided loans 5 to Mr P as not only was 
it likely unaffordable, it would increase Mr Ps indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable 
or otherwise harmful. 
As Everyday Loans provided Mr P with loan 5 notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to 
act fairly and reasonably towards him. Mr P ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a loan he shouldnt have been provided 
with. So Im satisfied that Mr P lost out because of what Everyday Loans did wrong and that 
it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Everyday Loans needs to do to put things right for Mr P
Having thought about everything, Everyday Loans should put things right for Mr P by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mr P paid on loan 5;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Mr P to the date of settlement;
removing all adverse information it recorded on Mr Ps credit file as a result of loan 5. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ps complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman