DRN-3991955
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as T has complained that Atlanta Insurance Intermediaries Limited 
trading as Swinton Insurance Brokers (Swinton) mis-sold it a business interruption 
insurance policy.
Mr H, a director of T, has brought the complaint on Ts behalf. For ease, Ill refer to all 
submissions as being from T. 
What happened
T is a physiotherapy practice and for many years has arranged its business insurance policy 
through Swinton, an insurance broker. In November 2019 T renewed its policy through 
Swinton.  
In 2020 T claimed on its policy after its business was impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic. 
The insurer ultimately said the claim was not covered under the policys terms.
T said that Swinton had sold it a policy that was not fit for purpose. It said similar 
businesses have had their claims paid. T said that Swinton had not assessed its needs 
properly and should have been aware of the impact of a pandemic on T which is a physical 
hands on profession.
Swinton said Ts policy had always included business interruption insurance although it 
could not confirm what was discussed when T first arranged insurance with Swinton. The 
policy covered a wide range of day-to-day risks but there was no reason for Swinton to have 
discussed with T the effects of forced closure due to a pandemic. 
Unhappy with the outcome, T brought its complaints about both the insurer and Swinton to 
this service. We asked the insurer to review the claim again based on the evidence T had 
provided about Covid-19 on its premises, but ultimately the claim was not successful. 
Our Investigator looked into Ts complaint about Swinton but did not recommend it be 
upheld. This had been a non-advised sale and she thought Swinton should have shown it 
had done more to establish Ts demands and needs. But even if it had done so she didnt 
think Swinton should have anticipated a global pandemic might have impacted Ts business. 
Any insurance policy would have been subject to various conditions and exclusions and she 
thought Swinton had provided clear information to T about the policy.
T asked for an Ombudsman to review its complaint. It also said that Swinton had changed 
the insurer and downgraded the policy cover without properly explaining this to T. 
Change in insurer and downgrade of cover
Our second Investigator looked into Ts concerns about the change in insurer and 
downgrade of cover and sent T Swintons renewal information from 2009 to 2014. 
Our Investigator explained to T the time limits for bringing complaints to us. He said that 
unless the financial business consents, we cannot consider a complaint brought to us more 
than six years after the events complained of, or, if later, three years from when the 
customer was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint. 
Swinton did not consent to our considering this part of the complaint. Our Investigator 
concluded that Ts complaint about the change in insurer and downgrade of the policy terms 
had happened more than six years ago. He was satisfied T would reasonably have been 
aware of the changes at the time and so these issues had been brought to us out of time. 
T has not asked for an Ombudsman to review our Investigators conclusions about our time 
limits. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I have explained our second Investigator has found that part of Ts complaint about the 
change in insurer and Ts concern that the cover had been downgraded as compared to an 
earlier policy is out of time under our rules. T has not asked for our second Investigators 
assessment to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. So my decision will focus on the renewal of 
T's policy which took place in November 2019. For the avoidance of doubt I make no 
findings about Ts earlier complaint about the insurer, which was investigated separately. 
I am sorry to learn that the Covid-19 pandemic has had an impact on Ts business. Having 
carefully considered all the evidence I do not uphold this complaint. Ill explain my reasons. 
The Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook says that when selling a policy a firm 
should specify its customers demands and needs and propose a policy that is consistent 
with them. 
In October 2019 Swinton wrote to T about the renewal of Ts existing policy. Swintons 
covering letter said that You will not receive advice or recommendation from us. We will 
provide information about the policy and you will need to make your own choice about how 
to proceed. I have reviewed all the renewal documents and I consider this was a 
non-advised sale, but Swinton still had a general duty to provide information that was clear, 
fair and not misleading to enable T to decide if the policy was suitable.
Swintons letter went on to say that T should check the enclosed details to check the 
information was clear, up to date and met Ts needs, and that the sums insured and cover 
levels were adequate. 
Swinton included Ts demands and needs statement and the relevant part said:
This policy meets the demands and needs of businesses who want to protect their office, its 
contents and assets, and against claims that their business activities have caused injury to 
members of the public, damage to their property and injury or illness to their employees. 
While there is limited information about Swintons assessment, I havent seen anything to 
persuade me that Swinton sold T a policy that was not consistent with its demands and 
needs. 
The policy that Swinton sold to T was a packaged offices and surgeries product designed to 
suit most professional office and surgery risks. I can see that the policy included cover for a 
range of risks together with business interruption cover for closure due to the discovery of a 
notifiable human infectious or contagious disease at the premises. The information that 
Swinton sent to T before renewal set out the key information about the policy and included the policy wording. 
Ive considered Ts comments that it was a physical hands-on profession and I can see that 
it would have wanted some level of disease cover. But I havent seen anything to indicate 
that a wider cover for diseases was something which was particularly relevant to T at the 
time of the policy renewal. While Ts policy did not provide cover for the circumstances of its 
claim, I cant reasonably expect Swinton to have anticipated in November 2019 that T would 
require wider cover for a national pandemic from an unknown disease. 
I appreciate that T was frustrated that the policy did not provide cover for the circumstances 
of its claim, and I understand that my decision will come as a disappointment. But I think that 
Swinton proposed a policy that was consistent with Ts demands and needs and provided 
information that was clear, fair and not misleading. It follows that I dont think that Swinton 
mis-sold Ts policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Amanda Maycock
Ombudsman