DRN-4030105
The complaint
Ms H complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax have failed to obtain a refund for her 
of a payment she made on her debit card towards a package of services relating to trading 
and investing.
What happened
In July 2021 Ms H paid a company Ill call L £19,196.40 on her Halifax debit card. This was 
for a package of services which Ms H believed would include, among other things, courses 
on and assistance with trading, workshops, mentoring, and, most importantly, access to a 
trading account with a balance of £50,000, with any trade profits being split between her and 
L. Ms H says she believed what she was purchasing was an investment opportunity.
By April 2022 Ms H says she had begun to believe that she had been the victim of 
misrepresentations by L. She says there was an incident involving fraud and theft with L or a 
related company, which had made her question what it was offering, and that after 
investigating further became convinced L had misrepresented the services it had sold her. 
Ms H initially complained to L, which said it wouldnt be refunding her.
Ms H then contacted Halifax to try to secure a refund via the chargeback process. She was 
initially told she couldnt dispute the payment because of how long it had been since shed 
purchased the package of services. Ms H was not convinced that she was being given 
correct information and she complained. During the complaints process the bank sought 
further information from Ms H to see if it could in fact dispute the payment. There were some 
communication issues with messages apparently going into Ms Hs spam folder. Halifax 
issued a final response on 1 November 2022. In this it said Ms H hadnt replied to emails it 
had sent requesting further information until 23 September 2022, and it could only have 
disputed the payment up until 10 August 2022, so it couldnt help her further. 
Dissatisfied with this response, Ms H referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service for an independent assessment. One of our investigators looked into the case. He 
said hed have expected Halifax to attempt a chargeback if it felt it would have been likely to 
be successful. He considered Halifax had been wrong about Ms H being too late to attempt 
a chargeback but ultimately this didnt matter because it was unlikely that a chargeback 
would have succeeded in any event. He thought a chargeback would have been contested 
by L and there was insufficient evidence to substantiate Ms Hs claims of misrepresentation. 
Our investigator also noted that Ls terms explained what their services entailed and it had 
only been when Ms H experienced some problems that she had asked for a refund.
Halifax didnt reply to our investigators assessment. Ms H disagreed with it. I could 
summarise her points as follows:
The findings regarding the success (or not) of the chargeback were overly 
speculative. L might not have contested the chargeback, or Ls bank might have 
accepted the chargeback, at any point in the process. 
There was clear evidence of misrepresentation by L.
The bank had made significant mistakes in relation to the chargeback process, and 
shouldnt get a free pass just because the investigator thought L would have 
contested the chargeback. It had to bear some responsibility for what had happened.
Our investigator considered Ms Hs points but his views remained unchanged. While he 
acknowledged that he couldnt say for certain what would have happened had Halifax 
attempted a chargeback, he considered the available evidence of Ls attitude to a refund 
indicated it would have contested the chargeback. He disagreed with Ms H that there was 
clear evidence of a misrepresentation, and that the terms agreed with L were clear about 
what products and services she had agreed to sign up for along with the conditions which 
applied to them. He noted that it wasnt the role of the Financial Ombudsman to penalise 
businesses for errors.
Ms H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review her case, so it has been passed to 
me to decide. Ms H made some additional submissions prior to me starting my review. She 
repeated some of her earlier points and reiterated that the banks errors in relation to the 
chargeback were very important. She maintained that it was speculative for the investigator 
to assume a chargeback, properly made, would have been unsuccessful, noting that 
merchants won disputes in only 30% of cases. Regarding the evidence of a 
misrepresentation, Ms H focused on the trading account shed been promised access to. 
She said it would have been impossible for L to provide this as an education company, so it 
was obviously false of it to claim that it could.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a person buys goods or services using a debit card, there is no automatic right to a 
refund from their bank if something goes wrong with what theyve bought. However, the bank 
may be able to help their customer through the dispute resolution system operated by the 
card scheme whose logo appears on the card (Visa, in this case). Disputes raised via this 
system are usually referred to as chargebacks. 
Chargebacks are not a way of determining someones legal rights against a merchant, they 
are a way of resolving disputes over payments in accordance with the rules and guidance 
laid out by the card scheme. So a person could have a good legal claim against a merchant 
but no right to a refund under the card schemes rules, or vice versa. 
Chargebacks are not a consumer right, but when faced with a customer looking to dispute a 
payment for a purchase, I would expect a bank to attempt a chargeback so long as this 
would be compliant with the card scheme rules and have at least a reasonable prospect of 
succeeding. Where a chargeback is contested, or defended, by the other side to the 
dispute, I would expect a bank to carefully consider any defence put forward and make a 
decision on whether to persevere with the chargeback process, requesting further input from 
its customer as appropriate. Ultimately, if no side is willing to concede, then the card scheme 
itself can be asked to determine liability for the transaction.
The card scheme lists a number of reasons for which a chargeback can be made. Each 
reason comes with its own set of rules relating to the conditions which must be met, the 
evidence required, and the timeframes involved. Ive examined the rules to determine which 
of the reasons would apply to Ms Hs dispute. 
Ms H has said L misrepresented the nature of the services it would be providing to her, and 
there is a specific chargeback reason relating to misrepresentation which she has mentioned, but it is very specific to certain types of purchase, such as timeshares and free 
trials which turn out to be ongoing financial obligations. It does also appear to apply to 
business opportunities in which the merchant suggests an income will be generated, which 
sounds like it could cover parts of Ms Hs complaint, but other guidance issued by the card 
scheme suggests this is intended to cover multi-level marketing and pyramid schemes, 
which I dont think is a good fit for Ms Hs case.
I think the closest fit among the chargeback reasons would be Not as Described or 
Defective Merchandise/Services. Under this reason, a chargeback would need to have 
been raised within 120 days of when Ms H received the services. Unfortunately, the rules 
and guidance do not state whether this is 120 days from when a service began or when it 
was scheduled to end. If it is the former then Ms H would have contacted the bank too late, if 
it is the latter then she contacted it in time and she would have remained in time up until 
October 2022.
Ms H may wonder in light of this why Halifax cited a deadline of 10 August 2022 in its final 
response to her complaint, but its apparent from the banks internal notes that its staff were 
considering various different reasons under the scheme rules to see if there was some way 
they could attempt a chargeback. Halifax settled on a different reason  Cancelled 
Merchandise/Services  which was subject to a different set of rules regarding timeframes, 
and it was these it had in mind when it referred to a 10 August 2022 deadline.
I dont think I need to make a finding on whether a chargeback would have been in or out of 
time, as I agree with our investigator that the surrounding circumstances; Ms Hs evidence of 
misrepresentation or the services from L not being as described, and what is known about 
Ls attitude to providing any refund, are not suggestive of a situation where a chargeback 
would have had at least a reasonable prospect of success. 
Ms Hs complaint about L arose around nine months after shed signed up for its services, 
and some of the points shes raised  about onerous conditions for access to the trading 
account, and being told she was entering into an investment opportunity when this wasnt 
true  are things Id have expected her to become aware of quite quickly. And given the 
importance of these things to Ms H and the amount of money she had paid, I would have 
also expected to see evidence of her having complained about them sooner. In my view the 
timing of the complaint weakens her case.
There is also a problem in that the terms and conditions of the package of services do list 
various conditions for access to the trading account. There is an e-signature record of Ms H 
having confirmed her agreement to these. And theres no evidence Ive seen that L was 
unable to provide access to such an account (either itself or through an affiliate) as Ms H has 
stated. In short, the documentary evidence available doesnt in my view make a strong case 
for misrepresentation or the services not being as described. Ms H has referred to spoken 
conversations with L, but these are naturally difficult to substantiate. 
Ms H has argued that it is speculative to pre-judge the outcome of a chargeback, had Halifax 
attempted one (assuming it was in time). However, in order to establish whether any error 
by the bank in dealing with the dispute has caused Ms H a financial loss which it should 
compensate her for, naturally it is necessary to make a judgment on what the outcome of a 
chargeback would have been likely to be, on the balance of probabilities. 
Obviously it is not possible to know for sure, but based on the evidence I have seen I think 
its unlikely a chargeback would have been successful. Ms Hs evidence of the services 
being misdescribed or misrepresented was somewhat limited, and I think it is more likely L 
would have sought to defend a chargeback for such a large amount of money, than simply 
accept such a loss. Nothing about Ls communication with Ms H suggested it would have been likely to accept a chargeback.
So assuming Halifax could have attempted a chargeback in line with the time limits set out 
under the card scheme rules, I am not convinced it would have been successful. Thats not 
to say that Ms H doesnt have a valid claim of any kind against L or other companies which 
were involved in the provision of the services she paid for. As I mentioned earlier, 
chargebacks are not a way of determining someones legal rights.
In light of the above, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to direct Halifax to refund 
Ms H all or part of the £19,196.40 she paid to L using her debit card. The bank accepted it 
gave Ms H incorrect information when she first rang to raise a dispute, and it has apologised 
for this. I think this apology was sufficient because Ms H did not rely on the incorrect 
information she was given, and it therefore had no impact on subsequent events.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Ms Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman