DRN-3435230
The complaint
Miss A and Mr H complain about how TSB Bank plc dealt with a lost account card.
What happened
Mr H says he lost his TSB account card in late May 2021. He says he called TSB to cancel 
the card, but it cancelled the wrong account card. Mr H says as a result fraudulent 
transactions took place and he was caused inconvenience as well as embarrassment when 
his joint account card stopped working. He says he then spent a significant amount of time 
trying to sort matters out and being held on telephone calls for over 40 minutes. Mr H would 
like £500 compensation for what took place and the stress and inconvenience caused.
TSB accepts it made a mistake and has apologised as well as paying £50 compensation. It 
says it cancelled the wrong account card but has refunded any fraudulent transactions and 
says it will pay for any expenses Mr H has incurred. TSB says it resolved matters within a 
short time period when told about the mistake and has reviewed the compensation offer 
which it has offered to increase by £50.
Miss A and Mr H had brought their complaint to us and our investigator thought TSBs total 
compensation offer appropriate. The investigator accepted a mistake was made but that 
TSB had sorted matters out within a short time period.
Miss A and Mr H dont accept that view or offer and say the mistake took far longer to sort 
out. Mr H says he made a number of attempts to find out what was happening with his 
complaint and says TSB refused to call him back.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that TSB has made a fair and reasonable 
compensation offer. I appreciate that Mr H and Miss A will be disappointed by my decision.
There is no question here that TSB made a mistake in dealing with what ought to have been 
a straightforward issue of cancelling a lost account card. I have no doubt Mr H was caused 
distress and inconvenience when his account card would not work, and I accept that he then 
spent some time trying to sort matters out. It follows that the only real issue for me to decide 
upon is the level of compensation.
I dont think Mr H suffered any financial loss and can see that in any event that TSB has 
fairly offered to pay for any such expenses. Im satisfied that the total offer of £100 
compensation is fair and reasonable and reflects the impact TSBs mistake had upon Mr H 
and Miss A. I also think the mistake was corrected within  a short time period and that the 
additional calls Mr H made were largely concerned with the outcome to his complaint rather 
than the original issue. It may be helpful for me to explain that complaint handling is not a 
regulated activity and so not something we would look at when considering compensation.
I appreciate Mr H may not wish to accept TSBs offer of an additional £50 compensation and 
so will leave it to him to decide.
Overall, Im satisfied that TSB has made an appropriate compensation offer which I think is 
in line with the amount we would make for this type of mistake and impact.
Putting things right
TSB should pay a further £50 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order TSB Bank plc to pay Miss A and 
Mr H a further £50 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A and Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman