DRN-2501760
The complaint
Ms D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC gave her conflicting information about a 
proposed transfer of funds to a third party.
What happened
Ms D has a bank account with Barclays. Near the end of December 2019 (the end of the tax 
year in her country of residence) she wanted to send a five-figure sum of money to another 
account she had with an overseas bank, so that she could send it on from there to her 
pension fund in that country. This was because she knew she could not send the money 
directly from her Barclays account to a third partys account, under Barclayss terms and 
conditions. But when she phoned Barclays to ask for the money to be transferred, she was 
told that she could not transfer more than €5,000 per day between her accounts, for security 
reasons. This presented a problem for her, because if the money was sent to her pension 
fund before the end of the year then she would be entitled to tax relief, but not if it was sent 
late.
Ms D says that on the same call, the call handler told her  wrongly  that it would be 
possible to transfer all of the money directly to her pension fund at once, by way of 
telephone banking. She questioned that, but was assured that it was correct. By then it was 
too late in the day to arrange the transfer, since the relevant department was closed for the 
day. Ms D says she called back the next day to arrange the transfer (since she did not have 
access to online banking), only to be told that she had been misinformed and that a direct 
transfer to her pension fund would not be possible after all. She could only transfer €5,000 
per day to her other bank account, and then forward the money from there.
Ms D says that by the time she was told this, it was too late to make alternative 
arrangements, and so she was not able to pay all of the money into her pension fund in time. 
She has calculated that this has cost her over €6,700 in tax which would not otherwise have 
fallen due.
Ms D complained, and Barclays apologised for giving her inconsistent information and 
offered her £75 as compensation. But Barclays did not accept that it was responsible for her 
financial loss, arguing that she had left it to the last minute (30 December) to try to move her 
money, so it would never have been possible to do what she had wanted, even if she had 
been told the correct information to start with. So Ms D brought this complaint to our Service.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He said that the daily limit on how much 
money could be transferred between accounts was a legitimate commercial decision, which 
Barclays had taken for security reasons. He thought that Ms D had failed to mitigate her 
loss, by only making one transfer of €5,000, when she had had time to make two. He said 
she should have started earlier. He also decided that the false information provided by 
Barclays had not actually caused any financial loss, since even if she had not been told that, 
she still would not have been able to transfer any more money in that time that remained 
available. He thought £75 was fair compensation for what she had been told.
Ms D did not accept that opinion. She said she had relied on what Barclays had told her and 
had done so to her detriment, because if she had known the correct position then she would 
have used her money in a different bank. She argued that the nature of tax advice is that it 
would have to be given at the end of the tax year, so she could not have acted sooner than 
she did  but she insisted that she had originally phoned Barclays on 28 December. She 
said that it should not be a customers responsibility to prepare to be misled by a banks 
mistake, but rather the banks responsibility to give correct advice in the first place. She 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has provided evidence that two payments were made from Ms Ds Barclays 
account on 30 and 31 December, being the same days that these payments were initiated. 
Barclays also says that Ms D was told on 30 December that she could not carry out a third 
party transaction over the phone, and that this was actually on the same day that she had 
earlier been told that she could do so  not the next day. Ms D says she originally spoke to 
Barclays on 28 and 29 December, and that the misinformation was not corrected until the 
day after it was given, and so she was deprived of one day in which she could have 
transferred €5,000. But that chronology is still consistent with her being told the correct 
information on 30 December, if the wrong information was given to her on 29 December and 
then corrected the next day. She says the first transfer of €5,000 was initiated on 29 
December. I have seen no evidence of that, but if it had been on that day, then that would 
have suggested that she was told the correct information on the 29th, since she would have 
had no reason to make that transfer otherwise. However, I have seen no evidence of any 
relevant phone calls being made earlier than 30 December.
When Ms D was told that it would be possible to transfer the full amount directly to her 
pension fund, it was already too late to do that, because the relevant department had closed 
for the day. So it does not seem likely to me that she would still have had the time to make 
alternative arrangements with another bank, even if she had been told the correct 
information in the first place. For that reason, I dont think the misinformation really delayed 
her by a day, or that it is the reason she missed the chance to transfer all of the money she 
wished to.
I understand Ms Ds point about needing to wait until late in the year to get her final tax 
advice, and I do not doubt her tax advisers competence. But it would have been prudent to 
move her money from Barclays to her overseas bank earlier, as this would have made it 
quicker and easier to pay the money into her pension fund when the time came to do so, 
instead of trying to perform a double transaction with only a matter of hours to spare. I agree 
with her that Barclays should have given her the correct advice in the first place. But I still 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to hold Barclays liable for the fact that Ms D ran 
out of time to transfer her money into her pension fund. I think that £75 is fair compensation 
for the mistake Barclays made.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2021.
 Richard Wood
Ombudsman