DRN-2850630
The complaint
Mr D complains as the liquidator of S, a limited company, about the service provided to S by 
Swinton Group Ltd trading as Swinton Insurance, in relation to four claims made on S 
business protection insurance policies.
 
Mr D is represented in this complaint by solicitors. 
What happened
S took out various insurance policies for S, which were bought through Swinton. Mr P was a 
director of S. He contacted Swinton about making claims on the policies following four 
incidents:
Incident 1 in January 2015 about a theft from premises.
Incident 2 in February 2015 about a theft from premises.
Incident 3 in January 2016 about a theft from a vehicle.
Incident 4 in January 2016 about the theft of a vehicle.
Some payments were made by the insurers, but Mr P was unhappy that the claims werent 
all paid in full. 
Mr D was appointed liquidator of S in October 2016. In September 2019 the solicitors acting 
for Mr D made a complaint about Swintons failure to help S with pursuing the four claims.
Swinton sent a final response to the complaint in November 2019. Swinton said: 
under its terms of business it provides advice and recommendations to customers, 
including in relation to claims;
it had passed on details of claims 1, 2 and 3 to the relevant insurers and had some 
further correspondence with them about the claims;
the insurers had dealt with the claims and as a broker it wasnt directly involved in the 
process;
the insurer dealing with claim 3 had no details about it but confirmed it was still 
prepared to consider the claim;
it didnt have a record of claim 4 being referred to it by S.
Mr D was unhappy with the response and the complaint was then referred to this service.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said it was an insurers role 
to deal with claims and although Swinton provided advice to S, its role was limited. She 
didnt think Swinton was at fault in relation to claims 1 and 2, which had been passed on to 
the insurers to deal with. Although she felt Swinton could have done more in relation to 
claims 3 and 4, it was ultimately for the insurers to deal with the claims and she didnt think 
any failings by Swinton had made a difference to the outcome of those claims.
The solicitors acting for Mr D have requested an ombudsmans decision. Amongst other 
things, they have said:
Swinton were copied into correspondence about claims 1 and 2, knew that these 
were not being dealt with correctly and so should have intervened, but did nothing;
with regard to claims 3 and 4, Swinton was asked to refer these on to the insurers but 
failed to do so;
although the insurers have indicated they are still willing to deal with the claims, its 
too late now as information is no longer available due to the amount of time that has 
passed;
Swintons failing was its failure to notify or pursue the claims, or to intervene when it 
saw they were not being dealt with correctly, and its these failings that mean its no 
longer possible to complete the claims. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
S had a number of business protection insurance policies to cover a range of things. Swinton 
was responsible for the sale of the policies. This meant it was responsible for ensuring the 
advice it gave to S was suitable; that it gave appropriate information to S about the policies 
and that the information was clear, fair and not misleading; and that any policies it 
recommended were suitable for S needs. 
As a broker, Swinton wasnt responsible for dealing with the claims  thats the responsibility 
of the insurers. An insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly; provide reasonable 
guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate information on its progress; 
and not unreasonably reject a claim.
So the starting point is that Swinton wasnt responsible for dealing with the claims  the 
insurers were. In addition, the policy documents explain what to do and who to contact in the 
event of a claim  which should be made to the insurers. I think this information is clear. Im 
satisfied S had the information it required if it needed to make a claim
However  as the solicitors have pointed out  Swintons terms of business do refer to 
claims. They include the following:
Your subsequent requirements or queries on the policy including mid-term adjustments, 
claims or renewals should be dealt with by contacting us. We will therefore provide advice 
and a recommendation on all these subsequent transactions with us
So I have considered what this means and how it might apply to this complaint, taking into 
account the respective duties of brokers and insurers as set out above. I think a key point is 
that, while the terms confirm Swinton will provide advice and recommendations, thats not 
the same as saying its responsible for claims handling  its role would be limited to 
providing some support or advice.
Claims 1 and 2 
I understand the claims were settled, but were not paid in full. 
When Mr P called to report these, Swinton provided details of the insurer for claim 1 so S 
could make a claim. The claim was accepted and loss adjusters were appointed to manage 
it. Claim 2 was also referred and the loss adjusters managed both claims, corresponding 
with S about this.In May 2015 a proposed settlement was sent, with details of contributions from the 
respective insurers. The loss adjusters advised S to contact one of the insurers directly to 
pursue that claim but, from the information I have, I cant see that Mr P pursued that at this 
time. 
He didnt contact the loss adjusters again until June 2016. At that point, he said he had been 
too busy with work but as things had slowed down, he now had more time to deal with it. In 
July 2016 the loss adjuster said the insurer had closed its file as Mr P hadnt pursued the 
matter or replied to his many emails. The loss adjuster suggested Mr P contact the insurer 
to see if it would re-open the claim.
In correspondence, Mr P has said he wasnt aware of any timescale and the loss adjuster 
never really seemed to want to do anything with it, I think this is part of the reason I didnt do 
anything with it from my end, as it did seem to be an uphill battle. 
He also said he obviously always had intentions of following up the claim but, due to 
ongoing work commitments I never seemed to find the time to do anything with it.
From what Ive seen I dont think Swinton acted incorrectly in relation to these claims; they 
were being dealt with by the insurer and the process was managed by loss adjusters. S was 
aware of what it needed to do regarding a further claim under its business equipment 
insurance, and theres nothing to show S asked for further assistance from Swinton.
Claims 3 and 4
Swintons notes show Mr P reported incident 3 in January 2016, on the day it happened. 
Swinton says it passed this on to the insurer, and its notes show a reminder was logged to 
chase the insurer for a progress update in April. 
Swinton has no records of incident 4 being reported at the time. It points out that there were 
other conversations with Mr P at that time about the insurance so if he was pursuing this, Id  
expect to see references to it, but there are none. 
However, Mr P did send emails in June and July 2016 saying he wanted to claim (and the 
emails indicate he hadnt previously lodged a claim). Swinton replied to say this had been 
referred to insurers, but I havent seen any evidence of when this was done. On the 
information I have, I cant be satisfied it did happen. And in May 2017 the insurer advised it 
hadnt received a claim.
It doesnt seem Swinton did pass on the details of claim 4 to the insurer. And it could have 
provided further updates to S about these two incidents and what needed to be done. But 
having said that, Im not sure any failing here by Swinton caused the losses that are being 
claimed. 
S was aware Swinton had contacted the insurer on claim 3 but theres no evidence that it 
followed this up when it didnt hear from either Swinton or the insurer. And as Ive explained 
above, Mr P clearly wasnt pursuing any of the claims for a considerable period due to other 
more pressing issues on his time. Some of the issues with the claims were due to the 
insurers (or their loss adjusters) not receiving information from Mr P that was needed to 
assess the claims. 
I appreciate Mr P did say he was more able to deal with the claims later in 2016, but Ive 
seen nothing to show he took much action even then. And I note that S went into liquidation 
soon after. On balance, looking at the evidence I have, I think even if Swinton had been 
more proactive, Mr P would still have had to take steps himself to provide information and pursue the claims on behalf of S. And the evidence indicates he wasnt dealing with these 
issues. On balance, looking at all the circumstances surrounding the claims, I dont think 
theres enough to show that the fact these claims werent dealt with was due to any failings 
by Swinton.
Other insurance
S also had excess policy cover. The solicitors say payments should have been made on this 
policy to cover the excess payments made on the claims. Theres no information to show S 
wished to make a claim on this policy or asked Swinton for assistance. Swinton provided 
details to make a claim in August 2018 and again in its final response, and I cant see this 
has been done.
Summary 
Its ultimately the insurers responsibility to deal with claims, not Swinton. That includes not 
just making the decision on the claim but also providing guidance to help the policyholder 
with the claim and appropriate information on its progress. I note the liquidators comments 
that Mr P didnt have enough insurance knowledge to pursue the claims himself but as Ive 
said, the policy documents show who to contact about making a claim. The insurers 
appointed loss adjusters to deal with claims 1 and 2 and they managed the claims, 
corresponding with Mr P about this. From what Ive seen, they had problems obtaining 
information from Mr P which was needed to assess the claims. 
I appreciate Mr P did ask Swinton for assistance at certain points and Swinton could have 
provided more help, particularly in relation to claim 4. But it did provide some assistance and 
for the reasons set out, even where there was a lack of advice, I dont think that was the 
cause of any loss suffered by S.
I have to make a judgment on whats fair and reasonable, taking into account all the 
circumstances of the case. Having considered the policy terms, Swintons terms of business 
and the relevant duties of insurers and brokers, it wouldnt in my judgment be fair to hold 
Swinton responsible for the fact the claims were not all paid in full by the insurers.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman