DRN-3476544
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them a package 
bank account.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H opened a Select account in February 2004. In February 2007 their account 
was upgraded to a Premier Plus account. In January 2009 the account changed to a 
Premiere Vantage account, and in 2016 it was changed to Premier account. There were no 
additional charges for the changes and no sales took place alongside them.
Mr and Mrs H have complained about the sale of their Premier Account that they held 
February 2007 onwards.
One of our Adjudicators considered Mr and Mrs Hs complaint about the sale of their Premier 
account but didnt think it should be upheld. As Mr and Mrs H disagreed this complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. Having considered everything that has
been provided, I dont think that Mr and Mrs H were mis-sold the Premier Plus account. I will 
explain why.
I think it may help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is missing, I
must base my decision on what I think was likely to have happened  based on everything
that is available. 
It has been agreed that Lloyds recommended the Premier Plus account that was sold to Mr 
and Mrs H in February 2007. This means it had to ensure that the account was fit for their 
circumstances at the time.
Mr and Mrs H have told us they were sold the Premier Plus account on the basis it would 
make their overdraft fees cheaper. The additional benefits the account offered were just a 
by-product of having the account and they would not have used them had they not been mis-
sold the account in the first place.
I have thought about what Mr and Mrs H have said alongside the information that is available 
from the time. The information is limited, but this isnt surprising considering the time that has 
passed and that businesses are not required to keep this type of information indefinitely.
I can see that in February 2007 at the time Mr and Mrs H upgraded their account they were 
making regular use of their overdraft facility and at times were more than £5,000 overdrawn. 
The select account Mr and Mrs H had before upgrading came with a £50 free overdraft limit, 
compared to the £500 free overdraft limit and preferential rates for overdrafts that exceeded 
this amount that came with the Premiere Plus account. 
Considering Mr and Mrs H made regular use of their overdraft and were regularly overdrawn 
in excess of the £500 free amount offered by the Premiere Plus account I think the free and 
preferential rates it offered was useful to Mr and Mrs H and they have benefitted from having 
this account for this reason.
In addition to the overdraft benefits the Premier Plus account offered it also came with 
reduced loan interest rates, worldwide travel insurance (including family and winter sports), 
breakdown cover, mobile phone insurance and sentinel card cover.
Package bank accounts are not tailored to the individual so its likely customers will not be 
able to utilise every benefit that comes with the account. But this doesnt mean its been mis-
sold.
In addition to benefitting from the overdraft facility offered by the account Mr and Mrs H used 
the breakdown service twice, registered three mobile phones, made one mobile phone 
claim, and claimed on the travel insurance.
I have taken on board what Mr and Mrs H have said about only using the benefits that came 
with the account as they were mis-sold it in the first place and did not want it from the outset. 
But I think the recommendation made by Lloyds to upgrade their account clearly benefitted 
them and suited their circumstances. Mr and Mrs H were aware of, and made use of the 
benefits the account offered, so it appears to have been right for them and I dont think it was 
mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman