DRN-4209937
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain about how more 2 life Ltd (M2L) handled their application for a 
lifetime mortgage. Mr and Mrs J say that M2L caused undue delay to their application. They 
are unhappy that because of the delay they will owe more on their mortgage  due to a 
reissue of their mortgage offer on a higher interest rate. 
What happened
In 2022 Mr and Mrs J used a broker to apply for a lifetime mortgage with M2L for a loan 
amount of £100,000. An application was received by M2L on 31 March 2022. 
M2Ls solicitor who Ill refer to as E raised an issue regarding the title not being correctly 
registered with Land Registry and recommended further investigation into the property being 
marketed online as a holiday home. The latter query was resolved on 12 May 2022 and M2L 
issued an offer that day to Mr and Mr J and a copy was sent to their solicitor.  
Mr and Mrs J were offered a lifetime mortgage on a fixed interest rate of 3.13% on their 
advance of £100,000. M2Ls offer was valid for 42 days. The registration of title with the 
Land Registry had not yet been completed. The offer also included a special condition that 
required Mr and Mrs Js solicitor to confirm the present septic tank drainage system was 
compliant with regulations. 
By mid-June these issues remained outstanding. The offer was reaching its expiry so M2L 
granted an extension for a further 42 days on the same terms  including the same interest 
rate. The new offer expired on 4 August 2022. 
The mortgage did not complete in time. It wasnt until after this date that all outstanding 
matters were resolved  more specifically confirmation of the septic tank being compliant 
with regulations.
M2L reissued a new offer, this time on a new interest rate of 4.38%. The mortgage 
completed on 20 September 2022.
Mr and Mrs J complained about the delays which caused them to incur a higher interest rate. 
M2L accepted it caused a slight delay in the completion of the mortgage. It says it could 
have asked for the necessary identification documents sooner. But the mortgage still 
completed in time on the interest rate that was applicable at that time. M2L didnt accept it 
was responsible for the earlier delays that caused the initial offer to expire.
Our investigator looked into things and thought M2L had offered to settle the complaint fairly. 
She didnt think M2L was responsible for the other delays mentioned by Mr and Mrs J, so 
she did not think it needed to do anything more in the circumstances to put things right.
Mr and Mrs J remained unhappy and asked for the case to be decided by an ombudsman. 
They say several weeks were lost due to M2L refusing to accept the property was a private 
dwelling rather than a holiday home and they queried several versions of events that 
occurred post 4 August 2022.
Because an agreement hasnt been reached the case has been passed to me to issue a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst M2L didnt get everything right, I dont find that I can reasonably hold 
it responsible for all the delays that occurred during this mortgage application causing the 
initial offer to lapse. Nor do I find that it has acted unfairly or unreasonably in the 
circumstances for the reasons described by Mr and Mrs J. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs J are ultimately unhappy that the delays experienced during their mortgage 
application led to their offer expiring and being re-issued on a higher interest rate. Ive 
thought carefully about the timings involved in this application and whether M2L caused any 
undue delay. 
M2L instructed an independent surveyor to carry out a valuation on the property and 
appointed E as its acting solicitor. On the advice of both these parties, M2L was advised that 
several issues needed to be resolved in advance of an offer being issued. M2L is entitled to 
rely on the opinions of professional third parties and take any information provided into 
consideration for each lending application. Ive considered both of the key matters that arose 
early on during the application process.
E informed M2L that property was still not registered in M and Mrs Js name following their 
purchase of it  more than a year before. A property must be correctly registered before a 
lender, in this case M2L, could add its charge onto the title deeds. Its the property owner(s) 
obligation to register their property and this requirement was necessary before the mortgage 
could complete. 
It was also brought to M2Ls attention that the property was listed on several holiday home 
websites. The terms and conditions of this mortgage require the applicants to own and live 
permanently in the property which is subject to the lifetime mortgage. Mr and Mrs J say they 
spent weeks trying to persuade M2L that they had no intention of renting the property and 
that these were historic advertisements in place before they purchased the property. I 
appreciate the resolution of this issue took some time, but I dont think M2L acted 
unreasonably by having to take the necessary steps to be satisfied that the property was 
acceptable security and to ensure that it met its criteria.
Once this matter was resolved, an offer was issued on 12 May 2022  around six weeks 
after application. Whilst this is longer than Id usually expect an offer to take, its not 
uncommon for an application process to take longer than usual when matters arise that need 
further investigation. Both these issues mentioned above arent common things that arise 
during a mortgage application and understandably took time to sort. Ive explained why it 
was necessary for M2L to raise and investigate these issues. 
The offer issued on 12 May 2022 was sent to Mr and Mrs J and a copy issued to their 
solicitor. The offer made it clear that there was a special condition attached to it. It said:
Solicitors be aware that the property has the benefit of drainage via a septic 
tank. Confirmation is required that all current drainage arrangements comply with 
the Septic Tank Regulation 2020 as discharges from septic tanks directly to a 
surface water are not allowed under the general binding rules. Please note that 
verbal/written confirmation from the applicant is not considered acceptable and it is a requirement that the solicitors have seen evidence that the system complies 
before providing any such confirmation.
So, it was clear from the offer exactly what was required from Mr and Mrs Js solicitor to 
satisfy the lending requirements in relation to this matter. 
Whilst I accept Mr and Mrs J felt the offer could have been issued sooner, Im persuaded the 
real issues that caused this mortgage not to complete in time were the outstanding matters 
relating to the septic tank drainage system and the title registration.  
M2L have evidence that they chased the relevant parties for an update on these issues on 
several occasions. M2L was willing to extend the offer for a further 42 days to allow extra 
time for the issues to be resolved. This was the reasonable thing to do in the circumstances 
 extending the overall offer time to three months.
The title registration wasnt confirmed until late July 2022 and the necessary legal 
declaration regarding the septic tank drainage system wasnt received until after the 
extended offer expired. So as explained, I think it was mainly these issues that caused the 
offer to lapse, and less so the other delays, as described by Mr and Mrs J.
M2L were under no obligation to extend the offer for a further period. The offer had lapsed 
twice and so a new offer was issued which was put forward with the rate available at the 
time. M2Ls lending rates had increased in the meantime  in part following increases in the 
Bank of England base rate.
M2L accepts that it caused some delay during the latter stages of the mortgage application 
which contributed to a delay in its completion, but these events all occurred during the third 
offer window period on the new interest rate. This means those delays didnt affect which 
interest rate Mr and Mrs J ended up with. The mortgage did complete on time, so in any 
event Mr and Mrs J still managed to complete on new rate, that for reasons Ive explained, 
would have always applied in the circumstances. 
In response to our investigators view, Mr and Mrs J have questioned some version of events 
that occurred post August 2022, but again Im not persuaded that is of much relevance here 
as their main concerns are about the events leading up their initial offers expiring that 
caused them to go onto a higher rate. 
M2L has already accepted its errors to the extent set out above. When considering 
everything, I think M2Ls offer of £200 compensation for the delayed completion on the new 
interest rate is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. As mentioned, these events 
occurred after the initial rate had expired. Whilst I accept the delayed completion would have 
caused Mr and Mrs J a degree of distress and inconvenience over a period of several weeks 
 the main detriment theyve explained is incurring a higher rate of interest on their 
mortgage, which for the reasons Ive set out I cant reasonably hold M2L responsible for. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct more 2 life Ltd to pay Mr and Mrs J 
the £200 compensation it offered in its response to this complaint, as it appears this has not 
yet been paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 Arazu Eid
Ombudsman