DRN-4499255
The complaint
Mr F complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund a transaction he says he 
didnt make or authorise.
What happened
Mr F says that at around 11pm on 30 August he noticed a transaction on his account for 
£8,500 that he didnt recognise. He was logging into his account to see if a credit had been 
received from a friend to help with a mortgage. As it was late, and Mr F didnt know how to 
contact his bank at that time, he waited until the morning to report the transaction to HSBC.
When Mr F reported the transaction, he confirmed the following details:
- He didnt know the recipient of the funds and the reference was WAGES but he 
doesnt pay wages to anyone. 
- He hadnt received any unusual emails, texts or calls and hadnt clicked on any links 
and shared his details.
- He hadnt shared any of his personal or banking details with anyone. 
- He hadnt written down any security information. 
- Nobody else had access to his phone and it was password protected.
HSBC said its investigation hadnt shown that a third party was involved in the transaction or 
could have known Mr Fs security information to access mobile banking so it wouldnt be 
treating the transaction as unauthorised.
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. He felt 
that the evidence showed it was more likely than not that Mr F authorised the disputed 
transaction so was responsible for it. The investigator referred to the fact that the transaction 
was made from a device Mr F had previously logged in on, Mr Fs passcode was used to 
authorise the transaction and that no-one else had access to his phone or passcode. And Mr 
F logged into his account multiple times before reporting the matter to HSBC. Finally, the 
investigator said the transaction wasnt indicative of fraud. 
Mr F didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for a final decision, so the case has 
been passed to me to consider. In summary, he said:
- HSBC should have contacted the bank that received the funds. 
- Mr F questioned why HSBC didnt call him or text him about the transaction given its 
value.
- He noticed the disputed transaction at night, and he checked the account lots of 
times because he was worried about his money. Also, a friend was due to credit his 
account with £3,000 to help with a mortgage. 
- Mr F provided a screenshot from his mobile phone about installing a security update 
he says was from the time of the transaction. 
- At the time a friend was fixing an old phone he had used for five years that had 
details of accounts and emails. The phone had no SIM though as this was with Mr F. 
He got the phone back but uses a different one. 
- He doesnt know the person his funds went to. The reference was wages, and he 
doesnt pay anyone wages. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take in account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
Where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence. 
The relevant law here is the Payment Services Regulations 2017. Broadly speaking Mr F is 
responsible for any payments that he has authorised (either by making them himself or 
allowing someone else to) and he isnt responsible for unauthorised payments except in 
more limited circumstances.
Whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr F, I agree with the investigators findings and so am not 
asking HSBC to do anything more. In reaching this conclusion Ive taken into account the 
following:
- I have seen evidence to demonstrate that the payment was made from a device that 
was used to log into Mr Fs mobile banking app from May 2022 onwards (which is 
when he said he registered his new mobile). The same device was also used to 
make payments after the disputed transaction. This was the only device used at the 
time of the disputed payment. 
- There is no explanation for how a third party could have gained access to Mr Fs 
mobile banking. To make a payment a third party would need to know Mr Fs 
passcode to use his phone and would also need his security details to access online 
banking. The payment was authorised using a passcode in the same way previous 
payments had been, so a fraudster would have needed to know this code. Mr F has 
been clear that his mobile phone was with him and that he hadnt shared any 
information that would allow a third party to make a payment. 
I note that Mr F originally said he had an old phone that didnt work and then as our 
investigation progressed, he said that he had given this old phone to a friend to fix so 
this could be how his details were obtained. But this still doesnt explain how a 
fraudster could gain access to Mr Fs online banking. And no new mobile devices 
were added when the payment was made and theres no evidence of a SIM swap. 
- If a third party gained access to Mr Fs account without his knowledge it would be 
normal to drain the account of funds as quickly as possible, but this isnt what 
happened here. After the transaction was made funds remained in Mr Fs account. 
- Ive seen evidence to show that Mr F logged into his account multiple times after the 
transaction was made and before he reported the matter to HSBC the following day. 
Given the amount of the disputed transaction I consider it likely Mr F would have 
noticed it. Mr F has said that he was checking to see if funds had been credited to his 
account, but I think that he ought reasonably to have noticed £8,500 leaving his 
account. I consider HSBC acted reasonably in deciding the £8,500 transaction was authorised 
meaning Mr F is responsible for it. 
Mr F has said that HSBC should have asked the recipient bank to return his funds. Id expect 
HSBC to try to recover lost funds if a customer is the victim of an authorised push payment 
scam. An authorised push payment is one that is made by a customer who is tricked into 
making to. But Mr F is adamant this isnt what happened here and that he didnt complete 
the transaction. In these circumstances, HSBC cant ask the recipient bank to return Mr Fs 
funds.
I agree with Mr F that the transaction was unusual given Mr Fs normal use of the account 
and that for this reason HSBC ought reasonably to have contacted him before processing it. 
Mr F says this would have prevented the payment from being made. Given that I have 
decided its more likely than not that Mr F made or authorised the transaction himself, its 
hard to see how any intervention by HSBC would have made a difference. The position 
would be different if Mr F was the victim of an APP scam, but this isnt what hes saying. 
Overall, Im not persuaded that Mr F didnt make or authorise the transaction he has 
disputed so I cant reasonably ask HSBC to refund it.
My final decision
For the reasons stated, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman