DRN-3294664
The complaint
Mr V complains that Jigsaw Insurance Services Plc took too long to assist him when he 
claimed on his roadside assistance policy. 
What happened
Mr Vs car broke down, so he called Jigsaw to claim on his policy. Jigsaw arranged for a 
recovery vehicle to attend Mr Vs car. While Mr V was waiting the Police turned up and 
asked Mr V if his car could be recovered sooner. 
Jigsaw checked with the recovery company and said it wasnt able to assist him any sooner. 
Because of this the Police arranged recovery of Mr Vs car and he was charged for this. Mr V 
complained and asked Jigsaw to cover what hed been charged as it hadnt been able to 
attend the scene sooner. 
Jigsaw reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. It said it had arranged recovery as per 
the terms and conditions and tried to attend the scene as soon as possible. So, didnt think it 
was fair to cover the costs of another recovery as the Police had wanted the car moving 
sooner. It also referred to the terms of the policy which said it wouldnt cover the costs of 
another recovery company or recovery by the Police unless approved by them. Mr V didnt 
think this was fair and referred his complaint here. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and didnt recommend it was upheld. He found that 
Jigsaw and arranged recover as per the terms and conditions. He also didnt think it was fair 
and reasonable for Jigsaw to cover the cost of the other recovery because the Police wanted 
his car moving sooner. 
As Mr V didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Vs policy says it will not cover: 
The charges of any other company, including police recovery, except those 
authorised by Us.
Ive therefore considered whether Jigsaw has applied this term in a fair and reasonable way 
in this particular case. And Im satisfied it has. I say this because Jigsaw arranged recovery 
as its supposed to under the policy. I can see the Police were able to get a recovery agent 
to Mr V not long before this because they wanted his car moved. However, Mr Vs policy 
doesnt provide a timeframe for when it will provide assistance and the estimated time it 
gave wasnt unreasonable in the circumstances. So, Im not going to tell it to do anything 
else. 
I appreciate this isnt the answer Mr V was hoping for, but as Jigsaw hasnt done anything 
wrong. I wont be telling it to cover the cost of the other recovery Mr V paid for. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman