DRN-4297282
The complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt consider his application for a further 
advance fairly.
What happened
Mr P has a buy to let mortgage with Barclays and in December 2022 applied for a further 
advance of £51,000 to assist him to buy another property. In deciding on the application, 
Barclays instructed a surveyor who asked for a further damp and timber Report at a cost to 
Mr P of £600. This confirmed here were no damp and timber issues. The surveyor estimated 
that rent for this type of property should be £1,900 per month for the area but Mr P gets rent 
of £2,500 per month. Barclays said that on affordability grounds it couldnt lend what Mr P 
had requested. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as he felt that in 
coming to a decision on the affordability of the mortgage, Barclays had a number of factors 
to consider, and it had acted fairly in coming to its decision. Mr P disagreed and asked for a 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint arises when Mr P tried last December to raise some money on his buy to let 
property to use for the purchase for another property. Barclays got a valuation on the 
property just before Christmas 2022. The valuer required a specialist Report for dry rot 
timber and damp noting that there was evidence of potential rot/timber decay affecting the 
timber rafters. A significant build up of moisture was also seen on the non-breathable 
secondary weather barrier. This could also allow dampness to affect the roof timbers   
Mr P commissioned a damp and timber Report. This was done on 16 January 2023 and 
noted that there was a new breathable membrane attached to the rafters underside of the 
roof and the timber batons and rafters were examined closely and found to be dry and 
devoid of moisture. On receipt of his Report the surveyor issued a valuation and estimated 
the monthly rental unfurnished on an AST basis at £1,900.00 per month. As a result, the 
case failed Barclayss affordability assessment for the amount of money that Mr P wanted to 
borrow. This was communicated to Mr Ps mortgage adviser on 19 January. Barclayss 
underwriters then considered Mr Ps submission that he was getting rent of £2,500 per 
month but Barclays noted that its policy was to accept the valuers estimated rental figure 
which was lower.
Mr Ps concern is that the original valuation of the property misrepresented the property, that 
Barclays shouldnt have relied on the estimated rental supplied by the valuer but on the 
actual rental figures his tenant was paying and in any case on the lower figures he should 
have got a mortgage in any case. My role is to decide whether Barclays did anything wrong. 
What it did was to follow its processes. It instructed a valuer who recommended a further 
Report. That is not unusual and from the initial valuers Report it would appear to have been 
essential. There appears on the face of it to be a divergence between what the valuer saw 
and what is recorded on the second specialist Report. But Barclays didnt produce the 
Report. It was prepared for them by a member of a professionally qualified body. If there are 
errors on it, thats not the fault of Barclays. 
Barclays accepted the estimated rental return from the valuer rather than the actual rental. 
But thats Barclayss policy and as a lender Barclays is entitled to follow its lending policy in 
deciding whether it should lend and how much it should lend. Barclays appear to have acted 
within its policy and considered the estimated rental in its affordability assessment and 
arrived at a figure it would lend to Mr P. That was lower than Mr P wanted.
Mr P wanted some new borrowing and approached Barclays as a lender. Barclays wanted a 
valuation to see if the property value would support the extra borrowing and whether the 
borrowing would be affordable. As I indicated above there appears to be a divergence 
between the initial report of the valuer and the follow-up report that Mr P obtained as to the 
condition of the property, but Barclays was then satisfied as to the condition of the property. 
Mr P says that he shouldnt have been asked to pay for a further specialist Report but from 
the information supplied to Barclays it was reasonable for them to request it, so I dont 
consider that the bank did anything wrong in doing so. 
The remaining issue was the likely rental return which fed into the affordability assessment. 
Barclays was content to rely on the valuers estimate which differed from the actual rental 
return that Mr P was then achieving. Barclays says that that is its policy. I can understand Mr 
P wonders why the actual return isnt used. The valuer is indicating that if the actual tenant 
was not in place what the actual rental would likely to be as the market then stood. I dont 
consider that its unreasonable for Barclays to use the criteria of what the estimated rental 
would be and to be guided in that by a specialist valuer. But its also Barclayss policy. Mr P 
can expect fair treatment from Barclays but within Barclayss lending criteria. Barclays 
appears to have applied its lending criteria, but this didnt result in a loan offer being made to 
Mr P. But that doesnt mean that Barclays did anything wrong. 
I noted that Mr P is unhappy with the communication from Barclays regarding the refusal of 
the application and that he wasnt informed the reason for it. But when the bank does its 
figures following the second valuers report it tells Mr Ps adviser that the application failed 
because of affordability  and the actual figure it failed by. Because of the above I cant fairly 
uphold this complaint.     
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman