DRN-4343216
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund transactions he says he 
didnt make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
Mr As two Barclays debit cards and PINs were used to withdraw £1,100 from cash 
machines over two days.
Mr A says he lost the cards while out and about, and the withdrawals were made without his 
consent. He says he wrote his PIN amongst 8 digits on the back of one of the cards.
Barclays held Mr A liable for the payments in dispute. He came to our service.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr A 
didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Broadly speaking, Barclays can hold Mr A liable for the payments in dispute if the evidence 
suggests that he authorised them, or if he failed to keep his account safe either intentionally 
or through acting with gross negligence.
Im satisfied from Barclays technical evidence that the withdrawals in dispute used Mr As 
genuine cards, and the correct PINs. So I can see that these transactions were properly 
authenticated.
Mr A confirmed that he hadnt told anyone else his PINs. And he didnt make any payments 
using the PINs in the recent hours before the disputed withdrawals, so there was no 
opportunity for someone to watch him enter his PINs then steal the cards. And the PINs 
were separate randomly generated numbers, not numbers that could be plausibly guessed.
As such, in the circumstances of this case there are only two likely and plausible ways that 
someone could have learned Mr As PINs and made these payments:
1.) If the payments were made by Mr A or by someone hed given his permission to. This 
would mean that the payments were authorised, and so Mr A would be liable for them.
2.) If the person making the payments learned the PINs because Mr A wrote his PIN on his 
card. If thats the case, that would mean Mr A failed to keep his account safe in line with the 
terms and conditions. It may be that he did this knowingly, or by not taking enough care. But 
it is widely understood that keeping a note of the PIN with the card is very risky, since 
anyone who has the card is then able to use it without further checks. So Mr A would still be 
liable for the withdrawals in that case, too.
In either case, Barclays would be correct to decline a refund.
Mr A questioned whether someone couldve used a card after it was blocked. They could 
only attempt to unsuccessfully  any payment attempt would be stopped because of the 
block. But the electronic records would still show me any attempts to make payments after 
the block, and here there were none, despite there being significant funds left over. This is 
notable, since Id expect a thief to try to take as much money as possible, and a thief would 
not have known when Mr A blocked the account. 
Mr A also said Barclays shouldve stopped the withdrawals or sent him a text message. But 
I dont agree. These withdrawals were made using Mr As genuine cards, and his correct 
PINs, in his local area. Barclays didnt have any good reason to stop the payments or notify 
Mr A  as far as they could see, it looked like it was Mr A who had authorised them. And the 
starting position in law is that banks are expected to process payments that a customer 
authorises them to make.
Mr A also made some arguments surrounding a chargeback declaration form. But Im afraid 
that the chargeback wasnt really relevant here. Chargebacks can only be successful in 
certain situations. And since these withdrawals were made using Mr As genuine cards and 
the correct PINs, there was no basis on which Barclays could have successfully got them 
refunded via the chargeback scheme.
Lastly, I appreciate why Mr A would like to see CCTV footage. But such footage is only kept 
for about a month as standard, so it wont still be available. And even if it were still available 
after all this time, it wouldve only shown what the person making the transactions looked 
like. It would not have shown whether they had Mr As permission or not, nor whether theyd 
learned the PIN because of his negligence or not. And as I explained above, based on the 
evidence it seems unlikely that the payments were made without either Mr As consent or 
without him failing to keep his account safe.
In summary, Im satisfied that Mr As genuine cards and PINs were used. Based on the 
evidence, there isnt a likely way that the withdrawals couldve been made without Mr As 
consent, unless he failed to keep his account safe. That means Barclays cant be held 
responsible for them, and Mr A is not due a refund. This is a difficult message for me to give, 
and I know its a difficult message for Mr A to receive. But given the evidence I have, and the 
balance of probabilities, Im unable to reasonably reach any other conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision marks the end of our services consideration of the case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman