DRN-4441033
Complaint
Miss R complains that Moneybarn No.1 Limited (trading as Moneybarn) unfairly entered 
into a conditional-sale agreement with her. 
Shes said that the agreement was unaffordable and so she shouldnt have been provided 
with it. 
Background
In February 2018, Moneybarn provided Miss R with finance for a used car. The amount lent 
was £6,995.00. Miss R paid a deposit of £2,500.00 and entered into a conditional sale 
agreement for 60 months with Moneybarn for the remaining £4,495.00. 
The agreement had interest, fees and total charges of £7,337.45, and the total amount to be 
repaid of £11,832.45 (not including Miss Rs deposit) was due to be repaid in 59 monthly 
instalments of just over £200.55. 
Miss Rs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He didnt think that 
Moneybarn had done anything wrong or treated Miss R unfairly. So he didnt recommend 
that Miss Rs complaint should be upheld. 
Miss R disagreed with our investigator and the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for 
a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Rs complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Miss Rs complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Moneybarn needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is that Moneybarn needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether any lending was sustainable for Miss R before providing it. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired 
credit history  suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers 
ability to repay. 
Moneybarn says it agreed to this application after Miss R provided details of her monthly 
income, which it verified with payslips that it asked for copies of. It says it also carried out 
credit searches on Miss R which did show a defaulted account and some outstanding 
balances. But when the amount owing plus a reasonable amount for Miss Rs living 
expenses were deducted from her verified monthly income the monthly payments were still 
affordable. 
On the other hand, Miss R says that these payments were unaffordable and there was no 
way she was going to be able to maintain them.
Ive thought about what Miss R and Moneybarn have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that much like our investigator, I dont think that the checks 
Moneybarn carried out did go far enough. I dont think it was reasonable to rely on an 
estimate of Miss Rs living costs given there was some adverse information on the credit 
search carried out. 
As Moneybarn didnt carry out sufficient checks, Ive gone on to decide what I think 
Moneybarn is more likely than not to have seen had it obtained further information from    
Miss R. Bearing in mind, the length of time of the agreement and the amount of the monthly 
payment, I would have expected Moneybarn to have had a reasonable understanding about 
Miss Rs regular living expenses as well as her income and existing credit commitments, 
which it already had. 
The information Miss R has provided does appear to show that when her committed regular 
living expenses and existing credit commitments were deducted from her monthly income, 
she did have the funds, at the time at least, to sustainably make the repayments due under 
this agreement. 
I accept that the real reason for Miss Rs inability to make her payments to this agreement 
wasnt due to her existing credit commitments or her living expenses. And that this is readily 
apparent when Miss Rs bank statements are considered. Im sorry to hear of Miss Rs 
difficulties and that making her payments were difficult as a result of this. However, the 
question I need to determine is whether Moneybarn knew or ought to have known about this 
- not just whether this was the case. 
And to decide this question, I need to keep in mind what Moneybarn needed to do in order to 
answer the questions its initial checks left unanswered. In other words, Moneybarn needed 
to work out what Miss Rs actual regular living expenses were (bearing in her income and 
credit commitments were already validated by the payslips requested and the credit search 
carried out). In these circumstances, it isnt the case that a full financial review needed to be 
carried out. 
Checking bank statements wasnt the only way for Moneybarn to have found out more about 
Miss Rs actual living costs. This is extremely important for me to emphasise here because it 
doesnt automatically follow that bank statements will be reviewed when a lenders checks 
arent sufficient. 
For example, a lender could instead obtain copies of bills or other evidence of payment etc  
I dont think that proportionate checks would have extended into obtaining the bank 
statements Miss R has now provided us with. I think that this is particularly the case given 
this was a first agreement and Miss R was being provided with a car rather than cash.  So I dont think that Moneybarn could reasonably be expected to have known about the 
nature and extent of Miss Rs additional spending. And, in these circumstances, I dont think 
that it is fair and reasonable for these to now be taken into account.
  
Overall and having carefully considered everything, while I dont think that Moneybarns 
checks before entering into this conditional-sale agreement with Miss R did go far enough, 
Im satisfied that carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks wont have stopped 
Moneybarn from providing these funds, or entering into this agreement. So Im satisfied that 
Moneybarn didnt act unfairly towards Miss R when it agreed to provide the funds.
Im therefore not upholding Miss Rs complaint. I appreciate that this will be disappointing for       
Miss R. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and at least consider that 
her concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding Miss Rs complaint, I would remind Moneybarn of its obligation to 
exercise forbearance and due consideration (bearing in mind what it is now aware of) in the 
event that it intends to collect the remaining payments on the agreement and Miss R is 
experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Miss Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman