The complaint
Mrs S has complained that she was pressured to take out a term assurance policy when she 
applied for a mortgage with HSBC UK Bank Plc.
What happened
Mrs S and her husband Mr S took out a joint mortgage with HSBC in August 2005. At the 
same time the HSBC adviser recommended Mrs S take out a term assurance policy to 
protect the borrowing in the event of her death or her being diagnosed with a critical illness.
Mr S complained on Mrs Ss behalf in 2019 after hearing about the mis-selling of payment 
protection insurance (PPI). He said Mrs S hadnt wanted to take out any insurance and was 
pressured to do so by the HSBC adviser.
HSBC didnt agree the policy had been mis-sold. It said Mrs Ss mortgage offer showed she 
didnt need to take out any insurance through HSBC and there wasnt any evidence to show 
shed been pressured to take it out.
Mr S referred Mrs Ss complaint to our service. He said that Mrs S hadnt asked for any 
cover and it was forced on her.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She explained to Mrs S that the policy wasnt a 
form of PPI. She said she thought the evidence from the time of the sale showed the policy 
was optional and she wasnt persuaded that Mrs S had been pressured to take it out.
Mr S didnt agree. He said he thought the mortgage offer would be withdrawn if Mrs S didnt 
agree to take the cover.
As no agreement could be reached, Ive been asked to provide a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I realise this will be a disappointment to Mrs S, so Ill 
explain why.
Mr S says Mrs S didnt ask for the policy during the meeting with the adviser as he and Mrs 
S were there to take out a mortgage. But I would generally expect a mortgage applicants 
insurance needs to be reviewed when taking on new borrowing. The fact find completed by 
the adviser at the time the advice was given shows Mr and Mrs S were taking on a new debt 
of £215,000 and had children who were financially dependent on them. So, I think it was DRN-1273200
reasonable for the adviser to ensure Mr and Mrs S had thought about how theyd repay this 
if either of them died or became seriously ill.
The fact find shows that Mrs S had an existing life and critical illness policy in place. This 
provided a benefit of £120,000. It isnt clear from the fact find how long this policy had left to 
run, but it wasnt sufficient to protect the full mortgage Mrs S was taking on. Mrs S was self-
employed, so she wouldnt have had any employee benefits to fall back on and make up the 
shortfall. So, I think a clear need was established for a policy providing Mrs S with life and 
critical illness cover for the full mortgage amount and term.
I can see from the recommendation letter that Mrs Ss existing insurance was discussed and 
Mrs S agreed that this should be retained for family protection. The fact find also notes that 
Mrs S had three children who were financially dependent on her and that she was expecting 
another child. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for the adviser to recommend the existing 
policy should be retained for family protection.
Mr S says Mrs S didnt have a choice in taking out the policy as she thought the mortgage 
wouldnt be approved unless she took out the cover. But having reviewed a copy of the 
mortgage offer, this makes it clear that Mrs S wasnt obliged to take out any insurance cover 
through HSBC. It also says the only insurance she had to take out (through HSBC or any 
other provider) was buildings insurance. If Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage application being 
approved was dependent on them taking life and critical illness cover, I think this wouldve 
been expressed as a condition in the mortgage offer. As it wasnt, I think Mrs S wouldve 
known the insurance recommended to her was optional.
I can also see that the adviser recommended Mr and Mrs S take out mortgage repayments 
protector  a form of PPI. But the recommendation letter shows they turned this down as 
they wanted to give further thought to it at that time. I think this further demonstrates Mr and 
Mrs S knew they could turn down any recommendations made to them.
On balance, I think Mrs S accepted the recommendation as she understood the need to 
protect such a large debt with life and critical illness cover. For this reason, I dont think the 
policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2019.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman