DRN-2750393
The complaint
Mrs R has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) didnt downgrade her fee-paying 
Premier packaged bank account.
Mrs R says that she repeatedly asked Lloyds to downgrade her account to a fee-free 
account, and her requests were not actioned.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint, and she did not think that Lloyds had acted 
unfairly. Mrs R disagreed, so the complaint was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
This decision will only address whether Lloyds has done anything wrong in relation to the 
downgrade of Mrs Rs account. It wont address whether the account (or any of the previous 
packaged accounts) were mis-sold.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint.
Having looked at all the evidence that has been provided, Im unable to say that Lloyds has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in this matter. I will explain why.
In 2018, I can see that Mrs R complained to Lloyds, via a representative, that her packaged 
bank accounts were mis-sold. In its response to the complaint, Lloyds explained that it 
couldnt advise Mrs R which account would be best for her, so said that Mrs R will need to 
review what type of account she wanted to have. It explained that Mrs R could downgrade 
her account in branch, or by calling a dedicated phone line. The letter also explained that if 
Mrs R had not changed her account within 60 days, it will assume that she wants to keep her 
packaged account.
Mrs R says that she received this letter. So I think Lloyds did what it needed to do, to explain 
that the account would not be automatically downgraded and how Mrs R could go about 
downgrading her account, if she wanted to.
Mrs R says that since then, she has repeatedly asked Lloyds to downgrade her account, but 
says she was told to wait for the outcome of her complaint. So I have considered Mrs Rs 
comments in light of the evidence that is available.
Lloyds has provided us with its contact notes for Mrs R. And since 2018 I can see that Mrs R 
contacted Lloyds about a variety of matters. For example, Mrs R cancelled a number of 
direct debits on a number of occasions and also told Lloyds in October 2018 that she was 
going abroad and was making a large payment and asked Lloyds not to stop the payment. 
And Mrs R spoke to Lloyds about payments made to an online retailer. So it seems that Mrs 
R was in regular contact with Lloyds. However, there are only three occasions where I can 
see that Mrs R specifically discussed her packaged account.
 
There is a telephone note recorded on 7 August 2018. The note for this call says that Mrs R 
was wondering when her account would be downgraded. However, the note says that before 
the process could be explained to Mrs R, shed ended the call. 
From reading this note, it seems that Mrs R had incorrectly assumed her account would be 
downgraded, even though Lloyds final response letter had already explained that it would 
not be, unless Mrs R specifically requested for it to be. And Mrs R ended the call before the 
downgrading process could be completed. So I dont think Lloyds is at fault for not 
downgrading the account at that point.
There is note dated 24 September 2020, where it seems Mrs R was aware she was still 
being charged for her Premier account. The note explains that Mrs R was again told that she 
could downgrade her account to a free account. It was explained that if she did this, she 
would lose the benefits that came with the account. The note says that Mrs R did not want to 
downgrade her account as she says she had an agreement whereby shed be able to have 
the Premier account without being charged for it. 
Ive not seen evidence of such an agreement, and if anything, her comments in this call 
seem inconsistent with what Mrs R has since told our service, i.e. that she had previously 
downgraded her account (and therefore removed the monthly fee) years ago. Either way, I 
cant reasonably conclude that Lloyds had acted unfairly by not downgrading the account in 
September 2020. The note shows that Mrs R chose to keep her Premier account, despite 
being made aware that she was still being charged on a monthly basis for it. And I can see 
that Mrs R went on to claim on the breakdown cover provided by the account on 22 October 
2020, so it seems Mrs R was still relying on the benefits that her packaged bank account 
provided.
The final time that I can see that Mrs R contacted Lloyds about her packaged account was 
on 8 January 2021. The note for this conversation says that Mrs R had requested that her 
account be downgraded and changed to a Classic account. And I can see that her request 
was actioned, and her account was changed to a fee-free account on the same day.
Finally, Mrs R has said that she called Lloyds a number of times but was unable to speak to 
anyone. I understand that it is frustrating when you cant speak to anyone and are kept 
waiting in a queue for long periods of time. But I cant say that Lloyds has failed to act on an 
instruction from Mrs R, if Mrs R was not able to speak to someone on the occasions when 
she tried calling Lloyds.
So, having reviewed all of the available evidence, Ive not seen any evidence to say that 
Lloyds had failed to act on an instruction from Mrs R to downgrade her account. 
Therefore, in the circumstances, I dont think itd be appropriate to require Lloyds to refund 
Mrs Rs Premier account fees since she complained about it being mis-sold, in 2018.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 Thomas White
Ombudsman