DRN-2442928
The complaint
Mr H complains that Europa Group Limited (an intermediary) charged him for cancelling a 
motor insurance policy that he thinks would have been avoided had he tried to use it.
What happened
Mr H bought the policy in April 2020 through a comparison website. He said he had nine 
years no claims discount (NCD) that he wanted protecting. It later emerged that Mr Hs 
NCD was on a company policy, so it couldnt be used. That meant his premium for the policy 
would have risen dramatically had he retained it, as he actually had zero NCD. 
Mr H complained to Europa. It said cover was in place with an insurer from 8 April 2020 to 
23 May 2020. Due to the lack of valid NCD, the policy could have been cancelled, but 
Europa  spoke to Mr H about whether he wanted to retain it.  Any action by it or the insurer 
was put on hold whilst Mr Hs complaint was reviewed, but Mr H then cancelled his direct 
debit payment, so the cancellation went ahead on that basis. Europa said no charges were 
made until after its complaints investigation was completed in June 2020. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Hs complaint. She said there was a valid reason for 
Europa to cancel the policy. Mr H couldnt provide the NCD proof required, but Europa acted 
reasonably in giving him the chance to keep the policy, at an increased premium. She said 
the charges Europa made on cancellation were in line with its terms of business, which Mr H 
had been made aware of. And she noted that it had directed Mr H to a firm that offered help 
with flexible payment solutions. 
Mr H said the policy wouldnt have been honoured had he made a claim and that his 
financial situation made it hard to pay the sum due. The investigator said as Mr H hadnt 
made a claim, the issue of whether it would have been covered didnt arise. She said Mr H 
was made aware of the cancellation charges when he bought the policy and that Europas 
actions were based on what Mr H had done.  
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.         
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Europa didnt know that Mr Hs NCD wasnt valid at the start, it was able to find him low-
cost cover with an insurer, based on that NCD. I think it was reasonable for it to advise Mr H 
that the policy may be cancelled, when it found the initial premium was based on the wrong 
details. I also think Europa acted reasonably in advising Mr H that he could retain the policy, 
but that without the NCD, the premium would rise by £380. Europa also reminded Mr H of 
the charges that would apply should the cancellation go ahead.  
I dont think Mr H was forced into a policy cancellation, or that it wasnt his choice to cancel, 
as hes suggested. He could have chosen to retain the cover, although I can see why he was 
shocked at the potential rise in premium. But I dont think Europa can be blamed for that, as 
the insurer sets the premium, and decides how NCD should be applied to it.  
The discount offered by insurers for nine years NCD is usually substantial, and its the 
maximum allowed by most insurers. Without any NCD at all, Mr Hs new premium was 
always going to be much higher than the discounted one. In the call he had with Europa 
about this issue, Mr H didnt say he was going to cancel the policy, or that he wanted it to be 
cancelled. He made it clear that he was unhappy with the increase in premium, but Europa 
was only quoting the sum Mr H would have had to pay if hed supplied the right details of his 
NCD initially. I think its more likely than not that hed have had to pay a higher sum than he 
did initially to any insurer, for a policy offering similar cover. 
Mr H decided to cancel his direct debit payments very shortly after the spoke to Europas 
advisor  and thats a valid reason for a policy to be cancelled. Europa was still looking into 
his complaint and cover was still in place at that point. Mr Hs main concern is that he paid 
the initial deposit for the policy and has to pay more for the cover he had - plus the 
cancellation charges  when he thinks the insurer would have avoided the policy and 
wouldnt have dealt with any claim he made. 
I think Europas charges are fair  and as Mr H didnt have to make a claim, I dont think he 
can say what the insurer would have done had he made one. Insurers dont always avoid 
policies even if they have the right to do so. It depends on the particular facts in each case.  
And they have to be able to justify a policy avoidance, based on all the relevant information. 
Had there had been a problem with a claim, Mr H would have been able to make a complaint 
(against the insurer) in the usual way. The issue would have been investigated and resolved 
on the basis of what was fair and reasonable, given all the facts. 
I dont think Mr H can show that Europa acted unreasonably in the way it dealt with the 
cancellation. I sympathise with the situation Mr H has found himself in, as his financial 
situation means it will be hard for him to pay the sum due. But I think Europa acted 
reasonably in directing him for assistance in making flexible payments over time. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman