DRN-3667435
The complaint
Mr W, on behalf of the late Mr Cs estate, complains about the service Santander UK Plc 
(Santander), gave to his late husband in October 2020. He believes the service the late 
Mr C received from Santander caused him to take steps that put him at risk. The estate is 
also unhappy Santander closed the late Mr Cs account. 
For ease, Ill refer to the late Mr C as Mr C throughout my decision. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties and was set out in detail within 
our Investigators view of 24 June 2022. So, I wont repeat whats happened again here in 
full. 
In summary, Mr C complains about the service he received from Santander in October 2020. 
Santander received a fraud report about a credit into Mr Cs account. Following this, Mr Cs 
account was restricted and subsequently blocked when he was unable to pass security 
when on the phone with Santander. As a result, Santander asked Mr C to attend a branch to 
regain access to the account.
Mr C said he informed Santander about his terminal illness and disability within his calls with 
it on 8 October 2020, but it maintained hed need to visit a branch. After arranging specialist 
transport, Mr C visited a Santander branch. After speaking with a branch member, he was 
able to withdraw the funds he requested. 
Mr C complained to Santander on 10 October 2020. He raised his unhappiness about the 
restrictions placed on his account, that hed been told to attend a branch during the 
pandemic - despite his medical condition and health, and about the costs he incurred as a 
result of these events. Mr C then further complained about Santanders decision to close his 
account. 
Santander looked into Mr Cs complaint and issued its final response letter on 
17 October 2020. Santander said it appreciated Mr Cs frustration and annoyance with the 
temporary block placed on his banking facilities but that the bank has legal and regulatory 
obligations which can require it to withhold transactions or services or block the account. It 
acknowledged the calls on 8 October 2020 in which Mr C attempted to access the benefits 
payments paid into his account, but due to failing security was referred to a bank branch. It 
said that while this was an error  he was incorrectly referred to branch that day; it hadnt 
been able to evidence that itd been told Mr C couldnt attend due to self-isolating. All 
temporary restrictions on the account were lifted on 16 October 2020, once the banks 
investigation into the fraud report was completed. However, Santander explained that 
following a further review, itd made the decision, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the account to withdraw Mr Cs banking facilities within 60 days. In recognition 
of the error with Mr C being referred to branch Santander paid £50 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.  
Mr C remained unhappy and so he brought his complaint to our service. Mr C informed our 
service that following the branch visit, his health had worsened and whilst his complaint was 
with us, Mr C sadly passed away in August 2021. Mr W, on behalf of Mr Cs estate, has 
continued to progress the complaint. 
An Investigator considered Mr Cs complaint and recommended it be upheld in part. She 
said in summary that:
When considering the banks actions in relation to the report of fraud and account 
restrictions, while she appreciated Mr Cs frustrations at the time, she didnt think 
Santander had acted unfairly in restricting the account and investigating the report 
made against him.
She considered Santander couldve done more to explore whether it was necessary 
for Mr C to visit a bank branch. She felt the bank shouldve asked further questions 
when Mr C told it that he had a disability and terminal illness. She felt there were 
options for the branch visit to have been avoided but that these had not been 
discussed with him. So, she concluded the £70 specialist transportation cost Mr C 
incurred should be reimbursed.
She considered the information provided by the estate and its position that had Mr C 
not been asked to visit a bank branch - he wouldnt have contracted an infection 
which he was unable to recover from. She recognised the estates strength of 
feelings about this, but said she was unable to definitively say that the infection Mr C 
contracted was as a result of the branch visit.
She considered the additional costs put forward by the estate on behalf of Mr C, but 
she didnt think Santander was liable for these costs. 
When looking at the account closure, she felt Santander had acted in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of the account. So, didnt find the bank had acted 
unfairly. 
She thought carefully about the service issues raised, such as, not receiving a call 
from the vulnerability team following the branch visit. In considering everything 
together, she recommended the bank pay a further £350 in addition to the £50 
already paid (£400 compensation in total) in recognition of the small service issues 
experienced and what she considered the bigger error concerning the branch visit.  
  
Santander agreed to our Investigators recommendations to resolve the complaint. However, 
Mr W, on behalf of Mr Cs estate, remained unhappy. So, the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by saying that Im sorry to hear of Mr Ws late husbands passing. I recognise 
this has been a difficult time. 
I would also like to add at this point that Im aware Ive summarised this complaint and the 
responses briefly, in less detail than has been provided, and in my own words. No 
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I think is the heart of the matter here  which is to determine whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably in the service it 
provided to Mr C. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I 
havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be 
able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as an alternative to the courts.
Having carefully considered Mr Cs complaint, I uphold this complaint in part. I will now 
explain why. 
For ease I will address each aspect in turn and in the same order as our Investigator. 
Fraud report and account restriction
Santander received a report of fraud against Mr Cs account. I can see information has been 
provided in relation to the circumstances surrounding the incoming credit into the account 
and what this payment related to. 
When a bank receives a notification of concern about an account or funds received into the 
account, it has a duty to take appropriate action, for instance, it may take steps to restrict 
and/or block an account whilst it investigates the information received. This can involve 
contacting the customer to ask questions to assist with this.  
Whilst I can appreciate Mr Cs dissatisfaction with Santanders actions and the restrictions 
placed on his account, from the information Ive seen and considered, I cant safely say 
Santander has acted unfairly or unreasonably here. Santander has a legal and regulatory 
duty to take necessary steps and investigate when it receives a notification of fraud on an 
account. And while I note Mr C was also unhappy because he says he wasnt made aware 
by Santander that his account would be restricted, Im afraid this is not something Santander 
is required to do prior to any steps it decides to take. 
A letter was sent to Mr C following the restrictions placed on the account on 5 October 2020, 
which advised him that Santander had temporarily blocked his account until it could speak 
with him. This appears to have overlapped with his contact with Santander the same day, 
where he contacted the bank by phone after he had difficulty when trying to make a 
payment. 
So, while I can understand Mr Cs personal frustrations and unhappiness at the time that his 
account was restricted, I dont find Santander has acted wrongly following the report of fraud 
received, for the reasons Ive said above. 
  
Account block and visit to branch 
Mr C had two telephone calls with Santander on 8 October 2020. In the first call, Mr C was 
told by the banks agent that hed not passed security. He was told hed need to call the bank 
back with additional information to pass security or hed need to attend a branch with 
identification (ID). Mr C expressed his unhappiness with this and told the agent he had a 
disability and terminal illness. He also commented about the cost of medical transportation in 
order to get to a branch. The next steps were reiterated by the agent to Mr C and the call 
ended. 
Mr C then made a further call that day. Following this second call, his account was blocked, 
due to failing to pass security and, he was told that hed need to go to a Santander branch 
with ID. Mr C told the banks agent that he had a disability and terminal illness. Again, he 
raised dissatisfaction about being told to go to a branch. He explained that hed require medical transportation in order to get to a branch and that he didnt have access to his funds 
in order to arrange this. 
Mr C visited a Santander branch later that day. In his contact with our service prior to him 
sadly passing, he told us that the branch staff acknowledged he was unwell at the time of his 
visit. Mr C was able to withdraw funds when visiting the branch.
 
Mr C became unwell following the visit to the branch on 8 October 2020. I can see from the 
information provided that Mr C contracted an infection, which alongside his terminal illness 
impacted his health further.  
Ive thought carefully about everything Ive seen and been told. Having done so, I agree with 
the position set out by our Investigator within her assessment. 
Before I explain further below, I do think its important to keep in mind what Ive said above. 
I dont find Santander made an error in restricting the account after receiving a report of 
fraud. And Im also not persuaded the bank acted unfairly in blocking the account and asking 
Mr C to provide ID after he was unable to pass security.  
But when thinking about the banks instructions to Mr C in telling him hed need to visit a 
branch, given the information hed shared with the bank within the calls on 8 October 2020, 
Im persuaded better customer service couldve been provided. I think the bank couldve 
asked Mr C further questions after hed shared with its agents that he had a disability and a 
terminal illness. I think this ought to have fairly and reasonably prompted the banks agents 
to thoughtfully ask questions so that it could have better understood the impact and the 
effects of his medical condition on him which wouldve enabled the bank to determine 
whether all the available options had been considered  in particular whether a visit to a 
branch was required in the specific circumstances here. The information Ive seen suggests 
there were other options that couldve been explored by the bank. I also note that the contact 
between Mr C and the bank took place during the global pandemic, at the time where 
critically ill people were recommended to isolate. 
Having listened to the calls on 8 October 2020, I do acknowledge Mr C didnt specifically say 
he was isolating, but Im persuaded that the information he did share, ought reasonably to 
have prompted the banks agents to make further enquiries  specifically within the second 
call. 
Inevitably its very difficult to know exactly what would have happened at the time. From 
what Ive seen, it does appear Mr C had a desire to access his funds that day and so there is 
a possibility that he may not have been happy with other options had Santander suggested 
any  especially if these didnt enable him access to his funds as quickly as he wanted. This 
said, while I dont know for certain how Mr C wouldve responded, I think it is more likely than 
not hed at the very least have thought about other available options had Santander provided 
these, especially if the suggestions didnt require him to attend a branch. 
In light of this, had Mr C not attended a Santander branch, he wouldnt have incurred the £70 
cost for medical transportation to get him there. I agree with our Investigators 
recommendation that Santander should reimburse this cost. Santander has agreed to 
reimburse the £70 - so I make no further recommendation in relation to this point. 
The events following the branch visit  Mr C explained that following the branch visit in October 2020, he caught infections which 
greatly affected his health, which alongside his terminal illness, caused his health to worsen 
further.  
In proceeding with the complaint, Mr W, on behalf of the estate, has explained that he 
considers Santanders reaction and investigation into the fraud report to be inappropriate. He 
feels this exposed Mr C to unnecessary risk both financial and physically.
Mr W feels strongly that the branch visit, whether from the transportation or branch contact 
with staff and the public, was the only possible source for the infection Mr C caught, which 
he says was a significant factor contributing to his death.
It follows that Mr W maintains that had Mr C not been asked to attend a branch, he wouldnt 
have contracted an infection which he was unable to recover from. 
Ive carefully considered all the information thats been provided to me by all parties. In doing 
so, I recognise the very sad circumstances and the difficult time for all involved due to Mr Cs 
passing.  
Our service has been provided with Mr Cs medical history, which Ive carefully reviewed. 
Ive also noted Mr Ws comments that Mr C was adhering to self-isolating guidance at the 
time for those with critical illnesses. Hes said Mr Cs only contact was with him and that this 
was kept to a minimum. I am aware third parties did attend the home, such as health 
professionals and a cleaner but Mr W told us they were never in the same room as Mr C. 
Whilst I know this will disappoint Mr W, Im afraid I am unable to safely conclude that 
Santanders actions of asking Mr C to attend a branch was the cause of the infection. Ive 
reached this finding as I dont think it was a reasonably foreseeable risk to Santander that in 
asking him to attend a branch, he might contract an infection, and that this could then have 
worsened his medical condition which would then contribute to his death. 
I have to bear in mind that whilst Mr W maintains the infection wouldnt and couldnt have 
occurred had it not been for the branch visit, when taking everything into account  the 
medical information given to us, alongside everything weve been told - I cant safely 
conclude that this was the case. In the absence of more conclusive evidence, Im unable to 
definitely say that the visit to the branch was so clearly linked to the infection Mr C caught.
I appreciate Mr W will not agree with this view and it is not my intention to cause further 
upset. It is simply the case that I cannot say with any degree of certainty that the infection 
Mr C caught was as a result of the branch visit on the 8 October 2020 and as a result of 
Santanders instructions. 
Other costs incurred 
Mr C and then later his estate outlined costs incurred as a result of whats happened here. 
These are costs in addition to the medical transportation to attend the branch on 
8 October 2020. 
In summary, the additional costs Mr C feels he incurred as a result of Santanders actions in 
restricting and then blocking his account include, funds paid to a third party who assisted in 
getting groceries and depositing funds into another bank account, the cost of transport to 
obtain a Covid test, costs incurred to collect a prescription and, costs relating to getting to a 
post office and for postage when making his complaint. 
 Ive thought carefully about the breakdown of costs provided but Im afraid I dont find 
Santander liable for these. I will not comment on each of these specifically but summarise 
my findings overall. Ive explained above why I dont find the bank did anything wrong in 
restricting the account. Because of this, Im satisfied Santander isnt liable for the costs paid 
to the third party. And as I am unable to safely conclude that Mr Cs visit to the branch was 
so closely linked to the infection he contracted and that then led to his passing, I cant ask 
Santander to reimburse the costs relating to attending hospital, a Covid test or the cost to 
collect a prescription. 
Lastly, when a customer looks to make a complaint there will be costs incurred as a result of 
this  such as postage costs (dependant on the communication method used to raise a 
complaint). This is not a cost I would expect a bank to reimburse. Im also mindful there are 
other methods in which to make a complaint, for example by telephone or email. 
Overall, having carefully considered all the additional costs outlined by Mr C and his estate, 
Im afraid I dont find Santander liable to refund these costs. Above, Ive set out why I think 
Santander should reimburse the cost for the medical transportation due to him visiting a 
branch on 8 October 2020 so I will not repeat this again here. But for the reasons Ive 
explained, I cant fairly ask Santander to refund any of the other additional costs requested. 
Account closure
Santander has provided a copy of the terms and conditions for the account. I can see this 
says the bank can close the account giving the customer at least two months notice. 
Within Santanders final response letter of 17 October 2020, I can see it explained that 
following a further review, it had made the decision to withdraw Mr Cs banking facilities 
within 60 days. In this letter Santander said it has acted in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the account facility and that the decision to withdraw the banking facilities will 
stand. 
Given whats been said above, Im unable to find Santander has done anything wrong in 
giving Mr C notice of his account closure. Im satisfied Santander has complied with its 
obligations under the terms and conditions of the agreement.
Customer service
Mr C raised further concerns about the service he received from Santander. In particular, 
that he was forced to leave the branch after his visit with a large amount of money on his 
person and that he didnt receive a call back as advised in branch. 
In thinking about these issues, I have considered them together as part of the overall 
customer service Mr C received from Santander. Having done so, Im satisfied the 
recommendation that Santander pay a further £350 compensation, bringing the 
compensation to £400 in total (£50 already paid by Santander) is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case. 
Summary
Id like to assure Mr W that I recognise his strength of feeling about what has happened, as 
the late Mr Cs husband and estate. I understand Mr W feels the bank cant be allowed to 
behave in a way that exposes the health of vulnerable customers to greater risk without 
being held accountable. While I know this will be disappointing to Mr W, I hope he can 
understand why Ive reached the findings I have, for the reasons Ive explained. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Santander UK Plc should: 
Pay an additional £350 compensation (£400 in total including the £50 already paid by 
Santander).
Reimburse the £70 cost for the medical transportation Mr C incurred to attend the 
branch.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr C 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman