DRN-2876855
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that American International Group UK Limited trading as AIG UK 
has turned down a claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G have travel insurance as a benefit of their packaged bank account.
In February 2020, Mr and Mrs G flew to a country Ill call N. They were due to fly back to the 
UK on 29 March 2020. However, on 23 March 2020, the Foreign & Commonwealth Office 
(FCO) advised all UK nationals abroad to return home due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr 
and Mrs Gs airline cancelled their pre-booked flight home as a result of Covid-19 
restrictions. They were able to arrange new flights with a different airline at a cost of around 
£5390 and flew back to the UK on 30 March 2020.
Mr and Mrs G made a claim to AIG for the cost of their new flights. They were able to 
recover a portion of their cancelled flight costs from their original airline, which they deducted 
from the amount of their claim.
AIG turned the claim down. It assessed the claim under the Natural Catastrophe cover. 
However, as the circumstances didnt fall within AIGs definition of a natural catastrophe, it 
concluded the claim wasnt covered. And it said no other section of the policy would cover 
Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances.
Mr and Mrs G were unhappy with AIGs decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Gs complaint should be upheld. He considered the 
policy terms and he didnt think it was unfair for AIG to conclude that the pandemic didnt 
meet its definition of a natural catastrophe. While he acknowledged the situation had been 
unprecedented, he thought it was fair for AIG to set out the risks it did and didnt cover. And 
he didnt think any other section of the policy applied to Mr and Mrs Gs situation. So he felt it 
was fair for AIG to turn the claim down.
Mr and Mrs G disagreed. They didnt think AIG was acting reasonably. They referred to a 
recent court case, concerning another type of insurance. And they felt the policy should 
explain that the definition of a natural catastrophe was an exhaustive list.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs G, I think it was fair for AIG to turn 
down their claim. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So in making my decision, Ive considered, 
amongst other things, the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Gs policy and the 
circumstances of their claim to decide if AIG handled it fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms, as these form the basis of Mr and Mrs Gs contract with 
AIG. AIG assessed the claim under the Natural Catastrophe cover provided by the policy, so 
Ive turned to consider this section first. Sub-section M6 of this section covers additional 
travel expenses a policyholder incurs to get them home. This applies if a policyholders 
return is delayed by more than 24 hours; is due to a natural catastrophe and their original 
carrier isnt able to make alternative arrangements within 72 hours of the booked return date.
As Mr and Mrs Gs trip was effectively extended by a day due to Covid-19 and as they 
incurred extra costs in booking new flights. I think it was reasonable for AIG to look at the 
claim under this section of the policy. So Ive then considered what AIG means by a natural 
catastrophe. This has been set out in the General Definitions section of the policy. AIG has 
defined a natural catastrophe as: volcanic eruption, flood, tsunami, earthquake, landslide, 
hurricane, tornado or wildfire.
In this case, theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs G had to arrange new flights as the result of 
an unprecedented global pandemic, which hugely disrupted travel. While its clear this was 
entirely outside of their control, a pandemic simply isnt included in the specific list of insured 
events AIG has chosen to cover under the natural catastrophe section of the policy. I 
appreciate AIG didnt specifically exclude pandemics from this list, but Im satisfied the 
exhaustive definition makes it clear what risks AIG intends to cover under the natural 
catastrophe section. Generally, its for insurers to decide what risks they do and dont want 
to cover and insurance isnt designed to protect against every eventuality. Here, AIG has 
chosen to cover the natural catastrophes its listed.
So for these reasons, while I sympathise with Mr and Mrs G, because I appreciate theyre 
significantly out of pocket, Ive decided it was fair and reasonable for AIG to conclude that 
their claim simply isnt covered by the natural catastrophe section of the policy. And having 
considered the remaining policy terms, I dont think theres any other section which covers 
the circumstances of their claim. On this basis, I cant fairly direct AIG to settle Mr and Mrs 
Gs claim.
I note Mr and Mrs G have referred to a recent court case, which they feel is relevant to their 
claim. That court case applied to a different insurance product, which covered a significantly 
different risk, with wholly different contractual terms. So I dont think the courts decision has 
any bearing on the outcome of this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman