DRN-2755632
The complaint
Mr C complains that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc failed to contact him at the end of his 
agreement and extended his lease, resulting in him incurring excess mileage charges and 
damage charges.
What happened
In October 2016 Mr C was supplied with a car and entered into an agreement with Hitachi. 
The contract shouldve ended in April 2018.
Mr C says he tried to contact Hitachi to place a renewal order, but did t hear back from them. 
He says he continued to try and contact Hitachi over the next few months and ultimately 
raised a complaint about the lack of communication and the costs of extending his contract.
In response, Hitachi acknowledged that there had been delays in communicating with Mr C 
and offered him £30 compensation. But it said the costs of extending Mr Cs contract and the 
charges for excess mileage were payable.
Mr C continued to use the car because he relied on it for his business. He says he wasnt 
aware that he had signed anything to extend his contract and he wasnt happy with the 
outcome of his complaint.
In May 2019 Mr C received a letter from Hitachi advising him that the car was being 
collected in June 2019. It also advised him that he had been refused finance on a new lease 
because hed failed a credit check.
Mr C complained to Hitachi. In response, Hitachi said it had already dealt with Mr Cs 
complaint about the renewal and the excess rental and mileage charges in its previous final 
response letter.
Mr C wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator issued a jurisdiction view explaining which aspects of Mr Cs complaint this 
service was able to look at. The investigator said this service could look at the declined 
credit application, the excess mileage and the end of contract damage charges and the 
contact Mr C had received from a debt collection company. 
Our investigator then looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He said it was ultimately 
Hitachis decision whether or not to lend to someone and he couldnt hold it responsible for 
not approving Mr Cs credit application. In relation to the excess mileage charges, the 
investigator was satisfied that the charges had been applied in line with the terms and 
conditions of the agreement. In relation to the end of contract damage charges, the 
investigator thought these had been fairly applied. In relation to the debt collection company, 
the investigator said that, irrespective of whether or not a complaint had been made to this 
service, a business was under no obligation to stop pursuing a debt.
Mr C didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Credit application
When a consumer applied for credit, the lender is under an obligation to carry out checks to 
make sure that the lending conditions are met. These checks must be both reasonable and 
proportionate.
I can see that Hitachi carried out a credit check when Mr C applied for a new finance 
agreement. Having done so, it declined the application, and advised Mr C that this was due 
to his past payment history and the amount of other credit he held elsewhere.
I understand why Mr C found the decision disappointing, especially as hed had a finance 
agreement with Hitachi for several years. However, these no obligation on Hitachi to extend 
credit to Mr C simply because it has done so previously. Ultimately, its up to a lender to 
decide whether or not to lend, based on its lending criteria, which can change from time to 
time. Taking this into account, Im unable to say that Hitachi has acted unfairly in declining 
the credit application.
Excess mileage charges and end of contract damage charges
Ive looked at Mr Cs agreement. This says that his mileage allowance is 22,650 over the 
term of the agreement. The mileage allowance is clearly set out in the agreement and Mr C 
has signed to say he agrees to be bound by the terms.
I can see that when the car was serviced in April 2018 (the month when the agreement was 
due to end), the mileage was 26,581. This means that Mr C had already exceeded the 
mileage allowance by 3,931 miles. Based on the terms of the agreement, these 3,931 miles 
would be chargeable at 0.0773 pence per mile plus VAT.
When the car was returned in June 2019, the mileage was 51,601. This means that Mr C 
had covered a further 25,020 miles in around 14 months. This exceeded the mileage 
allowance for April 2018  June 2019 by around 12,000 miles, which again would be 
chargeable at 0.00773 pence per mile plus VAT in line with the terms of the agreement. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im unable to say that Hitachi has made an error in calculating 
excess mileage.
Following inspection of the car, Hitachi asked Mr C to pay charges for damage which it said 
went beyond acceptable wear and tear. Mr C disputes the charges.
Ive looked at the agreement. This says that Mr C is responsible for any damage which goes 
beyond acceptable wear and tear. Ive had regard to the BVLRA guidelines which are 
accepted as an industry standard to decide whether damage exceeds fair wear and tear. Ive 
also looked at the inspection report and the items of damage.
Having done so, Im of the view that all of the damage exceeds acceptable wear and tear in 
accordance with the BVLRA guidelines. Im therefore unable to say that Hitachi has applied 
the damage charges unfairly.
Contact from debt collection companyI understand why Mr C is upset that the debt was referred to a debt collection company, and 
that he was pursued even though hed complained to this service.
Theres no obligation on Hitachi to place a hold on pursuing a debt when a complaint is 
made to this service. This service can ask a lender to place a hold on recovery but 
ultimately, we have no power to require this.
I do understand how upsetting it can be to receive letters from debt collection companies 
and Im sorry to hear that Mr C found this distressing  but having considered everything Im 
unable to say that Hitachi has done anything wrong. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman