DRN-2075023
The complaint
Miss S complains that Vanquis Bank Limited didnt raise a chargeback in respect of a 
holiday villa which didnt meet expectations. 
What happened
In Miss S arranged to rent a holiday villa abroad for her family. She did so using an online 
booking company I will call B. The villa was supplied by a third party I will call V. She paid B 
using her Vanquis credit card.
Miss S has said the villa had numerous faults, such as raw sewage being discharged, 
broken blinds, a broken pool table, poor water pressure and ineffective heating of the pool 
amongst other issues. She has sent photos and videos which show these problems. 
She complained to V and it addressed some of the faults and it also offered her alternative 
accommodation. Miss S and her family stayed for the entirety of the booking. Vanquis 
rejected her claim and she brought a complaint to this service.
It was considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. After 
seeking clarification of the events, he concluded that Vanquis had given proper 
consideration to a chargeback claim and that section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1975 
didnt apply. Miss S didnt agree and asked that the matter be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role in this matter is to consider the complaint against Vanquis. I do not have the power 
to address any complaint against either B or V. That said there are two routes by which a 
consumer, such as Miss S can seek redress from a credit card company, one is by a 
chargeback and the other is by making a claim under section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1975. 
I will deal with each separately. However, firstly I would wish to say that I do not dispute Miss 
Ss claims about the state of the villa.
Chargeback is a process that is provided by the Card Scheme- in this case MasterCard. It 
allows customers to ask for a transaction to be reversed if there's a problem with the goods 
or services they've paid for. There's no automatic right to a chargeback.  Nor is chargeback 
a guaranteed method of getting a refund. MasterCard checks the nature of the problem 
against the possible chargeback reasons to see whether the claim will be successful. If the 
bank feels that a claim won't be successful, they don't have to raise a chargeback.
There are limited grounds for a chargeback claim and Vanquis says it considered one under 
failure to provide the service, but as Miss S and her family had made use of the villa it didnt 
consider that would be successful. I must admit that I agree with that conclusion. If a claim 
had been made the merchant could simply have rejected it and although an appeal could 
have been made that too would have been highly unlikely to succeed. Rather than go down 
this fruitless route Vanquis took a fair and reasonable decision to offer Miss S a goodwill 
gesture of £250.
Turing now to section 75 this offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit 
to make purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right 
to claim against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if 
there has been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
In this matter the debtor is Miss S, the creditor is Vanquis and the supplier is V. That means 
the chain as required by the law has been broken by the addition of B. When the chain is 
broken section 75 has no effect. In its terms and conditions B makes it clear it acts as an 
intermediary: 
By using or utilizing the Trip Service (e.g. by making a Trip Reservation through the Trip 
Service), you enter into a direct (legally binding) contractual relationship with the Trip 
Provider with which you make a reservation or purchase a product or service (as applicable). 
From the point at which you make your Trip Reservation, we act solely as an intermediary 
between you and the Trip Provider, transmitting the relevant details of your Trip Reservation 
to the relevant Trip Provider(s) and sending you a confirmation email for and on behalf of the 
Trip Provider. [B] does not (re)sell, rent out, offer any (travel) product or service.
This means that section 75 does not apply to Miss Ss transaction and so I cannot direct 
Vanquis to offer her any redress. I appreciate Miss S will be disappointed by my decision, 
but there are no grounds that would allow me to uphold her complaint. 
My final decision
Vanquis Bank Limited has already made an offer to pay £250 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.  So my decision is that Vanquis Bank Limited 
should pay £250 if it has not already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman