DRN-2294970
The complaint
Mrs H complained that Great Lakes Insurance SE failed to compensate her for the 
inconvenience she experienced when her car was written off following a roadside assistance 
call-out. 
What happened
In January 2019 Mrs H took out a roadside assistance policy underwritten by Great Lakes 
and administered by a third-party company.
Some months later, Mrs Hs car broke down and she contacted Great Lakes. Arrangements 
were made for a third-party business, who Ill refer to as Company A, to attend the call out. 
The problems with Mrs Hs car couldnt be dealt with at the roadside and her car needed to 
be moved. As her car was being put on the rescue truck, the cable holding it snapped and 
the car came off the truck and was damaged. Company A accepted liability and referred the 
matter to its insurer, who wrote Mrs Hs car off and settled Mrs Hs claim.  
Mrs H then complained to Great Lakes as she felt some compensation for the inconvenience 
caused by Company As actions was appropriate. She said shes had to take out finance to 
buy a new car, had to spend a good deal of time looking for a new car and had to sort out 
the insurance claim with Company As insurer.
Great Lakes responded to Mrs Hs complaint and didnt uphold it. It said it uses a wide 
network of recovery agents who attend to customer breakdowns. The accident involving her 
vehicle was caused by Company A and it has accepted liability. So any claim will need to be 
processed by them and any complaint about this matter will have to be raised with them. 
Mrs H was unhappy with the response and so complained to this service. She said she 
experienced a great deal of inconvenience after her car was written off, including making 
arrangements to buy a car quickly, as she and her family were due to go on a driving holiday 
within the following two weeks. 
Our investigator upheld Mrs Hs complaint. He said Company A were instructed by Great 
Lakes and so werent acting in an independent capacity. He said this means its liable for the 
actions of its agents and should pay £200 compensation and refund any provable losses. 
Great Lakes didnt agree and said the policy indicates that the recovery operators are 
independent technicians. It said this means they have their own insurance and are not under 
the direct control or instruction of the roadside assistance provider, who merely facilitate 
attendance at a breakdown. It said this matter should be pursued by Mrs Hs own motor 
insurers and Company As own insurers, who have accepted liability. It said Great Lakes has 
no liability or authority in this matter. 
As Great Lakes did not agree with what our investigator said, this has come to me for a 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am upholding this complaint. 
I can understand Mrs H must have found it frustrating to have her car written off in these 
unusual circumstances. And its fair to say she was inconvenienced beyond the original 
inconvenience of her car breaking down. I say this because she had to liaise with Company 
As insurers about the claim, arrange to buy a new car and deal with car hire. And its 
because Im satisfied that Mrs H was inconvenienced in this way that I think its fair for her to 
receive compensation. 
What I need to look at here is whether Great Lakes are in any way liable for the 
inconvenience Mrs H experienced and whether it should pay compensation. 
Great Lakes has said it shouldnt have to pay compensation because Company A are 
independent technicians who are not under the control or instruction of the roadside 
assistance provider. But I dont agree that this means Great Lakes shouldnt have to pay 
compensation. 
Although Company A has accepted liability and its insurer has paid Mrs Hs claim, Mrs Hs 
contract for roadside assistance provision is with the roadside assistance provider and, 
therefore, its underwriter Great Lakes. She does not have a contractual relationship with 
Company A. If it had been the case that Company A didnt accept liability in this matter, then 
Mrs H could have submitted the full claim to Great Lakes, as the company contracted to 
provide the roadside assistance service. 
Mrs H has provided evidence to show she received a settlement from Company As insurers 
that covered the cost of her car being written off and a payment for waiver of car hire excess. 
But Company A didnt compensate her for the inconvenience she experienced. And because 
Company A has opted to cover only the actual financial loss suffered by Mrs H, I think it was 
reasonable for Mrs H to submit a claim to Great Lakes in relation to the inconvenience she 
experienced. And Im satisfied Great Lakes should pay compensation in the amount of £200 
to Mrs H. 
I looked at whether there were any other provable losses that it might be appropriate for 
Mrs H to be refunded for. Mrs H mentioned having to pay for parking permits, as well as 
some other costs, but unfortunately, she hadnt kept receipts to show the additional costs 
incurred. While I dont doubt that Mrs H most likely incurred some additional costs, I dont 
think it would be fair to ask Great Lakes to provide a refund for expenses that cant be 
proved. 
I know Mrs H also said she had to borrow money in order to buy her replacement car. While 
this will have been an additional cost for Mrs H, it does mean Mrs H was able to buy a car 
that cost more than the value of her old car and so she now has the benefit of a higher value 
car. So it wouldnt be fair to ask Great Lakes to refund Mrs H for the cost of borrowing 
money to buy a more expensive car. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I require Great Lakes Insurance SE to pay 
the sum of £200 to Mrs H. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman