DRN-4192037
The complaint
Mr P complains that QIC Europe Limited havent repaired his windscreen to an acceptable 
standard after he made a claim on his motor insurance policy. 
I note that for the most part, this complaint relates to the actions of QICs agents, who 
carried out the repairs and dealt with Mr P throughout. However, for consistency, I have 
referred to QIC throughout this decision, as it is ultimately responsible for the actions of its 
agents in relation to a claim made on its insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2023, Mr P made a claim on his motor insurance policy for a windscreen repair. 
Once the repair had been completed, Mr P noticed that there was a ripple in the glass and 
so he contacted QICs agent to request a replacement.
Repairs were carried out again in January 2023, however, Mr P says the glass was faulty 
again  it included another ripple which was also causing condensation on the windscreen. 
QIC agreed to order some different glass and replace the windscreen again.
Mr P was unhappy with what had happened and requested compensation, to which he was 
offered £60.
Mr P wasnt happy with the offer. He said that QICs agent had hung up on him, it had 
cancelled an appointment, caused him inconvenience on a number of occasions and 
ultimately, he still didnt have a windscreen without defects. 
Our Investigator considered Mr Ps complaint and upheld it. They thought that Mr P had 
been caused inconvenience by the faulty glass on more than one occasion  so they thought 
that an award of £150 was more appropriate.
QIC accepted the Investigators view. However, Mr P didnt and raised a number of points as 
to why he didnt think the compensation award was enough.
Because Mr P didnt agree, his complaint was passed to me to make a decision on the 
matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all of the available evidence, I will be upholding Mr Ps complaint, for 
much of the same reasons as the Investigator.
Its not in dispute here that, on two occasions, QICs agents fitted a windscreen that had 
defects. Understandably, this would be frustrating and inconvenient for Mr P. 
I can see that one appointment to fit the windscreen was cancelled by QICs agents because 
the new windscreen hadnt yet arrived. The agent let Mr P know about this before the 
appointment, and a new appointment arranged. Again, I accept that this must have been 
frustrating, but I think QIC did the right thing here by letting Mr P know in advance that it 
couldnt carry out the repairs as planned. 
I have noted that Mr P has been in contact with QICs agents several times. I can see that on 
one occasion it couldnt speak to him because he hadnt passed security. And a separate 
occasion where the call ended. Mr P feels that the service provided on these calls was poor, 
in that it wouldnt speak to him without going through security, and he felt one agent hung up 
on him. Having listened to the calls, I dont agree with Mr P here. Its important that firms 
check theyre speaking to the right person, and I wouldnt expect it to continue with a call 
where it couldnt verify the person they were speaking to. It isnt clear exactly what happened 
on the call when it disconnected. However, I dont think the call disconnected as a result of 
the agent intentionally doing so. 
Mr P said that as a result of the claim, he has paid an excess to QIC for the repairs and he 
now has a fault claim marked against him. The terms and conditions of Mr Ps policy say that 
an excess is payable for windscreen repairs. A fault claim will normally be recorded where 
an insurer cant recover the costs of the claim and is a normal way of recording the claim in 
these circumstances. It follows, that Im not going to ask QIC to do anything more for Mr P in 
relation to these things  because theyre all things I would have expected to happen as a 
result of the claim. I accept that it has taken some time to sort out the repairs to the 
windscreen, however this doesnt mean it was unfair or unreasonable of QIC to have taken 
the action it has.
 
That said, I can see that Mr P has been inconvenienced by whats happened with his 
windscreen and has had to spend a fair amount of time trying to resolve matters. When 
considering compensation, I have thought about what Mr P has told this service about the 
impact caused to him and taken in account this services normal approach to distress and 
inconvenience awards, and having done so, I find that £150 is enough to compensate Mr P 
here. 
I have noted that Mr P has made reference to his insurance premiums having increased as a 
result of the claim. Successful claims can impact the premiums charged by an underwriter, 
so it isnt unusual that a premium would increase because of the claim  and generally this 
service wouldnt comment on how an insurer, determines the price of the premium. There 
are many other factors that an insurer will consider when determining the cost of the 
premium it charges, so its possible that any increase may not be related to the claim. If Mr P 
would like this point looking into specifically, then hell need to raise this as a new complaint 
with QIC. 
It isnt clear if Mr P has yet had his windscreen repaired. But based on the information I have 
seen, QIC are willing to replace the windscreen and had been trying to contact Mr P to 
arrange an appointment for the new screen to be fitted. Mr P will need to contact QIC to 
arrange another windscreen replacement if he hasnt done so already. 
Putting things right
QIC should put things right for Mr P by paying him £150 for the inconvenience it has caused 
him. I note that QIC has already offered to pay Mr P £60  if it has already paid this to him it 
can deduct this from the £150.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ps complaint. QIC Europe Ltd should put things 
right for Mr P by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman