DRN-3153122
The complaint
Miss W has complained that Herts Insurance Consultants Ltd trading as Flux Direct unfairly
cancelled her smart box motor policy, refused to deal with her claim under that policy and
caused her new premium to be substantially higher.
Miss W is represented formally at this service by her mother but at times by her father in that
most of the correspondence is from her father. So, for clarity I shall just refer to Miss W
throughout as far as possible.
  
What happened
Miss W said she passed her driving test in May 2019 with her policy changing to a
comprehensive policy as a result. A smart box was fitted to her car and appeared to be
working fine. Later in May 2019 a personalised number plate was fitted to her with an
additional premium payable of £30.
In July 2019 Miss W said Flux Direct spoke with her mother stating it urgently needed to
speak with Miss W. It transpired the smart box wasnt transmitting the data properly.
On 5 August 2019, Miss W said she was involved in minor accident with another car. Miss W
was of the view neither car was damaged. and no one was injured. However, the other driver
notified their own insurer so Flux Direct talked with Miss W about the incident. At that time, it
appeared it couldnt find her policy details either.
Later the other driver made contact with Miss W, saying their insurance company couldnt
find Miss Ws policy. This other driver was claiming damage to her car plus personal injury.
On 30 August 2019, Miss W was starting a new job as a carer which meant her policy
needed to be changed to business use as she would be going from house to house. Flux
Direct couldnt find Miss W policy details. And it said there was no policy as it had been
cancelled. It also explained it had emailed Miss W, on 16 July with a notice of cancellation
effective from 23 July. This meant her policy was cancelled from 23 July.
And she later discovered some of the premium paid had being refunded to her mothers 
credit card.
Flux Direct provided a new policy for Miss W but her premium increased which her father
then paid. Unfortunately, there was no cover for Miss Ws accident on 5 August.
Flux Direct said it had already issued the seven-day cancellation letter on 16 July and issued
Miss W with a new lead for her smart box. Then it said it didnt hear from Miss W, so her
policy cancelled in line with the seven-day cancellation letter. Further it confirmed no data
was received from that smart box since 16 July. However, it also said it first notified Miss W
on 2 July, that her smart box wasnt transmitting data.
So, it didnt think it had done anything wrong. Miss W disagreed and brought her complaint
to us. The investigator also didnt think Flux Direct had done anything wrong. Miss W
disagreed so her complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 19 October and I said the following:
The issue here that Miss W believes Flux Direct failed to contact her effectively or at 
all concerning its issues with her smart box not providing any data. This effectively 
cancelled her policy, which again Miss W believes wasnt communicated to her, 
leaving her uninsured and with no cover for this claim against her following a minor 
road traffic accident. Along with her new policy costing substantially more, as a 
consequence.
Flux Direct has shown me it had the correct email address on its file for Miss W. Her 
fathers email address wasnt added it seemed, until the second policy was set up.
Flux Directs file shows contact was made setting up the new policy on 13 May 2019. 
It shows further contact on 31 May 2019 showing the insurer sent out the policy 
documents. This would have been by email since contact by email was confirmed in 
the policy set up. The call recordings show Miss Ws father calling to put on the 
personalised number plate on her policy on 31 May 2019. And previously on 13 May 
2019 it shows two calls with Miss Ws mother setting up the policy and paying for it.
It also shows Miss W was chased for documents which Flux Direct needed to see on 
3 June 2019 and 21 June 2019 and 27 June 2019, by email.
On 2 July 2019 the call recordings show Flux Direct called Miss W and Ive listened 
to that call. There seemed to be some previous contact from Miss W taking about the 
journeys were showing on the smart box app. However, Flux Direct hasnt detailed 
any previous communications about this and it didnt seem Miss W was aware of 
them either. However, she was told to reset her box and the adviser explained to her 
how to do this. She was to call to back if she was unsuccessful. And an email would 
be sent. That email was sent by Flux Direct at 09.23 on 2 July 2019.
On 16 July 2019 there are two call recordings, one which Miss Ws mother answered 
where Flux Direct were looking to speak with Miss W.
And the second when Miss W then calls back a little later. This is long call recording 
trying to sort out the issues with the data from the smart box and trying to work out if 
the lead was working and if the smart box was charging. In this call, crucially the 
problem with the lack of a specific declaration was also dealt with. The Flux adviser 
goes through with her how to access her policy on line and how to show the relevant 
document required was signed by her and sent back. He said he sent her an email 
showing her how to get into her policy on line. There is no record of this email on 
Flux Directs file. None the less Miss W appears to have received it but theres no 
record of that email on Flux Directs file from what I can see. Then he leads her 
through what she needs to access on the online portal over the phone. She had 
some difficulties logging in too. But its clear she thought she had sent the relevant
form back into the portal. The call ends with the adviser noting she had sent it all, but 
the notification hadnt reached him, but he assured her it would take some time.
Flux Directs file then shows it posted out a new lead by its letter dated 17 July 2019.
However, at pretty much the same time as the call recordings on 16 July, Flux 
Directs file shows us that the notification of the cancellation which comprised two 
letters explaining the smart box wasnt charging and that the policy will cancel on 23 
July 2019 if the smart box wasnt plugged in. This was sent by email at 13.51 on 16 
July 2019.On 24 July 2019, the call recordings show Flux Direct left a message on a mobile 
phone asking for Miss W and saying she needed to return the call today or otherwise 
her policy would be cancelled that day. It was left as a voicemail at 13.56. There is 
another call recording to a mobile phone at on 26 July 2019 14.53, but no message 
was left. And theres another call recording at a few seconds later at 14.53 where a 
man answers and explains that Miss W (not Mr W) doesnt live here anymore. That 
man doesnt appear to be Miss Ws father as in its a different voice.
And lastly a letter confirming the policy was cancelled dated 6 August 2019 as from 
midnight on 23 July and explaining there might be a premium refund. This was sent 
by email at 15.46 on 6 August 2019.
From the contents of the call recording of 16 July, it does seem Miss W had 
ostensibly completed the relevant form or document Flux Direct required and that it 
was sending out a new lead to her to see if that made her box work. Its also clear 
from Miss W in talking to the adviser that the smart box was fully charged. In the 
absence of any evidence to contrary it appears to me that the problems with the 
smart box not sending data to Flux Direct was most likely down to a faulty lead or a 
faulty smart box and that cant be the fault of Miss W. However other than the 
attempts to call Miss W again on 24 July and 26 July no further communication was 
sent.
The contents of the call recording on 16 July in my view override the ability to cancel 
this policy until it was ascertained that the new lead worked in the smart box and the 
relevant document was actually received on the online portal which was sent by Miss 
W whilst she was on the phone with the adviser on 16 July. Granted there were 
attempted calls on 24 July and 26 July, but the cancellation process started on 16 
July due to no data being received should have been restarted again, given this very 
long call with the adviser on 16 July. This is because the adviser never mentioned at 
all to Miss W that her the cancellation process of her policy had started on the same 
day whatsoever. He did mention he would send out the new lead and did say she 
needed to call them to tell her it was working but that was at the very beginning of a 
call lasting over 25 minutes. He never reiterated that at the end of the call again and 
not once did he mention anything about the cancellation process having been 
started. At the end of the call he merely mentioned was there anything else he could 
help her with. I dont consider that adequate given the contents of the cancellation 
letter sent out the same day.
It is nonetheless finely balanced. The policy was set up for communication by email 
and its clear Miss W wasnt reading any of them. Thats not Flux Directs fault also. 
But on balance given the contents of the call recording of 16 July, I think Miss W was 
entirely unaware any cancellation process had started at all. There was no further 
email before 24 July with the only message stating it would cancel that day when in 
fact the cancellation confirmation letter said it cancelled in any event on 23 July.
Consequently, I consider this cancellation was unclear and grossly confused. The 
adviser in the call on 16 July should have explained the situation to Miss W, as he 
had ample time to do so and given the contents of that call recording, it was 
premature to issue or start any cancellation process. The adviser also should have 
reiterated the importance of Miss W calling Flux Direct once her new lead was 
received and indeed calling it if the new lead wasnt received for whatever reason.I can hear on the call that Miss W was trying hard to follow all the instructions about 
the form and indeed the smart box and its perfectly clear to me she was totally 
unaware her policy was even at risk of being cancelled at all.
So, I intend to uphold this complaint. I think Flux Direct needs to stand in the shoes of 
the insurer enabling the claim by other driver to be properly indemnified, the 
cancellation marker needs to be removed from Miss Ws record and the extra 
premium charged as a result of this cancellation needs to be refunded with interest.
All this has caused some inconvenience to Miss W for which I consider Flux Direct 
should pay her £200. 
Miss W accepted my provisional decision and explained that the other driver pursued her 
claim against Miss W through the Motor Insurers Bureau (MIB). Her father settled and paid 
the claim in the sum of £2,432.  And said he would prefer this wasnt registered as a claim 
against Miss Ws record.
Flux Direct didnt agree with my provisional decision. It said that because her app should 
have told her the smart box wasnt charging, so that should have prompted her to contact it 
again.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so again, it remains my decision that Im upholding this complaint on the basis I 
outlined in my provisional decision. 
I dont understand the point Flux Direct is trying to make in disagreeing with the provisional 
decision. It had decided to trigger a cancellation process on 16 July when during a phone 
with its adviser it was confirmed the smart box was charging. However, on that same day, its 
adviser went through a very lengthy call with Miss W trying to sort out her smart box 
culminating in him arranging to send Miss W a new lead. However, by that stage the 
cancellation process had already been triggered and the adviser never said a word about 
that on the call.
So even if the cancellation process hadnt been triggered when he was talking to Miss W, it 
should most certainly not have been triggered after his call, since he was sending out a new 
lead to her. Its simply not reasonable given the contents of the call on 16 July that the 
cancellation process was also triggered on the same day. 
Miss Ws father said he didnt want the claim from the other driver to be on Miss Ws 
insurance record. But theres no reason why it shouldnt be on her record, the accident 
happened and given the other driver pursued a claim and had to pursue that claim through 
the MIB and Miss Ws father paid that claim back to the MIB does mean it exists as a claim 
on Miss W record and indeed a fault claim on her record. Even if the policy hadnt been 
wrongly cancelled, the fact the accident happened cant be undone. There could possibly 
have been better negotiation on whose fault the accident was, but the likelihood of 
successfully defending the claim as non-fault tends to be fairly remote in situations where it 
was likely the MIB would award the claimant. So, Im of the view the claim should be 
properly recorded. Even if there was no payment made to the other driver the fact that the 
accident occurred in any event can still nonetheless affect future payments for a time. 
As this claim has been paid, I consider Flux Direct should reimburse Miss W with interest.My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Herts Insurance Consultants Ltd trading as Flux Direct to do the
following:
Remove the cancellation marker from Miss Ws insurance record.
Refund the extra premium charged on her policies since as a result of the 
cancellation. Adding interest of 8% simple per year from the date of payment for the 
second policy to the date of refund and also from the date of the payment for the third 
policy to the date of refund, assuming it was still affected by the cancellation.
Stand in the shoes of the insurer providing full indemnity for the claim against Miss W 
arising out the accident, and since Miss Ws father has discharged this claim on Miss 
Ws behalf in the sum of £2,432 it should now refund that amount to Miss W, adding 
interest of 8% simple per year from the date the claim was paid to the date it refunds 
Miss W.
Pay Miss W the sum of £200 compensation.
If income tax is to be deducted from the interest, appropriate documentation should 
be provided to Miss W for HMRC purposes.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman