DRN-2041014
 
The complaint
Mr Q complains that Shelby Finance Limited (trading as Dot Dot Loans) was irresponsible to
lend to him.
What happened
Mr Q had three loans from Dot Dot Loans between December 2017 and April 2018 as
follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Monthly 
RepaymentDue Repaid
1 18 Dec 2017 £250 3m £123.00 29 Mar 2018 31 Jan 2018
2 3 Feb 2018 £250 3m £117.11 30 Apr 2018 On time
3 30 Apr 2018 £300 3m £143.35 31 Jul 2018 Outstanding
Mr Q says Dot Dot Loans should never have approved the loans as he had multiple other
short-term loans and a significant amount of debt on four credit cards. He said he was now
in severe financial difficulty.
Dot Dot Loans says it asked Mr Q for information about his income and outgoings and
checked his credit file. It says it adjusted Mr Qs declared expenditure based upon what it
found in his credit file. Dot Dot Loans says its checks were proportionate to the size of the
loans and it calculated Mr Q had sufficient disposable income to make the repayments.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He found that Dot Dot
Loans had carried out proportionate checks and there was nothing in the available
information to indicate the lending was unsustainable.
Mr Q responded to say, in summary, that he had multiple other short-term loans, as well as
money outstanding on credit cards. He says a quick check of his credit file should have
shown further loans were unaffordable.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision to Mr Q and to Dot Dot Loans on 21 July 2020. I summarise 
my findings here:
I was satisfied Dot Dot Loans carried out proportionate checks for loan 1, but found the 
information showed Mr Q was having trouble managing his money;
The credit check showed Mr Q had at least seven other short-term loans outstanding 
when he applied for loan 1. In these circumstances, I though Dot Dot Loans ought to 
have realised it was unlikely Mr Q would have been able to sustainably repay a further 
loan. So I found it was irresponsible for Dot Dot Loans to have approved loan 1;
The credit check that Dot Dot Loans carried out for loan 2 also showed Mr Q had 
multiple other short-term loans. So I was satisfied that Mr Q continued to struggle to 
manage his money and Dot Dot Loans should have realised it was unlikely he would 
have been able to sustainably repay loan 2  and any subsequent loans.
So my provisional decision was to uphold Mr Qs complaint about all three loans.
Mr Q accepted my provisional decision and Dot Dot Loans responded to say it had no further 
information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided any additional information, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Qs complaint. Shelby Finance Limited (trading as Dot Dot 
Loans) should:
Refund all interest and charges that Mr Q paid on loans 1, 2 and 3;
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement*;
Write off any unpaid interest and charges for loan 3, apply the refund to reduce 
any capital outstanding and pay any balance to Mr Q;
Remove any negative information about loans 1, 2 and 3 from Mr Qs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Dot Dot Loans to take off tax from this interest and give 
Mr Q a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. If Dot Dot Loans 
intends to apply the refund to reduce a capital balance, it must do so after deducting tax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2020. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman