DRN-3266111
The complaint
Mrs S referred a complaint to this service last year. In it, she said four sets of new evidence 
had been obtained to support a complaint she made about Henyep Capital Markets (UK) 
Limited (HCMUK) in 2016. 
The 2016 complaint was about alleged unreasonable margin adjustment in her HCMUK 
trading account around the time of the UK Brexit vote in 2016. [issue 1] 
What happened
One of our investigators explained to Mrs S that a November 2016 Ombudsman decision 
from this service already addressed and concluded the 2016 complaint, so it will not be 
revisited. He also explained that if she has any regulatory concerns about HCMUK she 
should consider raising them with the FCA, as this service is not the industry regulator.     
Mrs S did not accept these explanations. She said her complaint extends to the following 
additional allegations:
She was threatened by HCMUKs staff, in 2016, in relation to the 2016 margin 
adjustment complaint; and she was threatened again by its staff more recently in 
March 2021. [issue 2]
HCMUK has breached money laundering regulations and its terms and conditions 
(sections 4.7 and 9.2, previously section 4.4 and 5.1i), with regards to payments 
processing. This affected her trading/account management and it caused her a 
financial loss. [issue 3]
HCMUKs payment transfer requirement was unfair to her because it gave her a time 
limit of three and a half days to transfer $50,000, but foreign exchange controls in her 
home nation limit daily transfers to a maximum of $10,000, so $50,000 could not be 
transferred in three and a half days. [issue 4]
The investigator issued his view on the complaint, in which he addressed both our 
jurisdiction and the complaints merits. He concluded mainly as follows:
He repeated that issue 1 will not be revisited as it was addressed and concluded in 
the Ombudsmans decision of November 2016.
He noted that issue 4 was a part of the complaint about issue 1 in 2016, so this too 
will not be revisited because the Ombudsmans decision in 2016 also addressed 
issue 4 (in terms of the timeframe Mrs S had to deposit funds).
He said Mrs S was a customer of HCMUK between 2012 and 2018; HCMUK is 
regulated by the FCA; her HCMUK account was closed in 2018 with a zero balance; 
she then operated a trading account with Henyep Company HYCM Ltd (H Co.) 
between 2018 and 2019 and was its customer during this period; H Co. is not 
regulated by the FCA, it is regulated by the Cayman Islands Monetary Authority; in 
2019 her account was transferred to Henyep Company HYCM Limited (H Co.2), 
which is also not regulated by the FCA and is registered in St. Vincent and the 
Grenadines. This service can consider complaints only from consumers who are 
customers of a regulated firm, so we can address only Mrs S complaint about 
HCMUK and only issues up to when her account transferred in 2018, after which she 
was no longer its customer. As such, this service can address only the alleged threat 
from HCMUKs staff in 2016 [under issue 2] and the alleged payments processing 
difficulties between 2012 and 2018 [under issue 3].
He did not uphold the complaint (under issues 2 and 3). He said there was no 
supporting evidence of a threat being made by HCMUK to Mrs S in 2016 or evidence 
of a complaint about that at the time  HCMUK has no record of either  and that 
there was no supporting evidence that payment processing problems with HCMUK 
affected her ability to manage her account between 2012 and 2018.
Mrs S disagreed with the investigators findings on jurisdiction and merit. She made a 
number of submissions in support of all her complaint issues, all of which she said should be 
addressed. The same was done by a third party who appears to have been her 
representative. The investigator did not change his view(s) and the matter of our jurisdiction 
was referred to me. I issued a Jurisdiction Decision (JD) in January 2022 and my 
conclusions included the following:
This service can address Mrs S complaint against HCMUK because she is an eligible 
complainant; but she is an eligible complainant only with regards to issues that occurred 
between when her HCMUK account was opened in 2012 and the date on which that account 
was closed in 2018; because this is the period in which she was a consumer and was a 
customer of HCMUK; for issues outside this period, she is not an eligible complainant and 
this service cannot address such issues against HCMUK.
The 2016 decision addressed and concluded issues 1 and 4. The ombudsman found that 
HCMUKs margin adjustment was not unreasonable and was within what its contractual right 
and discretion. He also found that the relevant timeframe  even for international 
customers  was not unreasonable. I understand that Mrs S considers she has since 
obtained new evidence for the complaint, but as quoted above she would need to establish 
that  material new evidence which the Ombudsman considers likely to affect the outcome 
has subsequently become available . 
Overall, I do not find that there is material new evidence which is likely to affect the outcome 
of the Ombudsmans 2016 decision on issues 1 and 4. Those issues have already been 
determined in his decision so I dismiss them presently. As explained above, addressing their 
merits will seriously impair the effective operation of this service.
Issues 1 and 4 are dismissed.
In issue 2, only the allegation that HCMUKs staff threatened Mrs S in 2016 is within our 
jurisdiction.
In issue 3, only the allegation about payment processing problems up to 2018 is within our 
jurisdiction.
In response to the JD Mrs S mainly questioned whether (or not) the JD was concluded with 
awareness and consideration of all the evidence she submitted, she referred to the 
importance of addressing her money laundering allegation, she referred to communication 
she received from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) with regards to the concerns 
about HCMUK she submitted to them and she referred to having evidence of a regulatory 
and payments processing breach by HCMUK whereby, she alleges, its Hong Kong office 
(under HCMUKs control) unlawfully took deposits without a license to do so in Hong Kong and that this obviously affected her account transactions. Quite recently, Mrs S also 
requested that I should be informed about HCMUK appointing an investigator who has 
contacted her and that I should be reminded that  
HYCM has committed the following illegal acts: 
1.Threaten customers.
2.Unlicensed operation of HongKong office.
3.Suspected of money laundering.
4.Suspected problematic platform.
Mrs S case has returned to me for the consideration of its merits.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Summary
Having reviewed Mrs S complaint, I have reached the same conclusion on merits that was 
delivered by the investigator. The complaint is not upheld. I have considered the evidence 
submitted to us by both sides. I too cannot find supporting evidence for Mrs S allegation that 
she was threatened by HCMUKs staff in 2016 and I cannot find evidence to support the 
allegation that her operation of the trading account was affected by payments processing 
problems caused by HCMUK (or for which HCMUK is responsible). In response to Mrs S 
query about my access to documents that have been submitted, I confirm that I have had 
access to the same case file that the investigator had access to.
Based on Mrs S submissions after the JD, she appears to retain her initial view that all her 
complaint issues should be addressed. I appreciate that she feels strongly about all the 
issues she raised. However, as I set out clearly in the JD, this service is obliged to operate 
within the jurisdiction rules (including, and/or extending to, the rules and guidance on our 
discretion to dismiss a complaint). The JD also made clear that the only two issues for which 
merits will be determined are  the allegation that HCMUKs staff threatened Mrs S in 2016 
 and  the allegation about payment processing problems up to 2018 ; and that all 
other issues raised by Mrs S are either outside our jurisdiction or are dismissed (for the 
reasons given in the JD).
It follows from the above, that I will not be addressing the submissions Mrs S has made 
about the money laundering she alleges and about her allegation of malpractice at HCMUKs 
Hong Kong office (if this is the correct definition of this office). If what she refers to as a 
suspected problematic platform is the same as the alleged payment processing problems up 
to 2018 then that will be addressed, otherwise it would appear to be a new issue  or one 
outside the scope set by the JD  which will not be addressed. In the JD I said  
As the investigator explained, this service is not a financial services regulator. We are also 
not a law enforcement entity. We are an alternative dispute resolution entity with 
responsibility to address disputes that are within our jurisdiction. It is therefore beyond our 
jurisdiction and purpose to conduct investigations into Mrs S concerns as she has 
requested. It appears that she has raised those concerns with appropriate authorities 
Mrs S engagement or contact with the FCA appears to be ongoing and, as I said in the JD, 
we are not the industry regulator or a law enforcement entity. As such, I will not be addressing the regulatory breaches and unlawful activities she has alleged against HCMUK 
in her claims and I make no comment on those allegations or their credibility.
Issue 2 (only the allegation that HCMUKs staff threatened Mrs S in 2016) 
In straightforward terms, there is no available evidence to support this allegation or to 
establish that it was presented to HCMUK as a complaint in 2016 (or, it seems, at any point 
before last years complaint). This allegation does not feature in the Ombudsmans decision 
of 2016. There is record of the investigator informing HCMUK about this allegation in June 
last year and in its response of 30 June 2021 HCMUK expressed its surprise at the 
allegation (and the others) because it had not previously heard about it and because Mrs S 
remained a client of the wider Henyep Group of companies and had been an active trader 
(conducting trading up to as recent as 28 June (two days before its response) and still 
depositing funds for her trading), but had never mentioned this complaint (or the others). 
The implications that arise are that there is nothing other than Mrs S claim to say the alleged 
threat happened and the credibility of her claim is arguably affected by the fact that nothing 
about it appears to have been said to HCMUK in 2016 or at any time since then and prior to 
2021. Mrs S will understand that her complaint about this issue must be approached by this 
service objectively, so the fact that she says the threat happened is not, on its own, enough 
to uphold the complaint. HCMUK disputes the allegation and says it has no record of it being 
raised at the relevant time(s). Mrs S has not been able to provide any such record or 
evidence to support the allegation. Therefore, the allegation lacks supporting evidence and it 
cannot be objectively established, on the balance of probabilities, that the alleged threat 
happened.
For the above reasons, I do not uphold Mrs S complaint about this issue.
Issue 3 (only the allegation about payment processing problems up to 2018)
Similar findings apply to this issue. HCMUKs reference to Mrs S continuing to trade in her 
account(s) up to her complaint last year and continuing to make deposits into the account(s) 
up to the same time is supported by account activity evidence that has been shared with us. 
That evidence does not appear to show problems with deposits or processing of deposits 
from Mrs S in the period up to 2018.
HCMUK readily accepts that it  uses various Payment Service Providers/Payment 
gateways in order to process payments. It is clear from Mrs S submissions that she 
believes the mechanics of or arrangements within its payment processing system are in 
breach of regulations (in the UK and/or abroad) and are unlawful. I do not comment on these 
parts of her claims as they are regulatory and criminal law matters that she already appears 
to have raised with the relevant regulatory and law enforcement entities, and that are beyond 
my remit. However, her claim that problems in the system affected her operation of the 
account (up to 2018) is a matter that I can consider, that I have considered and that for 
which there is a lack of supporting evidence (that is, evidence of such problems causing 
such a detriment). 
This will not be news to Mrs S. This shortfall in her case has been brought to her attention 
previously by the investigator and her responses have focused more on elaborating on her 
allegations about regulatory breaches and unlawful conduct, and not on establishing her 
personal claim about the specific cause and effect she has alleged. She says what she has 
described about the alleged Hong Kong related malpractice obviously affected her account 
transactions, but she has not established this with specific evidence of the affected 
transactions that she claims and evidence that any such transactions were affected by a 
particular payment processing problem(s). For the sake of clarity, I do not say or suggest in any way that malpractice or unlawful activities by a firm, if committed, do not or cannot cause 
detriments to the firms clients. They can indeed cause such detriments. However, this 
service has not investigated  and will not be investigating  the serious allegations about 
malpractice and unlawful activities that Mrs S has made against HCMUK, for the reasons 
that we have made clear to her; so it follows that we do not have a basis to determine 
whether (or not) those allegations a valid and then whether (or not), perhaps based on a 
specific or general finding(s) in such an investigation, detriment was caused to her. 
For the above reasons, I do not uphold the complaint about this issue.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mrs S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman