DRN-1898255
The complaint
Mr S complains that Co-operative Bank Plc closed his accounts and didnt tell him.
What happened
Mr S had a current account with Co-op and two accounts with Britannia (which was taken 
over by Co-op in 2009). In January 2020, Co-op conducted a review of Mr Ss accounts. 
Following the review Co-op decided to close Mr Ss accounts. And it wrote to him to let him 
know.
Mr S complained about the lack of information and notice of closure. He said he never 
received a closure letter from the bank. He also says his Britannia accounts didnt close until 
April 2020 and believes he shouldve received separate correspondence from Britannia 
about these accounts. He says he only found out his accounts were closing when he visited 
a branch on 30 March 2020 to make a withdrawal. And that hes lost out financially because 
his closed Britannia accounts had paid interest. 
Co-op said it hadnt done anything wrong when it closed Mr Ss accounts. It said it had sent 
Mr S a letter on 21 January 2020 to his home address to let him know it had decided to close 
his accounts. It says Mr S got the letter as he appeared to be aware his accounts were going 
to be closed when he came into a branch in March 2020. The bank also explained that due 
to the Covid 19 virus there was a slight delay in closing Mr Ss accounts. 
Mr S wasnt happy with this response. So, he brought his complaint to our service where one 
of our investigators looked into things for him. The investigator was satisfied that the Co-op 
did send letters to Mr S in January 2020 and she was unable to hold Co-op responsible for 
the letter not being received. So, she didnt uphold the complaint.
 
Mr S disagreed. He maintained he hadnt received the closure notice and that Britannia was 
a separate business so his complaint about his Britannia accounts should be dealt with 
separately. And not considered alongside his Co-op account. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Ill deal with Mr Ss concern that the investigator has reached her conclusion based 
solely on his Co-op current account, which doesnt pay any interest. And not addressed the 
closure of his Britannia accounts which paid interest and therefore led to him being out of 
pocket when the bank closed the accounts. Mr S says Britannia and the Co-op are separate 
businesses. But that isnt the case. In 2009, Britannia and Co-op merged, and Britannia 
became a trading name of the Co-op. 
A trading name is the name a business has chosen to be known by and is different to its 
registered company name. So, the formal position is that Mr A banked with Co-op and that 
Co-op chooses to call itself Britannia for some of its accounts. Thats common practice in 
business, and the closure letters sent stated which accounts were being closed and this 
included Mr As Britannia accounts. So, it isnt inappropriate that Mr Ss complaint about the 
closure of his Britannia accounts has been addressed by the Co-op.
Its clear from what Mr S has told us and the bank that he feels strongly about his complaint.  
I appreciate that hes upset that Co-op closed his accounts. But for me to uphold this 
complaint, I must be satisfied that the bank has done something wrong. And in this case, I 
dont think it has. Ill explain why.
As the investigator explained, its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to 
provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless 
theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep 
customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. Mr S says he 
never received a letter from the bank. But Co-op has provided evidence to show it was sent 
to him using his correct address. Ive also seen a copy of the letter, dated 21 January 2020 
which says that all of Mr Ss accounts would close on 26 March 2020. By sending this letter I 
consider that Co-op gave notice of the account closure  even if the letter wasnt received by 
Mr S. So, I cant say the bank has done anything wrong when it closed Mr Ss accounts.
Mr S has pointed out that his accounts didnt close on 26 March 2020 and were actually 
closed in April 2020. As the investigator has already explained this was due to delays 
caused by the bank having to adapt to the impact of Covid 19. I can see the bank explained 
this to Mr S when it wrote to him on 24 April 2020. I dont think this was unreasonable. It also 
meant Mr S had the benefit of his accounts for longer. 
Whilst I accept that the closure of the accounts has caused Mr S inconvenience and upset, 
the bank can make commercial decisions about who it offers banking services to. The bank 
cannot unfairly discriminate against a customer. But they can say they no longer wish to do 
business with individuals. Thats because theyve got the commercial freedom to decide who 
they want to contract with. And having looked at all the information of this particular case, Im 
satisfied that the bank has exercised its commercial decision legitimately when it decided to 
close Mr Ss accounts. So, although Mr S will probably be disappointed with my decision, I 
cant say the bank has treated Mr S unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 
4 November 2020.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman