DRN-3318516
Complaint
Mr B and Mrs B are unhappy with what Santander UK Plc (Santander) has agreed to do to 
put things right after they complained about unfair charges on their overdraft.
Background
As a result of our adjudicators involvement, Santander agreed that it should refund all the 
interest, fees and charges it added to Mr B and Mrs Bs overdraft from April 2015 and it 
proposed to reduce what Mr B and Mrs B owed by this amount as well as set up a 
repayment plan to repay the remaining amount. One of our adjudicators looked at Mr B and 
Mrs Bs complaint and she thought that what Santander had agreed to do to put things right 
was fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances of the case. Mr B and Mrs B didnt agree 
so the complaint was passed for an ombudsmans decision.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Santander has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr B and Mrs B is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
their complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
Santander has agreed that it ought to have realised that it was unfair to continue adding 
interest, fees and charges to Mr B and Mrs Bs account as it ought to have realised the 
overdraft was unsustainable at this stage. And it has agreed to refund all the interest, fees 
and charges added it to Mr B and Mrs Bs overdraft from then in order to put things right. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have. However, thats not possible in cases where funds that shouldnt have been advanced 
were advanced because typically those funds will have already been spent. 
So we have to look at a way of asking a business to put things right in a fair and reasonable 
way. And where a business provided, or continued to allow a consumer to use, a credit 
facility which it should have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the 
consumer in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges 
on that credit.
This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any 
credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if those 
interest and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year. Thats what Santander 
has agreed to do here, so it has agreed to do what Id normally expect a firm to do in these 
circumstances.
In this case, Mr B and Mrs B will be left with an outstanding balance to repay even after the 
credits theyve made and they will now be refunded all of the interest, fees and charges 
applied. But while Mr B and Mrs B will be left with an outstanding balance to repay and they 
might be unhappy with this, Santander has done what Id normally expect it to do here.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provided credit it shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do 
something different and/or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what 
would be fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
Mr B and Mrs B believes that Santander should do more. As I understand it, theyre unhappy 
with the remaining balance. Ive carefully thought about what Mr B and Mrs B has said. But 
all the interest, fees and charges Santander shouldnt have added will be removed from the 
overdraft. And what Mr B and Mrs B will be left with to repay are the funds which they used 
and benefitted from. Ultimately, the amount theyve paid since 2015 isnt enough to cover the 
funds they borrowed and crucially I dont agree that the interest, fees and charges have left 
them with a debt that they wouldnt otherwise have been left with. In other words, the total 
amount they owe (including the interest fees and charges in question) hasnt been paid yet 
and the interest part of that will be deducted as part of their successful complaint.
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what Santander has already agreed to do to put 
things right for Mr B and Mrs B  reworking their account so that all the interest, fees and 
charges added since April 2015 are removed and setting up a repayment plan for the 
remaining balance  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. And Im not 
requiring it to do anything more. As this is the case, its up to Mr B and Mrs B to decide 
whether they wish to accept Santanders offer and leave it up to them to do so.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Santander UK Plc has already agreed 
to do to put things right for Mr B and Mrs B is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of her 
complaint. So Im not requiring it to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman