DRN-2384429
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with the way CIS General Insurance Limited handled a claim made under 
his motor insurance policy.
For ease, any reference to CIS also includes its agents.
What happened
In 2017 Mr K was involved in a car accident. Mr K reported this to CIS and gave his 
explanation of the incident  saying that the third party was at fault. He also informed CIS 
that the police attended the scene and there was an independent witness. Following this 
initial contact, CIS began investigating the matter and paid Mr Ks claim for his vehicle. And 
when injury claims were made by the third parties, CIS instructed a legal agent to take over 
the case. 
In December 2019, Mr K contacted CIS to complain about the handling of his claim. He said 
that the agent was settling the matter on a shared fault basis  which he didnt agree with. 
And he said there were delays in progressing the claim, in particular in relation to obtaining 
the police report and contacting the witness. Mr K said he wasnt kept updated on the case 
and he was now having to pay more in insurance premiums as the claim was still open and 
recorded as a fault against him.
CIS looked into the matter but disagreed that the outcome of the claim was incorrect. It said 
that the agent agreed to deal with the claim on a shared fault basis as there wasnt enough 
evidence to support defending this as a non-fault accident. It said that the witness 
information was inconsistent and so couldnt be relied upon in court. CIS also informed Mr K 
that claims agreed on a shared fault basis do appear as fault claims on the insurance 
database and as a result it may impact premiums but that this was out of its control.
And in relation to updating him on the claim, CIS said the agent had contacted Mr K several 
times in 2018 and it had discussed the liability situation with him. However, CIS did note that 
the agent had failed to contact Mr K following a call back request in December 2019 and so 
it offered him £20 for this inconvenience. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr K brought the complaint to this service. Our investigator 
considered the issue but didnt find that CIS needed to do anything more. She said the policy 
terms give CIS the right to take over the settlement of the claim and she found that it had 
acted reasonably in reaching the decision it had. She did think CIS could have 
communicated more effectively with Mr K throughout the investigation, however, she didnt 
find that this had impacted him negatively as CIS had already resolved the claim for his car. 
And it had apologised for not contacting him as requested in late 2019.
In respect of the premium increase, our investigator told Mr K that changes to claims history 
can affect the premiums, however this would be for the insurer to decide and, as Mr K had 
changed to a new insurer, this wasnt something she could hold CIS responsible for. And 
she didnt think the fact the claim was still open, whilst CIS finalised the matter, made a 
difference to this as the claim would still be recorded as a fault on his policy.
 
Mr K disagreed with our investigators view and so the matter has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free alternative to the courts for 
consumers. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I consider to be the heart of the 
matter rather than commenting on every issue or point made in turn. This isnt intended as a 
discourtesy to Mr K. Rather it reflects the informal nature of our service, its remit and my 
role in it.
Im also aware that, since this accident happened in 2017 and the claim made, Mr K has 
raised a number of complaints about various issues. But I can only decide on the complaint 
that was brought to our service following the final response from CIS in January 2020. 
Mr K is unhappy that CIS has accepted liability in part for the accident, albeit on a without 
prejudice basis. I can understand his frustration at this decision as he feels he wasnt to 
blame for the accident. Most motor insurance policies contain a term which allows the 
insurer to take over and defend or settle a claim in whatever way they believe is appropriate. 
This means CIS can make the decision to settle the claim without Mr Ks agreement. But I 
need to consider if CIS investigated the claim to the level Id expect and if its decision was 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr K provided his version of events from the accident to CIS and said it was the other 
drivers fault. The third party disputed this, saying it was Mr Ks responsibility. CIS has 
explained it referred the case to its legal agents who reviewed the information available, 
including the police report and independent witness statement. It said the information 
provided from the witness was inconsistent and, in their opinion, not good enough to provide 
a reliable defence in court. Mr K said CIS didnt contact the witness and there was a delay in 
getting the police report which he thinks impacted on the outcome. But CIS has said that 
attempts were made to contact the witness and no response was received  so it had to rely 
on the statement that had been provided to the third party. And even though it didnt get the 
police report initially, it did already have information about the accident from those at the 
scene, so it didnt think this made a difference.
When looking at these complaints, our role is to consider whether the insurer handled the 
claim in a fair and reasonable way. It isnt to determine who was liable for the accident. 
Having reviewed the information and evidence that was available Im satisfied the decision 
made by CIS to settle the claim on a shared fault basis was reasonable and in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy. 
Im aware that Mr K is also unhappy with how long it has taken to process the claim. Cases 
involving a third party, especially when there is a dispute over liability, can take some time to 
finalise. From what I have seen Im persuaded that CIS and its agents were actively trying to 
bring the matter to a resolution and the timeframe hasnt affected the outcome of his case. 
And it is reasonable for the claim to remain open until such time as the costs are finalised 
with the third party. CIS has apologised for a call not being returned which Mr K had 
requested and provided compensation for that  I dont require CIS to do anything more. 
Finally, Mr K has complained about the increase in his premiums. As explained by our 
investigator, if a claim is recorded as a fault this can impact how some insurers view the risk and therefore it may lead to an increase in premium. But as Ive already mentioned, Im 
satisfied that CIS has reached a fair outcome and therefore the recording of a fault claim is 
appropriate. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman