DRN-3433329
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R have complained that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited grossly 
mishandled their terminal illness claim under their joint life assurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs R made a claim on their joint level term life assurance policy in April 2021 after 
Mr R was given a terminal diagnosis due to chronic liver disease. Mr R also had cancer. The 
policy had as sum insured of £40,000. Mr and Mrs R provided a claim form to L&G on 30 
April 2021 and listed three doctors as involved in treating Mr R  an oncologist, a 
gastroenterologist and Mr Rs GP. Mr and Mrs R complained to L&G about the delay on their 
claim in September 2021. L&G eventually issued its final response to their complaint on 2 
December 2021, after Mr and Mrs R had asked us to consider their complaint. In this L&G 
accepted that due to errors and delays in the investigation of Mr and Mrs Rs claim it was 
settled at the beginning of December 2021 when this should have happened at the end of 
July 2021. L&G agreed to pay interest on the amount due in settlement of the claim and paid 
£600 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr and Mrs R had experienced as 
a result of the delay in it settling their claim. 
One of our investigators considered Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. In his first assessment he 
said he felt what L&G had paid in compensation was adequate. However, following further 
evidence from Mr and Mrs R on the impact the delay in settling the claim had on them, he 
issued a second assessment in which he set out the impact the delay had on Mr and Mrs R 
in detail and suggested L&G should pay £5,000 in total in compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. 
L&G does not agree with the investigators second assessment and has asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. Its said that Mr and Mrs R were clearly struggling financially before 
they submitted their claim. Therefore, L&G shouldnt be held accountable for the distress 
and inconvenience they suffered for the financial struggles they continued to have whilst 
their claim was assessed. It has said it is not convinced Mr R would have been well enough 
to go on a holiday if the claim had been settled earlier and theres no real indication that 
improvements to their garden would have been completed in time to allow Mr R to use it 
before the winter period. Its also pointed out that at no point in the complaint process did Mr 
and Mrs R make them aware of the issues theyve raised in response to the investigators 
original assessment.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not in dispute that Mr and Mrs Rs claim took about four months longer to settle than it 
should have done. And I agree this clearly had a significant impact on them in terms of 
distress and inconvenience. I appreciate they didnt explain fully the issues the delay on the 
claim caused for them when they complained to L&G, but my role is to decide the fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint in light of all the evidence provided. So, I think it is 
appropriate for me to take into account what Mr and Mrs R have said to us as part of our 
investigation and assessment of their complaint. And our investigator has provided all this 
information to L&G and it has had the chance to consider it and provide its comments. 
Mr and Mrs R have explained that because of his illnesses Mr R was constantly cold and this 
meant they were spending around £300 on energy bills to try and keep their home as warm 
as possible. But, even with some help from a charity, which enabled them to reduce this to 
about £230, they couldnt afford to heat their home as they would have wanted. And Mr R 
spent a considerable amount more time in bed so he could stay warm because of this. And, 
Im satisfied that this was the case and that if Mr and Mrs R had received the claim payment 
at the end of July, theyd have been able to afford to heat their home properly in the period 
between then and December when the claim was eventually paid. And that theyd have 
enjoyed a much more comfortable standard of living in a very difficult time. I appreciate that 
it may have bene a bit warmer in August and September, so the heating would have been on 
a lower setting and possibly for slightly less time than in October and November, but with Mr 
Rs conditions it would still have needed to be on significantly more than normal. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs R have said that their life was a real struggle and life was basic with 
no treats due to financial constraints the claim settlement should have alleviated a lot 
earlier. And they were extremely distressed as a result of this.  
I appreciate L&G has argued Mr and Mrs R were struggling financially before their claim, but 
it seems to have missed the point that if the claim had been paid when it should have been 
they would have struggled for four months less. So I do think they suffered very significant 
distress and inconvenience as a result of the financial impact the late payment of their claim 
had on them. The fact Mr R was cold all the time must have been very distressing for him at 
a time when he was also dealing with the mental impact of a terminal prognosis. And it must 
also have been very distressing for Mrs R to know her husband was suffering in this way. 
Mr and Mrs R have also explained that if theyd had the claim settlement at the end of July 
theyd have installed a stairlift, so Mr R could have used more of their home. Also, theyve 
said theyd have had the garden landscaped so it was safe for him to make more use of this. 
Obviously, it is difficult to know how quickly both these things could have been done. And, it 
does seem quite unlikely the garden would have been landscaped in time for Mr R to enjoy it 
for long before the colder autumn and winter months. But, irrespective of this, it must have 
been very distressing for Mr and Mrs R to not be able to move forward with either of these 
projects. Plus, I think it is quite likely the stairlift could have been put in very quickly. And it is 
also possible that Mr R lost at least some time in their garden in warmer sunny periods due 
to not having the funds they needed to sort this out. So, I also think Mr R suffered additional 
distress and inconvenience for not actually being able to make as much use of his home and 
garden as should have been the case. This reflects the fact it was in a period when Mr Rs 
health was likely to have been better than was the case once they did have the funds to 
move forward with these projects.  
Mr and Mrs R have also explained how they would have taken a holiday in the late summer 
of 2021 if theyd received the claim settlement when they should have done. This would 
have been to a place they liked and had happy memories of from previous visits. And 
theyve explained it was too late due to the weather and the progression of Mr Rs illness by 
the time they received the settlement. L&G has suggested that this would have been unlikely 
due to the pandemic and Mr Rs health at this time. However, I dont agree. Im satisfied he 
could have travelled and, if theyd had self-catering accommodation where they could 
isolate, the pandemic would not have been a major issue for them. So, I think it is most likely 
they did miss out on what may have been the last holiday they could really have enjoyed 
together. And I accept that this would have been extremely distressing and I think is clearly 
something that has had a very significant negative impact on them both.  Mr R has also explained the overall impact the poor handling of the claim had on him and 
Mrs R. In particular, hes described the mental strain on Mrs R, due to her worrying about his 
health and the fact they could not create the happy memories during the time his health 
allowed it. Hes also explained that one of the symptoms of his liver disease is sleeplessness 
and that this wasnt helped by the worry of their claim not being properly handled. And that 
worrying about the claim was the last thing Mrs R would have wanted for her husband in 
what was an awful time anyway due to his illness and terminal prognosis. This again shows 
they suffered extremely significant distress and inconvenience. 
Putting things right
It will be clear from what Ive said that I accept that the four month delay in L&G paying Mr 
and Mrs Rs claim due to errors on its part caused Mr and Mrs R sustained distress, affecting 
both Mr Rs physical health and had a significant impact on them mentally. It caused severe 
disruption to their daily life in terms of Mr R not being as comfortable, as he should have 
been. And it led to Mrs R being worried about this for a long period in what was a distressing 
time for them any way due to Mr Rs terminal prognosis. I class all this as having a very 
serious impact on them. Bearing all this in mind, I think a very significant award for distress 
and inconvenient is appropriate in this particular set of circumstances. And, I agree with our 
investigator that an overall award of £5,000 for distress and inconvenience is the fair and 
reasonable outcome to Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. L&G has already paid them £600, so this 
means it will need to pay them a further £4,400. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint 
about Legal and General Assurance Society Limited and award them a further £4,400 in 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman