DRN-1371456
 
The complaint
Mrs T says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
 
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2000. 
Mrs T applied for the mortgage and the PPI during a meeting at a branch of the bank.
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. Mrs T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaints been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ts case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs T says shes not sure if she was told the PPI was going to be added to her 
mortgage, and she believes it may have been added without her permission. She 
says she had no need for the policy and if shed been given the option, shed have 
declined it. 
 
I cant be sure exactly what was discussed at the meeting. But the mortgage 
application that Mrs T signed included a section on Accident, Sickness and 
Unemployment Insurance (PPI). It says that Halifax recommends that the applicant 
consider the insurance. It explains that the insurance is against accident, sickness 
and involuntary unemployment, to give the applicant peace of mind if they are unable 
to work for unforeseeable reasons. Mrs T signed a box immediately below this to 
confirm that she wished to take the insurance, in addition to signing the mortgage 
application form overall.
 
And on the same day that she signed the mortgage application form, Mrs T signed a 
separate application form specifically for the PPI. Taking everything into account, I 
think Halifax made Mrs T aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take 
it. I can understand why she may no longer remember this, given that the sale took 
place so long ago. 
Mrs T has told us that Halifax didnt recommend the PPI to her. But Im satisfied from 
the evidence provided that advice was given. And this is to Mrs Ts benefit, as it 
means that Halifax had responsibility to check that the PPI was suitable for her. But it 
doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at 
the time. 
 
Its true that Mrs Ts told us shed have been entitled to six months full pay, followed 
by six months half pay from her employer if shed been off sick. But if shed made a 
successful claim on the policy for accident, sickness or unemployment, it would have 
covered her monthly mortgage payments, plus mortgage-related costs of 25% of her 
monthly mortgage payment, for up to 24 months per successful claim. Thats 
significantly longer than Mrs Ts told us shed have been entitled to full sick pay from 
her employer for. Whats more, it would have paid out in addition to any payments 
Mrs T received from her employer, allowing her to use those to meet other expenses.
 
I acknowledge that Mrs T has mentioned that she could have relied on her family to 
help her financially if necessary. But circumstances can change, and I cant be sure 
that Mrs Ts family would have been in a position to help out if the need had arisen.
 
Overall, I think the policy would have provided Mrs T with peace of mind that her 
mortgage payments would continue to be paid if she was off sick, or if she lost her 
job. And I think this would have been important to her, given that the mortgage was a 
long-term commitment, secured on her property.
 
The monthly premium for the policy was shown clearly on the PPI application form. 
So I think Mrs T would have understood how much shed need to pay for it. 
 
I accept that its possible that Halifax didnt point out the main things the policy didnt 
cover (for example, unusual working arrangements, or existing medical conditions). 
But from what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, its unlikely Mrs T would 
have been affected by any of these. So I dont think more information about them 
would have put her off taking the policy.
 
Ive taken into account all Mrs Ts comments, including what shes said about having been a 
young, first-time buyer. She says she feels her vulnerability was taken advantage of, as she 
didnt understand the PPI and believed it was something she had to take. But Ive explained 
that Im satisfied that it would have been clear to Mrs T that the PPI was optional. Ive seen 
nothing to make me think she was put under any pressure to take it. And if shed had any 
questions, or if shed been unsure what the insurance was for, she could have raised this at 
the time. So Im sorry to disappoint Mrs T, but this doesn't change my decision.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman