DRN-1092581
The complaint
Mr M complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) failed to apply a payment to his 
credit card account on the day it should have, causing interest to be charged on the 
balance.  
What happened
Mr M has a credit card with Tesco. On 9 March 2019 Mr M made a payment from his current 
account with F, a bank, for £4,174.62 using the faster payment service. This payment was 
for the whole balance. The minimum payment was due on 9 March. 
Mr M subsequently realised he had been charged interest on the balance. He complained to 
Tesco. He said he had made the payment on the due date, but he believed Tesco had 
credited it to his account a day late. He said this had happened previously, and the interest 
had been refunded. He wanted the interest to be refunded again. 
In its final response Tesco said the payment was due on 9 March but hadn't reached it until 
10 March. It said interest had been applied correctly as per the terms and conditions of the 
account. It agreed that Mr M had had interest refunded previously but that this had been a 
goodwill gesture and a one-off. 
Mr M wasn't satisfied, so he brought his complaint to this service. He didn't agree that he 
had made the payment late. He said Tesco hadn't credited his account on the day they 
should have. He said when he makes payments from F to his credit card he gets a message 
from F telling him his money has been received immediately by Tesco. In addition he said F 
had told him Tesco had received the payment on 9 March. 
The investigator didn't think Tesco had done anything wrong. She said from the information 
available to her Tesco didn't receive the payment until 10 March, which was a day after the 
payment was due. She said even if Tesco had received the payment on the 9 March it 
wouldn't be reasonable to expect it to have processed it instantly, which is why Tesco tells 
customers to allow from 2 to 48 hours to allow for a faster payment to be applied to the 
account. 
Mr M asked for a decision from an ombudsman. He said he wanted to understand why, if F 
said Tesco received the money on 9 March, it took Tesco until the 10 March to show on the 
credit card account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr M but, having done so, I won't be asking Tesco to do anything further. 
I've looked at the statements of Mr M's credit card for payment terms and conditions. For 
faster payments it says payments can take between 2 and 48 hours to be processed to a 
customer's account.  This information is on every statement, so I'm satisfied that Mr M was aware or ought 
reasonably to have been aware that there was a 2 to 48 hour time window during which the 
payment could be credited to his account. 
The terms and conditions also say Tesco will credit funds to the customer's account as soon 
as it receives them from the bank. It's reasonable to expect that there is a process involved 
in crediting an account and that this process may not be instantaneous. 
Therefore, I'm satisfied that customers must be mindful that when making a faster payment 
the transaction may not appear on their account instantly and may take up to 48 hours. 
Mr M said he wanted to understand how, if Tesco received the money on 9 March as F had 
told him, why it took until 10 March to show on the account. There are two dates on the 
credit card statement - a 'trans' date, when the transaction occurred, and a 'post' date, when 
the payment was posted, that is to say credited, to the account. On Mr M's statement for 
March the 'trans' date for the payment is 10 March and the 'post' date is 11 March.
I'm not disputing that F told Mr M Tesco had received the money instantly nor am I disputing 
that Tesco actually received it on 9 March. But unfortunately it's not my role to investigate 
Tesco's processes. We are not the regulator, and we do not have a role in reviewing the 
adequacy of a business's processes, in this case the process for Tesco receiving payments.
Even if Tesco had received the money on 9 March, as the terms and conditions state, there 
is a 2 to 48 hour window for the payment to be allocated to the customer's account. The 
payment was due on 9 March and Mr M made the payment from his bank on 9 March. So he 
did not allow for the process of up to 48 hours before the payment was credited to his 
account which I would reasonably expect him to do, as per the terms and conditions.
I can fully understand why Mr M would like to know why his payment appeared to have been 
received by Tesco on 9 March, especially if his bank, F, confirmed this. But this is not 
relevant to the decision I have to make. In order to avoid interest charges the 'post' date 
needed to be either on or before 9 March.  
Mr M has provided bank statements from F and his Tesco credit card statements for a 
number of months prior to March 2019. 
The November 2018 bank statement shows a  payment out on 6 November. On the 
Tesco credit card statement both the 'trans' and 'post' dates are 6 November. This pattern is 
repeated in December 2018 and February 2019 with all entries for sent and received on the 
same day.  
On Mr M's January 2019 bank statement the payment out was on 5 January but on the 
credit card statement, the 'trans' date is 6 January and the 'post' date is 7 January. 
So, although there are instances when Mr M's payments have been posted to his account on 
the same day, this has not always been the case. On Mr M's January statements I can see 
he made the payment from his bank on 5 January, this was not credited to his account until 
7 January. So I'm satisfied that Mr M was aware or ought reasonably to have been aware 
that a transaction may not be applied instantly to his account.  
 
 
 My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2020.
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman