DRN-4264021
The complaint
Mr D complains BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMW) wrongly applied a default to 
his credit file. He says he did not receive any notice of the default and as BMW failed to 
follow the correct process it should remove the marker.  Mr D says if it agrees to do so he 
will return he car. 
What happened
In July 2017, Mr D took out a finance agreement with BMW for a new car. The agreement 
required a monthly payment of £610.63 until October 2021 when the final payment of 
£16,189.35 became due. At this point Mr D would have the option to re-finance the 
agreement and keep the car or return it.
During the agreement period Mr D had cause to raise a number of complaints with regard to 
the communication with BMW, his complaints were in relation to late markers applied to his 
credit file. This previous complaint was upheld in part and the late markers were removed. 
This complaint relates to the actions BMW took after Mr D applied to re-finance the car with 
BMW, but the refinance agreement was declined.
The final payment of £16,189.35 became due on October 2021. 
Mr D feels he was in negotiation with BMW to attempt to re-finance the car.
BMW say that once it declined to refinance the car it gave Mr D sometime to find finance 
elsewhere but didnt hear anything from him nor did it receive any payments and so on 25 
December 2021 it issued a Notice of Sum in Arrears (NOSA). 
On 5 January 2022, BMW issued a default notice which gave Mr D 20 days to address the 
outstanding balloon payment of £16189.35, before BMW would look to terminate the 
agreement and recover the vehicle. The letter also detailed the impact this action could have 
on his credit file. As the balloon amount was not paid, BMW terminated the agreement on 16 
March 2023. When this was actioned, a post default notice letter was sent to Mr D to advise 
him that BMW would now look to recover the vehicle. As Mr D had paid over a third of the 
agreement, BMW required him to complete a voluntary surrender form to enable it to recover 
the vehicle. BMW went onto explained if he did not complete the form, it would obtain a 
return of goods order from the court to repossess its asset.
Mr D says he didnt receive any of the notices and is adamant BMW failed in its obligations 
to issue the notices and follow the correct procedure prior to issuing the default notice, he 
says he was trying to re-finance the car as he wanted to keep it. He complained to BMW 
about the actions taken and the impact this had on his personal and business dealings.
On 25 April 2023, BMW issued its final response. It didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint and in 
summary said it had followed the correct procedure. Its aid it would not be removing the 
default and Mr D needed to return the car.
Dissatisfied Mr D brought his complaint to his service.
An investigator looked into things for Mr D. In her view she sympathised with the position Mr 
D found himself in, but she found BMW had followed the correct process and didnt find that 
she could ask it to remove the default. But, she said the date of the default should be 
amended to 25 January 2023 rather than 16 March 2022, as this was the given date on the 
default notice. She understood BMW had delayed the recording of the default because it 
reviewed Mr Ds file but when it concluded the default to be accurate it should have 
backdated it.
Mr D disagreed. He is adamant he didnt receive the notices and as such couldnt have 
taken any steps to avoid the default. He feels BMW should be obliged to communicate on 
more than one occasion to ensure the notice has been received. He has now returned the 
car but asks that the default be removed because he did not have the opportunity to avoid 
what has been a huge impact on his personal and business life.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have independently reached the same outcome as that of our investigator. 
I understand this will come as a disappointment to Mr D  Ill explain why.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. Rather, Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
I would also like to reassure Mr D that I have listened to the telephone calls and looked at all 
the submissions he made, along with those provided by BMW.
Mr Ds position is that BMW acted unfairly and unreasonably in defaulting his account 
because it did not follow the correct procedures as set out in the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Specifically, he says that he did not receive any notifications from BMW with regard to the 
notice of default, the cancellation of his finance agreement or the voluntary surrender forms. 
He says he was unaware it was going to terminate the account and as such had no 
opportunity to take steps to prevent it.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I dont think there is any dispute here that Mr D knew his final payment or balloon payment 
was due in October 2021. He also knew that BMW had not agreed to re-finance the 
agreement and he then had to find alternative finance or return the car. He was also aware 
that he did not make any payments from October 2021 onwards. Mr D knew the credit file 
markers had been removed up until December 2021 on the understanding that either the car 
would be returned, or the final payment made in full. 
I cant see that any further attempts were made by BMW to telephone Mr D or email him, but 
equally I cant see that Mr D made any attempt to explain what his intentions were, he also 
didnt make any payment and he retained the car. So, given the circumstances of a final 
payment that became due on October 2021, and almost two months later with no plan in 
place or contact from Mr D, I dont find that BMW acted unreasonably in initiating the 
process to end the agreement.In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (were 
appropriate) what I consider having been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
When no further contact was received from Mr D, BMW sent a pre-default notice on 25 
December 2022. I can see from the records it was sent to the address the address on file for 
Mr D. It states the terms of the agreement was breached and as a result the agreement was 
pending default action being taken, it noted what needed to be done for the action to stop. 
Now of course it is possible as the date is Christmas Day that there was a delay or even that 
the letter was lost in the Christmas post, but it wasnt returned to BMW.
Under relevant law Mr D had to be served with a notice of default before his account could 
be properly terminated. I understand that Mr D is adamant that he never received this notice 
either. But I also note the notice was correctly addressed and it appears BMW had no 
notification that the mail was returned to sender or not delivered either. This notice was sent 
after the Christmas period so Im not persuaded I can hold BMW responsible if Mr D did not 
receive the notice and I dont think that BMW was at fault here. Neither do I think I can fairly 
say that BMW cannot rely on that notice.
I appreciate that Mr D feels BMW should have attempted more communication to advise him 
of the position and his previous experiences has led him to be very dissatisfied overall with 
the service he has received. But, so far as I can see BMW made it very clear that it would 
not re-finance the agreement which became due in October 2021. It removed credit markers 
and gave Mr D until December 2021 and then issued the notice of default on 5 January 
2022. Mr D still had a further 20 days to avoid the default. Notwithstanding that he says he 
didnt receive that notice; he did know that he had the car and hadnt made any payments 
and the final payment was due some months ago. BMW had said he could return he car if he 
wasnt able to make the final payment but ultimately Mr D didnt make the payment nor did 
he return the car, nor did he make any further payments.
So, I dont think BMW acted unfairly or unreasonably in issuing the default notice and as I 
said I cant hold BMW responsible if Mr D did not receive it. To uphold Mr Ds complaint I 
would have to conclude that BMW did not follow the correct process and I havent seen 
anything to suggest that was the case.
It follows based on everything Ive said above, I find that BMW has acted appropriately 
and therefore, I have no proper basis to tell BMW that it must ask the credit reference 
agencies to remove the default it asked them to register on Mr Ds credit file. However, as
BMW put the account on hold to review the case before applying the default on 16 March 
2023, Im agreement in with the investigator that the default should be back dated to 25 
January 2022.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint and direct BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited to amend the date of the default to 25 January 2022.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman