DRN-3907200
The complaint
Miss B complains that Blue Motor Finance Ltd irresponsibly gave her a hire purchase 
agreement she couldnt afford. 
What happened
In October 2019, Miss B acquired a used car using a hire purchase agreement from 
Blue Motor. The cash price of the car was £11,340. Miss B was required to make 60 monthly 
repayments of £329.80 followed by a final optional payment of £479.80 if she wanted to take 
ownership of the car. Miss B settled the agreement early in October 2020. 
In February 2022, Miss B complained to Blue Motor. She said that the agreement had been 
unaffordable and that Blue Motor didnt carry out appropriate affordability checks before 
lending to her. 
Blue Motor didnt uphold her complaint and said that it had completed adequate checks 
before lending which showed that Miss B could afford the monthly repayments. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He didnt think Blue Motor had 
completed reasonable and proportionate affordability checks, however, he considered that 
appropriate checks would likely have concluded the agreement was affordable anyway. 
Therefore, he didnt think Blue Motor had acted unfairly in lending to Miss B. 
Miss B didnt agree. She said the details she has now provided of her financial and personal 
circumstances demonstrated the agreement wasnt affordable and that another complaint 
about unaffordable lending on a car finance agreement she had taken out a year earlier had 
been upheld by the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before granting credit Blue Motor were required to ensure the lending was affordable and 
sustainable for Miss B. There isnt a set list of checks Blue Motor had to complete, however, 
it needed to ensure that any checks it did do were proportionate in the circumstances of 
each individual lending decision. In other words, there isnt a one-size-fits-all approach to 
what is proportionate. 
In deciding what proportionate affordability checks would be Blue Motor needed to consider 
things such as (but not limited to): The amount borrowed, the total repayable, the term, the 
size of the regular repayments, the cost of credit and the consumers individual 
circumstances.
Blue Motor says that before lending it asked Miss B about her income which she declared to 
be around £33,000 per year and it completed a credit check. Blue Motor says the credit 
check revealed a number of historic defaulted accounts but that these were from over three 
years ago and Miss B was actively making payments towards them and reducing what she 
owed. It said her existing credit commitments were being managed well and therefore it 
concluded the hire purchase agreement was affordable to her. 
Blue Motor hasnt provided us with a copy of the credit check it completed, but based on 
what it has told us it showed, and from the limited information Miss B has given us from her 
credit file, Im satisfied that Blue Motor didnt complete reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks. I say this because it ought to have been clear Miss B had a significant 
number of defaulted debts, whilst somewhat historic, she was still paying those off. Further, 
it appears she had a number of live credit agreements as well, all of this may have 
suggested an over-reliance on credit.
Given this was quite a significant financial undertaking for Miss B and what Blue Motor could 
see about her history with credit, I think it would have been proportionate for Blue Motor to 
have verified Miss Bs financial circumstances in some way. 
I dont know what checks Blue Motor would have completed. In the absence of anything 
else, I think the information contained in Miss Bs bank statements from around the time of 
the lending is likely to be an accurate reflection of what Blue Motor would most likely have 
found out if it had completed proportionate checks. 
Having reviewed her income and expenditure from the bank statements, Ive not seen 
anything that persuades me that Blue Motor would likely have concluded the hire purchase 
agreement was unaffordable.
Although Miss B did utilise her overdraft regularly, her account wasnt significantly 
overdrawn, nor was it overdrawn for long periods of time. She had regular sources of income 
which appeared to adequately service her existing credit commitments, the payments 
towards historic defaulted debts and her essential bills and household expenditure. I note 
her statements show she was even putting money aside into a savings account. Although 
she did withdraw some of those savings from time to time, overall, she deposited more than 
she withdrew. 
From the evidence Ive seen, it appears Miss B had sufficient disposable income to be able 
to afford the monthly repayments towards the hire purchase agreement and still have 
sufficient funds left over to cover unexpected costs. Miss B also provided us with her income 
and expenditure figures from her own review of her bank statements and even her own 
figures demonstrate the agreement appeared affordable. Im therefore not persuaded that 
Blue Motor made an unfair lending decision. 
Miss B has referred to another complaint she made against a different firm that was upheld. 
However, each case is assessed on its own merits and the facts, evidence and 
circumstances will inevitably vary. Indeed, the other agreement Miss B refers to was entered 
into a year prior to this one. Im satisfied, for the reasons Ive given above, that in the specific 
circumstances of this case that Blue Motor didnt act unfairly in granting the hire purchase 
agreement to Miss B. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman