DRN-1609675
 
The complaint
Mr W and Ms R complain that Ageas Insurance Limited have declined their claim for loss 
of rent following subsidence at their property.
Although Mr W and Ms R made the complaint jointly, as most the correspondence was 
with Mr W and for ease of reading, I will refer only to him when referencing the complainants.
What happened
Mr W had a buildings insurance policy with Ageas for his property. In early 2018 he put 
the property on the market but was unable to attract a buyer. Instead he decided to rent it 
out.
In September 2018 he received written interest from a prospective tenant who agreed to 
rent the property for £3,500 a month with the intention to buy once they were able to sell 
their own property. As part of this process the potential tenants instructed a survey of Mr 
Ws property. The survey highlighted subsidence affecting various areas of the house and 
the potential tenant decided not to go ahead with the original offer.
Mr W made a claim for loss of rent, alongside a subsidence claim. Ageas declined the 
loss of rent part of the claim. It said there were no tenants living in the property and no 
tenancy agreement in place, so the rental income was not guaranteed and therefore not 
covered. It also said that the report suggested around £41,000 worth of repairs so it may not 
just have been the subsidence that stopped the tenants from moving in.
Mr W didnt think this was fair. He said the letter from the prospective tenants showed 
he would have had the rental income if it wasnt for the subsidence. He brought his 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended that the complaint was 
not upheld. She said that as there wasnt a rental agreement in place it isnt possible to know 
if it would have gone ahead or how long for, so Ageas was fair to decline the claim.
Mr W didnt agree with our investigator and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
My provisional findings
In my provisional decision I said: 
Ageas has said it declined Mr Ws claim for loss of rent because he didnt have a 
tenancy agreement in place or a tenant in the property. In its final response it referred to the 
definition of a tenant under the policy, which reads as follows:
Tenant: The occupier(s) of the Premises when let and signatory to the tenancy agreement.Ageas says that in order for the loss of rent term to apply, there would need to be a 
tenant as described in this definition. I have considered whether this application of the policy 
is fair in these circumstances. The policy states it will cover:
loss of rent due to You which You are unable to recoverwhile the Buildings cannot 
be lived in following loss or damage that is covered under Section One
So, in order to satisfy this term Mr W needs to prove that he would have received 
rental income if it hadnt been for the insured peril  subsidence. I dont agree that the 
definition of tenant is the relevant term here. The definition is there to explain references to 
tenants throughout the policy. In the part of the policy that refers to loss of rent cover, a 
tenant is not referenced. I therefore think a fair application of the policy is that in order to 
prove an insurable interest, Mr W just needs to prove rent would have been due to him and 
not that he had a tenant as defined in the policy.
Mr W has provided a letter from a consultant representing his prospective tenants. The 
letter states:
You will know that the property is being surveyed on 3 October and that 
[prospective tenants] expect to frame a sensible offer for the property when they have an 
indication of the capital costs that they will incur subsequently as owners.
The letter concludes: As soon as they are able [prospective tenants] expect to revert to 
you with an offer to buy the property.
The letter also confirms that the prospective tenants propose rent of £3,500 per month 
until they are able to buy following the sale of their property.
I think this letter shows a clear indication of interest in renting the property with the 
intention to buy at a later date. Although it is not binding in the way a tenancy agreement 
would be, I think it is enough to show that the prospective tenants intended to move into the 
property and pay £3,500 rent per month to Mr W. I am therefore satisfied that rent would 
have been due to Mr W.
My next consideration is whether it was the insured peril  subsidence  that meant Mr 
W didnt receive this rent.
Ageas said in its final response that as the report instructed by the prospective 
tenants recommended around £41,000 worth of repairs, it is unlikely that it was only the 
subsidence that put them off. I have looked at the report and it states as follows:
The general condition of the property is satisfactory. We have however 
recommended further and intrusive structural inspection to areas of significant movement in 
particular to the left and rear elevations. Additional structural inspection has been 
recommended to the front left range roofing, otherwise no major repairs were noted.
It goes on to quote around £23,000 repair costs that should be carried out straight away 
 most of which relate to the subsidence. The additional costs are recommended within a 
year.
The house is a large Georgian property so I think there would be some 
expected maintenance costs for a property of this size and age. Also, subsidence is a very 
different kind of repair to others. It can take a long time to monitor and remedy, be expensive 
and make it hard to insure a property afterwards. Other repairs listed would have 
been significantly easier to carry out and have lesser consequences. I therefore think it is most likely that the prospective tenants didnt go ahead with their offer to rent the property 
due to the subsidence.
For these reasons I dont agree that Ageas has applied the terms of the policy fairly in 
this instance. I therefore intend to direct Ageas to accept Mr Ws claim for loss of rent under 
the policy and pay Mr Ws claim at a rate of £3,500 per month.
I have also considered a fair amount of time that the loss of rent should be paid for. As 
the offer from the prospective tenants was only ever intended to be temporary, until they 
sold their own house, it isnt possible to calculate how many months rental income Mr W 
would have received. The tenants representative indicated that it could be up to 12 months. 
This is also the limit of policy cover. As it isnt possible to know whether they would have 
rented the property for this length of time  it could be more or less - I think its fair for Ageas 
to pay six months loss of rent. This should include interest at 8% simple per year from the 
date the claim for loss of rent was made until the date it makes payment.
Response to my provisional decision
Mr W accepted my provisional decision. 
Ageas didnt accept my provisional decision. It raised a number of points in response:
The definition of tenant in the policy is relevant, as someone renting the house would 
be a tenant by definition.
The letter expressing interest in renting the property wasnt binding so wouldnt be 
considered in the same way as a tenancy agreement.
There were other repairs suggested in the report that may have also put the 
prospective tenants off.
The house was insured as unoccupied at the time of the insured peril and not as a 
rented property.
It says in the policy that in order to claim loss of rent the property cannot be lived in 
and the property was not uninhabitable. Therefore Mr W should have made an 
attempt to get other tenants at a reduced rent.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also considered again my provisional 
findings in light of Ageas response to it. Having done so, I have changed my decision from 
that outlined in the decision. Ill explain why. 
The first three points raised by Ageas above were addressed directly in my provisional 
decision, so I havent addressed these. However the final two points have not been raised by 
previously. So I have considered these in turn.
Property insured as unoccupied
Ageas says that the house was insured as unoccupied at the time the subsidence was 
discovered. There is no dispute that the house was unoccupied  so this insurance cover 
was correct. However as Mr W has proved, he was seeking to rent the property out at the 
time and had secured potential tenants. Had they moved in, different cover would be 
required at that point. I therefore dont think this factor is relevant to my decision. 
Property wasnt uninhabitableAgeas has also said that the term in the policy relating to loss of rent states that the house 
needs to be uninhabitable in order for the condition to apply. As quoted above, the term 
states as follows:
loss of rent due to You which You are unable to recoverwhile the Buildings cannot 
be lived in following loss or damage that is covered under Section One So this means that 
loss of rent is only provided when buildings cannot be lived in. 
In my provisional decision I outlined why I think Mr W did meet the first part of the policy 
term. However I didnt consider the second part- whether it cannot be lived in.
The policy doesnt include a definition of when a building cannot be lived in. In cases like 
this, we use a reasonable interpretation of the phrase. We would generally consider a 
property to be uninhabitable, and therefore when it cannot be lived in, if there are no kitchen, 
bathroom or toilet facilities, or if its unsafe to be lived in. This is sometimes due to the 
person living in the property having particular vulnerabilities or health issues. As this relates 
to tenants it would mean unfit for the average person.
I have put Ageas comments to Mr W and he has said he feels the property was unfit to live 
in due to a number of health and safety concerns. He said this includes two out of the three 
external doors being damaged and unable to be opened, there are big cracks between 
rooms which increases the risk of fire spreading quickly and the kitchen was damaged which 
meant it would be unusable.
I have considered these points alongside the original report and comments from Ageas.
Doors
The original report that identified the subsidence, makes numerous references to external 
doors at the property. However only one of the doors identified as requiring minor repairs.
Ageas has said that a serious problem with the two doors was not raised until November 
2019 which was a year after the claim was raised. This was fixed within two months.
Based on this Im not persuaded that problems with the external doors of the property meant 
that it was unfit to live in. It seems that although problems developed, this was some time 
after the tenants would have moved in and these problems were quickly rectified.
Fire risk
Mr W also has concerns about the size of the cracks poses a fire risk as it means fire could 
spread more quickly between rooms. I understand his concerns however I cant see anything 
in any of the reports conducted throughout the claim that suggest an increased fire risk. 
Ageas has confirmed that had this been identified at the time, temporary repairs would have 
been put in place to counter the risk. Mr W hasnt provided any further information to 
contradict this so I am therefore more persuaded that the relevant checks were done and no 
increased risk was found.
Kitchen
Finally Mr W says that the kitchen wasnt useable so the property would meet a reasonable 
definition of uninhabitable in as I outlined. Mr W has described problems such as jamming 
doors to units and the fridge as well as cracks on work surfaces. I appreciate this would 
mean the kitchen wasnt in a good condition and it would be inconvenient. However when I consider if it was unusable, I need to consider whether it would be possible to still make use 
of the basic functions  to cook a simple meal for example. In this case, I think it would be. 
The appliances were in tact and working and Ive seen no evidence to show that the kitchen 
was unsafe. Therefore I agree that the kitchen would make the property difficult to rent but 
Im not persuaded it meets the definition of unusable.
For these reasons I dont think the property does meet a reasonable definition of cannot be 
lived in. I can see that due to problems caused by the subsidence, it would have been more 
difficult to rent out. However the policy doesnt provide cover for this. Only for when it cannot 
be lived in. I therefore think Ageas has applied the policy term fairly in this instance so I 
wont require it to pay Mr W loss of rent.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I wont require Ageas Insurance Limited to pay Mr W loss of 
rent or doing anything differently. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2020.
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman