DRN-4131782
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about advice given by The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited when taking out investments in 2001.
Mr and Mrs S are being represented in their complaint by a Claims Management Company 
(CMC). For ease I will refer to all actions as being those of Mr and Mrs S.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out a CIS Platinum Plus Bond and two CIS Platinum Plus mini-ISAs 
(Individual Savings Account) after speaking with Royal London in 2001. 
The ISAs were closed in 2006 and the bond was surrendered in 2007.
In 2021 Mr and Mrs S complained saying the investments had been mis-sold saying 
amongst other things that they didnt understand the risk they were taking.
Royal London looked into things and said there was no evidence the investments had been 
misrepresented and Mr and Mrs S had been given sufficient information about the nature of 
the risk they were taking. 
Remaining unhappy Mr and Mrs S brought their complaint to our service where one of our 
Investigators looked into what happened. They thought the recommendations were suitable 
and the investments were affordable. Overall they didnt think the investments had been mis-
sold.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed saying the advice to invest a lump sum in a bond and an ongoing 
amount into the ISAs was inappropriate. 
Because an agreement couldnt be reached the matter has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S have provided a lot of information about their complaint and its clear to me 
how strongly they feel about what happened. I want to assure Mr and Mrs S that Ive read 
and considered everything provided even if I dont mention it in detail. Ive summarised some 
things which reflects the informal nature of our service. 
The sales took place in 2001, which is over some 20 years ago, and the investments were 
surrendered in 2006 and 2007, so its no surprise that there isnt a full record of everything 
from the time of the advice. Where information is missing or incomplete, Ive come to a 
decision based on the balance of probabilities about what I think is most likely to have 
happened.
Our Investigator provided a comprehensive summary (over three pages) of the evidence, 
and commentary on that evidence, from the time of the sale. I wont repeat all of it again 
here as Im satisfied its a fair representation of the information and Mrs and Mrs S have 
seen our Investigators view and been given time to comment. I think the outcome from our 
Investigator covered all the relevant points and I agree with the conclusions reached.
Having independently looked at all the information from the time I think the advice from 
Royal London was suitable. 
I think the risk rating of cautious for Mr and Mrs S was fair. They had some previous low 
risk investment experience with a variety of products. And looking at all the information Im 
satisfied they meet the Royal London definition of a cautious investor at the time.
The bond was a suitable investment including considering it was with-profits and so 
benefitted from smoothing of fluctuations. Also the bond was only a portion the portfolio 
where there were also amount of deposit backed investments. 
I think the bond and ISAs were affordable based on the information from the time. The 
£6,000 that went into the bond was around half the available savings and the monthly ISA 
contributions were within budget. Mr and Mrs S disagree the investment was affordable, and 
Ive considered what they have said about their circumstances, however Im satisfied the 
evidence from the time shows affordability.
From what Ive seen I think the investments were explained to Mr and Mrs S and they were 
given time to consider their options. Whilst I cant say for sure how much detail was said 
about the Market Value Reduction I think it most likely was discussed and information about 
it appears in the product literature. 
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied Royal London acted fairly 
and reasonably when giving advice to Mr and Mrs S which I think was suitable.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman