DRN-2070555
The complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) sold by Yorkshire 
Building Society (YBS) to Mr and Mrs E in or around September 2000.
What happened
Mr and Mrs E say they were under the impression that they had to buy PPI in order to get 
the mortgage lending they wanted. 
The mortgage and the PPI were both in joint names. The policy provided cover for 
accident, sickness and unemployment. If was free for the first 6 months. 
One of our adjudicators said the complaint about the policy being mis-sold shouldnt be 
upheld. Mr and Mrs E disagreed so the complaint has come to me for a final decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. I will explain why. 
It looks like Mr and Mrs E decided to take out the policy when they filled out their 
mortgage application. Unfortunately, YBS no longer has a copy of this. This may have 
happened at a meeting or could have been sent to them to complete as part of the 
mortgage application process. However, from what Ive seen plus my knowledge of YBS 
sales at around this time, its likely that YBS didnt make a recommendation about taking 
out the PPI. But it still needed to ensure that they were given enough information so they 
could make an informed choice about taking out the cover. 
The mortgage offer, sent to them in September 2000, said that Mr and Mrs E had chosen 
to take out PPI, setting out the monthly cost  of the policy, being £24.76, plus the £600 level 
of cover it provided. The offer also said that the cover would be free for the first 6 months. 
To complete the PPI application process, Mr and Mrs E had to complete a separate 
application form and return it to YBS. Again, I havent been given a copy of it, but the 
application form would have given them the opportunity to confirm they wanted to take out 
PPI at that point. 
Ive also kept in mind that being free for the first 6 months, it was open to Mr and Mrs E to 
choose to cancel the PPI before they had to start paying for it.
Taken together, these things show Mr and Mrs E were afforded an appropriate degree of 
choice. So on balance, I therefore think they made the decision go ahead and take the 
PPI and I think YBS properly obtained their consent.
From what Ive seen, its also likely that Mr and Mrs E were given a policy document that 
would have explained how the PPI worked  Ive seen a sample. So I also think they 
would have had enough information on which to make an informed choice.
It is of course possible that YBS didnt do everything right or that Mr and Mrs E werent 
told everything they ought to have been. But the evidence Ive seen shows they took part 
in the PPI sale process and wanted this type of cover. They seem also to have been 
eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in 
these types of policy.
Ive seen that Mr and Mrs E both already had some sickness protection with their jobs. 
They also had some joint savings. But this doesnt necessarily mean the policy wasnt of 
use. Their mortgage was secured against their home and so the consequences of not 
being able to make the repayments could have been serious. In the event of a successful 
claim, the PPI would have helped pay the mortgage for up to 12 months. This would have 
been in addition to the other means they had and would have avoided the need to dig into 
their financial resources.
I therefore think the cover was of use and thats most likely why they agreed to take the 
cover. 
It follows that I wont be upholding this complaint.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire Building Society doesnt need to do 
anything more .
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 November 2020. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman