DRN-2477498
The complaint
On behalf of his company Z Limited, Mr Z complains that Kingsway insurance Services
Limited mishandled its motor trade insurance policy. 
 
What happened
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a complaint against one regulated financial
firm at a time. In our final decision we name that firm, but we dont name anyone else.
For some years, Kingsway had acted as an intermediary between Mr Zs company and its
insurers. Mr Zs company had a motor trade insurance policy that was due for renewal on 26
May 2019.
After some discussion, he renewed the policy with effect from that date. But he cancelled it
in mid-June 2019. Kingsway made a charge. Mr Z complained that it was unfair.
Kingsway sent a final response letter dated 11 September 2019. Unhappy with that, Mr Z
brought his complaint to us on 11 November 2019.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that
Kingsway had acted fairly.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Z Ltd 
and to Kingsway on 23 November 2020. I summarise my findings:
The charge for time on cover was set by the insurance company and Kingsway had
to pass the charge of £482.94 on to Mr Z. So I didnt find it fair and reasonable to 
direct Kingsway to rebate any of that charge.
It was a cancelation within the 14-day cancellation period. And - notwithstanding
Kingsways terms of business - I didnt find it fair for Kingsway to charge Mr Z any 
more than a reasonable administrative charge proportionate to the service it had 
provided - with no element of profit.
Kingsway offered to reduce its charges to £797.04. But Kingsway hadnt shown us
details of the time spent or the work done. So I didnt find that amount a reasonable, 
proportionate or fair charge.
Subject to any further information from Mr Z or from Kingsway, my provisional decision was 
that I was minded to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct Kingsway not to ask 
Mr Z to pay any more than the insurers charge of £482.94 for time on cover.
Neither Mr Z nor Kingsway has responded to the provisional decision. So I see no reason to 
change my view.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen a statement of the demands and needs of Mr Zs company. From that, Ive noted
that the company was in the business of repairing vehicles and had only four vehicles of its
own. It had modest business assets and turnover and only one employee. So Im satisfied
that Mr Zs company falls within the definition of a micro-enterprise and we can deal with its
complaint.
Kingsways terms of business were dated May 2018. So I find it likely that M Z had received
them in 2018 and they hadnt changed in 2019.
Ive also seen reference to a claim. From Kingsways file, I see that was a theft claim in
March 2019. And I find that any claim was likely to increase the premium on renewal.
In any event, Kingsway was an intermediary. It didnt set premiums. Rather, it looked for the
best deal from its panel of insurers.
I accept that time was getting short by 21 May 2019 when Kingsway sent its renewal
recommendation. The policy was due to expire on Saturday 25 May and a new policy was
required from Sunday 26 May. Monday 27 May was a bank holiday. So I accept that Mr Z
was in a difficult position.
But I cant say when Mr Z asked Kingsway for a claims experience certificate. And, from
what Mr Z and Kingsway have each said, he had enough information to obtain a quote
through another provider. Kingsway agreed to match that quote.
On 24 May 2019, Kingsway quoted a premium of about £7,200.00 and Mr Z said he wanted
to go ahead. From the call recording, I find that he did so willingly.
Kingsways terms of business included the following:
Your policy document will detail your rights to cancel your insurance once you have
taken it out. Depending on the type of policy you have purchased, you may be
entitled to cancel within 14 or 30 days of either conclusion of the contract or receiving
your policy documentation, whichever, occurs later. This is often referred to as a
cooling off period.
Where you cancel a policy before renewal you will be responsible for paying a
charge to meet the cost of cover provided and administration expenses. Please
see the Refunds section.
That contained cross-references to the insurers policy document and the Refunds section of
Kingsways terms.
The insurers policy terms (for both Motor Trade and Road Risks) included the following:
Your right to cancel
If this cover does not meet your requirements, please return all your documents and
any certificate to the broker, intermediary or agent who arranged the Policy within 14
days of receipt. We will return any premium paid unless a claim has been made.Termination
If you wish to terminate the contract at any other time, please contact the broker,
intermediary or agent who arranged the Policy. Any return of premium will be made
based on the number of days remaining in the Policy period, unless a claim has been
made when no refund is due.
So Im satisfied that the insurer allowed a 14-day cancellation period  not a 30-day
cancellation period. The 14-day period was to start from receipt of the policy documents.
The Refunds section included the following:
Refunds
Where a policy is cancelled before renewal, insurers charge to cover their costs, with
the balance refunded to you, subject to no claim having been made. Full details will
be available in your policy. In the event of an adjustment giving rise to a return of
premium the amount may be refunded or held to credit.
Your attention is specifically drawn to the following: Where you cancel your
policy within the cooling off period or where you request a mid-term
adjustment which results in a refund of premium, we reserve the right to
charge you for our time and costs. This will usually result in us reducing the
amount refunded to you by the FULL amount of the commission and fees we
would have received had you not cancelled. The reason for this is that the
majority of our costs are incurred either in initially finding and setting up your
policy or in the annual renewal process when we might check the ongoing
suitability of the cover the policy offers. These costs are recovered through the
commission we earn. If you cancel, this does not give us an opportunity to
recover the costs we incurred and would often result in us making a loss.
However, any charge made will not exceed the cost of the commission and
fees we would have earned.
That section of Kingsways terms of business didnt distinguish between cancellation during
the cancellation period and after that period.
The bank holiday fell on 27 May 2019. Ive seen a copy of Kingsways letter dated 30 May
2019. It said it enclosed certain of the policy documents. So the bank holiday was before the
start of the 14-day cancellation period. I dont find it fair to add a day for the bank holiday.
But the letter of 30 May 2019 said the Road Risks schedule was to follow when Kingsway
received it from the insurer. So Im not satisfied that Mr Z received the policy documents
before 1 June 2019 at the earliest.
On 10 June 2019, Mr Z called Kingsway to cancel the policy, but he decided against it when
Kingsway said it would try to find a way to reduce the premiums.
Kingsway called Mr Z back on 14 June 2019, and he cancelled the policy. From what
Kingsway has said, he did so before any payment of his companys direct debit had gone
through.
I find that the charge for time on cover was set by the insurance company and Kingsway had
to pass the charge of £482.94 on to Mr Z. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct
Kingsway to rebate any of that charge.
But Ive not been satisfied that Mr Z received the policy documents with the letter of 30 May
2019. So Im not satisfied that the last day of the 14- day cancellation period was before
Friday 14 June 2019  when Mr Z cancelled the policy.So it was a cancelation within the 14-day cancellation period. And - notwithstanding
Kingsways terms of business - I dont find it fair for Kingsway to charge Mr Z any more than
a reasonable administrative charge proportionate to the service it had provided - with no
element of profit.
Kingsway said its charges were £1,594.09. So I find it likely that this was how much
commission it wouldve earned if Mr Z hadnt cancelled the policy.
Later Kingsway offered to reduce its charges to £797.04. But Kingsway hasnt shown us
details of the time spent or the work done. So I dont find that amount is a reasonable,
proportionate or fair charge.
  
Putting things right
Therefore I will direct Kingsway not to ask Mr Z to pay any more than the insurers
charge of £482.94 for time on cover.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Kingsway insurance Services Limited not to ask Mr Z to pay any more than the 
insurers charge of £482.94 for time on cover.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2021.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman