DRN-3026659
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that Capital One (Europe) plc approved him for two credit card accounts 
which he feels were unaffordable for him at those times. 
What happened
Mr F applied for a Capital One credit account in February 2016. His application was 
approved, and Capital One issued Mr F with a credit card with a credit limit of £200. A few 
months later, in June 2016, Mr F applied for a second Capital One credit account. This 
application was also approved, and Capital One issued Mr F with a second credit card, this 
time with a credit limit of £500.
In April 2021, Mr F raised a complaint with Capital One because he felt that the two credit 
accounts that hed been approved for in 2016 had been unaffordable for him at those times, 
and that this should have been evident to Capital One, had they undertaken checks into his 
financial circumstances before approving the applications.
Capital One looked at Mr Fs complaint, but they felt that they had undertaken checks into Mr 
Fs financial position at the time of the account applications and that there had been nothing 
resulting from these checks that they felt should have given them reason to consider that the 
credit being offered to Mr F might be unaffordable for him. So, they didnt uphold Mr Fs 
complaint.
Mr F wasnt satisfied with Capital Ones response, so he referred his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also didnt feel that there 
had been anything resulting from the checks that Capital One had conducted at the time of 
the account applications that should have caused Capital One to suspect that the credit 
might not be affordable for Mr F, so they also didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr F remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its for a business to decide whether it will offer credit to a customer, and if so, how much 
and on what terms. What this service would expect would be, before approving a customer 
for a new line of credit, or before increasing the amount of credit available to a customer on 
an existing line of credit, that the business would undertake reasonable and proportionate 
borrower focussed checks to ensure that any credit being offered to a customer is affordable 
for that customer at that time.
Capital One say that they did that here. At the time of the first credit application they took 
details of Mr Fs annual income, which suggested to them that Mr F would be able to afford 
any potential monthly repayments on the line of credit under consideration. Capital One also 
confirm that they obtained information from a credit reference agency into Mr Fs wider 
financial position, and while Capital One acknowledge that there was adverse reporting 
present on Mr Fs credit file, they felt that his recent credit history was such that he would be 
able to afford the relatively small amount of £200 credit being offered to him at that time.
Additionally, at the time of the second credit application, Capital One reviewed how Mr F had 
managed and maintained the first Capital One account, which hed held for approximately 
four months, and obtained updated information from a credit reference agency to refresh 
their understanding of Mr Fs wider financial position. And Capital One maintain that there 
was nothing resulting from these checks that made them feel that Mr F wouldnt be able to 
afford the further line of £500 credit that he was later approved for.
Mr F has highlighted to this service that his credit file at the time would have demonstrated to 
Capital One that he had approximately 20 defaulted accounts visible on his file, and he feels 
that this should have been a clear indicator to Capital One that he was unable to manage 
credit such that they should never have approved the credit applications he made to them.
I can appreciate Mr Fs position here. However, it was at Capital Ones discretion how to 
interpret the information present on Mr Fs credit file at that time, and its evident from the 
information provided to this service by Capital One that they were aware of all of Mr Fs 
historically defaulted accounts. However, as Capital One noted, none of these defaults had 
occurred in the recent past, and the active credit accounts that Mr F had in place at the time 
of the application appeared to be being managed by Mr F without major incident.
Additionally, its important to remember here that the amount of credit that Capital One 
initially approved Mr F for was the relatively small amount of £200, and I dont feel that it was 
unreasonable for Capital One  in consideration of Mr Fs income and his recent credit 
history, and regardless of his more chequered prior credit history  to have approved Mr F 
for such a relatively small line of credit.
Im also not convinced that Capital Ones decision to approve a second line of credit of £500 
for Mr F should be considered as being irresponsible, and I say this for similar reasons to 
why I feel the first approval of credit was reasonable, but with the addition of Capital One 
being able to review how Mr F had managed the first credit account, which up until the time 
of the second credit account application hed done without exceeding the £200 credit limit or 
missing or being late with a required monthly repayment. 
As such, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Capital One to expand on their earlier 
reasoning and conclude that Mr Fs management of his earlier account suggested that his 
ongoing creditworthiness was such that it warranted the provision of further applied-for 
credit.
Im aware that Mr F feels that the provision of any credit was unreasonable given the status 
of his credit history. But while I would agree with Mr Fs position if it had been the case that 
Capital One had approved Mr F for larger amounts of credit, I dont share Mr Fs conclusions 
in this instance given that the amount of credit that he was approved for was relatively 
conservative. As such, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Capital One to conclude that 
Mr F would be able to afford the lines of credit he was ultimately approved for, and that 
Capital One conducted reasonable and proportionate checks before arriving at those 
decisions.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr F was wanting here, but it follows that I wont 
be upholding this complaint or instructing Capital One to take any further actions at this time. 
I trust that Mr F will understand, given all that Ive explained above, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman