DRN-4063243
The complaint
Mr H complains that National Westminster Bank Plc has blocked and closed his bank 
account without telling him why. It has also not returned the funds held in the account. 
What happened
Mr H had an account with NatWest. He says that it was opened in around 2017 (when he 
was still a minor) and that a family member had paid funds into it from time to time. He 
intended to invest those funds in the future, although he believes he used the account to 
make some purchases as well. 
In or around October 2020 NatWest blocked and closed the account. It did not give any 
notice to Mr H and did not give any reasons for its actions. 
When Mr H complained about the banks actions, it said that its decision remained the same. 
It gave no reason for that decision, other than to refer to the account terms. It said too that it 
was unable to release the funds in the account but that it should have an answer on that 
issue within 60 days  which meant by early January 2022. 
Mr H referred the matter to this service. He confirmed that he had not received the funds, 
and that remains the position. 
One of our investigators considered what had happened. He noted that banks can decide 
who they want as a customer and that they may sometimes need to carry out account 
reviews. When they do so, they may need to restrict an account. 
The investigator noted too, however, that NatWest had provided no information to this 
service about Mr Hs complaint. There was no explanation for its decision not to return funds 
to him. The investigator recommended that it do so and that it pay 8% interest on the 
account balance from the date it was blocked until payment. He also recommended that 
NatWest pay Mr H a further £100 in recognition of the inconvenience caused. 
NatWest did not respond, so the case has been passed to me.        
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusions as the investigator, for broadly the 
same reasons. 
Ill consider first the decision to block and then close the account. As the investigator said, it 
is generally for banks to decide whether to provide  or continue to provide  banking 
services to any particular customer. We wont usually interfere with a banks commercial 
discretion in such matters, as long as it is exercised legitimately. I am satisfied that it was 
here  NatWest was within its rights to close the account. 
Usually, a bank should give reasonable notice before closure. For a personal account, that 
usually means 60 days, and that was the time given in the banks account terms. In some 
circumstances, however, a shorter notice period (or none at all) might be appropriate. 
NatWest referred Mr H to those circumstances in its response to the complaint. 
The third issue I need to consider is the banks failure to release the funds held on the 
account. 
Funds held to the credit of a bank account represent a debt owed by the bank to the account 
holder. Subject to any terms to the contrary (for example, where the account is a notice 
account, or where the bank has a right of set-off)), that debt is payable on demand. Mr H has 
demanded payment, but NatWest has not made it. Nor has it given any reason for non-
payment, either to Mr H or to this service. In the circumstances, I believe the investigators 
recommendation was fair and reasonable.           
I accept too that Mr H has suffered some inconvenience here and that he should be 
compensated for that. He has said however that he had another account with a different 
provider, and I have summarised what he has said about his use of the NatWest account. 
This is not a case where a customer was left with no account and had to make alternative 
banking arrangements. My award in recognition of Mr Hs inconvenience is therefore 
relatively modest. 
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc should release 
any funds held on the account at the time of closure, together with interest at 8% a year 
simple from the date on which the account was blocked until the date of payment. It should 
also pay Mr H a further £100 in recognition of the inconvenience to which he has been put. 
Payment should be made by bank transfer, cheque or counter withdrawal at Mr Hs option 
and subject to suitable identification being provided.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman