DRN-3302031
The complaint
R complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) and their failure to provide the 
financial services R expected when it opened a business account. R is also unhappy with its 
inability to speak to Barclays and their refusal to sign a non-disclosure agreement (NDA).
R has been represented by its director, who Ill refer to as Mr V, during the complaint 
process. 
What happened
R opened a business bank account with Barclays in August 2018. R says this account was 
opened due to promises Barclays made in relation to guaranteed lending as part of the 
account benefits.
In September 2019, Mr V called Barclays to discuss borrowing between £100k to £150k to 
facilitate a merger with another business. Due to the value of the loan, this request was 
passed to the relevant local branch network and so, there is no further record of this 
application progressing. 
In January 2020, Mr V called Barclays again this time requesting a loan of around £150 to 
cover personal expenses. Barclays explained they were unable to grant a business loan to R 
for the personal expenses of Mr V and so, this loan wasnt approved. In May 2020, Mr V 
called Barclays to apply for an overdraft on the account on behalf of R. But this application 
was declined due to the R and Mr Vs credit score. Mr V was unhappy about this, so he 
raised a complaint.
Mr V thought hed been discriminated against personally due to his ethnicity. And he thought 
this was why Barclays had declined his loan and overdraft applications. Mr V explained he 
was led to believe lending and an overdraft were guaranteed services as part of the account 
and so, he thought Barclays had acted unfairly. Mr V was also unhappy that hed been 
unable to speak to Barclays on several occasions as he was unable to pass customer 
verification security questions when he felt he provided the right answers. So, he wanted 
Barclays to provide him with a business loan and to be compensated for the upset hed been 
caused.
While Barclays were investigating Mr Vs concerns, raised on behalf of R, they offered Mr V 
the chance to speak to a member of staff regarding a high value loan. But to do this, they 
explained Mr V would need to submit a detailed business plan. Mr V said he would only do 
this if Barclays signed an NDA, to which they refused stating R was already protected within 
the terms of the account. Mr V refused to submit a plan without that and so, no further 
conversations were held.
And Barclays responded to Mr Vs complaint and didnt uphold it. They explained any 
lending is subject to application and approval, so they didnt think theyd done anything 
wrong when declining the overdraft and small loan Mr V requested. And they didnt think 
they had discriminated against Mr V or R when taking these decisions or refusing to speak to 
Mr V when he failed their customer verification process. Because of this, they didnt think 
they needed to do anything more. Mr V remained unhappy with this, so he referred Rs 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They explained our service is 
unable to make a legal finding on when the Equality Act 2010 has been breached, as this is 
something only the courts can decide. And they made it clear that this complaint has been 
brought by R, not Mr V, as it relates do Rs business account. So, they explained their 
findings were based on whether Barclays treated R fairly, not Mr V. And they thought they 
had.
Mr V didnt agree. And he provided several comments explaining why he maintained his 
belief Barclays had treated him, and so R, unfairly. Our investigator took these comments 
into consideration but didnt think they altered their view. Mr V remained unhappy and so, 
Rs complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I think it would be useful for me to explain exactly what Ive been able to consider as 
part of my decision. While I appreciate Mr V is the director of R, and he sees himself and R 
as one and the same, Im unable to look at the complaint in this way. Legally, R is a limited 
company and so, its own legal entity. And the business account Barclays has provided is in 
the name of R, not Mr V. So, while I appreciate Mr V has been acting on behalf of R in his 
role as director, Im unable to consider any issues Mr V holds regarding the service he 
received personally, or the impact this had on him directly, as he isnt Barclays customer in 
this situation. That customer is R. 
So, Im unable to consider Mr Vs complaint regarding his belief that Barclays discriminated 
against him personally due to his ethnicity and nationality. And even if I thought this was an 
issue I could look at; our service is unable to make determinations on whether the Equality 
Act 2010 has been breached as this would be a matter for the courts. So, while I understand 
this isnt what Mr V had hoped for and I appreciate the sensitivity of the issue Mr V raised, I 
havent considered this further.
What I can consider is whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably towards R. So, Ive 
thought about whether the service they provided, or lending decisions they made, fell in line 
with the terms of the account R agreed to. And if I think they did, that it was fair for Barclays 
to rely upon these terms. And in this situation, I think they have.
Mr V has said he chose Barclays to open Rs business account as he was promised a 
guaranteed business credit card, overdraft access and cheque book with deferred payments 
when there was no account balance. But when R applied for these benefits, they were 
declined, or R was told they didnt qualify. So, Mr V thinks this is evidence that Barclays 
acted unfairly and that they changed their qualification criteria after the account was opened.
But Barclays have said these are benefits they would never have promised, as each benefit 
would be classed as lending which couldnt be guaranteed without an application and 
approval due to the financial risk it would create.Mr V hasnt been able to provide evidence that shows these benefits were promised to him, 
on behalf of R. And Ive reviewed the account terms and conditions and customer agreement 
R entered, as well as Barclays website, which make no mention of these promised benefits. 
Instead, the terms and conditions make it reasonably clear that any borrowing through the 
account would be based on Mr V and Rs financial situation, and that R would need to 
request for borrowing to be provided, rather than it being guaranteed. So, Im unable to say 
Barclays acted unfairly in relation to this aspect of the complaint.
Ive then thought about Barclays decisions to decline, or refuse, the borrowing Mr V applied 
for on behalf of R. I can see in September 2019, R wanted to discuss borrowing over £100k. 
The call notes show Rs request was forwarded onto a branch manager, due to the amount 
that was requested. And Im unable to see that this application progressed after this.
Barclays have confirmed that a branch manager would usually call a customer from a mobile 
number or arrange a formal meeting in branch for further discussions. And they couldnt see 
any meeting was arranged. So, they thought it was most likely the branch manager had 
called R to discuss the loan and explained that any loan would usually need to be matched 
with a significant capital investment from R, or Mr V as its director. And that this may have 
been why Mr V and R didnt pursue this further.
Im unable to say for certain what happened after this call in September. But I can see that in 
January 2020, some four months later, Mr V called Barclays to discuss another loan for a 
much smaller amount. If Mr V hadnt heard from Barclays regarding his first request made in 
September 2019, I wouldve expected this to have been raised on this call. But it wasnt. So, 
I think its reasonable for me to assume Mr V was contacted and that R chose not to pursue 
the substantial borrowing any further. And as no formal application was made, Im unable to 
say Barclays acted unfairly as there was no application to decline. 
In the conversation on January 2020, Mr V requested around £150 to pay for a phone bill, 
with mention to a property abroad as well. This request was declined by Barclays, as they 
explained they were unable to provide Mr V with a loan for personal expenses through Rs 
business account. Ive listened to this call and Im satisfied Mr V made it clear the phone bill 
was in his personal name, not the name of the R. So, I cant say Barclays have acted 
unfairly when taking this decision.
I recognise Mr V may have used the phone for work purposes with R and I appreciate why 
he thinks this should mean a loan could be granted. As I explained earlier in my decision, Mr 
V and R are separate legal entities. So, Id only expect Barclays to consider a business loan 
to cover the phone bill if it was registered in Rs name. And from the call recording Ive 
listened to; I think Mr V made it clear to Barclays that this wasnt the case. 
And finally, I understand Mr V is unhappy that Barclays declined Rs overdraft application. I 
appreciate there has been some confusion regarding the minimum overdraft R could apply 
for. But Barclays confirmed this was £500 and the application was based on this amount. 
And I can see this application was declined, due to Rs and Mr Vs credit score. The terms 
and conditions of the account explain any overdraft would be subject to approval, based on a 
customers finances. And I think a customers credit score is included within this, as their 
credit file represents the way theyve maintained previous borrowing. So, Im unable to say 
Barclays acted unfairly by subjecting Rs application to these checks and declining it on that 
basis.
Ive then thought about the issue Mr V faced when trying to speak to Barclays on Rs behalf. 
Its clear there was an issue with the customer verification process, which meant Mr V was 
unable to provide the answers Barclays required to speak to him verbally about the account. 
So, they asked Mr V to attend branch to produce identification documentation in order to allow them to alter this. While I appreciate the inconvenience, this wouldve caused Mr V, 
and so R as Mr V was acting on its behalf, I dont think this is unfair of Barclays to request. 
Banks have a responsibility to protect a customers account from fraudulent activity. So, 
when Mr V was unable to provide the answers they required through their security process, 
Id expect Barclays to take steps to ensure it was Mr V, acting on Rs behalf, who was 
attempting to discuss account matters. So, I cant say Barclays have acted unfairly here.
And finally, Ive thought about Barclays refusal to sign an NDA at Mr Vs request. I 
completely understand why Mr V, and so R, would want assurances that the intellectual 
property included within the business plan was protected. So, I can understand why an NDA 
would be requested and their reluctance to proceed without one. But crucially, Barclays have 
no obligation to agree to this request. And I can see Barclays explained why this was in the 
response to Rs complaint, explaining NDAs arent signed for existing customers as those 
customers are covered by the general duty of confidentiality contained with the banking 
agreement. So, Im unable to say Barclays acted unfairly by not signing this document.
I understand Mr V, and so R, wont agree with this. And I recognise their belief that Barclays 
would sign an NDA for bigger businesses, so they feel theyve been unduly treated. But it is 
Barclays own business decision on whether they wish, or dont wish to sign an NDA. So, 
they have the autonomy to take decisions on when they believe this is appropriate, based on 
each individual application. I can only consider whether Barclays have acted fairly in this 
specific situation and, as they have no obligation to agree to this NDA, I think they have.
I appreciate the impasse created by the NDA has meant R has been unable to apply for 
borrowing. And I recognise Mr V says this failure to borrow has resulted in lost business 
opportunities, which has significantly impacted R and its financial situation. But Im only able 
to consider the impact of Barclays decision if I think they made a mistake or acted unfairly. 
And I dont think they have on this occasion. Because of this, I dont think Barclays need to 
do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Rs complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman