DRN-3845357
The complaint
A company Ill call S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) closed its account, 
without giving the correct notice. S said the notice letter was dated 31 December 2021 but 
wasnt received until 23 January 2022.
S is represented by its director, Mr M.
What happened
On 16 December 2021, Barclays blocked Ss account, while it carried out a review. When it 
completed its review, it sent S a letter dated 31 December 2021 saying it had decided to 
close Ss account, and that the closure would take effect on 1 March 2022.
Barclays issued similar letters in respect of a number of different companies of which Mr M is 
a director or connected to in some other way. Because they are all separate legal entities, I 
will issue my findings in respect of each company in separate decisions.
Mr M complained saying he received the letter late, and that his Barclays relationship 
director (RD) had told him that some accounts werent to be closed.
Barclays didnt uphold his complaint. It didnt issue a formal response until 5 August 2022, 
over 6 months after Mr M had complained. But when it did, it said it had checked and was 
satisfied the notice to close was posted on the day it was created, and that it was sent to the 
correct address. It said it couldnt be held responsible for delivery problems after it had 
dispatched the letter.
It said it had seen an email from Mr Ms RD dated 25 January 2022, but it didnt agree the 
RD had said certain accounts wouldnt be closed. Mr M remained unhappy, so he brought 
Ss complaint to our service. When he did so, he also complained that Barclays hadnt 
formally responded to his complaint, several months after it was first lodged.
Our investigator looked at Ss complaint, but she didnt uphold it. She said Barclays is 
entitled to review its customers accounts, and to withdraw its services if it wished to do so. 
She said Barclays had followed the correct process, and that she had seen evidence to 
demonstrate Barclays had dispatched the notice to close to the correct address and on the 
date it said it had, i.e. 31 December 2021. She also noted that S completed a switch to a 
new bank on 14 February 2022, i.e. before Barclays notice expired.
Mr M didnt agree. Our investigator sent him a redacted version of the evidence Barclays 
had submitted to demonstrate the postage date, but Mr M argued that it didnt prove 
Barclays had posted it as it was essentially just a date written on a spreadsheet. He asked 
for an Ombudsman to review the matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account closure
Just as a customer may close an account with a bank, a bank is entitled to close an account 
with a customer. But when it closes the account, it must do so in a way which complies with 
the terms and conditions of the account.
The terms of Ss account, with which both Barclays and S had to comply, say that Barclays 
can close Ss account as long as it gives at least 2 months notice. And I can see Barclays 
gave S the required notice in its letter dated 31 December 2021. 
However, Mr M told our service that the notice to close arrived over 3 weeks after Barclays 
says it was sent. He also says his RD told him some of his accounts wouldnt be closed. So, 
Ive looked at the evidence Barclays has submitted to demonstrate when it issued the notice 
to close. And Ive considered the email Mr Ms RD sent, relating to the account closures.
Barclays has sent our service an audit report relating to the notice to close. Barclays 
considers its internal report to be commercially sensitive, so it asked our service not to 
disclose the full report to Mr M. Our investigator sent a redacted version to Mr M, so I can 
understand why he doesnt consider it to be evidence that Barclays dispatched the letter 
when it says it did.
However, the rules under which our service operates allow me to accept information from 
one party in confidence so that only an edited version is disclosed to the other party (DISP 
3.5.9R, available online). In light of this, and because Barclays audit report is commercially 
sensitive, Im unable to share the full, unedited document with Mr M. Id like to reassure Mr 
M that Ive seen the full original document myself, and Im satisfied it shows the notice to 
close was indeed dispatched to the correct address on 31 December 2021.
I have no reason to disbelieve Mr M, so I accept he received the notice late. And I appreciate 
the reason for the delay doesnt change the fact that Mr M had a reduced period in which to 
make alternative banking arrangements for S. But I cant reasonably hold Barclays 
responsible for any delays after it had dispatched the letter, as those delays were beyond 
Barclays control.
Mr M told our investigator he still had the original envelopes from some of the letters he did 
receive, and said they had unique codes on them that might show when the letters were 
dispatched. He invited our investigator to return to Barclays and tell them the information it 
had provided wasnt evidence of dispatch.
Our investigator invited Mr M to send the envelopes in if he wanted me to consider them, but 
Mr M didnt send them in. So, Ive made my decision based on the evidence the parties did 
submit. And, for the reasons Ive set out above, Im satisfied the letter was dispatched as 
Barclays says.
I also note that Barclays completed an account switch for S to its new bank on 16 February 
2022. So even if I did find Barclays to be responsible for the delay, Mr M was still able to 
make alternative banking arrangements within the time period set out in the notice to close 
(i.e. before 1 March 2022). So, the posting delay didnt cause S to go without banking 
services.
Mr M also told Barclays that his RD had said some of Mr Ms company accounts wouldnt be 
closed. Ive seen an email dated 25 January 2022 from Mr Ms RD, to one of Mr Ms employees. The email to the RD is sent from a different company to S, but it asked which 
accounts would be closed, as some letters had been received but not all.
The RD replied saying From what I can see having just checked the system, letters have 
been issued for the following. The email then listed 8 of Mr Ms companies but did not refer 
to S.
The intention of the email to the RD was to clarify which accounts would be closed. And all 
the RD said was that he had checked the system and then listed the 8 companies he could 
see had had notice to close letters issued. He didnt say whether or not other accounts had 
also been closed, or if the other accounts were excluded from closure.
But, while I think the email could have been clearer, I dont consider that it amounted to 
confirmation that other accounts wouldnt be closed. And I dont consider the RDs email 
contradicted the notice to close issued to S, such that it would reasonably leave Mr M under 
the impression that Ss account closure would not go ahead.
Having considered all of the information both parties have provided, Im satisfied Barclays 
acted in accordance with the terms and conditions of Ss account when it closed the same. 
The terms and conditions require it to give two months notice, which Barclays did. That 
being the case, I see no basis upon which I can reasonably make an award in Ss favour.
Delayed final response letter
Mr M told our service he raised Ss complaint to Barclays on 25 January 2022, and that 
Barclays didnt acknowledge it or provide a response. Barclays did later provide a final 
response letter on 5 August 2022, but that was after Mr M had brought Ss complaint to our 
service.
I understand why such a delay would cause frustration, but this isnt a matter I can address. 
Our jurisdiction allows our service to look at complaints about financial services but doesnt 
extend to matters of complaint handling. And because Mr Ms complaint that Barclays 
delayed in responding to Ss complaint is about complaint handling, not a financial service, 
its not a complaint point I can consider.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman