DRN-3109743
The complaint
Mr D complains about end of contract charges when his agreement with Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited ended.
What happened
In March 2019 Mr D was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with MBFS.
Mr D experienced issues with the car and MBFS agreed a rejection. As part of the 
settlement offer on rejection, MBFS agreed to refund Mr D 10% of the monthly rentals hed 
paid under the agreement.
Following rejection, the car was inspected. The inspection report identified damage which 
went beyond acceptable wear and tear. MBFS advised Mr D that he was liable to pay 
charges of around £1370 for damage and around £768 for excess mileage.
Mr D disputed the charges but MBFS said they had been correctly applied. Mr D continued 
to dispute the charges and MBFS wrote to him and said there had been an administrative 
error and that the excess mileage charges were £1087.56 not £768.10. By this time Mr D 
had paid the charges and said he wanted MBGS to honour the excess mileage charges it 
had originally notified him of.
MBFS said it had made another error and that the excess mileage charges were £2,711.66. 
it said that because it had made an error, it would honour the charges of £1087.56.
Mr D wasnt happy and complained to this service.
Our investigator said that the terms of the agreement allowed MBFs to charge for excess 
mileage. He also said that Mr D had exceeded his contractual mileage allowance by over 
25,000 miles and that he should therefore pay excess mileage charges at the applicable rate 
per mile. The investigator acknowledged that Mr D had been provided with incorrect 
information about the charges but said he didnt think it was fair to ask MBFS to honour the 
figure of £768.10 which it had put in writing in January 2021. The investigator said the offer 
to honour the excess mileage charge of £1,874.10 was fair, but also said that the error had 
impacted on Mr D and that compensation of £250 should be paid to Mr D.
Mr D didnt agree. He said hed accepted MBFSs offer to pay £768.10 for excess mileage 
and it wasnt until several months later that MBFS started chasing him for sums he knew 
nothing about.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the agreement. These say that if Mr D exceeds his 
contractual mileage limit, hell be liable to pay excess mileage charges. I can see that Mr D 
exceeded his mileage limit so, in accordance with the terms and conditions, he was always 
going to be liable to pay excess mileage charges. The issue in this complaint is not whether 
Mr D should be liable to pay excess mileage charges, but rather, how much he should pay 
for excess mileage charges, taking into account the incorrect information provided by MBFS.
I think its important to look at what Mr D would have had to pay in excess mileage charges 
had the incorrect information not been provided. The correct excess mileage charges were 
£2,259.72 plus VAT (£2711.66). So, irrespective of what MBFS asked Mr D to pay when it 
first wrote to him, £2711.66 is the sum for which Mr D is contractually liable. 
Theres no dispute that MBFS provided Mr D with incorrect information about the sum he 
had to pay for excess mileage. Im satisfied that, in reliance on this information, Mr D made a 
payment for the damage charges and the excess mileage charges, which he thought cleared 
the account.
MBFS have asked Mr D to pay a further amount of money which is significant, so I 
understand his frustration about this. That said, Mr S has paid a much lesser amount than 
hes contractually liable to pay. I dont think it would be fair to ask MBFS to remove the 
remaining excess mileage charges, because, taking into account the terms and conditions, 
these have been fairly calculated and applied. But I do think MBFS should compensate Mr D 
for the trouble and upset caused by the error it has made, because Mr D has been impacted 
by being asked to pay one sum and then being advised that this was incorrect and asked to 
pay a higher sum.
Ive thought about what a fair level of compensation might be here. I can see that MBFS has 
offered to accept a lower sum than the full excess mileage charge. I think this is a fair 
resolution because it represents a significant discount on what Mr D is contractually liable to 
pay. MBFS has also offered compensation of £250, which I think is a fair and reasonable 
amount to reflect the trouble and upset caused to Mr D by the error.
Ive taken account of Mr D concerns about MBFSs failure to honour the sum it initially told 
him was due. I understand his frustration, but ultimately, the amount due for excess mileage 
charges is a contractual issue. MBFS made an error in its initial calculation but it has 
corrected this and Im satisfied that the amount it has asked Mr D to pay now is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman