DRN-4193442
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the service TSB Bank plc (TSB) provided him when he wanted to get 
a bankers draft in a branch. He says that the members of staff in the branch were rude to 
him. He is also unhappy with the service that he received when he raised a complaint about 
this matter.
Mr S has also complained that a member of staff did not call him back as promised.
What happened
Mr S visited one of TSBs branches and asked for a bankers draft for £5,000 from a 
Passbook Saver account. My understanding is that Mr S was told that there would be a fee 
for this. Mr S says at this point, the staff in branch were rude and dismissive to him. The TSB 
staff member involved said that Mr S was rude and aggressive to him.
Mr S raised a complaint with TSB in relation to this. During this complaint process, Mr S also 
raised an issue that he was told by a member of staff that he would be called about a 
transfer. But when he chased this up, he found out that the member of staff who promised to 
call him was not working that day, despite him saying that he was.
TSB did not uphold Mr S complaint. Mr S tried to contact the complaint handler and the 
director of TSB about this matter and he was not called back and was not responded to by 
the director of TSB. I issued a provisional decision on 29 August 2023 saying the following;
Ive provisionally considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I am currently not 
upholding Mr S complaint. Ill explain why.
In instances like this were there are two parties with competing versions of what happened it 
is difficult to determine exactly what happened. The CCTV footage is unavailable, though I 
should add that footage in branches generally does not have sound, so even if it were 
available, it would be of limited use.
Overall, given the lack of evidence there is not enough for me to say that either party acted 
inappropriately, so it follows that I cant make an award of compensation for this matter.
In relation to the promised call back for the transfer, I understand that it would be frustrating 
that there was no call back and more so when the member of staff turned out not to be 
working on the day that he said he was.
But from the looks of it, the matter was resolved relatively quickly as the manager from the 
branch then called to confirm that the transfer had been actioned correctly. So whilst I accept 
that something may have gone wrong, I dont think compensation is merited for this matter 
as we all suffer some form of inconvenience when dealing with large organisations and 
compensation is not merited every time something small goes wrong.
In relation to the service received during the complaint handling process, I should explain 
that the rules which apply to all complaints referred to us are called the Dispute Resolution 
rules and rule 2.3 (found at the website: fshandbook.info/FS/html/handbook/DISP/2/3) sets 
out which activities fall within our remit. I have looked at these activities and complaint 
handling is not one that is listed and therefore it is not something this service can look at. I 
understand that Mr S will be frustrated by this as he clearly feels very strongly that his 
complaint was not handled well by TSB. But due to the rules by which I am bound, I am 
unable to look into this part of Mr S complaint.
Overall, there is not enough for me to say that either party acted inappropriately in the 
branch, not do I think the issue with the transfer merits compensation in the circumstances. It 
is also the case that I cant look into the service that Mr S received during the complaint 
handling process, as that is not a regulated activity. 
It follows then that I currently do not uphold this complaint.
In response to this provisional decision TSB agreed with my outcome. Mr S did not agree 
with my outcome, he raised a number of points. I will not list each one, but in summary:
The CCTV footage is not of limited use as it denotes body language
The statement that it likely did not contain sound is an assumption rather than fact
The CCTV footage being destroyed in itself suggests wrongdoing on the part of TSB
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered everything, including all the points that Mr S has raised, I see no 
reason to change the outcome I reached in my provisional decision.
Mr S does not agree that the CCTV footage would have been of limited use. But regardless 
of how useful the CCTV footage could have been, or whether it would have contained 
sound, the fact remains it has not been retained. My understanding is that branch CCTV 
footage is rarely kept for a long period of time unless it relates to a serious security issue, it 
not being retained when relating to what is a relatively minor matter is not unusual. So I dont 
think it not being retained is enough for me to say that TSB were in the wrong.
So, in summary, there is not enough for me to say that either party acted inappropriately in 
the branch. Nor do I think the issue with the transfer merits compensation under the 
circumstances. It is also the case that I cant look into the service that Mr S received during 
the complaint handling process, as that is not a regulated activity.
So having reconsidered everything Im not upholding this complaint. I should add at this 
point that this decision represents the final stage in this services process and there is no 
further recourse to appeal or discuss the merits further. That said, Mr S may be able to 
pursue this matter elsewhere, such as court, if he wishes to do so.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint for the reasons set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman