DRN-3212587
The complaint
A company, that I shall refer to as C, complains about the decision of Society of Lloyds not 
to allow Cs prize indemnity insurance policy to be cancelled due to circumstances related to 
the COVID-19 pandemic. 
What happened
C runs a gaming website which offers customers the chance to win various prizes by 
predicting football results. One of the prizes on offer is a £1,000,000 jackpot. C took out prize 
indemnity insurance underwritten by Society of Lloyds. 
For ease, whenever I refer to Society of Lloyds this will include anything done by the 
underwriters and its agents. Several other parties, including the broker who arranged the 
policy and a finance provider, were also involved in the events subject to this complaint. But 
this current complaint is about the decision of Society of Lloyds, so for the sake of simplicity 
I have just referred to Society of Lloyds.
In March 2020, when the football season was put on hold due to the pandemic, C contacted 
Society of Lloyds to request a cancellation of the policy and, effectively, a refund of part of 
the premium. The policy had been taken out with the use of finance, so whilst the full 
premium had been paid to Society of Lloyds at commencement, C still owed the third-party 
finance provider several instalments.
Society of Lloyds declined Cs request. They said that the policy was non-cancellable. They 
also said that the insured prize could have been claimed after four weeks of the football 
season, and that the premium was earned as soon as there was a risk of a pay-out. They 
said that the policy worked on a minimum and deposit (M&D) premium basis, with the initial 
cost of the policy being the lowest that could be offered for the amount insured and then a 
potential additional charge, per entry into the game, once a certain number of entries had 
been made. 
Society of Lloyds also explained that they would have charged the same premium had it 
been known at the start of the policy that the season would be put on hold in March 2020. 
So, they were not willing to offer any refund. 
However, Society of Lloyds did offer to extend the policy to cover the remaining fixtures of 
the season once it was restarted. 
C was unhappy with this and brought its complaint to this service. However, our Investigator 
didnt think it should be upheld. He felt that a page posted on the website of Society of 
Lloyds during the pandemic, indicating that policies could be cancelled, was potentially 
misleading. But he didnt think this meant C was actually entitled to a refund of the premium. 
The Investigator felt Society of Lloyds were correct when saying the premium had been 
fully earned, as it was fully exposed to the risk of the insured prize being won after week 
four of the season. 
C remained unsatisfied and its complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point in this complaint is to consider the terms of the policy C took out. The 
terms of Cs policy were clear that it was not normally possible for a policyholder to cancel 
the policy. They stated:
This policy is non-cancellable, unless otherwise agreed by you and us.
The terms of, and the endorsement to, the policy did provide some rights for 
Society of Lloyds to unilaterally cancel the policy. But these related to situations where the 
policyholder had either breached the terms and conditions of the policy, or where the 
premium had not been paid within the relevant time period. 
A further endorsement to the policy also made it clear that the premium was based on an 
M&D basis, and what this meant should entrants exceed the agreed limit. 
I do note that the terms did not set out that no premium would be refundable. But given they 
state the policy was not cancellable by the policyholder, I think it would be reasonably clear 
that no refund would be payable either. 
Taking these points into account, I dont consider the terms required Society of Lloyds to 
allow C to cancel the policy. Nor did they require Society of Lloyds to provide C with a 
refund of the premiums in the circumstances. 
I have also considered the wider circumstances that led to this situation. The COVID-19 
pandemic created a largely unprecedented situation. The terms and conditions of the game 
C ran did make provision for circumstances where individual games were called off, but it 
seems unlikely either party envisaged the suspension of the football season when the policy 
was set out. So, I have thought about whether Society of Lloyds actions were fair and 
reasonable. 
A few months prior to March 2020, C had attempted to negotiate a reduced premium for the 
policy, although it had been in effect for some months. C has made it clear that the refusal of 
Society of Lloyds to agree to this is not part of this complaint. But it does provide some 
background information nonetheless. As does the number of entrants into the game C ran in 
previous years. It is clear that, even in the absence of the pandemic, the game would not 
have attracted anywhere close to the maximum number of entrants the policy would allow 
before an additional premium was payable. 
Society of Lloyds have made it clear, both in the course of this complaint and at the point C 
renewed the policy in 2019, that the premium charged was the minimum that could be 
charged for a prize of the value insured. Whilst not entirely material, I also think it is likely C 
was aware of this  its attempts to reduce the premium by excluding particular football clubs 
from those selectable  thus making the game more difficult to win  did not reduce the 
premium, they merely increased the maximum number of entrants allowed. 
So, it is clear that in order to insure a £1,000,000 potential prize, the minimum premium that 
Society of Lloyds would charge was that paid by C. And this would not decrease regardless 
of the number of entrants into the game and hence the potential risk of a pay-out. This 
means that as soon as it was possible for the prize to be paid out the full premium was chargeable. And the only way this could change was if a further premium was charged to 
cover more than the maximum entries. 
The policy was not structured on the basis of how long the game was played. Rather it 
provided cover for a set maximum number of entrants. And the premium charged upfront 
was the minimum that was payable. Whilst it is possible that the longer the season 
progressed, the more potential entrants there could be, there was also no limit on the 
number of weekly entries to the game C ran. So, it is possible that the maximum number of 
entrants allowed by the policy could have entered the game in the first few weeks of the 
season. Given the number of entrants the game had attracted over the previous years, it 
doesnt seem the maximum would have been reached in a full season. So, whilst I 
appreciate Cs stance that if the season was suspended, it should not be charged for the full 
season, this was not the basis on which the risk was structured. 
C attempted to cancel the policy after it was possible for the prize to have been won. So, I 
think it was fair and reasonable for Society of Lloyds to decline its request for a refund. 
I do think that the unprecedented circumstances of the pandemic did warrant some action on 
behalf of Society of Lloyds. However, I note that they offered to extend the term of the policy 
to cover the remaining fixtures of the season. Effectively, the suspension of the season led 
to a suspension of the cover and once one restarted, so would the other. Whether the 
circumstances around how these fixtures were played would have allowed C to run the 
game is uncertain. But, given the structuring of the risk in relation to the policy, I think this 
was a fair and reasonable offer by Society of Lloyds. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman