DRN-3663866
The complaint
Mr E has complained about the way his insurer, Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva), dealt with a 
claim he made on his motor insurance policy. 
All references to Aviva include its agents. 
What happened
Mr E made a claim on his motor insurance policy for the replacement of his cars rear 
passenger window. He was referred to one of Avivas repairers who replaced the window 
and charged him a £115 excess which he paid. 
Mr E complained to Aviva and said that the policy documents do not specify that the excess 
in relation to windows is £115 and said he should have his £115 refunded. He added that the 
schedule which details the applicable excesses only refers to windscreens and not to 
windows even though the policy itself differentiates between windscreens, sunroofs and 
windows. He said that if there is ambiguity in the policy, the relevant term should be 
interpreted in favour of the insured.
 
Aviva didnt uphold the complaint and said that the policy schedule has to be read alongside 
other supporting documents and that in the policy booklet the Glass section refers to 
windscreen, sunroof or windows which in turn makes it clear that the Glass section in the 
schedule relates to windscreen, sunroof and windows. 
 
Mr E did not agree with Aviva and complained to us. He said, though he has no doubt the 
underwriters intention was for the £115 excess to apply, this is not stated in the schedule. 
He said what the policy should have said, instead, was that the Glass section excess is 
£115 or that the windscreen, sunroof and windows excess is £115. He said Aviva should pay 
him back the £115 excess. 
One of our investigators looked at the complaint but he didnt think Aviva was acting unfairly 
or unreasonably when it charged the £115 excess. He said, though the policy could have 
been worded differently, it was still clear when looking at the policy together with the 
schedule that the £115 excess applied. He added that Mr E was made aware of the 
existence of an excess prior to paying for it. 
Mr E didnt agree and raised a number of points including:
That it is incumbent upon insurers to make sure their policy wording is clear and 
unambiguous. Where the policy wording is ambiguous, the law says that it should be 
interpreted in the way thats most favourable to the consumer. 
He agreed to pay the excess in order to get his window repaired and this shouldnt 
prevent him from challenging its validity. 
The fact that the schedule only mentions windscreens whilst the policy distinguishes 
between windscreens, windows and sunroofs would mean that there is no excess 
that applies to the latter two.
Our investigator looked at the complaint again but didnt think it should be upheld. He said 
though he thought the wording could be clearer he didnt think it was ambiguous. He added 
that the policy differentiates between repairs which have £0 excess and others with an 
excess and the fact that windows arent listed as having £0 excess means that an excess 
would apply.
 
He also said that when looking at complaints we not only take the law into account but also 
industry practice and applicable rules and regulations. He said he looked at other policies 
from other large insurers who use similar wording to Avivas and concluded that what Aviva 
had done seemed to be in line with industry practice. He also said that it is fair and 
reasonable that the excess is payable bearing in mind the cost of the actual repair was most 
likely higher than the excess. 
Finally, our investigator said that our role is to look at individual complaints and to consider 
whether insurers have acted fairly and reasonably in those specific circumstances. As a 
result, we wouldnt tell an insurer to change how its policies are worded. That is the role of 
the regulator. 
Mr E didnt agree with our investigator. He said that the vast majority of consumers do not 
have insurance experience and therefore it is very important that insurers use plain English. 
He added that his other two motor insurance policies use very clear wording when it comes 
to the excesses charged. He asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it.
 
Mr E has made a number of arguments, which I have considered, but in this decision I will 
refer to the ones I consider to be the most important.
The policy wording and schedule
The Glass section in Mr Es policy includes the following: We will pay for the replacement 
or repair of the glass in your cars windscreen, sunroof or windows if it is lost or 
damagedThe excess amount you must pay for any replacement or repair is shown in your 
schedule.
Under Glass replacement the schedule includes the below:
Approved repairer windscreen replacement limit- Unlimited
Approved repairer windscreen replacement excess £115
Non Approved repairer windscreen replacement limit £50
Non Approved repairer windscreen replacement excess £0
Excess
Vehicle excess- £250
Additional excesses include a young driver excess of £200 and non approved repairer 
excess of £250. 
Mr Es arguments
Mr Es main argument is that the schedule specifically states that there is an excess which 
applies to windscreen replacement but not to windows. He says the absence of any 
reference to an excess which applies to windows should entitle him to a refund of the £115 
excess sum paid. I understand Mr Es argument, but I do not agree with him in this instance. Under the Glass 
section the policy mentions the windscreen, windows or sunroof. It states these will be 
repaired or replaced if damaged and that the excess amount that must (my emphasis) be 
paid is in the schedule. The schedule has a Glass replacement section and, as stated in 
the background, the policy document states, Glass includes windows. I appreciate the 
schedule then refers to the windscreen but this is all under the Glass replacement heading. 
I, therefore, agree with our investigator that I think its fair, in these particular circumstances, 
that Aviva charged the £115 excess.
Mr E said that where a policy is ambiguous it should be interpreted in favour of the 
consumer. I agree with him but I do not think the policy is ambiguous, although I think it 
could have been drafted better. Mr E himself has acknowledged a number of times that he 
accepts that the intention was for Aviva to charge an excess in relation to the replacement 
window.
 
Mr E says that most consumers do not have insurance experience and therefore that 
insurance policies should be drafted in plain English so they are easy to understand. As our 
investigator explained our role is to look at individual complaints and whether the particular 
insurer complained about acted unfairly or unreasonably in each complaint. I appreciate 
Mr Es concern for consumers in general but it is not my role to direct Aviva to change its 
policy wording. If this is something Mr E is concerned about, he is free to raise it with the 
Financial Conduct Authority who regulates insurance companies. 
As our investigator said, we dont only look at the relevant law when making a decision, but 
we also take into account industry practice, rules and regulations. Our investigator looked at 
other insurance policies from large insurers who use similar wording to Aviva. Our 
investigator said this shows that what Aviva was doing wasnt out of line with industry 
practice. I agree with our investigator for the same reasons that hes given.
Mr E said his other policies which are also from large insurers are a lot clearer. Ive looked at 
the extracts he has sent to us. The first policy refers to a windscreen excess of £150 which, 
according to the policy, covers the windscreen, rear windscreen, sunroof or side windows. 
The second policy refers to this as the glass excess. Mr E says these terms are clearer 
than Avivas and that may be the case but to me they also show that, like Aviva, some 
insurers use the word windscreen as a generic term for all glass parts. 
Furthermore, from what Ive seen, other insurers would also charge an excess for a window 
replacement. For this and the reasons above, I dont think Aviva is out of step with the rest of 
the industry here.
To conclude as the policy includes windows in the definition of glass and as the Glass 
repairs section of the policy says there is a £115 excess I think its fair and reasonable that 
Aviva charged this in order to replace Mr Es rear window. And as our investigator says the 
actual cost of replacing the window was probably a lot higher than £115. To ask Aviva to 
refund this to Mr E would not be fair or reasonable in my opinion. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons above, I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman