DRN-4194329
The complaint
Mr M has complained that he has been unable to contact Al Rayan Bank PLC (Al Rayan) 
about his account. Mr M is also unhappy that he is unable to close his account over the 
phone.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they thought that Al Rayan should pay 
Mr M £50 due to the customer service that Mr M received.
Mr M disagreed with the assessment as he thought that £50 was not sufficient compensation 
but said he would accept £100. Al Rayan responded and said that it didnt think it should pay 
anything to Mr M.
As both parties disagree with the adjudicators assessment, the complaint was referred for 
an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, I think that what the adjudicator recommended is reasonable in 
the circumstances.
Mr M has explained that he has tried to contact Al Rayan a number of times. This includes 
being on hold waiting for someone at Al Rayan to answer the phone on several occasions. 
He has also tried downloading an app to access his account, but he says that this didnt 
work either. And having reviewed everything, I see no reason to doubt what Mr M has said.
Overall, I have some sympathy for Mr M and can see that he has experienced a fair amount 
of inconvenience in trying to contact Al Rayan (unsuccessfully) about his account. And whilst 
it is perhaps reasonable to expect some delay when trying to contact a financial business by 
phone, in this case I think that the delays Mr M has said he experienced when trying to 
contact Al Rayan were excessive. It seems that the excessive delays were caused by Al 
Rayan not having enough staff to deal with the increased calls it was receiving due to it 
having recently launched a new product. And this has ultimately prevented Mr M from being 
able to access his account.
In light of this, I think that what the adjudicator recommended is not unreasonable in the 
circumstances.
I note that Mr M would like to close his account, and Al Rayan has said that he will need to 
send his instruction in by letter. Although it is a touch surprising that this is apparently the 
only way Mr M can close his account (given the amount of technology that is now available 
and widely in use by other banks and financial businesses) at the same time, I cant say that 
the requirement is completely unreasonable. 
As such, whilst I recognise that sending a letter to Al Rayan to request his account to be 
closed may not be as fast as other methods, it is still a reasonable method in which to make 
such an instruction. Furthermore, as explained by the adjudicator, it is beyond the remit of 
this service to instruct Al Rayan about how it should operate. Therefore, I cant instruct Al 
Rayan to change its processes, as much as Mr M would probably like us to.
Putting things right
Because of the reasons given above, Al Rayan should pay Mr M £50 for the inconvenience 
caused to him due to the excessive amount of delays Mr M has experienced in trying to 
contact it.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Al Rayan Bank PLC to do what I have said above, in full 
and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman