DRN-3288551
The complaint
Miss J is unhappy with the way Telefonica Insurance S.A.(Telefonica) handled her mobile 
phone insurance claim.
What happened
On 5 July 2021, Miss J made a claim on her mobile phone insurance policy. 
On the same day, Telefonica explained to Miss J that she had two options for settling the 
claim. A collection, and inspection service or a phone exchange. The exchange option is 
usually faster and easier as the faulty phone is replaced straight away, but the excess is £90 
instead of £60. Miss J decided to proceed with this option and asked for the exchange to 
take place on 10 July 2021. She couldnt do an earlier date than this due to her work 
commitments. Unfortunately, the phone provided as part of the exchange was faulty.
Telefonica then sent Miss J a second replacement phone. However, this phone was also 
defective. Instead of sending Miss J a third phone, Telefonica arranged for the second 
phone to be collected, inspected and repaired. It was then returned to Miss J, however, as it 
wasnt of a satisfactory quality, she was sent a final phone on 28 July 2021. This phone was 
a different model but had a similar technical specification. 
In response to the complaint, Telefonica accepted they'd delayed the settlement of the claim 
and provided poor customer service. To reflect this, they offered Miss J £75 compensation 
and said theyd refund the £30 higher excess fee.
Our investigator concluded Telefonica had let Miss J down in relation to the way theyd 
handled her claim. However, he also thought theyd already offered her a fair and 
reasonable resolution to her complaint. So, he didnt think they should do anything more.
Miss J disagreed and said her complaint hadnt been taken seriously. In summary, she said 
Telefonica should refund all the policy premiums and the full excess as theyd breached the 
contract and the policy was therefore void. She also felt the compensation should be 
increased as it didnt reflect the difficulties she experienced or the full amount of time she 
went without her own working phone. In reaching this conclusion, she highlighted her 
reliance on friends to provide a temporary device.
Miss Js comments didnt change our investigators opinion. So, Ive considered the 
complaint afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Miss J feels very strongly about this matter. Although Ive only summarised the 
background and arguments above, Id like to reassure her, and Telefonica that Ive read and 
considered everything in its entirety. The fact Ive concentrated on the crux of the issue in my 
decision isnt meant as a discourtesy but a reflection of the informal service we provide. 
Im satisfied Telefonica have already offered Miss J a reasonable resolution to her complaint 
for the following reasons:
Miss J benefitted from the policy as she made a successful claim. So, I see no 
reasonable grounds for directing Telefonica to refund the policy premiums. While it's 
clear the claim was more difficult and took longer than it reasonably should have 
done, Miss J ultimately received a working refurbished phone of a similar technical 
specification to the original. So, Telefonica did what they were reasonably required to 
do to settle the claim. They didnt provide a brand new phone as Miss Js policy didnt 
allow for this.
Im satisfied Telefonica did the right thing by offering to refund the £30 higher excess 
fee as its clear the phone exchange wasnt successful. I wouldnt reasonably expect 
the rest of the excess to be refunded as Miss J would always have needed to pay 
this as part of the claim.
I understand why Miss J is unhappy with the way her claim was handled. Telefonica 
should reasonably have been able to settle the matter on 10 July 2021 during the 
agreed phone exchange. However, this didnt happen, and Miss J went without a 
working replacement phone until 28 July 2021. She was also put to the trouble of 
arranging several phone exchanges which could have been avoided, if Telefonica 
had provided a satisfactory phone in the first instance. So, I think it was right they 
offered Miss J compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience their actions 
had caused her.
Miss J feels very strongly that she should receive more compensation and doesnt 
think Telefonica took everything into account. As mentioned above, Ive carefully 
considered all the circumstances including the timescales involved. But having done 
so, Im satisfied Telefonicas £75 compensation offer is fair and in line with the kind of 
award Id ordinarily make in similar cases. So, while it's clear Miss J has been let 
down by Telefonica, I wont be directing them to do anything more than theyve 
already offered. 
My final decision
Telefonica Insurance S.A. have offered Miss J £75 compensation and a £30 excess refund. I 
conclude this is fair and reasonable, so I direct them to pay her £105 in total - if they havent 
already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman