DRN-3031517
Complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) taken out in 1998. Mr 
and Mrs R say Lloyds Bank PLC, trading as C&G, mis-sold them the PPI.
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to Lloyds throughout this decision.
Background
One of our adjudicators previously looked into the mis-sale element of the complaint and 
said they didnt think we should uphold it. However, they thought Lloydss offer to pay back 
some of the cost of the PPI, because of the non-disclosure of high commission and profit 
share Mr and Mrs R paid, was fair in the circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs Rs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset,
in order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this
complaint. When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account
relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice;
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Rs. I havent set out that detailed
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and
Mrs Rs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale element of the complaint. And Ive 
too decided Lloyds should have disclosed the commission it received - but that its 
subsequent offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused 
is fair in the circumstances.
did Mr and Mrs R agree to the PPI?
The first thing I should clarify is that although this was a joint-mortgage, only Mr R was 
insured by the PPI. I see part of their complaint is that the policy wasnt suited to them 
because Mrs R wasnt employed. However, she wasnt covered by the policy, so Im afraid 
this isnt relevant.
I also think they bought the cover for Mr R because it was a form of protection they wanted 
to have. They have said they didnt receive any paperwork about the policy, but this was 
obviously a long time ago and Im afraid I dont think thats right either. They completed an 
application form for the PPI, which Ive been sent and they signed a direct debit to authorise 
the monthly premiums to leave their bank account. I see they were also given a schedule 
outlining quite a bit about who and what was covered on the policy and they also were 
written to, confirming that theyd set such a policy up to protect their mortgage repayments. I 
note the letter also set out how to change their minds about having the cover.
So I think the evidence is very comprehensive and clear that they agreed to the PPI and 
were made aware the policy had been set up in Mr Rs name. I think Lloyds properly 
obtained their consent. 
was the cover suitable?
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs R as part of an advised sale, so it had a duty 
to make sure it was suitable for them. I think it was. 
This is because Mr R was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the main 
exclusions we tend to see in these policies. I think its likely they both knew what the policy 
was for, who was covered and the price. And I note Mr R said he didnt have any sickness 
protection with his job at the time. It also looks like the cover was affordable for them and, as 
their mortgage was insured against Mr and Mrs Rs home, it could have been useful if 
something went wrong. It could have paid up to £814 per month for a year in the event of a 
successful claim.
I therefore think the cover was suitable for them and recommending it to them wasnt wrong.
were Mr and Mrs R told enough?
Its certainly possible the information Lloyds gave to Mr and Mrs R about the PPI, particularly 
around some of the exclusions and limitations, wasnt as clear as it might have been. 
However, in my view, the PPI wasnt too dissimilar to what they probably thought they were 
buying from the information they were most likely given at the point of sale. Mr R didnt have 
any pre-existing medical conditions and there was nothing about his employment which 
would have made it difficult for him to claim. In short, I think he would have been able to 
claim for most eventualities and because of all this, I dont think they would have declined 
the cover even if Lloyds could have done a better job at explaining certain things.
Mr and Mrs Rs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the
chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Rs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Rs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Rs case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
complaint. This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back any of the cost of the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs R.
non-disclosure of commissionAs I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Lloyds should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Lloydss offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused 
is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Lloyds didnt tell Mr and Mrs R about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in 
this case. So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Lloyds and Mr and Mrs R was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because Lloyds didnt tell them about the high levels of commission and profit share in 
this case 
I dont think Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr and Mrs R because it 
failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr and Mrs Rs representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on his complaint.
In summary they have said Mr and Mrs R should get back all the money they paid for the 
policy because: Lloyds failed to tell Mr and Mrs R about the high commission and profit-
share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because 
they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr and Mrs R wouldnt have 
taken out the policy had they known about the level of commission and they should receive a 
refund of all the premiums they paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipcommission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mr and Mrs R in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Lloyds not disclosing the high 
level of commission to them before they purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr and Mrs Rs representative suggests, driven to conclude that they 
wouldnt have purchased the policy but for Lloydss failure to disclose the level of 
commission for the reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Lloyds to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mr and Mrs R paid for his PPI policy. I consider this fairly removes 
the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mr and Mrs R with the policy Ive 
concluded above they would still have taken out if Lloyds had done everything it should have 
done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Lloydss offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr and Mrs Rs complaint or make any 
award in favour of them for this part of the complaint.
However, because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mr and Mrs R an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where 
applicable). I see it did this several years ago.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman