DRN-3601768
The complaint
Mr A is complaining that Fortrade Limited closed his open trading positions in a certain 
company, A, after a decision by A to make a reverse stock split.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them at length 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. In 
summary:
In mid-April 2020, A announced their decision to make a reverse stock split, 
exchanging every twelve shares for one. 
Fortrade wrote to Mr A about the announcement on 8 May 2020, telling him that 
theyd be closing all his open positions in A. 
Fortrade closed the positions on 11 May 2020, refunding Mr A the spread.
Mr As losses were around 15,500 euros.
Mr A complained about Fortrades actions, saying theyd caused him significant 
financial losses and negatively impacted his health. 
Fortrade didnt uphold Mr As complaint  they said their terms and conditions 
allowed them to close the positions. And they told us their systems couldnt cope with 
the split.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator. Although Im 
aware itll be disappointing for Mr A, Im not upholding his complaint. Ill explain why:
Fortrade told Mr A how they would handle the reverse stock split in advance of it 
happening. Theyve told us this would have been as soon as they were aware of the 
announcement. Mr As said they should have told him earlier and pointed at 
Fortrades handling of a different stock  but the one hes mentioned is a much more 
high-profile company so its understandable Fortrade would have been aware of 
changes in that stock much earlier. 
Even if Fortrade had told Mr A earlier what it would do, there is very little Mr A could 
have done  there was little change in the share price between As announcement 
and Fortrades.
Mr As upset that Fortrade didnt follow the process theyve set out on their website 
for dealing with a reverse split. But he could have re-opened the positions straight 
after the reverse split which would have had broadly the same effect  both 
processes start with a closure of all current positions and then re-opening at the 
relevant ratio and price.
Fortrade have explained they werent able make the adjustments themselves 
because of limitations in their software. So I cant say theyve treated Mr A unfairly in 
not following their advertised process  they simply couldnt do it. 
Fortrade acted in line with their terms and conditions which allow them to close 
positions if a Force Majeure Event occurs. Their definition of a force majeure event 
says an event the occurrence of which is beyond the reasonable control of the 
affected party and says it includes any failure of systems. Whilst I agree with Mr A 
that a reverse stock split and Fortrades systems inability to handle that split wouldnt 
usually be classed as a force majeure event, Im satisfied that they do meet the 
definition in Fortrades terms and conditions.
Mr A had opened most of his trading positions in several tranches during 2018 and 
2019 when then share price was well above five Canadian dollars, whereas by 
April 2020 the share price was below a dollar. Fortrades actions crystallised Mr As 
loss but the loss itself was unavoidable  the share price hasnt increased 
significantly since the reverse split.
My final decision
In summary, I cant say that Fortrade have acted unfairly or unreasonably so my final 
decision is that this complaint shouldnt be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman