DRN-4112596
The complaint
Mr M complains Cambridge Building Society didnt have arrangements in place to 
accommodate his hearing needs when he wanted to apply for a mortgage. He complains 
that hes lost out as a result.
What happened
Mr M and his wife are hard of hearing and until recently lived in rented accommodation. In 
addition, they shielded until the summer of 2022 as they were at heightened risk of Covid.
In February 2022 Mr M emailed Cambridge to explore the possibility of taking out a 
mortgage with them. He explained he had hearing problems and was shielding and said he 
wanted to know whether or not Cambridge would accept a mortgage application using Relay 
UK. Cambridge said that all of its appointments had to be via telephone or face to face, and 
that it was speaking to its regulators about using video appointments in the future, and that 
this was presenting some hurdles. In the meantime, Cambridge gave Mr M details of brokers 
who would be able to help and offered to send a list of intermediaries they used. Mr M says 
he emailed Cambridge back and then had to chase for a response.
Mr M emailed Cambridge again in May 2022 to ask what progress Cambridge had made 
towards accepting mortgage applications using Relay UK. Cambridge emailed Mr M back to 
say it hadnt progressed with it at that stage.
Mr M emailed Cambridge again in June 2022 to say that his hearing had improved, and hed 
obtained an amplified phone, so an application by phone might be possible. He asked 
whether or not it would be possible to arrange an appointment that day. Cambridge emailed 
Mr M back to say that the earliest appointment it could offer would be a week later. Mr M 
said that as Cambridge couldnt offer an appointment that day it wouldnt be following up with 
them.
Mr M complained in August 2022 saying that he hadnt been able to apply for a mortgage 
from Cambridge because of his hearing problems, and that meant hed lost out because it 
looked like he would have been eligible for one. 
Cambridge investigated Mr Ms complaint and said that before implementing Relay UK due 
diligence was needed and that at that time it didnt have the resources for this as it was 
engaged in a complex internal core system change. Cambridge also said that this was the 
first such request it had received. Cambridge said that it had included Mr Ms suggestion for 
future service improvements.
Mr M was unhappy with Cambridges response. He complained to us saying that had he 
been able to apply earlier he would have been able to get a mortgage before interest rates 
had started to increase. In other words, he said that he was worse off because Cambridge 
hadnt made reasonable adjustments for him. He was unhappy that Cambridge didnt have 
the option of using Relay UK in place when he originally contacted it and said that its final 
response showed that this wasnt even a priority for them. He was also unhappy that 
Cambridge had asked him for documents in advance that it wouldnt normally ask someone 
who is having a telephone interview. He thought that this was discriminatory. Mr M has told 
us that hes had to move into temporary accommodation whilst looking for somewhere to 
rent long-term and that this has had a significant impact on him and his wife.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint and said that they thought Cambridge 
didnt need to do more. Mr M didnt agree with our investigators recommendations and 
asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, his complaint was referred to 
me.
Last month I issued a provisional decision saying that I was minded to uphold this complaint 
for the reasons set out in that provisional decision and require Cambridge to pay Mr M £350 
in compensation. I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision. Mr M was 
happy to accept my provisional decision if it was my final decision and asked us to let him 
know if Cambridge disagreed in which case hed reconsider. Cambridge said that it was 
going to comment on my provisional decision, but it didnt ultimately do so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said that I accepted that Mr M has hearing difficulties  so does 
his wife  which means phones arent easy for him. And I also said that I accepted that they 
were both extremely careful during the pandemic and carried on shielding until the summer 
of 2022. And that this meant visiting a branch to apply for a mortgage wasnt an option in 
early 2022  and that applying by phone wasnt really either.
In my provisional decision I said that I could see that Mr M contacted Cambridge in February 
2022 by email to check whether or not he could apply for a mortgage using Relay UK. I said 
that Cambridge explained that this wasnt an option it had in place at the time but said that it 
would look into this. And I also said that I agreed with Mr M that this is something that 
Cambridge should have given some thought to beforehand  the duty to make reasonable 
adjustments is, after all, an anticipatory duty. So, I said that this must have been 
disappointing.
In my provisional decision I said that I could also understand why Mr M was really 
disappointed that when he contacted Cambridge again in May 2022 that Cambridge said 
that it hadnt made any progress. I said I could see Cambridge had been giving video 
appointments thought  although I noted that as Mr M had pointed out video appointments 
would only help people able to lip-read, Relay UK is a different service  and that this had 
regulatory implications. I said I could see too in its final response that Cambridge had said 
that it didnt have the resources at that time as it was engaged in a complex internal core 
system change. And I said that I appreciated that these are relevant considerations, but that 
I could see why these explanations were even more disappointing. I said that because they 
suggested that Cambridge  despite Mr M acknowledging how helpful its staff were  wasnt 
taking his needs as seriously as it could or should have done.
In my provisional decision I said that both parties had sent us the emails theyd exchanged 
between February and March 2022  when Mr M first spoke to Cambridge about the 
possibility of applying for a mortgage using Relay UK  and in May, June, and August 2022. 
I said I could see from those emails that the staff that Mr M spoke to were very helpful  and 
that Mr M had confirmed this himself  and that they had answered lots of questions Mr M 
had so he could work out whether or not it would be worth applying for a mortgage from 
Cambridge. I said I could also see that Cambridge had suggested two other alternative ways 
of applying  using secure email or, given that Mr M had mentioned hed just bought a highly amplified phone, giving that a go. I noted that this was indeed a suggestion that Mr M made 
in June 2022. I said that Mr M didnt go ahead with the application at that stage as he 
needed an appointment that day, and that the earliest one available was a week later. And I 
also said, from what Ive seen, that it appeared that Mr M had decided to apply elsewhere, 
and the lender theyd approached withdrew their fixed rate only a few hours before their 
appointment. At that point, time was running out for Mr M as they needed a mortgage 
urgently.
In my provisional decision I said that in this case, given what Id said above, that whilst I 
agreed that it would have been disappointing that Cambridge didnt have Relay UK in place 
in February 2022, I did think Cambridge tried to help Mr M as much as it could  including 
answering as many of his questions as it could and exploring alternative options with him. I 
said I did think Cambridge could have done more to show that it took Mr Ms case seriously, 
but I didnt think it was unreasonable of Cambridge not to be able to offer a same day 
appointment or that the urgency with which Mr M needed to get an appointment is something 
that it would be fair to hold Cambridge liable for.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said that I didnt entirely agree with our investigator that 
Cambridge had done anything wrong in this case. I said that Mr M wasnt asking for a video 
appointment  so it appears Cambridge misunderstood what Mr M needed when it explained 
that it was investigating the regulatory implications, in a way that would reasonably have left 
Mr M feeling disappointed. And I also said that I did think Cambridges final response would 
reasonably have left Mr M feeling his disability wasnt considered important. In short, I said 
that I could see why Mr M was upset and distressed by Cambridges response overall. I 
remain of that view and remain of the view that this complaint should be upheld, and that 
Cambridge should pay Mr M £350 in compensation for the upset and distress caused.
My final decision
My final decision is Im upholding this complaint and Im requiring Cambridge Building 
Society to pay Mr M £350 in compensation as an apology for the distress hes been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman