DRN-3687544
The complaint
Mr K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC applied a margin to his international transfer.
What happened
Mr K is based overseas. Barclays sent him a letter dated 26 November 2021, to inform him 
that they would be closing his current account with them by 12 June 2022. Mr K says he 
spoke to a Barclays call handler and they told him he also needed to close his Individual 
Savings Account (ISA), since both of the accounts were registered at the same address. He 
says the call handler told him that the only way the funds could be moved to his overseas 
account was to make an international payment via online banking, which he did. 
Mr K says that when he was processing the international payment, he was given an 
exchange rate of pounds sterling (GBP) to Euros of 1.1399. He says when he completed the 
process, a payment instruction document was received which gave him an exchange rate of 
1.1721 and a margin of 2.75% which equated to 231.85 Euros. Mr K says in the letter 
Barclays sent him on 26 November, they said they would waive/refund any fees relating to 
the transfer of the funds to another bank account and not charge him for closing his account. 
Mr K contacted Barclays to discuss this on 10 June 2022, but they did not refund the margin 
they applied as they said it was part of their terms and conditions. Mr K made a complaint to 
Barclays, but they did not uphold his complaint, so he brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ks complaint. He said that including a margin on an 
exchange rate that all customers pay is different from charging him an actual fee for sending 
a payment and Barclays made this clear in their terms and conditions. He said Barclays 
applied their normal exchange rate terms to his transaction but did waive the fee which is 
normally applied when sending an international payment. He said that just because an 
extraordinary event occurred, this does not mean terms and conditions for a product should 
no longer apply.
Our investigator said Barclays acted within their rights when they applied a margin for 
exchanging Mr Ks funds into another currency, as a margin on a currency exchange is not
considered a charge by definition. He said Barclays decision to close Mr Ks account was in 
line with changes to banking regulations.
Mr K asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He raised a number of points. In 
summary, he said he didnt receive the letter Barclays say they sent him regarding the 
complaint outcome dated 13 June 2022 and they never contacted him over the phone to 
discuss the matter with him. He said the margin definitely constitutes part of the charges 
associated with the closure of the account itself, and as such it should have been deducted, 
waived or reimbursed by the bank, according to their own pledge. He said Barclays letter on 
13 June does not state the issue of dispute or any evidence in support of their decision. He 
also said that three months after the closure of his account Barclays havent yet provided 
him with printed account statements for the last five years, as they were obliged to do so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has made a number of points to this service and Barclays and Ive considered and read 
everything hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal 
body Ill be focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Mr K will need to speak to Barclays first regarding the issue of not receiving his printed 
account statements as this was not part of the initial complaint he made against Barclays. So 
I wont be able to look into this point for him here. If Mr K complains to Barclays about this 
and he is not satisfied with their response, then he will have the right to bring this to our 
service.
I must explain to Mr K that complaint handling by a business isnt a regulated activity and as 
such, the issues hes raised that relate directly to how Barclays have investigated his 
complaint, such as the contents of the letter dated 13 June 2022 and how they specifically 
investigated his complaint do not come under my powers to consider. But I am satisfied they 
sent him this letter. I realise Mr K says that he never received this letter, however it is 
addressed to the same address as post from Barclays that he did receive, so I cant hold 
Barclays responsible for any issues with any postal service involved here.
Ive noted the strength of feeling that Mr K has that the foreign exchange (FX) margin 
applied to his transfer was a fee. And based on the letter he received from Barclays stating 
We'll waive/refund any fees relating to the transfer of your funds to another bank account 
and we won't charge you for closing your account, he feels the margin that they applied 
should be waived/refunded. But Im not persuaded that it should be refunded based on the 
letter they sent him and Ill explain why.
Barclays website under the international payments page shows that they use mid-market 
rates (shown above) as reference exchange rates to determine the foreign exchange (FX) 
rate for most cross-currency payments or inter-account transfers. The foreign exchange rate 
for a specific transaction amount is calculated by applying an FX margin to the reference 
exchange rate. You can find your FX margin by calling us or asking us in branch. So Im 
satisfied that this sets out that there would be a FX margin applied for transferring funds 
internationally. And Mr K could have contacted Barclays before the transfer to see what this 
would have been for him.
In addition, Barclays terms and conditions clearly state If you ask us to make a payment in a 
different currency from that of your account, well convert it based on the Barclays reference 
exchange rate to which we add a margin to create the exchange rate that will apply to your 
transaction. The margin is based on the payment amount. Well tell you what it is if you ask 
us. So Im satisfied that it is clear from more than one source that a margin would be 
applied to an international transfer.
Ive considered the individual circumstances of this transfer. Barclays wrote to Mr K to 
explain that if his balances werent at zero and his accounts closed by 12 June 2022, then 
they would need to close his account by 20 June 2022. So Mr K did need to take action to 
avoid this. Under the part of the letter that says If you need to transfer your balance to a 
bank account in another country it goes on to say International transfers will convert the 
payment into the currency of the country the payment is being sent to before we send it, 
unless you tell us otherwise.As Barclays provided a service to convert the funds into Euros, then Im persuaded it was 
reasonable for them to apply the FX margin to the payment as they would do regardless of 
the circumstances of transferring funds abroad  even though the account had to be closed 
with them. Alternatively, Mr K could have told them he wanted the payment to be sent in 
GBP and the recipient bank could have applied their FX rate instead if he thought this may 
be more favourable. He could have also transferred the funds to a separate provider in GBP 
if he thought they may apply a lower FX rate. Or if he had a different UK based account it 
appears he could have transferred his funds to that account, which wouldnt incur a FX 
margin.
The FX margin applied is not considered to be a fee. I know Mr K strongly disagrees with 
this statement, but I say this as Barclays tariff for personal customers, which Ive looked at 
on their website sets out the various fees a customer may incur. Under the Sending money 
outside of the UK, or payments into the UK involving a currency conversion it includes fees, 
but not margins. As a margin is not the same as a fee, Im persuaded that this is why it is not 
referenced in the fee tariff document. 
Im satisfied that Mr K agreed to the exchange rate that Barclays told him  1.1399. This was 
displayed on his debit advice letter and showed that the payment amount would be 8207.78 
EUR. This is what was transferred and confirmed on his payment instruction he received. 
The letter he was sent about the closure of his account did not say no FX margin would be 
applied when transferring his funds to an overseas bank account. So Im not persuaded that 
Barclays should refund him the margin they applied for providing the service that they 
provided him with for the reasons Ive already given. So it follows I dont require Barclays to 
do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman