The complaint
Mr M complains that he didnt authorise his credit agreement with Corporate Asset Solutions 
Limited (CAS). Specifically, he says he wasnt aware of the interest rate on his credit 
agreement and didnt sign it.
What happened
In October 2018 Mr M acquired some work tools using a hire purchase agreement from 
CAS. The agreement was arranged by a broker. Originally Mr M was ordering one item 
which was available at an interest rate of 14.99% APR. But his broker then called to ask to 
add on another item. The figures were recalculated. After some further conversations, it was 
agreed that Mr M would take two items on the hire purchase agreement, but CAS told his 
broker that the interest would be 19.99% APR as the other item didnt qualify for the lower 
APR deal.
The credit agreement was sent to Mr Ms broker and returned signed along with a signed 
direct debit mandate and identification. The items were delivered to Mr M and he confirmed 
he was happy and confirmed the weekly payment of £29.06.
In October 2019 Mr M received his annual statement. At this point he saw that the credit 
agreement had interest of 19.99% APR. He complained to CAS as he wasnt aware of this. 
And he explained he never signed the credit agreement. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She explained that CAS had talked through the 
agreement with Mr Ms broker, and that the APR had changed after it was confirmed Mr M 
wanted to continue with an additional item added to the agreement. CAS also explained it 
had received all signed paperwork from Mr Ms broker and had sent out a copy of the 
agreement when Mr Ms items were delivered. So, she didnt think it had done anything 
wrong.
Mr M disagreed. He said that CCTV and his tracker from his van will show he wasnt around 
when the agreement was taken out. So, he feels he didnt authorise the agreement. He 
asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
CAS provided the credit for Mr M to acquire the items that he has. This was all organised 
through a broker. Ive considered what CAS has done in this transaction and I cant see that 
it has done anything wrong. Ive listened to the calls between the broker and CAS. In these 
DRN-1382030calls the broker asks CAS to add on an item to the credit agreement. CAS told the broker the 
differentiated price. The broker then called CAS back and other discussions about other 
items took place. The broker ended the call to consult Mr M. The broker then called CAS for 
a final time to confirm that Mr M wanted to go ahead with the additional item. The payments 
were confirmed as £29.06 per week. The broker asked for the credit agreement to be 
emailed to him.
CAS then received the credit agreement signed by Mr M. It also received a signed direct 
debit mandate, a copy of Mr Ms driving licence and a delivery receipt with the total cost on. 
Mr M disputes that he signed any of this  but I can see that his signature is on all the 
paperwork. And that he has provided his identification, and details to set up his direct debit 
mandate. So, I think its likely that he did agree to the credit agreement with CAS.
Mr M also took delivery of the goods and confirmed over a telephone conversation how 
much the weekly payments were and for how long. So, I think he was aware of how much 
the credit was costing. I also note that Mr M was sent a copy of the credit agreement after it 
had been put in place. This agreement also showed how much the repayments were and 
how long they would be paid for. The agreement says the interest rate is 19.99% APR. So, I 
think CAS did enough to make Mr M aware of the cost of the credit.
I understand Mr M feels strongly that he didnt agree to the interest rate  and he has said 
there is CCTV and his van tracker which will show he wasnt where he would have to be to 
sign for the agreement. But I think CAS did everything it needed to. And Mr M wanted the 
goods, took delivery of the goods and was told how much his weekly payment would be. I 
understand that because he added on another item, the promotional rate of interest no 
longer applied to his order, but CAS made this clear to Mr Ms broker. And it was Mr M that 
decided he wanted the additional item. So, although I think CAS has done everything it 
needed to, even if it wasnt as clear, I cant see that any other interest rate wouldve applied. 
And I think Mr M wouldve gone ahead anyway.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2020.
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman