DRN-3656321
The complaint
Mr K has complained that National Westminster Bank PLC (NatWest) wont refund him for 
disputed transactions he didnt make or authorise.
What happened
Mr K has a current account with NatWest. Between 28 March and 28 April 2020 Mr Ks debit 
card was used to make several deposits into online gambling accounts totalling just under 
£2,000 which he says he didnt make or authorise.
Mr K says he wasnt using mobile or online banking at the time and so didnt notice the 
transactions until the end of April 2020. When he realised what had happened Mr K 
contacted NatWest, and in the course of its investigations NatWest discovered that one of 
the online gambling accounts payments were made to was in the name of Mr Ks partner. 
Mr K has explained that he had previously put his card details into his partners phone to buy 
some add-ons for a game her children played. Mr K says she must have saved his card 
details, and that she then used his card again without his permission to make the payments 
that are the subject of this complaint. Mr K says his partner  who he has since separated 
from  has admitted that she used his card and that she has previously done something 
similar to a relative of hers.
NatWest decided not to refund the disputed transactions. It concluded that Mr K had made 
the transactions himself or allowed them to be made. In summary it said:
Mr Ks card number and CVV were used to make the transactions
Mr K had given his card details to his ex-partner
Mr K disagreed with NatWests decision. So, he brought his complaint to this service where 
one of our investigators looked into the matter. Based on the evidence he thought Mr K had 
authorised the transactions because he could not see a clear point where Mr Ks card details 
could have been compromised. He noted that the transactions for game add-ons that Mr K 
had referred to as the point hed put his card details in his ex-partners phone were actually 
after some of the disputed transactions had already happened. He also noted that Mr Ks ex-
partner would have needed the CVV from Mr Ks card to make any payments, even if his 
details had been saved in her phone.
Mr K disagreed. He says his ex-partner could easily have taken his card at any time as she 
lived with him, and that as the CVV is only three numbers it would be easy for her to 
remember. He also noted that the transactions were unusual for his account and that 
NatWest should therefore have taken steps to stop them.
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 21 July 2021, explaining why I was not 
intending to uphold this complaint. NatWest has confirmed it agrees with my provisional 
findings. Mr K has responded to say that he maintains he did not consent to his ex-partner 
making these payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following:
Generally speaking, if the evidence suggests its more likely than not that Mr K authorised 
the payments, NatWest is entitled to hold him liable. The relevant regulations, to this effect, 
are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 2017). Mr K says he didnt make the 
disputed transactions, so my primary concern is to come to a decision about whether or not I 
think Mr K authorised the transactions by making them himself or allowing someone else to 
make them on his behalf.
Having reviewed NatWests technical evidence, Im satisfied that Mr Ks card details were 
used to make the disputed transactions and that they were authenticated. But, the 
regulations relevant to this case say that this is not on its own enough to enable NatWest to 
hold Mr K liable for them. So, I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that 
its more likely than not that Mr K consented to the transactions being made.
Im satisfied from what Ive seen that its likely Mr Ks ex-partner did make the payments that 
are in dispute here. At least one of the online gambling accounts used was in her name, and 
Mr Ks explanation for what has happened here does seem plausible. But theres a concept 
of apparent authority which relates to the Payment Services Regulations. I cant say for sure 
that Mr K definitively authorised his ex-partner to make the transactions. But its clear she 
knew Mr Ks card details  including his CVV. This does suggest Mr K allowed his ex-partner 
to use his account, whether that be by giving her the card details directly or by putting them 
into her phone so they could be used for a purchase. 
Under the Payment Services Regulations, we consider the issue of the relationship between 
the account-holder, formally Mr K, and the person making the transactions. In this case 
thats his ex-partner. I think, taking into account all the circumstances of this case, Mr K 
authorised her to act as his agent: to make transactions on his behalf. He may not have 
thought about it in this way of course. He wouldnt necessarily have considered that by 
giving her permission to use his card details once, she could therefore go on to use his card 
details again for payments he hadnt specifically told her she could make. So I dont doubt 
there were individual transactions which Mr K didnt authorise. But because of the nature of 
their relationship, he was giving her apparent authority to carry out those transactions he 
subsequently disputed. In order to remove his apparent authority after giving  her his card 
details Mr K would have needed to do something to ensure she couldnt use them again, 
such as clearing her browser history or some other act which would have ensured that any 
stored details in her phone werent kept. But Ive not seen anything to suggest that Mr K did 
that. On this basis I dont believe it would be fair and reasonable to ask NatWest to refund 
Mr K for the disputed transactions.
Mr K has also said that the bank should have spotted the transactions and stopped them 
from going through. I cant decide Mr K didnt authorise them just because NatWest didnt 
block the payments. I have to look at the evidence, which in my view connects him to the 
disputed transactions. But in any case, Mr K had previously made very similar payments to 
online gambling companies, so I dont think that the transactions his ex-partner made were 
unusual enough to have flagged to NatWest that something untoward might be going on.
I appreciate Mr K taking the time to reply to my provisional decision, but while I understand 
why he says he did not consent to his ex-partner making these payments from his account, 
for the reasons Ive explained above Im satisfied that he did give her apparent authority to make the payments. So I remain satisfied that it was reasonable for NatWest not to refund 
them. 
I know this will be disappointing for Mr K, but for these reasons I find that NatWest has 
treated him fairly here, and so I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman