DRN-3559510
The complaint
Mr E complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) has turned down a cancellation claim 
he made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
In November 2021, Mr E booked a holiday abroad to a country Ill call S. He was due to 
travel between 3 and 7 December 2021. He took out a Coverwise travel insurance policy 
online to cover the trip.
However, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, S government changed its border entry 
requirements. This change in border requirements meant that Mr E was no longer able to 
travel to S as hed planned. So he made a cancellation claim on the policy.
IPA turned down Mr Es claim. It said the policy didnt cover the circumstances of Mr Es 
claim.
Mr E was unhappy with IPAs decision and he asked us to look into his complaint. He said 
that IPA had told him that he should try to contract Covid-19 so that his claim could be paid.
Our investigator didnt think that Mr Es complaint should be upheld. She didnt think the 
terms of Mr Es policy covered cancellation which arose because of changes to a 
governments entry requirements. She listened to the claims call between IPA and Mr E and 
she didnt agree that Mr E had been advised that he should try and contract Covid-19.
Mr E disagreed. He said hed only taken out the policy because hed received an advert 
saying that Covid-19 related claims would be covered. He said the website didnt make it 
clear that Covid-19 cover was limited to certain specified situations. And he maintained that 
hed been told that if he proactively caught Covid-19, his claim would be covered.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. Its important I make clear that this decision 
will only consider whether IPA acted reasonably when it turned down Mr Es claim. I 
understand that a separate complaint about the sale of Mr Es policy has now been made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr E, I think it was fair for IPA to turn down his 
claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr Es policy and the circumstances of his claim, to decide whether IPA handled his 
claim fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr Es policy, as these form the basis of his 
contract with IPA. Section A  Cancellation or curtailment charges says that IPA provides 
cover for a policyholders irrecoverable travel and accommodation costs if they have to 
cancel their holiday for one of the following reasons:
1. The death, bodily injury, illness, disease, or complications of pregnancy of:
a. You.
b. Any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with.
c. Any person who you have arranged to stay with.
d. Your close relative.
e. Your close business associate.
2. Personal quarantine preventing you from leaving your home in your country of residence.
3. Jury service attendance or being called as a witness at a Court of Law (other than in an  
advisory or professional capacity) of you or your travelling companion(s).
4. Redundancy of you or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with 
(which qualifies for payment under current United Kingdom redundancy payment legislation, 
and at the time of booking the trip or one-way trip there was no reason to believe anyone 
would be made redundant).
5. Compulsory quarantine upon arrival at your destination where such quarantine is ordered 
by the government or local authority in your destination country, but not including where 
such orders are issued as a result of a pandemic.
6. You or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with, are a member of 
the Armed Forces, Territorial Army, Police, Fire, Nursing or Ambulance Services or 
employees of a Government Department and have your/their authorised leave cancelled or 
are called up for operational reasons, provided that the cancellation could not reasonably 
have been expected at the time when you purchased this insurance or at the time of booking 
any trip or one-way trip.
7. The Police or other authorities requesting you to stay at home due to serious damage to 
your home caused by fire, aircraft, explosion, storm, flood, subsidence, fallen trees, collision 
by road vehicles, malicious people or theft.
8. The Travel Advice Unit of the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) or 
other regulatory authority in a country in which you are travelling advising against all travel or 
all but essential travel to the area you are travelling to/in, but not including where advice is 
issued due to a pandemic or regional quarantine, providing the advice came into force after 
you purchased this insurance or booked the trip (whichever is the later) and was within 21 
days of your departure date.
The policy also included Enhanced cover for Coronavirus. This provided extended 
cancellation cover if a policyholder had to cancel their trip because they or a close relative 
fell ill with Covid-19; they were notified by the NHS Track and Trace service that they 
needed to self-isolate or the NHS Covid-19 app pinged to let a policyholder know that they 
needed to self-isolate.
Mr E wasnt able to travel as planned because S government changed its entry requirements ahead of his trip. It was this change to S border entry requirements which 
meant that Mr E had to cancel his holiday. Its clear that cancellation due to changes in the 
entry requirements of a policyholders destination country simply isnt something which IPA 
has chosen to cover under the terms of Mr Es contract. And having considered the 
remaining terms of Mr Es policy, I dont think there is any section which covers the situation 
he found himself in. So I dont think IPA acted unfairly when it concluded that Mr Es claim 
wasnt covered by the policy terms and conditions or by the enhanced Covid-19 cover.
Id add too that like the investigator, Ive listened carefully to the call between Mr E and IPAs 
claims handler. In summary, the claims handler asked whether Mr E had been tested for 
Covid-19 and she explained that if Mr E had contracted Covid-19, IPA could potentially 
consider a claim. Having considered the enhanced Covid-19 cover, this information appears 
to have been correct. But I dont agree that the claims handler indicated that Mr E should try 
and contract the virus in order to obtain cover for his claim.
Overall, whilst I sympathise with Mr Es position, as I appreciate hes been left out of pocket, 
I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could direct IPA to pay this 
claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman