DRN-4051334
The complaint
The complaint is that Lurgan Credit Union Limited (LCU) lent irresponsibly to Miss S. 
I understand Miss S is now subject to a Bankruptcy Order and the Official Receiver has 
declared an interest in this complaint. 
What happened
Since 2001, Miss S has taken out 28 loans with LCU. In 2020, she asked LCU to use some 
of her shares to reduce her loan balance to less than £10,000 so she could apply for a debt 
relief order. She told LCU that over the years, she had used her LCU borrowing to top up her 
essential expenditure and she was unable to meet her loan repayments. Miss S said she 
was vulnerable and in receipt of disability benefits because of a long-term health problem.
LCU did not agree to the request to transfer Miss S shares. In its final response letter, it said 
it had lent responsibly to Miss S. It said she had an excellent credit history and payment 
record over a twenty-year period. LCU said it did not suspect Miss S was vulnerable when 
agreeing the borrowing. It said it had refused a loan application in August 2020 after an 
affordability assessment.
Through her representative, Miss S complained to this service. She said LCU had not 
adequately assessed affordability when agreeing to lend to her over the years. She said she 
was given top up loans to pay off other debts she had only accrued to make her LCU loan 
repayments. She said she could not afford to repay the outstanding debt. She wanted LCU 
to consider writing off the outstanding balance in full.
Our investigator considered the matter, but she didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Miss S disagreed with that view and the matter was passed to me. I issued a decision to 
clarify the jurisdiction of this service. I said that after applying the rules set by the Financial 
Conduct Authority, we could consider Miss Ss LCU borrowing from 2014 onwards. What 
that means in practice is that I can consider whether LCU lent responsibly in respect of the 
loans that Miss S took out from 7 March 2015 onwards.
On 10 December 2022, I issued a provisional decision because I thought the complaint 
should be upheld. I said: 
There was quite a lot of correspondence between the parties about whether LCU 
should have transferred Miss Ss shares to reduce her loan balance. That ground of 
complaint was not raised in the complaint form to this service and so I have not 
considered it further.
In this decision, I have looked at whether LCU lent responsibly to Miss S. In doing so, 
I have considered whether LCU acted fairly and reasonably in agreeing to lend to 
Miss S from 15 March 2015 onwards.
When deciding whether to lend to Miss S, LCU had to make a fair and reasonable 
assessment of whether she could afford to repay the borrowing. In effect, Id expect 
LCU to have done enough to understand that Miss S could meet her repayments 
without difficulty that her credit could be repaid within the life of the credit agreement 
and repayments could be made out of her income and/or available savings.
Ive seen some limited information as to a health condition Miss S has been 
diagnosed with. And I can see how such a condition could make her vulnerable. LCU 
said it didnt suspect Miss S had a vulnerability. However, I can see that she was in 
receipt of disability benefits. LCU was aware of the disability benefits because they 
were taken into account during the loan affordability assessments. While I dont think 
that this in itself meant that LCU shouldnt have lent to Miss S, nonetheless I think it 
would have been fair and reasonable for LCU to take more care to ensure that the 
credit it provided to Miss S was affordable.
In my jurisdiction decision, I said that we couldnt consider whether LCU lent 
irresponsibly to Miss S before 2014. But I did say that the pattern of Miss Ss 
borrowing before that time could be relevant to my consideration of whether it was 
fair and reasonable for LCU to continue to lend to Miss S from that point onwards.
With that in mind, Ive given careful thought to the overall pattern of Miss Ss 
borrowing with LCU.
From the borrowing LCU agreed with Miss S, I can see she took out her first loan on 
7 July 2001. That loan was repaid some weeks later, on 31 August 2001. Between 5 
September 2001 and 24 July 2003, Miss S took six loans out with the LCU. The 
pattern of this borrowing appears to have been that on the same day as Miss S 
repaid each of those loans, she applied for and was granted further borrowing each 
time. There was no break in the chain of loans.
Miss S then applied for further borrowing on 24 July 2003. Between that date and 7 
March 2015 (the date of the first borrowing I can consider), Miss S applied for and 
was granted a further 12 loans. Miss S did not repay any of this borrowing in full. 
Instead, an outstanding balance from the previous loan was effectively rolled over 
into the next loan. The amount carried forward was in the region of approximately 
£1,000 to £2,000 each time.
By the time Miss S came to apply for further borrowing in March 2015, this would 
have been the 20th loan in a chain that had lasted for more than 13 years. Miss S 
applied for £2,500 and already had an outstanding balance of £3,629.91. So, Miss S 
was effectively borrowing £6,129.91 over 58 months. The purpose of the loan was 
said to have been a holiday.
LCU said it undertook affordability checks, including a credit check and the borrowing 
appeared to be affordable to Miss S. And looking at the figures provided by LCU, I 
can see how it could have concluded that the repayments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation.
But by this stage, I think it would have been fair and reasonable for the LCU to have 
also considered the overall pattern of its lending to Miss S. I think it should have 
considered whether the previous loans had in fact been repaid as the number and 
frequency of the loans suggest that Miss S was only really repaying previous loans 
with the funds she was being provided from new ones and she wasnt ever clearing 
her indebtedness to LCU.
By now, Miss S had been continuously indebted to LCU since 5 September 2001. At 
this stage, I think LCU should have reasonably realised that Miss S was most likely 
borrowing to meet an ongoing need for additional funds. In my provisional view, given 
that Miss S had not repaid her loans in full for many years, the pattern of her 
borrowing wasnt of someone who was able to manage her money well.
It follows that further lending and higher repayments would likely leave Miss S in 
need of further borrowing. And I can see that in August 2015, Miss S did apply for 
and was granted a further loan. She applied for a top up of £4,000, bringing her 
outstanding loan balance to £9,670.38. The reason for this loan was said to be a car.At this point, it appears Miss S had moved to a new home. LCU undertook an income 
and expenditure calculation, but only took account of her LCU loan and other 
telephone repayments. Her rent liability was stated to be £0. And no account was 
taken of Miss Ss other essential expenditure, such as gas, electric or rates. Miss Ss 
stated earned income was said to be £200 per week, which did not fit with the payslip 
she submitted to LCU showing her net income at £104.19 per week. The lower figure 
was consistent with what LCU knew about Miss Ss income through her previous 
applications.
But in any event, notwithstanding the questions in the information LCU gathered, my 
provisional view is that again, LCU should have realised that the pattern of Miss Ss
borrowing indicated that the repayments were not affordable. Although I can see that 
Miss S was making repayments in line with the credit agreement, the actual capital 
balance of her loans was not reducing  in fact it was increasing. As I said above, 
Miss S had rolled over an outstanding balance into every loan from 2003 onwards. In 
March 2015, that outstanding balance £3,629.91. In October 2015, she was rolling 
£5,670.38 over into a loan of £9,670.38. The balance had almost tripled in the space 
of less than a year.
Miss S then borrowed the following further amounts:
£1,200 in October 2017 for a holiday, bringing her total outstanding loan 
balance to £6,922.09.
£1,300 in February 2018 for home expenses, bringing the loan balance to 
£7,613.26.
£1,500 in June 2018 for a holiday, bringing the outstanding loan balance to 
£8.484.51.
£1,500 in August 2018 for vehicle repairs and home expenses, bringing the 
outstanding balance to £9,784.24.
£2,500 in January 2019 for home expenses, bringing the outstanding loan 
balance to £11,438.58.
£3,500 in August 2019 for vehicle repairs, bringing the outstanding loan 
balance to £13,591.79.
£5,000 in February 2020 for home expenses bringing the outstanding loan 
balance to £17,244.54.
In just over two years, LCU had lent to Miss S £16,500 for two holidays, vehicle 
repairs and home expenses. In respect of home expenses alone, she had borrowed 
over £10,000. I think it should have been clear to LCU that if Miss S was having to 
regularly borrow fairly significant sums to cover her home expenses, that the loan 
repayments were unlikely to be sustainably affordable. By February 2020, her loan 
repayments were £80 a week, which was almost all of her stated earned income of 
£99 per week.
I cannot see that questions were asked by LCU as to why Miss S had such regular 
and significant home expenses that could not be met out of her regular income, or 
what those expenses actually constituted. I think it would have been fair and 
reasonable for LCU to have asked more questions on this point, particularly 
considering what I said above about the apparent vulnerability of Miss S. The pattern 
and brief reasons given for her increased borrowing suggests that she may have 
been taking out further loans to fill a hole in her finances.
Miss S owed £3,629.91 in March 2015 and after applying for a further eight loans, 
her outstanding balance stood at £17,244.55 in February 2020. The borrowing had increased almost five-fold and stood at more than three times her gross annual 
earned income. And significantly more than her total net annual income, even when 
including her salary and state benefits.
With the exception of the loan taken out in October 2017 - which was taken out two 
years after the previous borrowing where LCU had noted in October 2015 that Miss S 
should not be provided with a further loan until her balance had reduced by £2,000  
the outstanding balance on Miss Ss existing borrowing was more each time a new 
loan was agreed. Miss S wasnt making any in-roads into repaying the capital she 
was borrowing. In my provisional view, this simply isnt a sustainable as a repayment 
strategy and I think that LCU ought to have realised that Miss S was having problems 
managing her money.
I appreciate LCU said it undertook full affordability assessments and that it most 
likely agreed to lend to Miss S to try and help her. But after considering all of the 
information in front of me, my provisional view is that by March 2015, LCU should 
have realised that the pattern of Miss Ss borrowing indicated that further lending was 
not sustainable.
With all of this in mind, I intend to require LCU to take action to put things right for 
Miss S.
Miss S suggested that LCU ought to write off the outstanding balance. I dont intend 
to tell LCU to take that course of action, because I think its fair that Miss S should 
pay back money that shes had the use of. But I do intend to tell it to put things right 
as I have set out below.
I asked the parties to provide me with any further information or evidence they wanted me to 
consider before I issued a final decision. 
LCU did not agree with my provisional findings. It said it thoroughly assessed affordability 
each time Miss S applied for a loan. It said that she was able to make her repayments and 
also save through LCU. It said if Miss S had declared her rent as £0 when that was not this 
case, that was an error made by Miss S and not by the LCU. 
As to vulnerability, LCU said Miss S had not disclosed a health condition and it had no 
access to a diagnosis to suggest Miss S was vulnerable. LCU asked me to enquire as to 
whether Miss S had undertaken any further borrowing with any third-party lenders and if she 
had, whether a vulnerability had been disclosed. LCU also asked me to suggest to Miss S 
that she should not be borrowing again without fully disclosing her income. 
Through her representative, Miss S told us that she accepted my provisional findings. 
However, she informed this service that she had declared herself bankrupt and that if any 
redress were due, it would need to be paid to the Official Receiver. I understand a 
Bankruptcy Order has now been made. 
There has been some delay from the issue of my provisional decision and this final decision 
because this service had to seek authorisation from the Official Receiver for the complaint to 
continue. That authorisation was received on 21 March 2023 and the Official Receiver 
indicated that they have an interest in any redress or compensation arising from this 
complaint. That means it will now be for the Official Receiver to decide whether to accept or 
reject my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded to depart from my provisional findings. I appreciate that LCU feels strongly that the loans were affordable. I said in my provisional 
decision that I accepted they could well have shown as affordable on a strict pounds and 
pence basis. However, the issue in this case is the pattern of Miss Ss borrowing. By March 
2015, she had been continuously indebted to LCU for over 13 years. My view remains that it 
should have been clear by that stage that further lending and indebtedness was likely to lead 
to further borrowing  and it did. LCU did not express a view as to why what I said about the 
pattern of Miss Ss borrowing was not correct. 
LCU said that if it took account of £0 rental expenditure when Miss S may have had have 
rental liability, that did not constitute a mistake on its part. However, I dont think it would 
have been unreasonable for LCU inquire and ask questions as to why declared expenditure 
may not have been consistent with what it knew about Miss Ss circumstances. 
Ive also thought about what LCU said about vulnerability. As I said in my provisional 
decision, Miss S was in receipt of disability benefits. It is not at all my view that this should 
have prevented LCU from lending to Miss S. What I was saying in my provisional decision is 
that the receipt of disability benefits should have put LCU on notice that Miss S had a 
disability and could have had a resulting vulnerability. My view remains that it would not have 
been unreasonable for LCU to have taken account of that to ensure that the lending was 
affordable. 
LCU has suggested that I make a number of enquiries as to Miss Ss borrowing after she 
applied to LCU and the type of information she ought to give to future creditors. It may help if 
I explain that this service is an independent and informal dispute resolution service. It is my 
role to determine what I consider to be a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances 
of this individual complaint. It is not within my remit to make enquiries as to Miss Ss financial 
affairs that are beyond the scope of this complaint. Nor is it in my remit to advise or tell Miss 
S how to manage her affairs in future. 
With all of this in mind, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I uphold this 
complaint and require LCU to put things right.
Putting things right
LCU needs to take action to put things right. However, as Miss S is subject to a Bankruptcy 
Order and the Official Receiver has declared an interest in any compensation arising from 
this complaint, LCU will need to take this into account if any compensation is due to be paid 
to Miss S. 
I require LCU to: 
a) add up the total amount of money Miss S received as a result of having been given nine 
loans from 7 March 2015 to date;
b) deduct the repayments Miss S made from this amount;
c) if this results in Miss S having paid more than she received, any overpayments should be 
calculated and refunded, along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement); 
d) if any capital balance remains outstanding after LCUs calculation set out at paragraphs 
(a) and (b), LCU must attempt to arrange an affordable and suitable payment plan with Miss 
S to repay the outstanding amount;
e) LCU should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ss credit file in relation to 
the loans taken out from 7 March 2015, but that will only need to be done once the loans 
have been repaid.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires LCU to take off tax from this interest. LCU will need to 
give Miss S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
I uphold this complaint about the Lurgan Credit Union Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the Official 
Receiver to accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman