DRN-3696890
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs E complain Aviva Insurance Limited hasnt offered a fair cash in lieu payment.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision setting out whatd happened, and my thoughts on that. Ive 
copied the relevant elements below, and they form part of this final decision.
In October 2019 Mr A and Mrs E bought a repaired Category S total loss car. The definition 
of a Category S is Structurally damaged repairable (damage to structural frame or chassis, 
which can be repaired but the insurer has decided not to).
On 2 February 2021 Mr A and Mrs E unfortunately had an accident, and their car was initially 
deemed a total loss by Aviva. Mr A and Mrs E say the car was picked up for repairs, but later 
on it decided to offer Mr A and Mrs E £3,627.54 as a cash in lieu (CIL) settlement  saying it 
couldnt repair the car to the pre-accident condition due to the poor state of the previous 
repairs.
Mr A and Mrs E said Aviva gave them no choice, so they took their car to a manufacturers 
garage  who they say identified further accident damage and said the repairs for this 
accident came to £6,562.93. They then complained when Aviva wouldnt offer this figure.
Aviva said itd asked its approved repairer to look at Mr A and Mrs Es car, and that repairer 
decided it was best to offer a CIL settlement. This was due to pre-existing damage, so they 
felt they couldnt repair the car. Aviva said when Mr A and Mrs E didnt agree with this, it 
instructed one of its own engineers to inspect the car  and this engineer came to the same 
conclusion. Aviva said the incident related damage came to £3,627.54 (this figure includes 
VAT) subject to Mr A and Mrs Es policy excess of £350, so the amount itd pay was 
£3,277.54. Aviva said its engineer had spoken to the manufacturers garage Mr A and Mrs E 
spoke to  and their estimate included damage unrelated to this incident, so it said the figure 
itd offered was still fair.
Unhappy with this Mr A and Mrs E asked us to look into things  saying the manufacturers 
estimate didnt include damage unrelated to the incident they were claiming for with Aviva. 
One of our Investigators considered the complaint, and felt the offer Aviva had made was 
fair. Mr A and Mrs E didnt agree with that, so the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
Before deciding this case, I arranged for us to ask a number of additional questions in order 
to get a clearer picture about why Aviva didnt think it needed to do anything more. The 
relevant evidence was shared with Mr A and Mrs E.
I then issued a provisional decision, setting out the above and explaining my thoughts.
Both parties have since provided significant comments, so Ive issued a second provisional 
decision to set out my thoughts taking into account those comments. I wanted to reassure 
Mr A and Mrs E Ive listened to the phone calls theyve had with our service, since I issued 
my first provisional decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to firstly explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. I say this as Im aware Ive summarised 
Mr A and Mrs Es complaint in less detail than they have. If Ive not reflected something 
thats been said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it 
relevant to the crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but 
merely to reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This 
also means I dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every 
question raised unless I think its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
The crux of this complaint is whether Aviva is offering a fair amount of money for the repairs 
following the accident.
Evidence provided by Mr A and Mrs Es garage
Mr A and Mrs E have said their garage have identified further damage and said the repairs 
to the car in total came to £6,562.93. 
Ill consider this point first, because if Im persuaded by this then Mr A and Mrs Es complaint 
is, in effect, fully upheld. But, for reasons Ill go on to explain, Im not persuaded by their 
garages report.
In my previous provisional decision, I explained I didnt think the comment We have 
pleasure in presenting our estimate for the accident damage repairs on the above vehicle 
was enough to show the garage knew the car had previously been written off. I didnt say 
Mr A and Mrs E hadnt told them that, as theyve suggested. But the reason this is important 
is because Avivas garage / engineer is drawing a distinction between accident related 
damage, and non-accident related damage.
I think its helpful to reiterate Mr A and Mrs E bought a repaired Category S total loss car. 
The definition of a Category S as I mentioned above is Structurally damaged repairable 
(damage to structural frame or chassis, which can be repaired but the insurer has decided 
not to). So, I think its fair for me to say on balance, repairs were likely carried out on this car 
previously. The key question then is whether Aviva is fairly saying some of the repairs 
quoted for by Mr A and Mrs Es garage is due to previous poor repairs.
It wouldnt be appropriate for me to require Aviva to pay for damage that wasnt sustained in 
the accident in February 2021. That would go against the principles of insurance, where an 
individual shouldnt be put in a better place than they were before the claim.
To put it more simply, in order for me to require Aviva to pay this claim, Id need to see Mr A 
and Mrs Es garage clearly explain they were aware of the Category S status of the car, and 
only quoting for accident related damage  or at the very least provide a clear distinction 
between accident and non-accident related damage which allowed a comparison with 
Avivas reports. As well as their report, which does say theyre quoting for accident damage but doesnt 
make any reference to the status of the car or accident / non-accident damage, there is a 
covering email from Mr A and Mrs Es garage. This says Please find attached the estimate 
attached as requested for your perusal. This estimate is based upon what can be seen, and 
can be subject to change should we strip down the car and find further damage.
So, having read the garages report and covering email carefully, I cant see anything that 
draws any distinction between what is and isnt accident damage. Id add that Id usually 
expect a manufacturers garage to quote for all repairs required  whereas Avivas garage if 
not doing the repairs wouldnt need to fully assess all damage.
Aviva has said more recently that its engineer spoke to Mr A and Mrs Es garage and they 
werent aware of the full circumstances. By this I think Aviva mean the garage werent aware 
the car had been written off previously. Mr A and Mrs E say they did tell their garage this 
was the case.
Ultimately, whether the garage were or werent told the status of the car isnt necessarily 
relevant. The key issue when looking at Mr A and Mrs Es quote is whether it separates out 
accident related damage. As it doesnt, I cant say what they are and arent quoting for  nor 
would I necessarily expect a garage unconnected with the insurance claim itself to do so.
But, from Aviva I do have its independent garages report saying there is pre-accident 
damage  as well as its engineers report saying there is pre-accident damage. Although I 
understand Mr A and Mrs E have concerns regarding these reports  which Ill address 
below  the reports are in my opinion consistent in saying there was pre-accident damage.
Overall, then although I do understand Mr A and Mrs Es perspective, Ive no evidence to 
reasonably say their garage has quoted solely for accident damage sustained while insured 
with Aviva  but do have evidence from Aviva there was pre-accident damage. Because of 
that, I wont be requiring Aviva to pay this figure in full.
Mr A and Mrs E have also said I didnt factor in the £100 cost for them getting their car back. 
Looking back through the file I can see theyve told us both that it cost them this to take their 
car to their garage, and that it cost this to get the car home from their garage. Ultimately, it 
was their choice to take it to their own garage, and Id only be able to refund this figure if I 
felt Aviva had acted unfairly by not paying this garages quote. As I dont think it has, it 
follows I wont be requiring Aviva to refund the £100 fee.
Evidence provided by Avivas garage / engineer
Mr A and Mrs E have seen copies of the reports produced by Aviva / its garage.
Due to the time this claim has been ongoing, a number of pieces of information have been 
produced by Aviva / its garage showing whats considered to be the repairs required to the 
car.
1. 23/02/2021 Avivas garages email
2. 15/03/2021 Avivas email
3. 05/05/2021 Email from Mr A and Mrs E to Avivas garage, and their reply (which Ill 
address last in this section)
4. 10/09/2021 Customer Estimate
5. 29/12/2021 Avivas assessment
Mr A and Mrs E have produced a table showing what they say are inconsistencies amongst 
the different information given in the above contacts. Theyve included their garages quote as part of their comparisons, but I wont be factoring this in to this section for the reasons 
mentioned above.
Avivas explanations for the differing information Mr A and Mrs E have pointed out say its 
because the inspections were carried out for different purposes so will contain different 
information  it says this doesnt mean these are inconsistencies.
I can see Mr A and Mrs E have concerns that Aviva didnt report on all of the unrelated 
accident items initially, and then added additional ones later on. But, I think the key point 
here isnt what they have or havent added to the unrelated items  its simply what is or isnt 
accident related damage. I say that because, when I read the initial email from Avivas 
garage on 23 February 2021 this was was the first contact to Mr A and Mrs E after the car 
had been assessed. This said theyd discovered pre-accident damage, so couldnt repair the 
car in full  and instead would offer a CIL settlement of £3,627.54. The email gives me the 
impression theyve begun stripping the car down, found a number of faults which theyve 
linked to previous poor repairs  so havent continued assessing the car. I get this 
impression because Avivas garage say theyve started stripping the car down to determine 
the damage  but it doesnt say theyve finished stripping the car down or done a full 
assessment of all the issues. I think thats reasonable given theyve identified they wont be 
repairing the car at this point  so there isnt any need for them to list out all of the items 
needing repair. I believe this addresses the concerns Mr A and Mrs E have raised regarding 
the differing opinions from their garage, and Avivas garage, about what needs to be 
repaired.
Thinking about the discrepancy Mr A and Mrs E have pointed out between the email of 
15 March 2021, and the Customer Estimate dated 10 September 2021, I think there has 
been some confusion caused as a result of the way reports are produced. When theyre 
accessed theyre updated with todays date. So, if a report was produced yesterday, but 
accessed today, itd show todays date. There is a report thats dated 10 September 2021  
but actually relates to the initial inspection carried out by Avivas garage. I dont have a copy 
of this report dated 23 February 2021 (because the date of the report was updated when it 
was accessed), to tie in to the first contact Avivas garage made with Mr A and Mrs E. But, 
Im persuaded this report was produced at the time. I say this because although the report is 
now dated 10 September 2021, the code on the report, beginning C021, was mentioned in 
an email to Mr A and Mrs E on 15 March 2021 from one of Avivas claims handlers. This was 
following Avivas engineers inspection of Mr A and Mrs Es car.
This said the engineer had determined the car was a total loss, the CIL was calculated by 
Avivas garage, and it was for £3,627.54. Avivas claims handler said theyd spoken to 
Avivas garage, and said the items that made up this CIL offer were:
A new bumper
A left front wing
A new headlight
Repair and paint the edge of the bonnet
I dont though think this was correct. From reading the emails I think whats happened here 
is Avivas claims handler has called the garage to understand whats been quoted for  and 
given a brief run down. But, its clear the report C021 had already been produced at this time 
 and the report shows the same CIL offer, but with some additional items. So, I think the 
email Aviva sent Mr A and Mrs E was misleading. I think this didnt include all of the items 
that actually made up the CIL offer. Ill have a think about whether the compensation Aviva 
has now offered of £125 is still fair, factoring this in.The 29 December 2021 report was produced by Aviva following our enquiries to ensure Mr A 
and Mrs E were being treated fairly. From my review of this, it doesnt include any new 
accident related items  so, I dont think it impacts on my recommendations.
Finally, turning to the emails of 5 May 2021. Mr A and Mrs E got in touch with Avivas garage 
to say when the car was returned the engine top was missing. They asked for it to be sent 
over. Avivas garage replied, and said the part had been broken, but it was included in the 
CIL offer.
Mr A and Mrs E disputed this with Aviva and our service. Having looked at this, the broken 
engine top wasnt ever included in the CIL offer. We put this to Aviva, who explained theyd 
now add this to the CIL offer  with the cost being £65, plus VAT making the total offer as 
£78.60. Avivas CIL offer stands at £3,706.14. I can see at one point Mr A and Mrs E said 
this didnt include VAT, but it does.
Taking everything into account I think this offer is fair. As Ive explained above, I dont think 
Aviva adding items to the unrelated sections of the reports, is proof the first assessment by 
their garage, and the second assessment by their engineer, was inappropriate. I think there 
was some poor communication which led to Mr A and Mrs E thinking the offer didnt include 
all of the items (bar the engine top) when it actually did. The only evidence Mr A and Mrs E 
have provided to dispute the figure, is their garages assessment of the repairs needed. But, 
Ive explained in detail in the above section why Im not persuaded by that. So, overall, given 
this offer now includes the engine top which it should have previously, and has been 
confirmed by Avivas garage and its engineer, I think this is a fair and reasonable way for this 
complaint to be resolved. I will though further consider the compensation, given Aviva / its 
garage said the engine top was included, when it hadnt been.
Ive noted Mr A and Mrs E have concerns over the engineers email address which looks like 
he works at the garage. But, hes also got an Aviva email address  so Ive seen no reason 
to say this means hes not provided a meaningful and appropriate assessment of the 
accident damage.
Avivas communication
Mr A and Mrs E have raised concerns about Avivas communication  being told the car was 
a total loss, that itd been repaired and other confusing messages.
I agree, Avivas communication has been poor aside from what Ive already mentioned 
above. On 3 February 2021 it told Mr A and Mrs E their car was deemed a total loss and 
asked a few questions around this  but then decided to try and repair the car, without telling 
them clearly whatd changed. 
On 15 March 2021, Aviva sent an additional email to the one Ive mentioned above, saying 
(in extremely large font) Your vehicle is repaired. Given there was a dispute at this time 
over the settlement  and Aviva had already completed two reports at this stage saying it 
wouldnt repair the car, I think this was very unhelpful. 
I arranged for us to point this out to Aviva and ask if it was prepared to offer some 
compensation for these errors. Aviva explained its system identified the case as a total loss 
when it was first reported, but it realised this was an error and sent an updated email. Aviva 
accepted itd have been better to have called Mr A and Mrs E. In addition, it acknowledged it 
didnt handle Mr A and Mrs Es communications around 15 March 2021 in the right way.
For these issues, Aviva offered £125 compensation. I think although Mr A and Mrs E have 
been rightly frustrated with Avivas communications, most of their frustration is Aviva not paying the costs theyve said their manufacturers garage said should be paid. But, factoring 
in the poor emails of 3 February, 15 March (twice) and 5 May 2021 where Avivas garage 
said the engine top was included in the CIL  I think this needs to be increased. I also need 
to factor in Mr A and Mrs E were asking for copies of the assessments carried out by Aviva / 
its garage on several occasions, but I cant see these were ever provided. Avivas reply to 
this on 29 March 2021 was the assessment wont be available until the CIL settlement has 
been made. Its unclear to me why this would be the case  as its the basis for the 
settlement, so I think Mr A and Mrs E were entitled to see this when they first asked for it.
For the overall poor communication and frustration Mr A and Mrs E have experienced, I think 
£300 is a fairer compensation amount.
Responses to my provisional decision
Aviva didnt reply by the deadline. 
Mr A and Mrs E said they still disagreed with the outcome I reached. They listed out a 
number of questions  all of which Ive read very carefully.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A and Mrs E have asked a large number of questions in response to my provisional 
decision.
I should explain its not my role to provide an answer to every question asked. My role is to 
decide whether Aviva have acted fairly or not in providing the cash in lieu settlement they 
have. I set out in the provisional decision I didnt think they had  and increased it to 
£3,706.14 minus the £350 excess.
The first set of questions Mr A and Mrs E ask are about the reports and discrepancies in 
them. I re-read my comments in the provisional decision, and consider Ive addressed Mr A 
and Mrs Es concerns as far as needed. So, I wont comment on this further.
The second set of questions relate to my provisional decision, and actions Ive taken within 
that. The majority of Mr A and Mrs Es points are ones I consider Ive addressed 
satisfactorily in the provisional decision. But I think there is one issue its important I address.
Mr A and Mrs E ask why Ive adopted Avivas allegation, that the manufacturers garage 
assessment contains accident and non-accident related damage  and they question why 
Ive not put more questions to Aviva about whats happened.
I understand from their perspective the manufacturers assessment, combined with Avivas 
communication, has led them to firmly believe Aviva havent offered a fair cash in lieu 
payment. But Im required to assess and make a judgement on all the evidence. Although 
Ive seen the questions Mr A and Mrs E have set out for me to ask, I dont think this would 
change anything. I say that because my own knowledge of how I expect a manufacturers 
garage to quote for things, and the extent to which Id expect Aviva to inspect the car, is how 
things have been done here. What I mean by that is Id expect the manufacturers garage to 
quote for all the repairs they can see might be needed. I would only expect Aviva to quote for 
anything related to the accident damage  and, as is the case here  where previous poor 
repairs show up, theyd stop their assessment. Its standard industry practice for Aviva not to 
pay for previous poor repairs  as I set out in the provisional decision, this would be placing Mr A and Mrs E in a better position. So, Id expect Avivas garage to be aware of this also  
and essentially not spend any more time assessing a car once theyd identified they wouldnt 
be fixing it.
I do understand Mr A and Mrs E feel very strongly Aviva arent offering a fair cash 
settlement. But what I have are reports from Aviva / its engineer telling me the same thing  
that there is pre-accident damage, on a car previously declared Category S write-off (which, 
as a reminder, is that the car can be repaired but the insurer has decided not to). And a 
report from a manufacturers garage which simply doesnt say anything about what is or isnt 
pre-accident damage. Based on this evidence provided, and even accounting for the 
discrepancies in the reports, I dont feel I can fairly tell Aviva to pay any more than I already 
am.
With that in mind, I remain of the opinion that Aviva should carry out the actions I set out in 
my provisional decision, and have set out again in the next section.
Putting things right
I require Aviva to:
Pay Mr A and Mrs E a total of £3,356.14 (which is the cash in lieu offer of £3,706.14, 
minus the excess of £350) in settlement of the claim
Pay Mr A and Mrs E £300 compensation
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint and require Aviva Insurance Limited to carry out the actions 
in the Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman