DRN-2313642
The complaint
Ms L says Evergreen Finance London Limited, trading as moneyboat.co.uk (Moneyboat), 
irresponsibly lent to her. Ms L says she was anxious and depressed when she applied for 
the loan which led to her poor decision making.  
What happened
This complaint is about one short-term loan Moneyboat provided to Ms L in March 2020.   
Ms L borrowed £400 which including interest was to be repaid over three monthly 
instalments of £202.81. At the time of the complaint, the repayment of the loan was 
outstanding. 
Our adjudicator upheld Ms Ls complaint and thought the loan shouldnt have been given. 
They thought Moneyboats own credit checks showed that Ms L was having problems 
managing her money and wouldnt be able to sustainably repay the loan. 
Moneyboat disagreed. It said the checks it carried out were proportionate. It wouldnt review 
every line of a credit file given the early stage of the borrowing relationship. And given the 
nature of the market, consumers require a quick and efficient service. It also pointed out that 
Ms L had continued to apply for further loans.
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Moneyboat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms L 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Moneyboat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Moneyboat was required to establish 
whether Ms L could sustainably repay her loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Ls complaint. After doing so, Ive decided to uphold 
the complaint. 
Moneyboat has said that before it agreed to lend to Ms L it carried out an income and 
expenditure checks, an affordability check as well as a credit reference check. For Ms Ls 
loan application, its recorded that she was employed and earning a monthly income of 
£1,536. Her monthly expenses left Ms L with a monthly disposable income of £736 and the 
monthly repayment for the loan was £202.81. So, on the face of it the borrowing would seem 
affordable on a pounds and pence basis. 
But Moneyboat has also provided us with a copy of a credit report it obtained at the point of      
Ms Ls application for the loan. And I think the information contained in that report would 
suggest Ms L was having problems managing her money. The report showed that Ms L 
already had 16 active accounts, six of which were opened within the last six months, six 
worst payment status in the previous 12 months, eight unsecured loans and six credit 
searches within the last three months. Ms L also had borrowing with other short-term credit 
providers. So, I think Moneyboat should have reconsidered whether it was right to lend to 
Ms L in light of this information. 
Moneyboat has told us it would be unrealistic to review every line of a credit file prior to 
lending and bearing in mind the nature of the short-term lending market  particularly at the 
very early stages of a borrowing relationship. But I disagree. Moneyboat was already in 
receipt of that information about Ms Ls financial circumstances. And I think it should have 
used that information it was already in receipt of when considering whether it should lend to 
Ms L. The evidence given in that report suggested that Ms L was having problems managing 
her money and the loan looked unsustainable for her.
So, Im upholding the complaint about the loan and Moneyboat should put things right.
Putting things rightIn deciding what redress Moneyboat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it not lent to Ms L, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Ms L may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, they may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Ms L in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Ms L would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Moneyboats liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
If Moneyboat has sold the outstanding debt Moneyboat should buy it back if Moneyboat is 
able to do so and then take the following steps. If Moneyboat cant buy the debt back, then 
Moneyboat should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Moneyboat should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the 
outstanding loan, and treat any repayments made by Ms L as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on this loan. If this results in Ms L having made 
overpayments then Moneyboat should refund these overpayments with 8% simple 
interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would 
have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
B) If there is still an outstanding balance, then Moneyboat should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Ms L. Moneyboat shouldnt pursue any outstanding 
balance made up of principal Moneyboat has already written-off.
C) Moneyboat should remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Ls credit file in 
relation to the loan. Moneyboat does not have to remove the outstanding loan from 
Ms Ls credit file until it has been repaid, but Moneyboat should still remove any 
adverse information recorded about the loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneyboat to take off tax from this interest. Moneyboat 
must give Ms L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Ms Ls complaint. Moneyboat Finance London 
Limited should put things right as set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 Catherine Langley
Ombudsman