DRN-3578313
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Revolut Ltd blocked and closed his account.
What happened
Mr P had an account with Revolut. In October 2020, Revolut blocked his account. It told 
Mr P the account was currently under review and that it couldnt disclose any details 
regarding the review of the account or point out a reason that raised its concern. In 
November 2020, Revolut completed its review and decided to close Mr Ps account. At the 
same time, it returned funds held in the account  £192.26  to the account it was received 
from.
In the meantime, Mr P had referred matters to us.
I issued my provisional findings on 24 November 2022. I said that based on what Id seen so 
far I thought the complaint should be upheld. I accepted that Revolut was acting in line with 
its legal and regulatory requirements when it restricted Mr Ps account. And I thought that 
Revolut completed its review without undue delay.
But I wasnt satisfied that Revolut had grounds to close the account immediately  I thought 
it should have given Mr P two months notice in line with the terms and conditions that 
applied. 
I also didnt think Revolut had cause to return the funds to its sender. Mr P has said that the 
payment was from someone who owed him the money. Given the time that had passed, he 
wasnt able to provide much additional information to support this. But hed also shown us 
that hed tried to get in touch with the sender of the funds, and, based on what Id seen, he 
hadnt been able to get them back.
I said that subject to anything else Mr P or Revolut sent me, I would tell Revolut to pay Mr P 
the £192.26 together with simple interest  the rate is 8% a year  from 16 November 2020 
until the date Mr P gets it back.
Id found that Revolut should have given Mr P 60 days notice to close the account. Our 
investigator had looked at this and recommended Mr P get £100 for the trouble and upset it 
caused. Mr P said he wanted more. I said that where I award compensation for distress or 
inconvenience, this isnt to punish the business but to reflect the impact its actions had on 
the customer. I didnt doubt that losing access to the account caused inconvenience to Mr P 
 he said that he travelled abroad and had to use another account. That said, Mr P did 
appear to have access to other accounts. And while he didnt have access to the money in 
the Revolut account, the interest I was minded to award was designed to compensate him 
for this. With all this in mind, I thought £100 was fair compensation for the trouble and upset 
Revolut caused.
I said Id consider any further comments I received before 22 December 2022.
Revolut has replied to say it accepts my provisional decision. Mr P has told us that hed 
accept my proposed redress  but he also said he didnt think Revolut had acted 
professionally and shouldnt do this to its customers. 
Ive therefore reviewed the complaint afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Revolut agreed with my provisional findings. Mr P says hes prepared to accept the redress I 
proposed.
Mr P has also made comments about how Revolut deals with its customers more generally. 
In this decision, I am only looking at the individual circumstances of Mr Ps complaint. And in 
the individual circumstances of Mr Ps complaint, I think the amount I proposed in my 
provisional decision is fair. As I explained in my provisional decision, any award I make is not 
designed to punish the business but to reflect the impact its actions had on Mr P. 
With all this in mind, I reach the same conclusions as in my provisional decision for the same 
reasons.
Putting things right
To put things right, Revolut should:
Pay Mr P £192.26
Pay Mr P simple interest (the rate is 8% a year) on that amount, from 16 November 
2020 until the date Mr P gets it back.
If Revolut considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It should also give Mr P a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Pay Mr P £100 for the trouble and upset it caused. My final decision
For the reasons above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Ps complaint. Revolut Ltd 
should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman