DRN-4079144
The complaint
Mrs P has complained about a conditional sale agreement she had with Moneybarn No.1 
Ltd. She says she shouldnt have been given the agreement and shes unhappy with the way 
Moneybarn dealt with things when she was in financial difficulty. 
What happened
Mrs P entered into a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn in July 2016 to acquire a 
used car. The cash price of the car was £10,350. The total amount payable including interest 
was around £20,000 and Mrs P was due to pay this back over five years with monthly 
payments of around £350.
Around December 2016, Mrs P had some issues making payment towards the agreement, 
but she brought things up to date. However, Mrs P had further issues making payment a few 
months later. Moneybarn entered into a payment plan with her, but after missing a payment 
in April 2017, Moneybarn sent a default notice. It sent a further default notice in July 2017 
when she was four months in arrears. Moneybarn went on to terminate the agreement in 
August 2017. 
Mrs P contacted Moneybarn to explain her situation, and that she wanted to keep the car. 
Moneybarn explained her options including a consent order. It asked her to complete an 
income and expenditure form. Mrs P responded with information, but she didnt supply 
everything Moneybarn had asked for. So Moneybarn instructed agents to recover the car. Its 
agents visited Mrs Ps work address and arranged to recover the car. The car was sold at 
auction for £6,800, which left Mrs P owing around £11,000. Moneybarn passed this to a debt 
collection firm.  
Mrs P complained to Moneybarn. She said she thought shed been mis-sold the agreement 
and that Moneybarn shouldnt have granted her the finance. She also complained about how 
the arrears were dealt with and that the car was recovered from her place of work. 
Moneybarn didnt uphold the complaint, so Mrs P referred it to the Financial Ombudsman. 
One of our investigators looked into things but didnt think there was sufficient evidence to 
uphold the complaint. He thought Moneybarn completed adequate affordability checks. He 
also thought it made fair attempts to discuss the debt with Mrs P over a few months and that 
it let her know she had options if she was struggling to pay the debt. Our investigator didnt 
think it was unfair the car was recovered from Mrs P at her place of work in the 
circumstances. 
Mrs P didnt agree. She said she was unfairly treated by Moneybarn when she was in 
arrears. She said she thought she was still negotiating with it when it turned up to recover 
the car. And that this is the part of her complaint she wants referred to the ombudsman. She 
also referred to a fine the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) imposed on Moneybarn for 
unfair treatment of customers in arrears at the time she had her agreement with it. 
I issued a provisional decision that said:
Weve explained how we consider complaints about unaffordable lending on our website. 
Ive thought about this approach when deciding this part of Mrs Ps complaint. 
Moneybarn was required to make sure, via its lending decision, that Mrs P could sustainably 
repay the borrowing. The checks that Moneybarn were required to carry out had to be 
borrower focused. So instead of seeing how statistically likely Mrs P was to repay the 
borrowing, it needed to assess whether she could sustainably repay the borrowing, taking 
into account her personal circumstances. And it needed to base its creditworthiness 
assessment on sufficient information.
What is considered proportionate will depend on a number of factors such as (but not limited 
to): the type, amount and duration of the credit; the frequency and size of the repayments; 
the total amount payable and total charge for credit; the interest rate and any other costs 
which may be payable; any other potential adverse consequences for the customer arising 
from a failure to make payment.
In this case, Mrs P was asked to pay back around £20,000 over five years with payments of 
nearly £350  a significant commitment over a moderate term. 
Moneybarn tells us it carried out a full credit search before deciding to lend to Mrs P. It said 
the search detailed Mrs Ps borrowing levels, the repayment history, details of arrears and 
past defaulted accounts. Moneybarn verified Mrs Ps income of around £2,900 by reviewing 
bank statements. It also said it applied a calculation to allow for non-discretionary 
expenditure. 
Moneybarn says its checks found that Mrs Ps borrowing levels were £369. There were no 
recent missed payments and that her file showed a strong ability to meet her commitments. 
But its checks did show she had defaulted on previous borrowing, the most recent having 
been entered eight months prior to her application. It also noted there was a County Court 
Judgment (CCJ) on her file, but the value was considered minimal and was from seven 
months before. Moneybarn estimated Mrs Ps disposable income to be £741.25 which was 
sufficient for the payment of around £350. Moneybarn also highlighted documentation 
provided to Mrs P at the point of supply setting out she should let it know if she didnt think 
the agreement was affordable. 
Ive not seen the evidence of the credit search that was carried out, but Ive thought about 
what Moneybarn has said, and what its likely to have seen. Im mindful theres evidence 
Mrs P was struggling with some of her commitments. And that there was evidence shed 
struggled within the previous year. But I note Moneybarn had copies of Mrs Ps bank 
statements from around the time she entered into the agreement. I think these provide a 
good measure for Moneybarn to have weighed up Mrs Ps income and expenditure. So I 
think its checks went far enough. 
Ive considered whether Moneybarn made a fair lending decision based on the checks it 
carried out. Like our investigator pointed out, Mrs Ps bank statements from around the time 
of the lending show she had around £2,700 of income per month. He set out her regular 
outgoings were around £1,000. I think this would indicate shed be able to sustainably repay 
the borrowing of around £350 per month. So I find Moneybarn made a fair lending decision 
based on the evidence Ive seen it had. 
Ive also thought about how Moneybarn treated Mrs P when she was in financial difficulties. 
Ive looked what happened after December 2016, when she started to have issues making 
payment. And Ive focussed on the period after February 2017 (when the agreement was up 
to date). I think Moneybarn was proactive when Mrs P started to miss payments from March 2017. It 
contacted Mrs P about the missed payments. It offered the sort of forbearance Id have 
expected. It allowed Mrs P more time to make payment. And I can see in March 2017 it also 
agreed a three-month £20 payment plan because Mrs P said she was in the process of 
closing her business. 
When the plan failed in May 2017 it attempted to contact Mrs P various times by phone, text 
and email. It didnt receive a response and so it sent a default notice in July 2017. I dont 
think that to be unfair considering it was unable to reach Mrs P and she was falling further 
behind on her agreement. 
It made various other contact attempts through July 2017, but as it didnt hear back, the 
agreement was terminated on 2 August 2017. It then started to take steps to recover the car. 
Given the agreement had been terminated and Mrs P wasnt responding, I dont find that to 
be unfair either. 
I can see Moneybarn did eventually speak to Mrs P in mid-August 2017. Moneybarns notes 
set out she said the arrears were due to problems with her work and a breakdown of a 
relationship. It looks like Moneybarn discussed Mrs Ps options, which is what Id expect. 
The notes say Mrs P wanted to keep the car. Moneybarn said the recovery agents couldnt 
be put on hold, so if Mrs P wanted to do that, shed need to send over documents including 
payslips straight away. It looks like this was so a consent order could be drawn up.  
Moneybarn noticed the car hadnt been taxed and said Mrs P would have to rectify this in 
order to enter a consent order. I find that to be a reasonable request.
Mrs P sent over a file, but Moneybarn wasnt able to open it. So she agreed to post the 
documents on 22 August 2017. They werent received straight away so Moneybarn 
continued to make various attempts to speak to Mrs P. Aside from Mrs P saying she was 
collating them, Moneybarn didnt hear anything, and it started to commence tracing 
proceedings so it could recover the car. Seeing as though it hadnt heard back from Mrs P, I 
think this was a fair step for it to take. 
Mrs P did send documents in on 14 September 2017. And Moneybarn wrote to her the same 
day asking her to contact it. It tried again a few days later but didnt hear back. The car was 
recovered on 25 September 2017 from Mrs Ps place of work. 
I appreciate Mrs P thinks the car was taken unfairly and that she was still negotiating with 
Moneybarn. But having considered the events that led up to the recovery, Im not persuaded 
Moneybarn acted unfairly. It made significant attempts to speak to Mrs P about the arrears, 
but it only managed to speak to her a handful of times. I appreciate Mrs P was going through 
a lot at the time, but I do have to bear in mind the car belonged to Moneybarn, and Mrs Ps 
arrears werent reducing. From what I can see when Moneybarn did speak to Mrs P it sought 
ways to help her. By the time the car was recovered, I appreciate Mrs P had sent in 
documents for Moneybarn to consider, but Moneybarn had already started recovery 
proceedings. Mrs P wasnt responding to it. And from looking at the notes, Moneybarn had 
explained to Mrs P that time was of the essence. 
Taking all this into account. I think Moneybarn did try to give Mrs P enough breathing space. 
But by the time it recovered the car it was struggling to get hold of her. The agreement had 
already been terminated. So I dont consider it was an unreasonable step for it to take to 
recover the car. I do appreciate this mustve been very upsetting for Mrs P. 
Moneybarn sold the car and has deducted the sale proceeds from the debt. I think, in the 
circumstances, given Mrs P was in financial difficulties, it ought to have considered counting 
the sale proceeds as an early repayment and applying an early settlement rebate to reduce the outstanding balance. Moneybarn has received a lump sum it otherwise wouldnt have 
done. The FCA sets out that firms should treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties 
with forbearance and due consideration. An example of this could be to consider 
suspending, reducing, waiving of cancelling interest charges. I appreciate Mrs P doesnt 
have an automatic right to a rebate when the car is sold, but I find, in the particular 
circumstances of Mrs Ps complaint, this would be a fair and reasonable step for Moneybarn 
to take. And of course, should Mrs P still be in financial difficulties, Moneybarn should 
continue to treat her with forbearance and due consideration. 
Ive also thought about Mrs Ps complaint that the car was recovered from her place of work. 
Again, I can understand this must have been upsetting for her. But having considered the 
circumstances, Moneybarn had been making many attempts to speak to Mrs P. Mrs P had 
told it she had been changing addresses. It looks like there were little options for the 
recovery agents, so it sought the car at her workplace. Had Mrs P been in contact with 
Moneybarn I dont think this would have happened. But I dont find theres sufficient grounds 
to say this was unfair. 
Finally, I note Mrs P has mentioned that Moneybarn received a fine in relation to how it 
treated customers in arrears around the time she had the agreement with it. Mrs Ps account 
wasnt found to be included in the scheme. Im required to look at cases on an individual 
basis. And for the reasons given above, Ive not seen enough to say Moneybarn initially 
treated Mrs P unfairly when she was in arrears. And Ive set out what I think it should do with 
the outstanding balance in relation to treating her fairly.  
All things considered, while I know itll disappoint Mrs P, I dont consider Moneybarn made 
an unfair lending decision. I dont consider it initially treated her unfairly when she was in 
arrears. But I think it fair it applies an interest rebate in relation to the sale proceeds it 
received. 
Moneybarn accepted the recommendations. And said that as the debt was sold to a third 
party it would calculate the interest rebate and provide it directly to Mrs P. But it said it would 
be up to Mrs P to put it towards the debt. 
Mrs P had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has disagreed with my provisional findings, I see no reason to depart from 
the conclusions Ive reached in my provisional decision. I think Moneybarns proposal to 
reimburse Mrs P direct the equivalent amount of the interest rebate seems fair and 
reasonable given it no longer owns the debt. Mrs P may wish to consider using this to 
reduce her debt with the new debt owner.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Moneybarn No.1 Ltd to reduce the 
amount owed by applying an interest rebate calculated in line with early settlement 
regulations for the £6,800 sale proceeds it received. The equivalent amount can be paid 
direct to Mrs P.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman