DRN-3976549
The complaint
Mr O complains Bank of Scotland, trading as Halifax, blocked his account without warning or 
reason.
To put things right, Mr O wants Lloyds to compensate him for his loss, and the trouble and 
upset its caused. To keep things simple, Ill refer to Halifax in my decision.
What happened
On 19 February 2021, Halifax blocked Mr Os account. Mr O contacted the customer service 
department and was told to go into his local branch with proof of identity. At branch he was 
told they couldnt help him. So Mr O called the customer service department again, and this 
time he was told to go to the head office, which took him around four hours to get to.
Mr O was told he was given the wrong information and the head office couldnt help him. 
This complaint point, about given erroneous information based on which Mr O travelled to 
the holding branch, has been dealt with in another complaint, under a separate reference 
number at this service.
Mr O says he had received funds from overseas for his own treatment, but the funds were 
mainly to pay for private medical treatment for his uncle who had travelled to the UK for this 
purpose. Mr O also says hes been unable to access his state pension paid on 1 March 2021 
 which is his main source of personal income.
As a result of Halifaxs actions, Mr O says hes been left without money to pay for food and 
bills. He adds that given his acute mental health, this matter has exacerbated both the 
distress and inconvenience hes suffered.
Around 8 March 2021, Mr Os account was unblocked, and he was given access to it. But it 
was blocked again by Halifax on 17 March 2021.
Mr O complained to Halifax. In its response, Halifax said it blocked Mr Os account again due 
to processing delays and it couldnt give him any more information than that.
In mid-April, Halifax were made aware a court had issued a restraint order, which amongst 
other things, affected Mr Os Halifax account. Unhappy with Halifaxs actions, Mr O referred 
his complaint to this service.
One of our Investigators then looked into Mr Os complaint. In summary they found:
- The continuation of the block from April 2021 - when the restraint order was issued 
is not being contested here. Halifax must comply with the terms of the court order
- They noted Mr O felt strongly about Halifax placing an account restriction some two 
months before a court order was issued. And Mr O had provided evidence from his 
solicitor, that a public body had confirmed it had not instigated any court orders 
around the time of the first two blocks
- But a bank has the right to review an account at any time, which will often involve a 
block being placed. No reason nor notice is required to be given by the bank
- Its understandable that Mr O questions why Halifax didnt make any enquiries, but a 
review process can be different based on the individual circumstances. The lack of 
enquiry doesnt mean no work was being done by Halifax
- Regrettably, Halifax hasnt provided full reasons for what happened with the first two 
blocks between February 2021 and April 2021. But unblocking the account didnt 
negatively affect Mr Os position. Thats because Mr O didnt lose out by having 
access to his account  even if Halifax had done this in error
- Its likely Halifax was acting in line with its legal and regulatory obligations when it 
blocked Mr Os account. In reaching this conclusion, our Investigator was mindful the 
account was subsequently subject to a restraint order which prevented Mr O from 
disposing of any assets. Taken together, Halifax had not done anything wrong
Mr O did not agree with what our Investigator said. Some of the key points Mr O makes are:
- Its unfair to conclude the blocks applied before April 2021 were done so in line with 
legal and regulatory obligations placed on Halifax when it hasnt provided any 
explanation
- He was entitled to his money, and it was for Halifax to justify its actions and provide 
details as to why it blocked his account when there was no suspicious activity nor 
any wrongdoing
- Undue weight was placed on the restraint order - despite one not being in place 
when the first blocks were applied - to find Halifax did nothing wrong. The restraint 
order shouldnt have been a consideration. And considering it here, renders the 
outcome unsafe
- The presumption of innocence is a legal principle  a person accused of any crime is 
innocent until proven otherwise
As Mr O didnt agree with what our Investigator said, the complaint was passed to me to 
decide. I then sent both parties my provisional decision and set a deadline for them to 
respond. 
My provisional decision 
In my provisional decision I said I was planning to uphold Mr Os complaint in part. This is 
what I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im planning on upholding this complaint in part. Much of what Im minded 
on deciding will no doubt disappoint Mr O  so Ill explain why.
Banks in the UK, like Halifax, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to 
meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing 
monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to 
restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.The blocks applied on Mr Os accounts following the issuing of the courts restraint order are 
not contested here. So, it follows that the crux of Mr Os complaint relates to Halifax placing 
blocks on his account prior to that  in February 2021 and March 2021.
Halifax hasnt provided enough information for which Id expect it to show this service when 
applying the blocks. So I can understand why Mr O feels so strongly that it acted improperly 
by applying those blocks. But given the severity of the restraint order, I can also see why it 
would have some meaningful bearing on whether Halifax acted fairly in applying the blocks it 
did prior to the order being issued. Even if this is retrospective.
Having said that, when presented with inconclusive or insufficient evidence, I can reach my 
decision on what I think is most likely to have happened  the balance of probabilities. Mr O 
has sent us an email chain between his appointed law firm and a highly placed public body. 
This is dated February 2021. It shows that his Halifax, and another account which he held 
with another bank, had simultaneously been frozen  and that the law firm had not received 
any freezing orders for this to be affected.
The legal representative then asks for confirmation if an order had been applied for from the 
public body. Later in March 2021, the public body confirm it has not served a restraint order.
Given Mr Os legal representative was aware of some form of investigation being carried out 
by a high-level public body relating to his client, Im persuaded this is evidence enough to 
show Halifax most likely knew of reasons for it to have reasonable concern  and take the 
actions it did.
I note what Mr O says about the presumption of innocence, but I need to decide if Halifax 
acted fairly, reasonably and line with obligations placed on it when blocking Mr Os access to 
his account. And, on balance, I think it most likely did, given the wider circumstances here. 
Ive also taken into consideration the terms of the account when reaching this finding.
I recognise that Mr O thinks Halifax should have given him notice that it was going to review 
his account  but its not obligated to  nor does it have to tell Mr O a reason, despite him 
wanting to know why it carried out the review.
I don't think it was helpful Halifax told Mr O his account was blocked due to a processing 
delay. That implies there was an issue with a system or something similar. However the 
blocks were to allow Halifax to carry out a review. Whats relevant here, is Halifaxs' statutory 
obligations allow it to block customers accounts while it reviews things.
Mr O was given access to his account momentarily between 8 March 2021 and 17 March 
2021. This was to his benefit, even if its possible Halifax shouldnt have done so. It meant 
Mr O was able to access his funds, including his pension. But I note he was deprived of 
accessing his pension for some nine days  which he says was his main income, and which 
he needed for critical medication for his acute mental health condition.
Ive asked Mr O for more information about his treatment and medication, and whether he 
was able to otherwise obtain them during this nine-day block. This was to better inform me 
as to what fair compensation for any trouble and upset would be. But Mr O hasnt responded 
despite chasing him up on this.
As reasonable attempts have been made by this service to get this information, and based 
on the limited information I do have, I think Halifax should pay Mr O £200 for the trouble and 
upset it caused by not letting Mr O access his pension. In reaching this outcome, Ive 
considered the impact this had on him given what I know about his mental health condition. 
Halifax should have made efforts for Mr O to access these funds, which ought to have been ring-fenced from the funds it did have concerns about.
Its also unclear if Mr O had his pension paid to him into this account in April 2021. If it was, 
he would equally have been deprived access to legitimate funds likely required for his living 
costs and medication costs.
Mr O hasnt explained if his pension was paid into his Halifax account in April 2021, nor has 
he provided any evidence it was despite my request for more information. So I cant safely 
conclude he was deprived of these funds in April 2021 when Halifax reapplied the blocks 
before a restraining order was issued. That means, I dont have enough evidence to 
conclude Halifax did anything wrong and should compensate Mr O for any trouble and upset 
this may have caused.
Lastly, Mr O says Halifaxs actions have been discriminatory. This is a serious allegation, 
and I have carefully considered it when looking into the information I have had from both 
parties. And having done that, I havent seen any evidence this is what happened. I havent 
seen that Mr O was treated any differently than another customer wouldve been treated in 
the same circumstances
Mr O did not agree with what I said in my provisional decision. In summary, he has either 
sent or said: 
- A Certificate of Acquittal from the courts that show no evidence was offered by the 
prosecution against him for charges made against him. This is dated November 2022
- A separate letter from the court shows the high-level public authority offered no 
evidence on the final charge(s) against Mr O - it refers to money laundering and 
acquiring criminal property
- As the court has confirmed his innocence, this explains why Halifax has not provided 
evidence to this service to apply the blocks on his account. As there is no evidence, 
its clear Halifax acted unfairly, unreasonably, and irrationally  
- Halifaxs actions have led to his mental health worsening, and he is still very unwell 
and needs to frequent the hospital regularly for treatment 
- The presumption of innocence is a legal principle that any person accused of any 
crime is considered innocent until proven guilty. Therefore his legal representative 
being aware of an investigation by a high-level public body isnt evidence enough to 
show Halifax most likely had reasonable concern
- Halifax not giving any evidence of why it had concerns is not enough  this is 
because it didnt have any evidence  
- Mr O couldnt get medical treatment during the nine days the account was unblocked, 
as he was suffering the effects of the account being blocked. And when he did try 
and use funds to pay for medical treatment, the blocks were reapplied by Halifax 
In its response, Halifax say it agrees with the findings in my provisional decision and will now 
look to award £200 compensation. 
I will now decide this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part for the same reasons I set out 
in my provisional decision. I know this will disappoint Mr O, so Ill address his more recent 
points here. 
I have inserted the findings I made in my provisional decision above, so to avoid repetition, I 
wont reiterate them here. 
Mr O was acquitted of the charges brought against him in November 2022 - for what are 
clearly serious allegations. And the paperwork hes provided shows no evidence was 
submitted against him. So Mr O says that other than showing he was innocent all along, no 
evidence existed for Halifax to have taken the action of blocking his account in February 
2021 till mid-April 2021. 
Ive carefully considered the point Mr O is making here. But for Halifax to have blocked his 
account from February until mid-April 2021 it had to have had legitimate concerns. Mr O was 
acquitted in 2022, so Halifax wouldnt have known that when applying the restrictions.
However, for the reasons Ive previously given about his legal representative knowing of a 
high-level investigation by a public body, and Halifax most likely knowing about it too, Im still 
persuaded on balance the blocks were applied fairly. The serious nature of the allegations 
Mr O has shared, only add further weight to this position.  
In the circumstances of this complaint, I dont think Halifax needed to know if Mr O was 
innocent or guilty of criminal allegations against him to apply the account restrictions. It 
simply had to have had concern enough  and like Ive said, Im persuaded it did. Nor do I 
think no evidence being supplied by the prosecution means Halifax didnt have information 
enough to do what it did. 
Mr O says that he couldnt access his funds when they were momentarily made available for 
nine days in March 2021 due to what Halifaxs actions had done to his mental health 
condition. I can sympathise with this, but the account was none the less made available. 
And, I havent seen compelling evidence Mr O was incapacitated, or affected, to the extent 
he couldnt access his funds by any medium.
Mr O hasnt still given me any evidence that he had his pension paid into his Halifax account 
in April 2021. So, I cant conclude that being deprived access to his account during this 
period caused him any detriment. 
So as no other evidence has been given about the impact of Halifax not making some funds 
available to Mr O in February and March 2021, and for the same reasons in my provisional 
decision, Im satisfied £200 is fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience Halifax 
caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. I now direct 
Bank of Scotland plc to pay Mr O £200 compensation to put things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023. 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman