DRN-2919186
The complaint
Mrs M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc gave her unsuitable advice to invest in a 
Performance Plus ISA. The complaint is brought on her behalf by a claims management 
company.
What happened
In 2001 Mrs M and her husband met with an advisor from HSBC. She wanted advice 
following the maturity of her Tessa account. HSBC advised her to invest £9,000 in its 
Performance Plus ISA. The return on this ISA was dependent on the performance of the 
FTSE 100 Index. The ISA matured in July 2006 and Mrs M received £9,065.
Her representative says the ISA was not suitable for Mrs M because she was a novice 
investor. It says Mrs M would not have taken the risk of receiving a nil return it shed realised 
that, even if the FTSE 100 performed exceptionally, she would still only benefit by a marginal 
amount over the guaranteed return in a normal deposit account.
HSBC said the advice was suitable for Mrs Ms cautious attitude to risk, taking into account 
she was a first-time investor with a medium investment horizon. It apologised that there was 
a delay in it investigating Mr Ms complaint and offered to pay her £200 as a gesture of 
goodwill.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think the 
advice HSBC gave Mrs M was unsuitable and that it had given Mrs M enough information 
about the product for her to understand it.
Mrs Ms representative didnt agree. It replied in some detail saying, in summary, that:
Risk free returns were available, but no comparison was made available.
A cautious risk investor would not have been prepared to gamble with the guaranteed 
return available from other products for the marginal extra return which might have been 
received, had the FTSE 100 performed exceptionally.
The performance comparison graph included in the paperwork for the Performance Plus 
ISA was misleading. It did not provide a comparison with a comparable account, such as 
a five-year fixed rate bond.
It wasnt made clear that the product excluded dividends, which typically make up a 
significant part f the total return of the market; the starting price of the FTSE 100 was 
not set until many months after the investment started; and its not clear if the growth is 
before or after the 2% initial charge.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find I have come to the same conclusion as our investigator for the 
following reasons:
Mrs M was prepared to take a cautious attitude to risk for this investment. That reflected 
her investment inexperience and her requirement to achieve a potentially higher return 
than that available from a cash deposit account. I dont find the Performance Plus ISA 
was unsuitable for these agreed needs. Her investment of £9,000 was not at risk  
unless she withdrew the money before maturity which she had no plans to do.
Its clear from the meeting review summary, which was sent to Mrs M, that a TESSA 
reinvestment cash ISA was discussed, as well as the Performance Plus ISA. So it seems 
more likely than not that Mrs M was made aware of the potential returns on each of 
these products, and the potential risks. And Mrs M could have decided to invest in the 
cash ISA if she wanted certainty about the return shed receive.
The return on her investment was dependant on the performance of the FTSE 100 index. 
This was set out in the summary of advice provided to Mrs M after the meeting and in the 
product information. In all likelihood this would have also been explained by the advisor 
during the meeting. I think it was made reasonably clear, that there was a risk of a nil 
return, if the FTSE 100 did not increase over the five years  and this was the risk Mrs M 
was willing to take, knowing what return was available on a TESSA reinvestment cash 
ISA. I dont think Mrs M needed to see a comparison graph to make an informed choice.
Its not the role of this service to decide whether the advertising for a particular product 
met the regulatory requirements in place at the time. That is the role of the regulator. 
I need to decide whether the advice Mrs M received in 2001 was suitable for her needs 
and whether she was treated fairly. That said, I find the product information Ive seen 
was reasonably clear. And I think, for the reasons Ive already set out above, that Mrs M 
would have understood the product and the risk she was taking.
Mrs Ms representative says that the starting rate of the FTSE 100 was not set until many 
months after the investment was made. I dont agree. Mrs M invested on 25 May. The 
product information made it clear that the starting level for the FTSE 100 was, the 
average of the level of the Index at 11.00am and 3.00pm on both 31 May and 1 June 
2001. So a few days after the investment was made, and in line with the product terms.
I dont find there was any requirement, or reason, to draw Mrs Ms attention to whether 
dividends were included in market return calculations. The return on her investment was 
linked to the level of the FTSE 100 index and Ive already found this was made clear to 
her.
It is of course unfortunate that the FTSE 100 did not increase as anticipated over the five 
years and that, when the investment matured, Mrs M received a return much less than 
shed hoped for. Knowing how the FTSE 100 performed, Mrs M would have been in a 
better position if shed been advised to reinvest in the TESSA reinvestment ISA, or a 
different deposit or bond. But this is only with the benefit of hindsight and doesnt mean 
the advice she received in 2001 was unsuitable.
There was a delay in HSBC responding to Mrs Ms complaint and it offered to pay her 
£200 as a gesture of goodwill. I consider this to be fair and reasonable.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc  should pay 
Mrs M £200.00.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman