DRN-2899601
The complaint
Mr F complains Drover Limited (Drover) unfairly applied charges at the end of his hire 
agreements. 
What happened
Car one
In January 2019, Mr F entered into a hire agreement for a car. This was initially for one 
month but it was extended a couple of times meaning it was due to end in January 2021. He 
was required to pay £850 per month (subscription fee). 
However in February 2020, the car was recalled meaning it had to be returned to Drover by 
the end of March 2020. As part of their return process, Drover inspected the car and found 
there was damage to the four wheels and bonnet. They sent an invoice for £483 which Mr F 
was required to pay. Mr F was unhappy, he said due to the recall, he didnt have enough 
time to arrange the necessary repairs and he was told that he wouldnt be charged for such 
damage. Due to the inconvenience of the recall, Drover agreed to waive the car collection 
fees, excess mileage fee and they credited the account with £120. 
Mr F complained and upon further review, Drover agreed to remove the damage charge for 
the bonnet (£140) but said the charges for the wheels remained, bringing the total to £343 
(£85 per wheel). They offered to set up a six month payment plan to settle the damage 
charges which Mr F accepted. 
Drover said Mr F received several penalty charge notices (PCN) which he was required to 
pay and he accepted to do so via a payment plan. In September 2020 they told him that he 
needed to also pay £90 for a PCN that was issued in February 2020. Mr F was unhappy he 
had only been told about it several months after it was issued. He stated such charges were 
usually automatically paid by Drover and because it wasnt, he was denied the right to 
appeal against it or pay the reduced amount if it was paid within 14 days.
Drover said based on their terms he was responsible for paying such charges and they were 
only made aware of it in July 2020 when notified by the relevant authority as Mr F failed to 
pay it. However given Mr Fs concerns, they agreed to remove their £20 administration fee, 
reducing it to £70 and they credited his account with £35 to represent the reduced rate. 
Car two 
As the first car needed to be returned, Mr F decided to enter into a new hire agreement for 
another car in February 2020. The agreement was for seven months and it was due to end 
in October 2021. Due to the inconvenience of the recall of car one, Drover agreed to reduce 
the monthly subscription fee from £1,023 to £949.
However due to the ongoing dispute about the charges applied to car one and Mr Fs 
disappointment about how Drover was dealing with matters, he decided to end the second 
hire agreement early. The car was returned in October 2020. 
Drover said Mr F was required to pay the early termination fee of £2,277 and as damage 
was found on the car, he was also needed to pay £374. Mr F complained and he made them 
aware that his employment contract was due to end in September 2020 therefore it was 
likely he would experience financial difficulty in paying the outstanding balance.
Upon review, Drover found that they had incorrectly charged for pre-existing damage to the 
bumper and mirror and they removed these charges from the total, meaning it was brought 
down to £307. Due to the change in Mr Fs financial circumstances, they also agreed to 
reduce the termination fee down to £949.
As of February 2021, Drover said the outstanding balance was £1,839. This amount 
included the damage charges for both cars, the PCNs and the early termination fee. They 
agreed to consolidate the different payment plans into one in order to assist Mr F. 
According to Drover, there has been at least one occasion where Mr F hasnt met the 
payments for the agreed payment plan. Mr F said he received a default notice as a result 
which hes not happy about.
Unhappy with how the hire agreements had been dealt with and the charges applied, Mr F 
referred the complaint to our service. The investigator recommended the complaint wasnt 
upheld as they believed Drover had acted fairly and in line with the terms of the agreement. 
Mr F disagreed. He maintained he would like an agreed payment plan to pay the PCNs but 
he believes the damage and early cancellation charges should be removed.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Fs complaint, Ill explain why. 
At this point, I would like to highlight that above Ive summarised what has happened in this 
complaint in less detail than both parties and Ive done so in my own words. While many 
points have been raised, in this decision Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues 
to reach an overall fair outcome. 
Mr F hired cars under regulated consumer credit agreements with Dover therefore our
service can look into complaints about it. 
Recall of car one
As correctly explained by the investigator, the terms of the agreement allow Drover to end 
the hire agreement early in the event the car is suspended, terminated, or the car is
unavailable from Drovers vehicle supplier. This is what happened here, the car was recalled 
by Droves fleet partner who owned car one. While I recognise the inconvenience caused to 
Mr F, the recall wouldve been outside of Drovers control and based on the terms, they 
werent required to consult with Mr F before deciding to end the agreement early. Drover 
credited Mr Fs account with £120 to acknowledge the inconvenience of the recall and I think 
this was fair in the circumstances.
Damage charges
In this case, Drover is charging Mr F for damage to both cars, £343 and £307 respectively.. Having reviewed the terms of the hire agreements, it says the driver will be liable for repairs 
and all charges relating to damage when the car is returned. On this basis, the agreement 
allows Drover to apply end of contract charges for damage found upon inspection of the car. 
In order to consider what damage would be considered fair and reasonable, Ive referred to 
the guidance of the British Vehicle Rental & Leasing Association (BVRLA). Its used industry 
wide to assess damage when cars have been returned as part of car finance agreements so 
I think its reasonable to rely on it in this case.
Car one   Drover reported damage to all four wheels. Im aware of Mr Fs comments that he 
was told he wouldnt be charged however there is insufficient evidence to support this so I 
cant reasonably conclude he was told this by Drover. I appreciate the car had to be returned 
earlier than expected meaning Mr F may not have time to carry out the necessary repairs 
however I note Drover gave approximately six weeks notice about the return of the car 
meaning Mr F had the opportunity to arrange repairs if he chose to do so. 
Mr F also comments as the car wasnt collected as arranged, he cant be held responsible 
for any damage caused during that time. However I havent seen any evidence to suggest 
damage was caused while there was a delay in collecting the car. On balance, I believe the 
damage was caused while the car was in Mr Fs possession from January 2019 up to when 
it was returned. Ive reviewed the photographs of the wheels taken at the time the car was 
inspected. Given the number of scuff marks on each one and their approximate size as 
indicated by the inspectors measuring tool, I believe the damage exceeds what the BVLRA 
considers to be reasonable wear and tear. So Im satisfied Drover were entitled to charge 
£343 for the damage caused. 
Car two  following the removal of the damage charges for the bumper and offside mirror, 
the outstanding disputed charge related to scratches on the nearside front door, nearside 
mirror, broken moulding on offside rear door and for a full valet. Having compared the 
reports from when the car was delivered to Mr F in March 2020 and when it was returned in 
October 2020, I can see additional damage has been identified as stated above. Based on 
the photographs, I consider the damage found on each area mentioned exceeds the 
BVLRAs fair wear and tear guidelines. 
Overall, based on the terms of the agreement and the inspection reports, I believe its fair for 
Drover to charge for the damage caused to both cars.
Penalty charge notices (PCNs)
I acknowledge Mr Fs acceptance that he needs to pay for the several PCNs while car one 
was in his care. However hes unhappy that he was told several months later after the car 
was returned that he needed to pay for a PCN issued in February 2020. 
The agreement terms says the driver will be responsible for paying each fine, toll or charge 
that incurs during the terms of the subscription plus pay a £20 administration fee.
From the evidence Ive seen, it appears for such charges for car one, Drover would usually 
pay them automatically and charge Mr F the administration fee. As this was the case, Mr F 
said he had no reason to believe this particular PCN wouldnt also be paid by them. Given 
that arrangement, I can understand why he would think this. Drover also told him that he 
would never have to pay more than the reduced penalty amount on the ticket.
Drover has said they were only told about it in July 2020 as it remained unpaid and I have 
seen evidence to support the same so I cant say they acted unfairly. As soon as they were 
made aware of the PCN, they told Mr F promptly. In my opinion, as the PCN was issued 
while the car was in Mr Fs possession I believe he was responsible for it meaning Drover  
was entitled to charge for it. Theyve already agreed to remove the administration fee and credited £35 to the account for this particular PCN to reflect the reduced penalty amounts so 
I cant agree theyve acted unfairly. 
Early termination fee
Mr F ended the hire agreement early in respect of car two and he was told he needed to pay 
an early termination fee.
In such circumstances, the agreement says:
In order to terminate the Period of Hire prior to the end of the Subscription Term, the Driver 
must pay to Drover an early termination charge of either 20% of the Subscription Fees that 
would have been payable if the Agreement had run for the Subscription Term or one month's 
Subscription Fee - whichever is higher.
So I think its fair to say the agreement does clearly explain that Mr F would be responsible 
for paying an early termination fee should he decide to end the agreement early. In this 
case, Drover calculated this to be £2,277. However given the change in Mr Fs 
circumstances, they agreed to only charge one months subscription, which was the lower 
amount of the two rather than the higher amount as permitted by the agreement. For that 
reason, I cant say Drover acted unfairly. 
Other
During the term of the second hire agreement, I appreciate Mr Fs financial circumstances 
changed in respect of his employment. Im sorry to hear this and I understand this wouldve 
been a difficult period for him.
When consumers find themselves in financial difficulty, I expect financial businesses such as 
Drover to apply the relevant guidance as set out in the CONC rulebook. It states A firm must 
treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and due consideration. It 
also goes on to say Where a customer is in default or in arrears difficulties, a firm should 
allow the customer reasonable time and opportunity to repay the debt.
In this case, Im satisfied Drover has done so and treated Mr F fairly. I say this because 
theyve asked for details about his financial circumstances and its clear they have taken this 
into consideration. For example, theyve agreed to set up and consolidate payment plans 
rather than requiring him to pay the outstanding balance in one lump sum. They also agreed 
to reduce the early termination fee, by what I would consider to be a significant amount, 
thereby reducing the overall amount owed by Mr F. This demonstrates they were wiling to be 
flexible and accommodate Mr Fs circumstances and requests. 
For these reasons, I believe Drover has treated Mr F fairly and with the forbearance I would 
expect to see from a business. I strongly encourage Mr F and Drover to continue to work 
together to settle the outstanding balance, if one still remains.
While I accept there have been some errors by Drover such as charging for pre-existing 
damage for car two, Im satisfied when matters were brought to their attention, theyve 
investigated it and where necessary and appropriate to do so, theyve made the relevant 
corrections. While I recognise such errors wouldve caused frustration to Mr F, I believe 
Drover has done enough to put things right and reached fair resolutions. 
SummaryOverall, having considered the above charges that have been applied following the return of 
both cars, Im satisfied Drover has done so in line with terms of the agreements and treated 
Mr F fairly. Therefore I wont be asking them to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman