DRN-3812680
The complaint
Mrs and Ms K are unhappy with the way St Andrews Insurance Plc has handled a claim 
they made under their home insurance policy for subsidence.
Reference to St Andrews includes its agents and representatives.
Mrs K lives at the home and has been represented by her children, Ms K and Mr K. The 
claim and complaint have primarily been dealt with by Mr K. Reference to Mr K includes 
anything said and done by Mrs K and Ms K unless otherwise stated.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the key points:
Mr K got in touch with St Andrews in 2017 after noticing cracking to Mrs Ks home.
St Andrews initially said the damage wasnt caused by subsidence or anything else 
covered by the policy. It declined the claim.
Mr K provided a report from an engineer, R, to challenge St Andrews position. It 
accepted some of the damage was caused by subsidence and insured and paid for 
Rs report.
St Andrews thought leaking drains had caused the subsidence problem and repaired 
them. Mr K accepted a cash settlement for the building repairs. He provided a 
second report from R about the extent of subsidence damage and asked St Andrews 
to increase the cash settlement. It disagreed.
Whilst the claim has been ongoing, Mr K has made a number of complaints as 
concerns have arisen. He referred all of his complaints to this Service in June 2021.
Another ombudsman made a decision about what we could and couldnt consider. In 
summary, they found we couldnt consider the following complaints:
oMay 2017: initial complaint about claim not being covered under policy.
oJune 2019: delays to claim up to this time.
oOctober 2019: service and delays to claim between June and October 2019.
oJanuary 2020: damage being connected to previous claim in 1998.
oJuly 2020: lack of reports or images from inspections over previous two years.
oAugust 2020: incorrect information that Mrs K and Mr K were liable for 
drainage repair costs; using a sole contractor; excess to be paid.
oNovember 2020: further delays to claim between August and October 2020.
The ombudsman found we could consider the following complaints:
oFebruary 2021: poor service; incorrect information; washing machine and 
toilet to be refitted; £400 compensation paid.
oApril 2021: health and safety concerns; garden items left outdoors; damage to 
grass; storage cost of items; cost of Rs second report; patio repairs; amount 
of the cash settlement for the claim.
oAnd St Andrews decision not to pay for damage to the chimney and windows.
Our investigator looked into the points we could consider. She was satisfied £400 
was reasonable for the poor service. She said St Andrews should pay £550 
compensation for the health and safety concerns and damage to grass. She didnt 
think any other points should be upheld.
St Andrews agreed with this. Mr K didnt and provided further comments. An 
agreement wasnt reached, so its been passed to me for an Ombudsmans decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A decision has already been made about our jurisdiction to consider the complaints 
Mr K has made. I cant reconsider that decision so I wont be considering everything 
Mr K is unhappy about  only those points within our jurisdiction.
As there are a number of points to consider, Ill look at each separately.
Health and safety concerns
St Andrews contractors had been carrying out drainage work at Mrs Ks home. I 
understand they had dug a trench in the downstairs bathroom. In the evening, Mrs K 
went to check the windows were shut. She fell into the trench and suffered grazing 
and bruising, felt shaken and was in a state of shock for some time after.
St Andrews said this was a matter for its contractor. Our investigator thought St 
Andrews was responsible for this part of the complaint. She said it should pay £500 
compensation because its contractor should have done more to prevent such an 
accident.
St Andrews was clear that it didnt accept liability for any injury Mrs K may have 
suffered. And it maintained any liability claim should be directed to the contractor. But 
it agreed to pay £500 compensation for its contractors service issues. Mr K said this 
amount was insufficient and asked us to reconsider it.
St Andrews is responsible for the claim. It appointed contractors to carry out 
drainage work on its behalf. This part of the complaint is about the way the contractor 
carried out the work, including the way they left the bathroom overnight. The 
contractor was acting as St Andrews agent. So we can consider this aspect of the 
complaint against St Andrews. Whilst Mrs K may be entitled to make a claim directly 
against the contractor, Im satisfied that doesnt prevent her from asking this Service 
to consider the matter against St Andrews.
Its not my role to make any findings about whether the contractor adhered to or 
breached health and safety rules and regulations. I must consider whether it acted 
fairly and reasonably in the circumstances.Whilst liability hasnt been accepted, I havent seen anything to suggest the 
circumstances as described by Mrs K have been challenged by St Andrews. After 
the incident, the contractor promptly took steps to make the bathroom more secure 
and cover the trench. Given Mrs Ks circumstances, I think it would have been 
reasonable for the contractors to take these kinds of precautions whenever they 
werent on site, throughout the work  and if they had done so, its unlikely Mrs K 
would have had the same experience. So Im persuaded it would be fair for St 
Andrews to compensate Mrs K in these circumstances.
Ive taken into account Mrs Ks age, physical condition and noted she was living 
alone, which would likely have made things more concerning for her. I can only 
consider what did happen, not what may have happened. And my award isnt 
intended to punish St Andrews  its intended to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience it caused to Mrs K only.
Bearing in mind the injuries Mrs K suffered and the distress the incident would have 
caused her, Im satisfied St Andrews agreement to pay £500 compensation for its 
contractors poor service is reasonable in the circumstances.
Damage to chimney, windows and patio
St Andrews didnt think the damage to the chimney, windows, and patio had been 
caused by subsidence  so they werent covered as part of the claim. Mr K didnt 
agree and provided a second engineers report from R to challenge what St Andrews 
had said.
Our investigator found the evidence provided by St Andrews more persuasive than 
that of R. She thought it was fair for St Andrews to decline these parts of the claim.
Ive carefully considered Rs report and St Andrews comments about it. Both are 
provided by appropriately qualified members of relevant professional bodies. In 
summary Im faced with two experts who have differing professional opinions. Whilst 
St Andrews accepted Rs opinion in the first report that some of the damage was 
caused by subsidence, I dont think that means its bound to accept everything the 
engineer subsequently said. Each part of the claim can fairly be considered on its 
own merits.
Its my role to decide which opinion I find more persuasive, based on the evidence 
put to me. I do that by taking into account a number of things  including the detail 
and clarity of reasoning to support the conclusions reached. I also bear in mind that 
in any claim the onus to show damage is insured falls to the policyholder. So its for 
Mr K to show the damage is likely caused by subsidence more than for St Andrews 
to show its not.
R said the house had suffered from cracking and other issues due to subsidence of 
the foundations and all the issues are directly attributable to soil settlement. St 
Andrews said cracking in houses can happen for a number of reasons  many of 
which are not indicative of subsidence. I agree, I dont think it would be reasonable to 
conclude that all cracking is automatically caused by subsidence. It might, but a 
direct link between the damage and subsidence should be made.
R also said there was no movement to the chimney stack and it had pointing falling 
out with voids. Its not clear from the report why R thinks this shows the chimney was 
damaged by subsidence. Similarly, whilst cracking around a window was identified, R 
doesnt directly link it to the subsidence problem.St Andrews thought the damage to the chimney pointing was wear and tear and Rs 
comment about a lack of movement to it supported the view it hadnt been caused by 
subsidence. It noted the cracking around the window wasnt stepped as it usually 
expected in subsidence related damage.
At the time of the report, the drains hadnt been repaired. R said they should be and, 
following that, the patio reinstated with a firm and level surface. St Andrews agreed it 
would relevel the area affected by the drainage work. I havent seen any further 
expert opinion to show this didnt happen and a problem remains.
Taking all of this into account, Im not persuaded the evidence shows the damage to 
the chimney, windows or patio has been caused by subsidence or should otherwise 
be included as part of the claim. So Im satisfied it was reasonable for St Andrews 
not to include them in its schedule of work or cash settlement offer.
Cost of Rs second report
Mr K asked for the cost of Rs second report to be met by St Andrews. It said it 
wouldnt pay for the report because it hadnt changed the outcome of the claim. And 
whilst Mr K had been told he was entitled to provide a report, he was told the cost 
wouldnt be covered.
As our investigator hadnt been persuaded by Rs report, she didnt think St Andrews 
should pay for it.
I havent seen any evidence to show St Andrews committed to funding the report. 
Where a policyholder doesnt agree with a position taken by an insurer, its open to 
them to take their own expert advice to challenge the insurers position. I think its 
reasonable for insurers to let policyholders know theyre entitled to do that. The 
policyholder bears the cost of the report. But its general good industry practice for the 
insurer to reimburse the cost if the report has a material impact on the claim  for 
example, if the insurer agrees to change its position.
Based on my findings above, Im satisfied it was reasonable for St Andrews to 
maintain its position after considering Rs report. That means it had no material 
impact on the claim. It follows that in these circumstances, I wouldnt expect St 
Andrews to pay for the report.
Settlement amount
St Andrews made a cash settlement offer which it said reflected its cost of carrying 
out the building work caused by subsidence, less the remaining excess. That came 
to around £13,000. I understand Mr K has quotes for a significantly higher value than 
this. Hes provided one for over £150,000. He doesnt think St Andrews rates reflect 
the costs he can access on the open market  what hes described as commercial 
rates.
Our investigator thought it was fair for St Andrews to pay what it would have cost it to 
carry out the work because it had been prepared to carry out the work and Mr K had 
asked for the cash settlement.
Mr K felt the way St Andrews had handled the claim up to that point meant that he 
was effectively forced to take a cash settlement. He said, after three and a half years 
trying to get these works done, Ive had enough. I understand having to take advice to overturn the initial decision to decline the claim and the health and safety concerns 
noted above played key roles in Mr Ks decision to ask for a cash settlement  
alongside the time taken to reach that stage and other problems that had arisen 
during the claim.
The policy contains a section about how it settles claims for buildings insurance. It 
doesnt specify which costs should be used when settling the claim by cash payment. 
This means the policy doesnt give St Andrews the automatic right to settle at its own 
costs. So I must consider whether it would be fair for it to do so.
This Service generally considers that where an insurer offers to do the work but a 
policyholder would prefer to take a cash settlement, it wouldnt be fair to expect the 
insurer to pay more than it would have spent on the work itself. Thats because when 
it offered to carry out the work, it offered to indemnify the policyholder  to put them 
back in the position they were in prior to the damage. Thats a reasonable position to 
offer to put a policyholder in, so it wouldnt be fair for the insurer to pay increased 
costs over and above the fair position.
Ive thought about whether it would be fair to deviate from our usual approach given 
the way St Andrews has handled this claim.
Whilst I cant consider the merits of what happened in the earlier complaints, I can 
take into account the fact that repairs hadnt taken place earlier in the claim. The 
complaints were broadly about the time taken to reach the repair stage. I can 
understand the frustration, disappointment, and distress that may have been caused 
during the claim. And I note St Andrews paid compensation for the way the claim 
was handled at those times, suggesting there had been significant delays and 
avoidable distress caused. But I dont think delays reaching the repair stage 
necessarily means the repairs themselves wouldnt be carried out to a reasonable 
standard in a reasonable period of time. And the remedy to those claim delays is to 
pay compensation, which St Andrews has already done.
I recognise Mr K was particularly concerned about health and safety. When the 
incident was reported, St Andrews contractor acted promptly to improve things. I 
think that showed it cared about Mrs Ks health and safety. And its likely that would 
have made St Andrews more careful and attentive of Mrs Ks needs if it had carried 
out the building work.
St Andrews emailed its offer and asked Mr K whether he wanted to accept the offer. 
It didnt suggest its costs were indicative of rates he may be able to obtain elsewhere 
 commercial rates  they were simply the costs St Andrews would be charged by 
its own contractor if that contractor carried out the work.
St Andrews has considered the quote provided by Mr K. It says much of the work 
included isnt necessary to repair the subsidence damage. For example, a new 
foundation, renewed roofing, two new bathrooms, and repainting the entire house 
externally. I havent seen any evidence to show why these things would be required 
to put right the subsidence problem. So I dont think it would be reasonable for me to 
require St Andrews to pay for them.
All things considered, Im not persuaded Mr K was effectively forced into taking a 
cash settlement. He was given the option of having the work carried out by St 
Andrews or accepting a cash offer. Because of this, Im satisfied St Andrews could 
fairly rely on its own costs when cash settling the claim.Storage costs
Mr K asked St Andrews to pay the cost of storing items whilst the building repairs are 
carried out. St Andrews said its contractors would have been able to move the items 
around the house during repairs, so it wouldnt have paid for storage if it had carried 
out the work. Our investigator thought this was reasonable.
Following the principle established above, Im satisfied St Andrews is only obliged to 
pay what it would have cost it to carry out the work. That includes any costs 
necessary to facilitate the repairs, such as moving and/or storing furniture.
The St Andrews schedule of work includes an allowance of labour time to move 
furniture and belongings to facilitate the work. Mr K hasnt challenged the amount of 
time allowed or suggested more is needed. So Im satisfied St Andrews has included 
a reasonable allowance and the cost of moving items has been factored into the cash 
settlement.
Delays and service between October 2020 and May 2021
St Andrews accepted there had been delays and poor service whilst its contractors 
carried out the drain work. This included a lack of communication from its contractor, 
incorrect information about how long work would take, and a delay refitting the 
washing machine and downstairs toilet. Both units have since been refitted but in the 
meantime Mrs K suffered avoidable inconvenience. St Andrews offered £400 to 
compensate for this.
Our investigator noted the failings in the service provided by St Andrews, particularly 
given the length and complexity of the claim. She thought £400 was reasonable.
It seems to be agreed by all parties that St Andrews let Mrs K down on this point, so 
I wont go into detail about it. Taking into account the impact of this delay alone, Im 
satisfied £400 for this point is reasonable in the circumstances.
Damage to tools, equipment and grass
St Andrews moved items belonging to Mrs K, including tools and garden equipment, 
from her garage to the garden. I understand this was so the contractor could access 
the garden through the garage to carry out the drain repairs. The items were covered 
by a tarpaulin.
Mr K agreed to this on the basis it was during the summer and would be for a short 
period of time only. But delays followed and the items were left outside over autumn 
and winter. Mr K says the items, and the grass they were resting on, became 
damaged.
After the drainage work was completed, the items remained outside for some time 
and were eventually disposed of. Mr K says by the time the work was complete the 
items were already damaged beyond repair. So leaving them outside longer made no 
difference to their condition. He also notes neither he nor Mrs K could have moved 
the items back into the garage until the work was complete, as it would have blocked 
the contractors access.
Our investigator didnt ask St Andrews to pay for the items. She thought the grass 
would have been damaged as a result of the delays carrying out the work. She said 
the grass would grow back over time, so there was no need for St Andrews to pay to put it right, but it should pay £50 compensation for the inconvenience. St Andrews 
accepted this.
Mr K has provided photos which show some items partially covered by a tarpaulin in 
the garden. In my view, this was an unsatisfactory way for St Andrews to store the 
items. That may not have caused a problem had the work been completed promptly 
during the summer. But with the significant delay to the drainage work noted above, 
and moving into the wetter months, I think St Andrews should have taken steps to 
store the items more appropriately.
St Andrews didnt do so and that left the items partially uncovered, outside, over a 
prolonged period of time, including during the winter months. I think its likely the 
items would have suffered damage during that time.
I can see why Mr K didnt move the items back into the garage, as that would have 
prevented the contractors access to the garden to carry out the overdue repairs. And 
the items were in the garden because there was nowhere else more suitable on the 
property to store them. So I dont think he had a reasonable alternative to leaving 
them in the garden.
After the drain repairs had been completed, the items could have been moved back 
to the garage. They remained outside until they were disposed of. Mr K says they 
were already beyond repair by the time the drain work was completed, so there was 
no benefit to moving them into the garage. Its possible the items became more 
damaged after the drain repairs were complete. Mr K says that isnt the case and I 
havent seen any evidence to persuade me otherwise.
Overall St Andrews didnt store the items appropriately and they became damaged. 
Im satisfied that means St Andrews should pay for their replacement. Its not entirely 
clear what all of the items are but the photos show electronic items and home 
furniture. Mr K has suggested a figure of £500 to cover the cost of replacing them. St 
Andrews hasnt suggested any other figure. Im satisfied this amount appears 
reasonable and is a pragmatic resolution to this part of the complaint.
Based on the photos, Im satisfied its likely the grass was damaged. Ordinarily it 
would grow back and from the photos I dont see any other garden features that 
would have been impacted. St Andrews has agreed to pay £50 compensation for the 
damage to the grass and Im satisfied thats reasonable in the circumstances.
Other points
Mr K had raised other points during our investigation, which have been answered. He 
hasnt challenged or commented on them further, so I dont think theyre in dispute 
any longer. As a result, I wont include them here.
Overall
St Andrews has already offered £400 compensation. If it hasnt paid that, it should 
do so now. In addition, Im satisfied it should pay £1,050 compensation for the 
reasons above.
Responses to my provisional decision
St Andrews said it accepted my provisional decision. It noted it had already paid the £400 it 
had offered in the February 2021 complaint response, so there was £1,050 further to pay.Mr K made a number of comments in response to my provisional decision. In summary, they 
were about two main points: the cost of the building work and the patio.
Mr K said some of the work in his quote wasnt subsidence related, so he wasnt expecting 
all of the quote to be paid. But for the work that was subsidence related, he asked for the 
claim to be settled at the commercial rates he paid on the open market, rather than St 
Andrews own contractor rates.
And Mr K asked me to look again at the patio. He said the patio had been dug up to allow for 
the drains to be repaired but they hadnt been relaid or replaced. As a result, he said the 
patio was left in an unfinished and unsafe condition, with gaps and broken slabs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As St Andrews accepted my provisional decision in full. And as Mr K questioned two points 
only, I assume all other points have been accepted. As a result, I wont repeat what Ive said 
above, Ill focus on the two outstanding points Mr K has raised.
Settlement amount
Mr K would like me to ask St Andrews to settle the claim based on the cost he faced for the 
subsidence related repairs. He accepts that much of the work in his quote isnt subsidence 
related. But he asks that the settlement for the subsidence related work reflects the 
commercial rates he paid, rather than the contractor rates St Andrews benefitted from.
In my provisional decision, I set out the general position that it wouldnt be fair to ask an 
insurer to pay more than its own contractor rates when its offered to carry out the work and 
indemnify its policyholder. I noted St Andrews had offered to carry out the work. And I 
explained why I wasnt persuaded Mr K had been effectively forced to take a cash 
settlement, which meant I considered it fair to apply our general position and allow St 
Andrews to settle the claim at its own rates.
Mr K hasnt challenged these points. So I see no reason to change them or comment further.
Whilst I commented on the work included in Mr Ks quote, that wasnt the primary reason for 
my finding. So accepting that Mr K isnt asking for the quote to be paid in full doesnt change 
the outcome I reached before.
All things considered, I remain satisfied St Andrews settled the claim fairly.
Patio repair
In the April 2021 complaint response, St Andrews was satisfied no further work was 
required to the patio to ensure it was level and in a reasonable condition after the drainage 
work had been carried out.
I havent seen any evidence to show this position was unreasonable. Whilst I know Mr K 
considers the patio needed further work, and I understand he had this carried out, I havent 
seen anything to show the patio had been left in an unreasonable condition by St Andrews 
or its agents.For that reason, Im not satisfied it would be fair to ask St Andrews to pay for patio repairs. 
But if Mr K is able to provide St Andrews with evidence to show the patio was in an 
unreasonable condition and needed further work, I would expect it to consider whether 
theres more it should do.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require St Andrews Insurance Plc to pay a total of £1,450 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman