DRN-4075379
The complaint
Mr H complains that America Express Services Europe Limited closed his account without 
giving a reason. He would like the account and his loyalty points reinstated or monetary 
compensation for the lost points. 
What happened
Mr H had an account with Amex. His previous partner was a supplemental account holder, 
and she had an original address in the DNR region of Ukraine. In March 2022 he realised he 
couldnt use his account. Amex had blocked his account to carry out a review. Following 
their review Amex issued Mr H with a notice to close.
Mr H has said the closure caused him a lot of problems as he was needing to travel urgently 
with his girlfriend.
Mr H is unhappy Amex decided to close his account and as a result he lost his loyalty points. 
He wanted a detailed explanation why the account was closed.
Amex said it hadnt done anything wrong when it blocked and closed Mr Hs account. And it 
had done so in line with the account terms and its regulatory obligations. In relation to the 
points, they said these were forfeited when the account was closed.
Mr H wasnt happy with this response, so he brought his complaint to our service where an 
investigator considered it. The investigator asked Amex to provide more information about 
why it had blocked and closed Mr Hs account. But Amex said it couldnt provide anything 
more than it had already provided to us. And maintained that it hadnt treated Mr H unfairly 
when it had blocked and closed his account.
The investigator said that based on the limited information Amex had provided she wasnt 
satisfied that Amex had treated Mr H fairly when it had blocked and closed his account. Mr H 
wanted the account reinstated but Amex said it had been too long since the closure. Our 
investigator thought Mr H should receive £125 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience of closing the account. In addition, she calculated that Mr Hs loyalty points 
had a monetary equivalent of £743.94.
Amex agreed with the view.
Mr H was unhappy with the view he thought the calculation of the monetary value of the 
points was unfair and he provided this service with alternative calculations for the value of 
his points. Our investigator thought the calculation for monetary equivalence to the loyalty 
points provided by Amex was fair.
In my provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I think the complaint 
should be upheld but for different reasons than those provided by the investigator, and Ill 
explain why below.
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mr Hs account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. This includes sanctions that are in 
place in relation to countries, individuals, trade and transactions. Amex is expected to take 
measures to comply with current sanctions, which means it has extensive things it needs to 
be aware of and monitor. Sanctions policies are also just one of the many things Amex must 
consider to ensure its doing what it should. Amex is therefore obliged to undertake reviews 
of all accounts. These obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied Amex were 
complying with these obligations when they reviewed Mr Hs account.
Following the review Amex decided to close the account immediately. Amex have relied on 
the terms and conditions of the account.
Mr H wants to know the specific reasons why Amex reviewed the account and subsequently 
closed it. But Amex doesnt disclose to its customers what triggers a review of their 
accounts. Its under no obligation to tell Mr H the reasons behind the account block and 
closure, as much as hed like to know. So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not giving 
Mr H this information. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it do so.
Having said that Amex provided this service with information relating to the closure of the 
account. Having reviewed this information Im not satisfied that Amex had sufficient evidence 
to warrant a closure of Mr Hs account. Amex didnt ask Mr H for any up-to-date information 
on his circumstances, in particular where he lived, how he used his card or how the 
supplemental account holder used their card. Had they asked Mr H sufficient questions and 
based on the information he has provided to this service its likely that Amex wouldnt have 
closed his account in the way it did.
In any event looking at the information provided to me Im satisfied that Amex were entitled 
to review the account. However, I am not satisfied that Amex has strong enough evidence to 
warrant the closure of Mr Hs account and the subsequent loss of his loyalty points. It follows 
I dont think they have treated Mr H fairly in this situation.
Ive gone on to consider what Mr H has said about how Amexs actions impacted him and 
how he wanted his account reinstated.
Mr Hs account accrued loyalty points. Mr H has told us he had 185,958 loyalty points which 
he had accumulated over many years.
Because I cant be satisfied that Amex have acted fairly, I am intending to recommend that 
Amex reinstate Mr Hs account and recredit his points. I know Amex have said that too much 
time has elapsed since the account was closed. I appreciate what Amex are saying but 
looking at the evidence I cant say they were fair when they closed Mr Hs account so my 
view is that they must put him back in the position he would have been had they not closed 
the account. I also agree Amex should pay Mr H compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused by blocking and closing his account. Looking at everything the £125 awarded by the 
investigator seems fair in the circumstances and I dont see a reason for changing this 
amount.
Alternatively, if Amex cant reopen the account and reinstate the points then it should provide 
him with the monetary equivalent of 1p per point value as this is how Mr H has said he would 
have used the points.
Responses to my provisional decisionIn response to my provisional decisions both Mr H and Amex have made comments. I thank 
both parties for their replies to my provisional decision.
Amex said that they were not able to reopen the account as too much time had elapsed. 
They also thought 1p per point was much higher than the points actual value and they were 
happy to agree with the compensation suggested in the original view.
Mr H said that according to the information he provided to this service he could get 1.4p per 
point and that should be the compensation figure calculation that is used by this service. 
Mr H also said he was disappointed with the way Amex had dealt with his complaint and it 
should face financial penalties.
Now both sides have had the opportunity to comment I can go ahead and issue my final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered again my provisional findings in the light of Amex and Mr Hs response 
to it.
Amex have said they are unwilling to reopen the account. They have also said the 1p per 
point compensation is much higher than their actual value. I understand that Amex may have 
difficulties in reopening the account after this length of time however I am still of the view that 
Amex acted unfairly when they closed Mr Hs account. 
I have also gone on to consider what Amex have said about the value of the points. And I 
understand Amexs position regarding the value of the points. I have considered that Mr H 
wouldnt have been in this position but for Amex closing his account. Mr H has said he would 
have used his points to travel. I have seen evidence provided by Mr H that the points can be 
exchanged at different rates so I cant say I agree that the points only have the value given 
to them by Amex. 
Mr H has said he doesnt think that I have valued the points at their correct value, and they 
should be calculated at 1.4p per point. Mr H has provided information to this service of the 
types of exchanges available to him for the points he had with Amex. The values vary 
depending on what a customer wishes to redeem them for and the date. Values can and do 
fluctuate depending on what offers are available at the time. Calculating the value of points 
isnt an exact science and although Mr H will disagree with my assessment, Im satisfied that 
the amount of 1p per point fairly compensates him for the loss of opportunity to use his 
points.
In summary I have considered what the parties have said. I have also taken into account that 
Mr H didnt have the opportunity to use his points when he wanted to as Amex had closed 
the account. I have already said I dont think Amex acted fairly when it closed his account 
and deprived him of his points. I think the proposed compensation of 1p per point is fair and I 
havent seen anything to make me change my mind.
Mr H has suggested that Amex should face financial penalties for the way it has behaved. 
This is not the remit of the Financial Ombudsman Service. We are here to resolve 
complaints in an informal way by reaching a fair and reasonable outcome. If Mr H feels 
strongly about this, he may wish to contact the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority.I appreciate that both Mr H and Amex will be disappointed with my decision. But having 
considered the evidence and the subsequent comments from both parties I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional findings. I remain of the view that this complaint should be upheld 
for the reasons set out in my provisional decision which are repeated above and form part of 
this decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I uphold the complaint and require American Express Services 
Europe Limited to
Pay Mr H compensation of £125 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Provide him with a monetary equivalent of 1p per point making a total of £1,859.58 
American Express Services Europe Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of 
the date on which we tell it Mr H accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must 
also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman