DRN-2797563
The complaint
Mr E complains that BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited (BMWFS) has unfairly charged 
him for excess mileage under a hire purchase agreement. 
What happened
In 2015, Mr E acquired a new car using a hire purchase agreement from BMWFS. The total 
repayable under the agreement was £47,781.33. Mr E was required to make 47 monthly 
payments of £568.87 and there was a final optional payment of £21,044.44 if he wished to 
buy the car at the end of the agreement. 
The agreement set out that Mr E had the right to terminate the agreement at any time before 
the final payment was due. In doing so, BMWFS would be entitled to the return of the car 
and at least half of the total repayable under the agreement. The agreement set out this was 
£23,890.67.
In 2019, Mr E chose to exercise his right to terminate the agreement early. 
After Mr E handed the car back, BMWFS later charged him a further £8,500.98 as he had 
exceeded the mileage allowance on the agreement. 
The agreement set out that Mr E had an annual mileage allowance of 8,000 and a total 
mileage allowance of 32,000. It said that if he exceeded this allowance BMWFS could 
charge him 12.11 pence for every mile that he exceeded the allowance by. It said that in the 
event he terminated the agreement early, the mileage allowance would be pro-rated for the 
time the car was on hire. 
Mr E didnt think this charge was enforceable.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She was satisfied that BMWFS 
had calculated the excess mileage charge correctly in line with the terms of the hire 
purchase agreement and the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). She also found that the 
terms of the agreement were clear around the possibility of an excess mileage charge being 
payable on voluntary termination.
In summary, she said:
S99 of the CCA sets out the right for a consumer to terminate a hire purchase 
agreement early and S100 sets out what liabilities a consumer has on termination. 
In brief, on termination a consumer is liable to pay at least half of the total price of 
the agreement. Total price is defined by S189 CCA as the total sum payable under 
the hire purchase agreement. It doesnt include charges for items that are payable as 
compensation for breach of an agreement. This means that any charges for 
breaches of the agreement are in addition to any liability for termination.
S99 sets out that any liabilities that the consumer accrued prior to termination arent 
to be affected by the termination. 
The hire purchase agreement set out that the excess mileage charges will accrue 
immediately prior to termination. The term in Mr Es agreement was clear that the 
charge accrued before termination and was therefore not affected by the termination. 
The terms of the agreement dont set out that exceeding the mileage allowance is a 
breach of the agreement. The excess mileage charges must therefore be included in 
the total price of the agreement. 
The mileage charge therefore accrued prior to termination and counted towards the 
total price of the agreement. Mr Es accrued liability under S100 therefore included 
paying an additional amount of £8,500.98.
The credit agreement set out clearly the terms surrounding when excess mileage 
would be charged, when it would accrue and how much it would cost. 
The agreement made it clear that this charge would be payable on voluntary 
termination of the agreement if any pro-rated mileage allowance had been exceeded. 
The investigator concluded that when considering all the terms of the agreement as a 
whole, she was satisfied it was made clear and not misleading about when an excess 
mileage charge could be applied and for how much. She was therefore satisfied it 
was fair and reasonable for BMWFS to charge the additional amount. 
The investigator then went on to say that she wasnt persuaded that the agreement was 
misrepresented to Mr E by the dealership.
Mr E disagreed, but the investigator wasnt persuaded to change her mind. Therefore, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I would like to point out Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome. 
Secondly, I would add that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or 
contradictory, as some of its here, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
In paying a deposit and his monthly rentals to BMWFS, the hire purchase agreement 
allowed Mr E use of the car for the duration of the agreement. He also had the option to 
purchase the car outright at the end of the agreement in exchange for the final payment of 
£23,890.67. While Mr E was entitled to use the car, that use was subject to certain 
conditions, such as maintaining and taking care of the car and only driving a maximum 
mileage each year and overall throughout the lifetime of the agreement. The agreement set 
out what would happen should Mr E not meet those requirements.
Mr E exercised his right to voluntarily terminate the agreement. In some instances, voluntary 
termination allows the hirer to simply hand back the car without having to pay anything more. 
But this is dependent on, amongst other things, how much has been paid to the agreement, 
whether there are arrears to be paid, the condition of the car and whether any excess 
mileage or other charges are due. 
In this case Mr E accepts that he was required to pay at least £23,890.67 to voluntary 
terminate the agreement. But he disputes the excess mileage charge of £8,500.98 that has 
been added on top of this figure. The CCA sets out the rights consumers have to voluntary terminate their hire purchase 
agreements and the liability that is due on termination. The termination your rights section of 
Mr Es hire purchase agreement also refers to the liability that is due on termination and in 
his case, that was £23,890.67. Various sections of the agreement Mr E had with BMWFS 
also referred to the liability on early termination, including where excess mileage, damage 
charges or other charges may increase the final liability.
Whether or not its fair for a lender to apply the charge will be unique to every case, as it will 
depend on the terms of the agreement that has been entered into. In other words, what I 
have to decide is, has the agreement been constructed in a way as to allow the charging for 
excess mileage without contravening what is set out in the CCA regarding voluntary 
termination? In Mr Es specific case, I think it has. Ill explain why. 
As explained by the investigator, S99 sets out that any liabilities which accrue prior to 
termination arent affected by the termination. What this means is that Mr E is liable to pay 
any charges which have built up prior to the termination of the agreement, and that these 
charges are in addition to the other liability for early termination.
The first page of Mr Es hire purchase agreement has a section headed: Excess mileage 
charges for depreciation. This section sets out the mileage allowance and what charges will 
apply if that mileage is exceeded. It says that if the agreement is terminated early the 
mileage allowance will be pro-rated to the reduced period of hire and that your obligation to 
pay any excess mileage charges will accrue immediately prior to termination. Im satisfied 
Mr Es agreement is worded clearly in setting out when excess mileage charges accrue. 
The agreement also has a sectioned headed Termination: your rights. This section contains 
specific wording which BMWFS were required to include in the agreement, and in summary 
sets out that so long as Mr E has paid at least half the total amount payable under the 
agreement, he will not have to pay any more. Ive thought about whether this conflicts with 
the rest of the terms of the agreement, specifically those that explain charges for exceeding 
the mileage might apply. 
Having read all of the terms of the agreement as a whole, I dont think the agreement is 
either unclear or misleading concerning the charges for excess mileage. I think it explains 
that the excess mileage charge can be applied in addition to other charges for voluntary 
termination. I dont therefore consider that the way this specific agreement has been 
constructed has prejudiced Mr E.  
Im also satisfied that any excess mileage charge that would be applicable under this 
agreement will have accrued prior to termination. It follows that Mr E is liable to pay the 
excess mileage charge and that this is consistent with what is allowed to be charged under 
S99 of the CCA.  
Notwithstanding what I say above, I accept that Mr E submits that he was advised by the 
dealership that if he was to voluntary terminate the agreement subject to this complaint that, 
notwithstanding what the agreement says about BMWFS right to charge excess mileage on 
voluntary termination, such a charge wasnt legally enforceable. I can also see that Mr E 
submits that the dealership, in support of what he says it told him, pointed him to a number 
of website forums discussing the matter, or expressing an opinion on it, and that it made 
reference to its own experiences. I also dont dispute that Mr E might have successfully 
voluntary terminated past agreements without BMWFS (or other finance providers) charging 
him for excess mileage.Now I accept that I cant say for certain what was or wasnt discussed between Mr E and the 
dealership. But given all the documentation that Mr E had sight of and signed, what the 
dealership and BMWFS have said on the matter and what was discussed between Mr E and 
the sales manager at the dealership in a very recent phone call, Im not persuaded  on the 
balance of probabilities  the agreement was misrepresented by the dealership as Mr E 
submits.
In my view its more likely than not that Mr E entered into the agreement on the basis he 
hadnt been charged for excess mileage when voluntary terminating agreements in the past 
and based on his own and independent view of whether the excess mileage charge (subject 
to this complaint) was enforceable and/or whether it would be enforced.
So overall, Im not persuaded BMWFS has acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr E. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman