DRN-1317048
The complaint
Mrs Y complains about the interest which was a applied to her account with Shop Direct 
Finance Company Limited (trading as Very).
What happened
In August 2017 Mrs Y opened an account with Very and entered into a credit agreement. In 
June 2018 she placed an order on Buy Now pay Later (BNPL) terms.
The BNPL item was due for payment by 7 June 2019. Mrs Y didnt pay by this date, so 
interest was added to the account.
Mrs Y paid for the item later on in June 2019. She complained to Very about the deferred 
interest which had been applied to her account.
Very said it had sent notification to Mrs Y advising her the BNPL was ending on 7 June 
2019. It refused to refund the interest.
Mrs Y complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said the interest had been applied in line 
with the terms and conditions of the account.
Mrs Y didnt agree with the outcome, so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the credit agreement. This says that BNPL items will accrue interest from the 
order date but wont show on the account until after the expiry of the deferred payment 
period. It also says that if payment isnt made for the BNPL item by the time the deferred 
payment period expires, the accrued interest will be added to the account.
I can see that Mrs Y ordered the item on 1 June 2018. This meant she had to pay the cash 
price of the item by 7 June 2019 to avoid being charged any interest.
I can see Mrs Y signed up for online statements and could have viewed this at any time. Im 
also aware that Mrs Y had used BNPL before, so Im satisfied that she knew how BNPL 
worked.
Ive looked at the online statements. These clearly show the BNPL balance. In the 
statements for April and May 2019, theres information that the BNPL period ends on 7 June 
2019.
Based on what Ive seen, I think Very provided adequate information to Mrs Y about the 
balance on the account and the date by which this needed to be paid in order to avoid 
deferred interest being added.
I can see that the deferred interest was added to the account on 8 June 2019. Mrs Y paid 
the balance on the account later in June 2019 but didnt pay the deferred interest element. I 
appreciate that Mrs Y says she didnt realise the BNPL period was ending but Is satisfied 
that Very provided adequate information about this. The deferred interest has been applied 
in line with the terms and conditions of the account so I cant ask Very to refund it.
Because the deferred interest hasnt been paid, further interest and administration charges 
have been applied to the account. Im satisfied that these additional charges have been 
applied in line with the terms and conditions of the account.
In conclusion, Im of the view that the deferred interest and the further interest and charges 
have been fairly applied to the account. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman