DRN-3026128
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint is that Embark Services Limited trading as Hornbuckle Mitchell 
(Embark) did not carry out sufficient due diligence before accepting a £250,000 
investment in the Connaught Income Series 3 fund into his self-invested personal 
pension (SIPP).
What happened
Your text here In June 2011 Mr B applied to open a SIPP with Embark.  The 
application form recorded that the application was introduced to Embark by First 
Action Finance which was registered with the then regulator the Financial Services 
Authority (FSA).
Mr B applied to transfer his existing SIPP to a new SIPP with Embark.  It had an 
estimated transfer value of £300,000.
The application form showed Mr B was about two years away from his planned 
retirement date.
On 29 July 2011 Mr B e-mailed Embark as follows:
As you know, this new scheme has just been opened.  Can you please let me 
know whether you have received the  cash part of my funds  and if so the 
amount received.
I wish to invest the bulk of those funds in the Connaught Income Fund series 
3 which is constructed as a non-authorised Unit Trust for SIPP purposes. I 
hold a Sophisticated Investor Certificate from First Action Finance, 
independent financial adviser, and I have caried out considerable due 
diligence on the fund.
I have the application form which I can send to you as the Scheme 
Administrator together with (if you wish) any other documents relating to the 
fund which I hold.  Please let me know what you want to process this 
investment.
Mr B wrote a further letter in August 2011:
Further to our exchange of emails, I now enclose in regard to the Connaught 
No 3 Income Fund  
1. Partially completed and signed application form
2. Due diligence pack
3. Quarterly reports
4. Trust Deed.
I also hold copies of operational documents which are the subject of a 
confidentiality agreement.  Connaught have informed me that they are 
prepared to allow you to see these if you sign a confidentiality agreement.  I 
attach a copy of their email in this respect.
The investment was made by Embark into the Connaught Income Fund 
Series 3 (the Fund) in accordance with Mr Bs instructions.
According to the Connaught due diligence pack referred to by Mr B 
above, Connaught had launched three income funds:
Series 1 which intended to provide bridging loans relating to 
residential property
Series 2 which intended to provide bridging loans relating to 
residential and commercial property
Series 3 which intended to provide bridging loans relating to 
agricultural and rural properties.
Series 1 and 2 involved working with a Special Partner called Tiuta International 
Limited. 
Series 3 involved working with a Special Partner call UK Acorn Finance Ltd.
According to the Financial Conduct Authoritys website:
 - In March 2012 Connaught decided to suspend its Series 1 fund whilst a review is 
completed to establish the true value of the fund and determine whether there is any 
shortfall in money held in the fund.
 - In April 2012, Connaught contacted its investors to inform them that the fund was unable 
to pay the scheduled quarterly interest payment.
 - Also in April 2012 Connaught suspended its Series 2 fund.
 - In July 2012, Tiuta International Limited was placed into administration.
  - In July 2012 Connaught announced it had suspended the Series 3 Fund due to increased 
levels of redemption requests, and that the fund would enter an orderly wind down process.
 - Connaught went into administration later in 2012.
Since then Mr B has received a number of payments (totalling over £100,000) from 
Connaught in respect of his investment. The final payment was in July 2018.  Mr B has also 
made a claim to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) from which he has 
received its maximum payment (at the time) of £50,000.  Mr B has pointed out that this 
payment has to be repaid if his complaint against Embark is upheld.  So Mr B is claiming 
compensation for his loss of around £150,000 plus growth.
Mr B made a complaint to Embark in December 2018 after he realised it had responsibilities 
towards him following press coverage involving a complaint about a different SIPP operator.  
Mr B in effect complained that Embark did not carry out sufficient checks on the Fund and 
should not have allowed the investment of such a large proportion of his pension into the 
Fund within two years of his planned retirement date.
Embark said the complaint had been made too late.  And that in any event it was not 
responsible for the losses Mr B had suffered.Mr B referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.  One of our investigators 
considered the complaint.  The investigator thought the complaint had not been made too 
late.  Although the complaint had been made more than six years after the events 
complained about it was made within three years of Mr B knowing there was a problem with 
the investment.  The complaint had been made within three years of the time when Mr B 
knew, or should reasonably have known, he had cause for complaint about Embark. 
It was also the investigators view that the complaint should not be upheld.  He thought it is 
unlikely that reasonable enquiries by Embark would have revealed the problems that led to 
the failure of the investment.  Mr B had said that he had carried out due diligence on the 
investment he asked Embark to make.  He also knew he was investing the bulk of his 
pension in the Fund and doing so within two years of his planned retirement date.  So if 
Embark had refused to make the investment Mr B would have just gone elsewhere to make 
it.  
Mr B does not agree that his complaint should not be upheld.  Lawyers acting for Mr B have 
made a number of points on his behalf including:
- The FSA issued a warning in relation to the Connaught Income Funds in May 2011 
which SIPP operators ought to have been aware of.
- That warning was headed Investors warned over Connaught Income Funds.  It said 
FSA had seen literature in which the Connaught funds were described as very low risk 
and low risk and that comparisons were made with putting money in high street bank 
and building society accounts. The warning explained why bank accounts are lower risk 
and said that payments under the fund depended on the performance of the 
investments within the fund.  It said this was not well enough explained.  It said investors 
should make sure they understand the investments and that investing in the funds is 
only appropriate if you are comfortable with the particular risks involved.
- Mr B was not aware of this warning and would not have invested if he had been.  Mr B 
would have considered any warning from the regulator that material from Connaught 
was misleading and incomplete to be extremely serious. Mr B had only received positive 
information about the investment.
- Mr Bs due diligence was limited to only reading documents produced by Connaught 
itself.
- A SIPP operator cannot dispense with its regulatory obligations and the need to conduct 
its own due diligence on the say so of its lay client.  A lay client and Embark are not on 
level terms in financial experience, awareness, knowledge and understanding of risk.  
SIPP operators must comply with the regulators rules to protect their clients.
- The evidence shows that Embark approved the investment in the space of only a few 
hours.  There is no reason to say that more thorough due diligence would have made no 
difference. 
- Embark did or should have understood the risks involved in the investment.  Mr B did 
not. 
- Mr B was not a sophisticated investor despite First Action Finance certifying that he 
was.- Mr B did not receive a suitability letter from First Action Finance.  Embark ought to have 
reviewed a suitability letter for the investment and the absence of such a letter should 
have been regarded as a red flag with other points such as the investment being an 
unregulated collective investment scheme (UCIS), a new fund, very high returns being 
offered to cautious investors, the size of the investment and the FSA warning.
- These factors should have been taken into account by Embark as well as the lack of 
diversity and the short period to Mr Bs planned retirement even though those points 
would have been known to Mr B. The above points which Mr B did not notice should 
have been noticed by Embark.  The Connaught literature said the investment was 
suitable for a cautious investor in drawdown and that it was relatively liquid with a 30-
day notice period.  Embark, as a regulated SIPP operator, should have taken all the 
points into account and decided not to allow the investment.
- SIPP operators are gatekeepers  the final check point in protecting individuals who 
might otherwise make bad decisions and thereby do themselves harm.
- Mr B was introduced to the Fund by First Action Finance which had recommended the 
investment in glowing terms.  Mr B moved his SIPP from his existing SIPP provider 
because it would not accept that type of investment not because it refused to accept the 
Fund specifically.  The previous provider did not consider the merits of the investment.  
Mr B was happy to switch his SIPP to Embark as it was known to him.
- Mr B was not an insistent client and it is not fair to say that he would have invested with 
another provider if Embark had refused to allow the investment as it should have done.
- The Connaught Series 3 literature wrongly described it as low risk throughout.  It was a 
UCIS which the FCA regards as toxic and unsuitable for the majority of investors.  And 
even when suitable only a small proportion of any investment fund should be invested in 
such funds.  Acting fairly and reasonably Embark should not have made the investment.  
- The warning in relation to Series 1 and 2 was relevant to Series 3 as some of the same 
people were involved in running all three.  The point is clear since problems with Series 
1 and 2 caused a run on Series 3 and the suspension of the Fund.
- The decision to issue the sophisticated investor certificate was entirely the IFAs and not 
Mr Bs.  In fact Mr B was not a sophisticated investor.  He had no knowledge or 
experience from either his profession or personal investing that gave him knowledge of 
investment in securities, other than his previous SIPP.  It cannot reasonably be 
assumed that Mr B was a sophisticated investor from his profession.
- The point that Embark provides an execution only service is not in issue - there is no 
argument that it should have given advice.  It should have rejected the investment as 
suitable for his SIPP.
- Information provided by Connaught said the investment was low risk.  Other information 
which Mr B did not see, that was also issued by Connaught contradicted or qualified 
that.  Embark should have known about that.  And if, contrary to its promotion, 
Connaught did not consider the investment to be a cautious one, on what reasonable 
basis could Embark accept it for Mr Bs SIPP? 
-There were too many red flags.  As a UCIS connected to two fraudulent funds which 
shared common parties and which were subject to an FSA warning, Embark should 
have rejected the investment.  A run on the fund was likely even if the fund itself was not 
fraudulent.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B had an existing pension in a SIPP.  He contacted Embark and said he wanted to open 
a SIPP with it.  He held himself out as a sophisticated investor by telling Embark his IFA had 
certified him as such.  Mr B now says he is not a sophisticated investor, that nothing about 
his investment experience or profession meant he was a sophisticated investor.  Mr B says it 
cannot be assumed from his profession that he was a sophisticated investor and that it was 
his IFAs idea to certify him as one. 
While I note all Mr B says, the fact remains that it was Mr B who very clearly held himself out 
to Embark as a sophisticated investor.  He was certified as such by his IFA.  There was 
nothing about his application, or the way that Mr B presented, that meant this was 
implausible.  It was therefore reasonable for Embark to accept that Mr B was a sophisticated 
investor who was being assisted in the matter by his IFA.  
And to be clear I am saying it was reasonable for Embark to treat Mr B as a sophisticated 
investor because he led Embark to think he was, and his IFA said he was, not because of 
his occupation or earlier investments or SIPP.  
As well as, in effect, saying he was a sophisticated investor, Mr B clearly stated to Embark 
that he had carried out considerable due diligence on the fund.
It was reasonable for Embark to accept this at face value even though Mr B now says he did 
not in fact carry out considerable due diligence.  Again, there was no reason in the 
circumstances not to accept what Mr B said.  It seemed plausible and there was nothing in 
what Mr B said that revealed that what he was saying was not correct  that he was 
misleading Embark.
It should be remembered that Mr B was giving instructions to invest in a fund that was 
offered by a regulated firm.  It is correct that the FCA had shortly before issued a warning in 
relation to Series 1 and 2 but it should also be noted that nothing in that warning said the 
funds were fraudulent.  And the regulator was allowing Connaught to continue to trade 
despite its warnings.  In the circumstances I cannot see that reasonable due diligence by 
Embark at the time on Series 3 would have caused it to identify that Series 1 and 2, were 
fraudulent.   
There is no reasonable basis for saying at that time Embark should have identified problems 
with Connaught Series 1 and 2, or any issues with the way Series 3 was being promoted, 
other than those which were already known about and/or which should have been known 
about by Mr B, and his advisers, because of the considerable due diligence Mr B had said 
he had carried out. 
The regulator had concerns about the promotion of UCIS investments at the time of the 
investment in this case, but it did not publicly describe them as toxic. Rather it said things 
such as their risks were not well understood by investors and that they were higher risk and 
not suitable for most ordinary investors.  I accept this is not a good endorsement of UCIS 
investments, but it not the same as saying UCIS should be avoided in all circumstances.  
Saying that UCIS are high risk, speculative investments which are unlikely to be suitable for 
the vast majority of retail investors does not mean they cannot possibly be suitable for any 
investor.  And in particular it does not mean that they cannot possibly be suitable for a 
certified sophisticated investor who says he has carried out considerable due diligence.The warning issued by the regulator relating to Connaught Series 1 and 2, as mentioned 
above, included:
Investing in these funds is only appropriate if you are comfortable with the particular 
risks involved.
It is reasonable to think that a sophisticated investor who has carried out considerable due 
diligence and has an authorised investment adviser is aware of the risks of investing in the 
Connaught Series 3 Fund and comfortable with the risks involved.
I cannot accept that the investment was clearly unsuitable for Mr Bs SIPP in the 
circumstances of his case.
Mr B has also said that the investment was unsuitable because he was within two years of 
his planned retirement age.  And because he invested such a large amount of his pension in 
the Fund.  This means Mr B is saying the investment was not suitable for him in his 
circumstances.  But Embark was not in a position to make that assessment.  It was 
something that it could reasonably leave to Mr B  a certified sophisticated investor  and his 
advisers.  
So while it is the case that SIPP operators do have responsibility for the quality of the SIPP 
business it carries out, Mr B held himself out as a sophisticated investor and told Embark he 
had carried out considerable due diligence into the fund he instructed it to invest in. While Mr 
B says he is not in fact a sophisticated investor it was reasonable for Embark to treat him as 
one and to make the investment he instructed it to make.  
In all the circumstances it is not fair and reasonable to uphold Mr Bs complaint and I do not 
do so.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint against Embark Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022. 
Philip Roberts
Ombudsman