DRN-3199935
The complaint
Mr and Mrs V complain that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) hasnt settled a claim 
under their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs V had an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy. The policy period was 
between 23 September 2019 and 22 September 2020. The insurer was URV.
Mr and Mrs V booked a family trip abroad in September 2019. The trip was due to take place 
between 4 and 18 August 2020. But on 27 July 2020, The UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & 
Development Office (FCDO  formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) 
advised against all but essential international travel to Mr and Mrs Vs intended trip 
destination.
Mr and Mrs V got in touch with URV on 28 July 2020 asking if they could make a claim 
because of the change in FCDO advice. URV didnt confirm if the claim would be successful 
but said they could submit a claim for consideration.
Mr and Mrs V got in touch with URV again on 30 July 2020 asking if theyd be covered if they 
travelled against the FCDO advice. URV said there would be no cover in place if they 
travelled.
Mr and Mrs V didnt go on the family trip but they say the flights werent cancelled. So, they 
made a claim to URV for the cancellation of their trip due to the change in FCDO advice. 
URV declined the claim. It said there was no cover under the policy in their circumstances. 
Unhappy with URVs decision, Mr and Mrs V brought a complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think Mr and Mrs Vs situation was 
covered by the policy terms. He also said that there was no exclusion in the terms for 
travelling against FCDO advice. So, our investigator didnt think it would be correct to 
conclude that Mr and Mrs V would have had no cover under their policy if theyd gone ahead 
and travelled against FCDO advice.
That said, our investigator did acknowledge that URV had told Mr and Mrs V on the phone 
that there would be no cover if they travelled against FCDO advice. But he didnt think this 
incorrect information impacted Mr and Mrs Vs decision not to travel. Overall, our investigator 
didnt think there was anything URV needed to do, to put things right.
Mr and Mrs V didnt agree with our investigators findings. In summary, they say that they 
would have travelled if they knew their insurance was valid if they travelled against FCDO 
advice. They say they cancelled the trip due to the advice URV gave them.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Rules and guidance set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say that 
insurers should handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken 
these rules and guidance into account when considering this complaint. Ive also had regard 
to the relevant law (including the unfair terms provisions in the Consumer Rights Act 2015).  
The cancellation section of Mr and Mrs Vs policy sets out the circumstances under which 
URV will pay for certain costs, which have been paid and cannot be recovered elsewhere. 
These are if the policyholder had to cancel the trip unexpectedly because of the following:
you, a travelling companion, a family member, a business associate, or the person 
you were going to stay with became ill, was injured or died;
your home was burgled, or seriously damaged by fire, storm or flood;
you were called for jury service or required as a witness in a court of law;
your pre-booked accommodation was damaged by a natural disaster, and alternative 
accommodation is not available;
you, or a travelling companion were made redundant;
you, or a travelling companion as members of HM forces had your leave orders 
cancelled.
Mr and Mrs V cancelled their trip due to the change in FCDO advice. That isnt a specific 
insured event listed above. That means their claim for a cancelled trip isnt covered under 
the policy terms.
I note that the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID), which summarises the 
cover available, says that: Unless agreed with us there will be no cover if the FCO advise 
against travel to your destination.
But the IPID doesnt form part of the contract between Mr and Mrs V and URV. The IPID 
specifically says that the following summary does not contain the full terms and conditions 
of the contract which can be found in your policy documentation. Having looked through the 
actual terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Vs policy, theres no exclusion for travelling 
against FCDO advice. So, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to conclude that 
Mr and Mrs V would have had no cover under the policy if theyd gone ahead and travelled 
against FCDO advice.
That said, its clear that URV told Mr and Mrs V on 30 July that there would be no cover if 
they travelled against FCDO advice. As Ive outlined above, I dont think this was correct. So, 
Ive considered if this information was the reason why Mr and Mrs V cancelled their trip. 
Having done so, Im not persuaded it was. Ill explain why.
I know Mr and Mrs V have told us they would have travelled if they knew they had insurance 
cover in place for their trip. But Ive listened to the calls Mrs V had with URV. On 28 July 
2020, she referred to the FCDO advice and said they cant travel. And she said that as the 
advice kept changing, she doesnt want to change the flight  rather, she wants a refund. 
And on 30 July 2020 Mrs V told URV shed told the accommodation provider she wouldnt be 
going ahead with the trip.I can also see that in email correspondence with a credit card company in December 2020, 
Mr and Mrs V said that they couldnt travel as the government advised against all non-
essential travel. They said that they could not and should not ignore that advice.
Having considered everything, Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs V would have travelled 
against FCDO advice, even if URV had given the correct information. This is because they 
made it clear to URV before the trip (and to the credit card company after the trip) that they 
couldnt travel due to the government advice.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs V, but I dont think URV has done anything wrong when it 
declined their claim. This is because the claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions 
of their policy with URV and I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I 
could fairly ask URV to accept their claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Vs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman