DRN-3023223
The complaint
  Ms S complains Hastings Insurance Services Limited trading as Hastings Direct (Hastings) 
didn't make clear the total amount payable on her policy when she changed her car.
What happened
 Ms S purchased a motor insurance policy through Hastings on 3 October 2019. The policy
which was underwritten by Insurer A, provided cover for a Vauxhall Adam. Ms S paid
£314.22 for this policy, by way of a monthly direct debit for £26.19.
Later the same month Ms S changed her car to an Audi Q3. She went online to search for
quotes for a new policy to cover her new car. Within the quotes she obtained were the
following:
Annual cost Monthly Cost / Total cost
Other Insurer £323.57 1x£48.69,10x£30.40 / £352.69
Hastings £360.39 £34.51 / £414.09
Ms S noticed when she was on the Hastings website that she could choose to amend her
existing policy instead of taking a new one  so decided to see how much this would cost.
Ms S says the quote to make the change was £243.32. She says that as this was
considerably less than the quotes shed gotten for a new policy, she called Hastings to check
it was correct. She says Hastings confirmed to her that the amount quoted was all shed
have to pay, and she could make the payment online or over the phone. Ms S chose to
make the payment online, and the change took place with effect from 20 October 2019.
On 30 October 2019 Ms S noticed that Hastings had taken a direct debit payment of £26.19
from her bank account. She called them as she thought this must be a mistake on its part. 
Hastings explained the payment Ms S had made for £243.32 was for the premium increase 
and the admin charge only, and this was in addition to the £314.22 for the original policy.
Ms S disputed this and raised a complaint with Hastings. She said that it had been
misleading in what it had told her, and had she realised the total cost for the policy would be
in excess of £500, she would have cancelled the policy and bought a new one at a much
lower cost. Hastings looked into matters, it said when a change is made on a policy if there
is an additional premium due, and its over a certain amount, it gives the option to pay the
additional premium in full or to spread it across the remaining monthly payments. It also said
that the call Ms S had had with it only discussed the level of cover the policy would provide
and as such it couldnt uphold her complaint.
Ms S didnt think that Hastings had acted fairly and so brought her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked into Ms S complaint, initially he didnt uphold it as he said
Hastings had acted fairly. But he later reviewed the case again and upheld it, in summary he
said:
Hastings hadnt been able to trace Ms S quote for £360.57 but he was satisfied she 
had one and it had been like for like on cover with her existing policy, bar the change 
in car.
Hastings was not able to give a reasonable explanation for the premium difference 
between the two policies and so it should refund Ms S the difference of £197.15
Ms S agreed with the investigator, but Hastings did not, in summary it said:
It was unable to locate Ms S quote, so it hadnt been able to see it was like for like in 
comparison.
 There were factors such as engine size and car value that would have affected the 
cost, so it found it highly unlikely she would have had a quote for the amount shown.
So, the matter was passed to me to decide. I issued my provisional findings, below, on 24 
August 2021 and invited both parties to respond.
I want to be clear here I have not considered if the additional premium Ms S was charged
was fair. This is because Insurer A is responsible for setting its prices. Instead I have
considered if Hastings, when providing Ms S information, regarding the cost of amending her
policy did so in a clear format enabling her to make an informed choice. And I dont think it
did, Ill explain.
Hastings has been provided with the screenshot Ms S took of her quote including a
reference number, it says its been unable to retrieve the quote. Ms S says the 
quotes were like for like. So, Ive had to look at whats more likely here and Im 
persuaded that the Hastings quotes were like for like. I say this because once Ms S 
had obtained the new quotes, she looked at how much it would cost to amend her 
current policy and then called Hastings to make sure the level of cover would stay the 
same. This indicates to me this was the level of cover she required, and she didnt 
want to make changes to what she already had, other than to change the car.
As I dont have the finer details of the LV quote, I have discounted this one as I cant 
fairly say it was more likely to be like for like.
As Ive accepted the Hastings quotes are more likely to be like for like, I now must 
decide how the information was presented to Ms S. I have seen a screenshot of the 
information provided to Ms S, it says:
Updated costs and fees
Making a change to your policy might increase or decrease the risks associated with
your insurance, and your premium may change as a result. The price could go up or
down, but it will be the same price online as over the phone.
Price breakdown for 20/10/2019
including all fees, taxes and cover additions or upgrades.
Cost of change £223.32
Amendment fee £20.00
Total Cost £243.32
This includes your current interest rateAdd to my loan  Pay now by card
This would make your next direct debit
£51.59 £243.32
I don't believe it's clear from the screenshot that the total cost would still leave a 
balance to pay. Based on this I can see how Ms S reasonably assumed the total cost 
for her to pay on this policy, given that she had already used some of the policy with 
the previous car, would be £243.32. So, it follows I'm not persuaded Hastings 
provided Ms S with clear information so she could make an informed decision.
Ms S has told us that had it been clear the total cost for the policy would be £557.54 
she would have cancelled the existing policy and taken a new policy out at a cheaper 
price. If she had done this Ms S would have had to pay a cancellation fee on her 
existing policy of £45 and a policy premium of £360.39 making a total of £405.39. 
This leaves a difference of £152.15. Ive no reason to believe she wouldnt have done 
this as it seems to me it wouldve been the most sensible option available to her.
I think the fairest way to put things right for Ms S, is for Hastings to now pay Ms S the
difference, it should also add 8% simple interest to the payment from the date she 
amended the policy until the date of payment.
Ms S responded accepting my provisional findings.
Hastings responded rejecting the findings, in summary it said:
As Ms S had only made one payment towards her premium for the that year, it was 
unrealistic for her to believe her premiums would go down.
Documentation was sent to Ms S after she made the amendment which stated the 
cost for making the change was £243.32, it went on to say the price included a 
premium increase and an admin fee.
Ms S continued her insurance for the rest of the year and didnt cancel  if she had 
believed she could get a better price elsewhere she would have cancelled the policy 
and done this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I will address Hastings response below, but before I do, I must let it know that Ive reached 
the same decision as in my provisional findings.
It was unrealistic for Ms S to believe her premiums could go down.
Ms S is a lay person so I dont expect her to know or understand how the risk based pricing 
insurance works, as its based on many factors and algorithms but I do expect that she 
should be able to rely on the information Hastings was presenting to her. As I explained in 
my original findings the screenshot form Hastings website says:
Making a change to your policy might increase or decrease the risks associated with
your insurance, and your premium may change as a result. The price could go up or
down, but it will be the same price online as over the phone.Given this is dont think it was unreasonable or unrealistic for her to believe there was a 
possibility that her premiums could go down.
Documentation sent to Ms S after the change was made.
It has not been disputed that information was sent out to Ms S after she had made the 
change. But my decision here relates to if Ms S was given enough clear information before 
the change to be able to make an informed decision and I still maintain that she wasnt. If 
she had been aware before making the change then I think its more likely than not that she 
would have cancelled her existing insurance policy and taken out a new one.
Ms S continued with the policy for the rest of the year
When Ms S was first aware of the increase, she raised the issue directly with Hastings and 
waited for it to respond  believing it was an admin error. By the time Hastings issued its 
final response on her complaint, she was two months into the policy and had already made a 
lump sum payment on the policy, two monthly instalments and a third one about to be paid, 
had incurred an admin fee, for the change and would now be looking at incurring a 
cancellation fee. So, she decided to bring her complaint to this service to resolve matters 
instead of cancelling the policy. And I dont think that was an unreasonable thing for her to 
do in the circumstances.
The further arguments Hastings has put forward hasnt changed things for me. So overall, 
Im not persuaded that Ms S wasnt given enough clear information to make an informed 
decision before making a change on her policy.
Putting things right 
 As I explained in my provisional findings, noted above, to put things right here Hastings 
should:
Pay Ms S £152.15
Add 8% simple interest to this from the date the policy was amended until the date of 
payment.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold Ms S complaint against Hastings Insurance Services
Limited trading as Hastings Direct.
I now require it to settle this complaint as described in the putting things right section 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
Her Majestys Revenue & Customs may require that Hastings deduct tax from the interest paid to Ms S. If it
does and Ms S requests it, Hastings must provide her with a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off, so
she may reclaim it if appropriate
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman