DRN-2327837
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about the level of service provided by St. Jamess Place Wealth 
Management Plc (SJP). They say that they have not received advice for an extended period 
and experienced delays in responses to questions they raised.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M had an account with SJP and they received notification in October 2017 that 
they had a new advisor. Shortly afterwards, Mr and Mrs M asked the new advisor for an 
update and he replied that he did not have access to their file as the transfer from the 
previous advisor was ongoing, He said that he would contact them the following week to put 
a date in the diary. The advisor did not follow up to arrange a meeting.
Over the course of the following two years, Mr and Mrs M contacted SJP to provide updates 
and to ask questions. Some of these requests were handled quickly but other requests went 
unanswered by SJP and Mr and Mrs M had to repeatedly ask for updates.
The main events can be summarised as follows:
Mrs M emailed advisor in February 2018 about her pension contributions and requested 
an ISA Withdrawal Form on behalf of Mr M. This was sent by SJP the following day and 
SJP asked Mr and Mrs M if they wanted to attend a meeting with their advisor. This 
request was declined due to Mr and Mrs Ms personal circumstances at that time.
Later in the year in October 2018, Mr and Mrs M requested a meeting with their advisor 
and this was set up for December 2018. Ahead of the meeting, Mr and Mrs M sent a list 
of items that they wished to discuss. Following the meeting, SJP sent three different fact 
sheets to Mr and Mrs M for information.
In January 2019, Mr and Mrs M contacted SJP to update some personal information and 
attached a copy of her latest report from another provider (which I will call Company B) 
which was held within their SJP portfolio. Mrs M was disappointed with the performance 
of this investment and had discussed this in the previous months meeting with the 
advisor. The advisor replied the following day saying that he had asked the investment 
manager at Company B for their thoughts on the performance.
Also in January 2019, Mrs M submitted her tax return and identified that she had 
overfunded her pension. She called and wrote to SJP asking for a timely response to her 
concerns. 
In February 2019, Mrs M emailed Company B directly and received a response that they 
would provide a performance summary to SJP. Mrs M says that she did not receive the 
summary that was sent to SJP.
In March 2019, Mrs M emailed SJP to say that she wished to withdraw £50,000 from her 
portfolio and asked for advice on which investments the withdrawals should be taken. 
The advisor replied 8 days later by which time Mrs M had already acted and withdrawn 
the sum.
In October 2019, Mr and Mrs M responded to a request from SJP for a financial review 
and included a letter detailing issues that they wished to discuss. SJP responded inviting 
them to SJP offices to discuss. Mr and Mrs M declined this request.
In December 2019, Mr and Mrs M received information about their account but also 
received information relating to their sons account.
In January 2020, Mr and Mrs M received a call from SJP about a Trust that they had in 
place. This call and subsequent correspondence contradicted information that they had 
previously received from SJP. 
Mr and Mrs complained to SJP in February 2020 as a result of the overall service that they 
had received and non-responses to their questions. They said that SJP had not provided 
them with advice despite Mr and Mrs M paying fees for advice.
SJP acknowledged the complaint and after asking for more time to consider, they made a 
settlement offer in recognition of Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. SJP offered a £250 gesture of 
goodwill to both Mr and Mrs M and an offer to waive any early withdrawal charges that may 
apply if they were to close their account and move to a new advisor.
Mrs and Mrs rejected this offer and referred their complaint to the service. One of our 
investigators reviewed their complaint and identified the following points:
some aspects of the service had been poor but SJP had attempted to compensate them 
for the lack of service
Mr and Mrs M had declined a meeting to discuss their portfolio. They also had a meeting 
with their advisor where their financial circumstances were discussed.
The investigator thought that the offer of compensation made by SJP was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances and that SJP had attempted to put things right in their offer 
of compensation. The investigator did not uphold the complaint.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr and Mrs M have asked for an ombudsman to 
review their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs M but I agree with the investigator and I wont be 
upholding the complaint. I know that Mr and Mrs M feel strongly about their complaint and I 
will explain why I have arrived at this decision.
When the service reviews a complaint, it will look to see if the business has made an error 
and if they have, we will ask them to try and put the client back into the position they should 
have been had the error not occurred. The service cant punish a business for doing 
something wrong  this is the job of the regulator.Mr and Mrs M have asked for their fees to be refunded, any early withdrawal charges 
refunded if they leave, and for the value of their portfolios to be reinstated to February 2020. 
In reviewing this complaint, I need to consider if something has gone wrong and if so, what 
actions should be taken to put things right.
I have looked at the comprehensive chronological list of events that Mr and Mrs M have put 
together. It does show numerous times where SJP has fallen below a reasonable standard 
of service. There are instances where SJP did not respond or where there was delays in 
them responding. There are also instances where incorrect or conflicting information was 
provided to Mr and Mrs M by SJP.
In instances such as delays or incorrect information is provided, we would look to see if an 
appropriate award of compensation for trouble and upset should be payable. SJP have 
offered both Mr and Mrs M £250 for the trouble and upset caused. I think that this is fair and 
reasonable award and in line with what the service would award in these circumstances so 
Im not going to ask SJP to do anything differently.
On the issue of the provision of advice to Mr and Mrs M, I have looked at the circumstances 
surrounding the offer of advice by SJP and the request from Mr and Mrs M for advice. Due to 
personal circumstances, Mr and Mrs M could not attend a meeting to discuss their portfolio 
in March 2018. A meeting was held in late 2018 to review Mr and Mrs Ms portfolio. There 
was also a meeting scheduled for late 2019 but this was declined by Mr and Mrs M as they 
felt that it would not achieve anything as they had outstanding questions.
There are no set guidelines on how often portfolios should be reviewed so its difficult to say 
whether the frequency suggested by SJP was enough. SJP have attempted to have two 
meetings to discuss Mr and Mrs Ms portfolio but these have not been successful. This is not 
a reflection on Mr and Mrs M, but I cant hold SJP responsible that these meetings did not 
take place.
I have seen evidence that SJP have provided Mr and Mrs M with elements of advice during 
the period which Mr and Mrs M are complaining. Although this was not during annual review 
meetings, it does show that SJP were available to Mr and Mrs M.
Mr and Mrs M say that they want their fees refunded as they have not received any advice. 
The fees that Mr and Mrs S paid SJP would also include administration and custody fees, 
not just fees for the provision of advice so Im not going to ask SJP to refund charges.
SJP have offered to waive any early withdrawal charges that Mr and Mrs M may incur if they 
chose to leave SJP. I have already stated that Mr and Mrs M have experienced a lack of 
service from SJP, but I think that waiving these charges is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances and in line with what the service would recommend. This means that there 
should be no barrier to exit the service should Mr and Mrs M choose to do so.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman