DRN-3899131
The complaint
Mr M complains that Aviva Insurance Limited mishandled his claim on a motor insurance 
policy. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a supercar, made by a European 
manufacturer and first registered in 2014.
In May 2022, Mr M had the car insured on a comprehensive policy with Aviva. Unfortunately, 
the car was involved in an accident and suffered damage to its front nearside.
Aviva initially valued the car at £130,816.00 based on trade guides and market research. 
Aviva got input from a repairer approved by the manufacturer. 
The repairer partially dismantled the vehicle to estimate the cost of repairs. It estimated the 
cost of repairs at about £120.000.00. The repairer reported previous poor-quality repairs. It 
estimated the cost of remedial repairs to the previous repairs at £21,632.00.
Aviva said the car was a total loss. Aviva made a deduction of £10,816.00 (50% of 
£21,632.00) from £130,816.00, to give a pre-accident valuation of £120,000.00.
Mr M complained to Aviva that it was under-valuing the car.
By a final response dated late September 2022, Aviva turned down the complaint. 
Mr M brought his complaint to us without delay.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
Aviva had acted fairly.
Mr M disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
The previous owner was based in the Midlands, where Aviva stated the previous 
repairs were conducted. A bolt could have been applied any time before he 
purchased the car and cannot be deemed as poor repair. There would be little to no 
difference in price of buying a bolt from the manufacturer.
The finance company and a motoring organisation conducted a check and didnt 
report bad repairs before Mr M acquired the car.
The model is a discontinued model and hence its prices are going up. 
He has sent us copies of the documents when he took out the insurance. They were 
misleading about new vehicle replacement.
He has provided adverts for more standard models priced way above £130,000.00. 
His car had far more optional extras.
His car was a version of the model with more appealing styling.
The manufacturer valued his car at £144,000.00.
He has purchased multiple supercars in his life. 
There is no way you can get the same car for £120,000.00.
Aviva offered him £3,000.00 for his original bumper. But his style of bumper was 
£11,000.00.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
New vehicle replacement
Mr M has sent us the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) that he saw when he 
took out the policy. It includes the following:
What is insured?

New vehicle replacement- if youve owned your vehicle from new, and its written off 
or stolen and not recovered within 12 months of purchase, well replace it with a new 
vehicle of the same make, model and specification

Are there any restrictions on cover?

New vehicle replacement is available when the cost of damage or repairs exceeds 
more than 60% of the vehicles UK list price when purchased If you dont meet 
the qualifying criteria, the most well pay is the market value of your vehicle at the 
time of loss or damage
I consider that to be a clear enough summary of what the detailed policy terms said. I find it 
clear that Mr M was never going to meet the qualifying criteria for new vehicle replacement 
because he hadnt had the vehicle from new.
Market value
The policy terms contained he following definition of market value:
The cost of replacing your vehicle with one of the same make, model, specification 
and condition. 
That doesnt mention age or mileage. But in my view, they are factors that also affect market 
value at the time of loss or damage. 
Generally, we expect insurers to value cars by reference to the retail figures in certain trade 
guides. We accept that those figures are based on extensive research of likely selling prices.
We will look at all evidence to assess whether the insurer has treated the policyholder fairly. 
But we usually find that advertisements are less reliable because they contain the sellers 
asking price, which may be negotiated downwards.Ive noted the make, model, specification, age, mileage and condition of Mr Ms car.
Ive noted Mr Ms evidence that - before the accident - a dealer franchised by the 
manufacturer had estimated over £140,000.00. In my view, that wouldnt have taken into 
account previous accident damage and poor-quality repairs. In any event, I consider that the 
figure was the dealers proposed asking price, which might be negotiated downwards.
Ive looked at advertisements provided by Mr M and by Aviva. But the advertisements 
contained asking prices. So I dont regard them as persuasive evidence that Mr Ms car had 
been worth more than £120,000.00.
From the report after the accident in May 2022, I find that an earlier accident had caused 
damage to the drivers side (offside) of the vehicle. The report identified poor previous 
repairs to the drivers A pillar area and to the front structure/ suspension mounting points. 
Non-manufacturer bolts had been used and the mounting points/ bracket was still visibly 
bent out of shape. That is supported by photographic evidence.
I accept the repairers estimate that (separately from the cost of repairs to the May 2022 
damage to the front nearside) the cost of remedial work to the earlier repairs would be 
£21,632.00. Aviva made a deduction of half that figure from £130,816.00 to arrive at its 
valuation of £120,000.00.
Aviva offered a further £3,000.00 if Mr M sent or took the original bumper to its salvage 
agent. But he didnt do so.
For a car like Mr Ms at the time of the accident, our investigator obtained a bespoke 
valuation from one of the trade guides at a figure of £117,500.00. I place more weight on that 
than on the evidence provided by Mr M. 
Avivas valuation was higher than £117,500.00. So I dont conclude that it treated Mr M 
unfairly. And I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Aviva to pay Mr M any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Aviva Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman