DRN-2931680
The complaint
Mr W complains that his claim to Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) on his basic contents 
policy for damage caused to items in a parcel was unfairly declined.
There are several parties and representatives of Aviva involved throughout the claim but for 
the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Aviva.
What happened
In early 2020 Mr W shipped three boxes of his personal belongings overseas with cover from 
a basic contents insurance policy.
The items inside the boxes were packed in plastic storage bags to make sure that there was 
no damage from moisture, and he labelled the boxes externally with this side up. 
When Mr W received the three packages, one package was damaged. It arrived with a gash 
on the side of the box. When Mr W looked inside, he found that the storage bag was 
destroyed and the contents inside were damaged. 
Mr W made a claim to Aviva for this damage, but it was declined as he had taken out their 
basic insurance package which only covered for total loss of a parcel. It did not cover for 
damage to individual items of contents.
As Mr W was not happy with Aviva he brought the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked in to the case and agreed that the claim on the basic insurance did 
not cover damage and that the claim had been fairly declined. 
As Mr W is unhappy with our investigators view the case has been brought to me for a final 
decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no question that the parcel that Mr W shipped arrived in a damaged state and so I 
understand that he will have been very disappointed. It is not what a customer would expect 
when paying for a shipping service.
Mr W wants to be reimbursed for everything that was in the damaged box.
The insurer apologised to Mr W and offered to investigate further in to how the damage had 
happened but it was clear that this would not change their decision to decline the claim for 
damage as it was clearly not covered.
I think it is reasonable to accept that unforeseen incidents of damage and loss to belongings 
will happen from time to time whilst items are in transit and for that reason insurance is 
recommended by the shipping agent to protect against such unforeseen events.
Mr W did take out insurance on his parcels. There were two options either Basic insurance 
or Premier insurance. Mr W took out the basic insurance.
I have considered if the differences within the two policies were clear and understandable to 
rule out if there could be any confusion on what each policy covers. I found that the terms 
and conditions of the two different polices are clearly set out and state that the basic 
insurance will only cover you if your contents were lost. The basic insurance also states that 
it does not protect you if your goods were damaged. 
I appreciate that Mr W is unhappy that his personal goods were damaged in transit, however 
as he chose the basic policy and the terms are clearly set out, I think that Aviva has fairly 
declined his claim for damage under the policy terms and conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman