DRN-2066103
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with the compensation that Canada Square Operations Limited (Canada 
Square) has offered to settle his complaint about a mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy taken out alongside a credit card.
What happened
Mr R took out a credit card for which Canada Square is now responsible. Mr R complained 
the account had PPI attached and this was mis-sold. 
Canada Square could not trace any records of the account at all for Mr R. However, Mr R 
was able to provide one statement from November 1998 showing he had the account and 
also that PPI had been charged to the account.
After Mr R brought his complaint to this service Canada Square accepted the statement 
provided proved there had been an account and it agreed to refund the PPI costs to Mr R. 
However, it only made an offer to refund the one premium shown on the statement Mr R has 
provided, plus the relevant interest caused by that one premium and compensatory interest 
on the amount. 
Our adjudicator said what Canada Square had offered wasnt fair as it was most likely Mr R 
had paid more than the one premium. So, Canada Square was asked to recalculate the 
compensation due, using reasonable assumptions and the testimony Mr R had provided.  
Canada Square didnt agree and said that without clear evidence, it didnt think any more 
compensation was due. It asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Canada Square has agreed to uphold Mr Rs complaint and pay compensation to refund the 
costs of the PPI Mr R paid. So, in this decision I am not looking at how the PPI came to be 
sold but considering if what has been offered in compensation is fair. 
Canada Square has no data at all about Mr Rs account, which isnt surprising as it must 
have been taken out over 20 years ago. However, Mr R has been able to provide a copy of 
one credit card statement for the account from November 1998.
This statement shows that the balance brought forward from the previous month was 
£2,452.25; that what would appear to be the minimum payment had been made on 22 
October 1998 for £74.00; a PPI premium was charged of £17.03 in November 1998; that the 
account went slightly over its credit limit in November 1998; and that there is a date stamp 
on 1 December 1998 when a payment to clear the balance appears to have been made.
Mr R has told us that his father cleared the balance owing on the account for him, and the 
payment was made in a bank branch, as indicated on the date stamp. It seems this was the 
last statement Mr R had for the account as he says didnt use it again once the balance had 
been cleared.
Mr R has also provided some testimony about his personal circumstances around the time 
he recalls he took out the credit card and he has said this would have been about 1996. He 
believes he had the card for around two years before the balance was cleared in December 
1998.
Canada Square says it has no evidence, data or information about the card account and the 
PPI premiums, other than the information on the statement provided by Mr R. Therefore, it 
has based its calculation on the one premium as shown on that statement. It says there is no 
evidence that Mr R opened the account in 1996 and was paying PPI throughout this time. 
So, without additional evidence that Mr R held the card for some two years and made 
regular payments Canada Square doesnt agree its offer is unfair and any additional 
compensation should be calculated.
I do not accept, based on what I have seen, that Mr R only made one PPI payment as 
assumed by Canada Square. I can see no justification for that assumption. The statement 
available shows that a balance, at almost the maximum credit limit, was carried forward to 
November 1998, so there was clearly a balance on the account in the previous month. And it 
seems very unreasonable to assume the PPI would only have been taken out immediately 
prior to the only statement available, for November 1998, which is what Canada Squares 
assumption of only one PPI charge implies. 
Where there is limited or no data, we expect a business to make fair and reasonable 
assumptions about what may have happened. I note from the statement available that Mr R 
also had card protection and it is reasonable to assume that this and the PPI most likely 
were taken out when Mr R applied for his credit card, as often is the case. 
Canada Square has accepted Mr Rs submissions that the account was cleared in 
December 1998 and not used again going forward. So, his testimony about his 
circumstances when looking back. and that he most likely opened the card some two years 
earlier, is not unreasonable and also should be accepted. Looking at how he used the card 
in the one month we have the statement for, suggests he may have slowly increased his 
balance if it was always use in the same way. 
Without any more specific data and evidence I can see no reason not to rely on Mr Rs 
testimony which is plausible and reasonable.  Therefore, some reasonable assumptions and 
a calculation should be made based on this testimony. 
Canada Square should take the balance and PPI amounts from the statement available in 
November 1998 and use this to calculate the costs of the PPI on a reducing basis going 
back. I think it would be reasonable to assume the card opened in January 1996, when the 
balance was zero, the first PPI premium being charged in February 1996. 
The PPI premiums charged, and the interest caused by them, should be worked out using 
this reducing method from November 1998 to January 1996. In addition, it should be 
assumed Mr R made the minimum payment each month, so not clearing the account until 
December 1998.
This means compound interest at card rate will have been charged on the PPI premiums for 
the full time they remained in the balance. However, as Mr R wasnt out of pocket for these amounts until he cleared the balance in December 1998, compensatory interest will only 
become payment from when he was out of pocket for the costs of the PPI.
Putting things right
In summary, I have seen nothing to show that it would be logical or fair to assume only one 
PPI premium was charged and paid by Mr R. Mr Rs testimony is reasonable and with no 
actual data should be accepted. 
Therefore, Canada Square needs to recalculate the compensation due to Mr R based on the 
card account being open, and PPI being charged, from January 1996 until the balance was 
cleared in December 1998, the last PPI premium being charged as on the November 1998 
statement. It should be assumed that the amount charged for the PPI premium in November 
1998, and the account balance, slowly decreased going back to zero in January 1996.
Card rate interest cause by the PPI should also be calculated to identify the full costs Mr R 
paid for the PPI. And compensatory interest at 8% simple per year should be paid for any 
time Mr R was out of pocket for the cost, to the date of final payment of compensation is paid  
to him. 
It is impossible to know if this will possibly pay Mr R more than he actually paid for the PPI or 
less. But with no additional data available it is, I think, a fair and reasonable approach.  
I understand Canada Square sent Mr R a cheque for the amount it originally offered in 
compensation, but this has not been cashed. If this remains the case the cheque should be 
cancelled. If the cheque has been cashed, then the amount paid can be deducted from the 
new compensation calculated and due to Mr R.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above I think that Canada Square Operations Limited should 
recalculate the compensation due to Mr R as I have indicated above. The compensatory 
interest should be calculated to the date of final settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2020.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman