DRN-3212021
The complaint
Mr A complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited trading as Legal and General (Fairmead) 
wont accept the evidence hes sent them as proof of ownership for his home contents 
insurance claim.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties so Ill only provide a 
brief summary here. Mr A says his shed was broken into in 2018 and various items were 
stolen.
Mr A made a claim to Fairmead and it asked Mr A for proof of ownership of the items he was 
claiming for. Mr A provided some evidence but Fairmead didnt accept it and asked for Mr A 
to submit more specific evidence showing that he owned the items.
Mr A made a complaint to Fairmead and his complaint was referred to our service. An 
ombudsman didnt uphold Mr As complaint. The ombudsman said in his decision:
Fairmead have been consistent throughout that if Mr A provides original pictures 
with the metadata intact, original or duplicate receipts or the details of the person that 
he purchased some of the items from second hand, that they will consider them. I 
think that is fair.
Mr A has now obtained further evidence about his ownership of the items in the form of a 
hand-written receipt from a third-party he says he purchased some of the items from. This 
new evidence has been considered by Fairmead who say that they still dont think it proves 
Mr A owned the items, so Fairmead again declined Mr As claim.
As Mr A remained unhappy with Fairmeads decision he complained again to this service. An 
investigator looked into Mr As complaint and said she thought Fairmead had acted fairly and 
reasonably. She said she thought Mr A could have obtained the relevant information earlier 
and that inconsistencies in his story meant that Fairmead was entitled to ask for more proof 
of his ownership. 
Mr A disagreed with the view and has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important that I say I can only consider Mr As complaint about the new piece of evidence 
he has submitted. Mr A has re-sent many pieces of information to this service, but most of 
them have been dealt with previously under the earlier decision made by another 
ombudsman. That decision cannot be changed and so I have not considered them as part of 
my investigation.
The new piece of evidence is a hand-written receipt from a third-party Mr A says he bought 
some of the items from. I can see from Fairmeads evidence that it has repeatedly tried to 
verify that the receipt is a valid proof of ownership, but has not been able to do this to its 
satisfaction. 
Fairmead has told Mr A that it has found discrepancies between his original version of 
events and what the hand-written receipt states. It also mentions inconsistencies in Mr As 
description of where the items were obtained from, so that is why it cannot accept the hand-
written receipt as of proof of Mr As ownership.
Mr As policy says:
Claims Conditions:
We will only ask you to provide information and assistance that is relevant to your 
claim. You must cooperate with us fully in providing such information and assistance. 
We may require proof of ownership and/or proof of loss (e.g. receipts, valuations, 
photographs, instruction booklets and guarantee cards).
It is a policyholders responsibility to prove their claim and I think its reasonable for 
Fairmead to insist on having proof of ownership for the items and the condition of his policy 
specifically talks about this. Given the passage of time since the claim was first made, I 
agree with Mr A that it can be hard to remember exactly where items were bought from. But I 
can also see that Fairmead has asked repeatedly for the same information from Mr A and he 
hasnt provided what it asked for, even when it asked very specifically for the information in 
the early days of the claim. 
The delay in providing the receipt and the inconsistencies in Mr As story mean that I think 
Fairmeads decision to not accept Mr As further evidence is reasonable. So it follows that I 
think their decision to decline the claim is fair.
I think Fairmead have acted fairly in the circumstances and Im not going to tell them they 
need to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman