DRN-3880257
The complaint
Mr P complains that Creation Financial Services Limited (Creation) were wrong not to
process a claim he made to them under the chargeback scheme and under section 75 of the
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in December 2022. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
Mr P arranged for a company I call N to fit a new boiler for him in May 2021. He paid
£1,850 using a credit card provided by Creation.
In November 2021 Mr P contacted N to tell them the heating wasnt working properly. N
visited his property and advised Mr P that the filter was blocked with sludge and the system
would need to be power flushed to remove the sludge and debris. That would, they said,
cost Mr P a further £650.
Mr P didnt think the work N had done had been completed with reasonable care and skill
and he also thought the installation couldnt be considered of adequate quality as it hadnt
been durable. He explained hed had no need to turn the heating on in the summer months
but as soon as he did, in November 2021, it was clear the radiators upstairs wouldnt heat
up. He didnt think a reasonable person would expect heating to fail so prematurely and he
insisted thered therefore been a breach of contract and Creation should uphold his claim.
Creation explained that Mr P had raised his claim too late for a chargeback to be considered
and they didnt think there was evidence of either a breach of contract or any
misrepresentation, so they didnt think a claim could be successful under section 75.
Our investigator agreed with Creation. She didnt think there was evidence N had been
contracted to complete a power flush and didnt think there was sufficient evidence of breach
of contract.
Mr P disagreed and he asked for a decision by an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Creation, but I dont currently agree with the investigators view of
this complaint and Im expecting to uphold it.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here,
I have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a credit card, as is the case
here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit
Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a
like right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach
of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have
been met.
It may also be possible to make a chargeback claim. The chargeback scheme isnt
administered by Creation, its administered by Mastercard and they set the rules. Creation
didnt have to submit a chargeback claim but Id think it good practice for them to do so
where the right exists and there is a prospect of success.
The Mastercard chargeback rules say that claims must be submitted within 120 days from
when the goods or service are provided. Mr P contacted Creation about the issue after more
than 120 had passed and Creation were therefore out of time to raise a chargeback.
There are no time limits however, in respect of section 75 claims. Creation say they didnt
raise one because they were unable to ascertain that the contract had been breached. I
disagree.
Section 49 (1) of the Consumer Rights Act (2015) says that:
Every contract to supply a service is to be treated as including a term that the trader must
perform the service with reasonable care and skill.
I think there has been a breach of contract here as I dont think the installation has been
performed with reasonable care and skill.
The pre-installation guidelines for the boiler say at 4.1 and under Cleaning Primary
Systems, that the installer should follow the guidance in BS 5793.
Its that guidance that N have explained to us they followed when installing the boiler.
The guidance says at 5.2:
Sludge is recognized as the most common cause of failure of water carrying components,
including boiler heat exchangers, circulator pumps, radiators and controls. It can also 
prematurely wear other appliance components, such as ignition electrodes, due to increased
cycling of the boiler.
So, I think it follows that an installer would want to ensure the system was cleaned so there
wasnt excessive sludge in it prior to installation.
Section 7 of BS 5793 explains the cleaning regime, it says:
Before cleaning, the system should be examined to determine the system configuration and
the age and overall condition of components, in order to ascertain the cleaning regime
required 
There are three cleaning and flushing options one of the following should be applied:a) Power flushing is a cleaning and flushing procedure characterized by using an
external pump and tank arrangement to effect the circulation of water or chemical
cleaner solution at increased velocity and turbulence through the whole circuit and
particularly through individually isolated panel radiators where fitted, such that it
reaches the entire inner surfaces of the system with enough force to ensure the
cleaning and complete removal of all adherent and settled sludge, foulants and
debris.
N explained that when they initially visited Mr P in April 2021 to quote for the work they noted
that the boiler was at least 23 years old and the system was not operational.
Given that the standard suggests they should ascertain the age and condition of the system,
and that the system was old and not functioning, it would seem reasonable to suggest there
would be significant sludge and debris in it.
In those circumstances it seems reasonable to suggest that N should have performed the
most rigorous of the three cleaning options, the power flush, to ensure that the sludge and
debris that the standard explains is the most common cause of failure, was removed to
enable the boiler to perform properly.
N offered the power flush as an option at additional cost, but I dont think it was reasonable
to expect Mr P to understand the importance of such work. It seems it should have been
included in the quotation price as the standard would suggest that was the most appropriate
pre-installation procedure.
So, I dont think the installation was completed with reasonable care and skill and Im
persuaded Ns failure to carry out an appropriate cleaning regime meant that the heating
system became blocked and ceased to function correctly.
And, even if Im wrong about that, the Consumer Rights Act (2015) says that goods should
be of satisfactory quality and it explains that when we consider what satisfactory quality is
we should think about whether the goods have been durable. I dont think a reasonable
person would consider a new boiler to be durable if it failed to heat all the radiators to the
desired temperature. I think the inadequate installation procedure has most likely resulted in
the boiler not being able to perform its function adequately and in those circumstances the
business should put things right for Mr P.
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) gives the business an opportunity to repair goods that are
not of satisfactory quality when supplied so I think they should be allowed to repair Mr Ps
boiler installation. N have explained that will necessitate power flushing the system so Im 
expecting to ask the business to do so and to ensure that all radiators are subsequently 
balanced.
Mr P has been inconvenienced by this issue. Hes not been able to use the boiler effectively
over the winter period and Ive read there are both very young and elderly people living at
the property. Hes also had to escalate his complaint to this service when I think it could
have been resolved earlier. In the circumstances Im expecting to tell Creation to pay him
£300 in compensation.
My provisional decision
Im expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell Creation Financial Services Limited to:
Repair Mr Ps boiler installation by power flushing the system and rebalancing hisradiators.
Pay Mr P £300 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr P accepted my provisional decision and didnt provide any additional comments. 
Creation didnt agree with me, they said:
The retailer has confirmed that when the boiler was installed and the system was flushed, 
the radiators were checked. They were hot and fully functional. The customer then made a 
payment for the work completed. It is important to note that the customer paid for the boiler 
installation and the power flush and not the radiators that were pre-installed. There is no 
issue with the boiler, and the only work that was done on the pre-existing radiators was a 
power flush. The existing radiators were about 23 years old at the time which does not 
guarantee that all sludge will be out of the system, especially due to the age of the radiators. 
Furthermore, the customer raised issues 6 months after the installation of the boiler
which means that additional sludge could have accumulated throughout that time and 
therefore requires additional power flush. This may not be due to ineffective system flush 
completed in May 2021.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think the evidence suggests the system was flushed in accordance with the relevant 
British Standard. I explained in my provisional decision that:
N should have performed the most rigorous of the three cleaning options, the power flush 
and that they only offered that as an option.
Ns response received in August 2022 explained that when Mr P complained, and their 
engineer visited, they recommended a full chemical power flush and that this is different to 
a standard flush in accordance with the manufacturers guidelines. 
So I think its clear that a power flush wasnt performed when the boiler was fitted only a 
standard flush and, as Ive explained, I think that suggests the work wasnt carried out with 
reasonable care and skill as the standard suggests a power flush was required given the age 
and condition of the system.
Im not persuaded that the sludge would have been likely to build up in the time Mr P had the 
boiler. It seems, as the flush wasnt to standard, its likely sufficient sludge and debris 
wouldnt have been removed from the system before the boiler was fitted and it appears 
from the evidence provided that is the most likely cause of the failure.
Putting things right
Ive not therefore been provided with sufficient evidence to merit changing my provisional 
decision and my provisional decision therefore becomes my final decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Creation Financial Services 
Limited to:
Repair Mr Ps boiler installation by power flushing the system and rebalancing hisradiators.
Pay Mr P £300 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman