DRN-2961840
The complaint
Mrs L's complaint is about the handling of a claim under a central heating insurance policy.
Amtrust Europe Limited use agents to deal with claims and complaints on its behalf and so
any reference to Amtrust in this decision should be read as including those agents. Also, the 
policy is in Mrs Ls sole name and so I will refer to her throughout, but she has been 
represented in the complaint by her husband, Mr L, and the complaint is in effect a joint
complaint. Whenever I refer to Mrs L in this decision, it should be read as including Mr L.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in July 2021, the main parts of which are copied 
below: 
In November 2020, Mrs L made a claim as her heating wasnt working. Amtrust sent a
contractor out on 9 November 2020. Mrs L says he advised he needed to order a new part
and he came back with a new thermistor kit on 13 November 2020. This didnt resolve the
problem and he said he needed to get another part and left the house.
After he left, Mrs L says the whole of the upstairs of the property was full of gas, which
caused her to choke. Mrs L says she had to call her gas supplier to attend (they told her how
to turn the gas off while she waited for them to come out) and they confirmed there was a 
gas leak from the boiler and placed a warning notice on it. They made it safe but the boiler 
was still not working and so Mrs L asked Amtrust to send out another engineer out to 
complete the repair on the boiler.
Another engineer came out the next day and got the system working. I understand he traced
the gas leak to the test point (which he said had been left loose and needed tightening) and
said the boiler had been left in a dangerous condition.
Mrs L says that the first engineer must have caused the leak while he worked on the boiler.
In addition, there is a large yellow stain on the outside wall, where rusty water had come out
of the overflow pipe [which she says was caused by Amtrust]. Mrs L has made a number of 
points [in support of her complaint], which Ive summarised below:
The first engineer came back and started stripping down the boiler. He then said he
couldnt repair it, as it needed another part (a diverter valve, which he had also
mentioned was needed at the first visit). The engineer told her he might struggle to
get the part and the boiler should be replaced and left. However, the second
engineer fixed the boiler within 20 minutes.
The engineer should have put a pipe to divert the overflowing pipe, to avoid the
damage to the outside wall, which she had only just had rendered and painted.
Both the gas supplier and the second engineer that attended were shocked at the
damage and couldnt understand what the first engineer had done. The gas supplier
deemed the boiler as being immediately dangerous.
There was also water pooled on the floor in the cupboard below the boiler, where the
spur switch is, which was dangerous.
She wants the phone call between the gas supplier and Amtrust listened to and she
provided the gas suppliers report which confirms the boiler was unsafe.
She was also caused considerable distress by the gas leak, the whole house was
full of gas and would have exploded if someone had turned a light switch on.
She had no heating for several days.
Mrs L says she has now had the boiler replaced, as she was so worried about the condition
it was left in and wants compensation for the cost of this and the cost of repainting the
stained area of the outside wall.
Amtrust does not accept it did anything wrong. It says:
there is no mention of the diverter valve needing to be replaced in the engineers
notes. The engineer ordered the thermistor kit, which was needed to repair the
boiler. It took a few days to get this part, as the boiler was around 20 years old.
The engineer would not have caused any gas leak. He wouldnt have touched the
part where it could trigger a potential gas leak. The gas test point is underneath the
plate heat exchanger and the central heating thermistor is positioned at the top of
the boiler.
When the engineer changed the thermostat, he drained the system, but the
central heating thermostat must have caused the pressure relief valve to fail which
has resulted in water coming out of the overflow pipe. The end of the overflow pipe
is too near to the wall, so the water flows down the wall. Unfortunately, the water
coming out was rusty, which then caused the yellow stain but his is not a result of
anything it did wrong.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He did not recommend that the complaint be
upheld. He didnt think there was enough evidence that the engineer would have needed to
adjust the gas test point which is below the area he would have been working on. He didnt
think he could confidently say the gas leak was as a result of the engineers actions or that it
did anything wrong to cause the stain to the wall.
Mrs L does not accept the investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Gas leak and condition of boiler
It is very difficult for me to be certain what happened when the first engineer was working on
the boiler. Amtrust says he had no reason to touch the gas test point. However, no reason
has been given as to how this test point became loose on its own, within a short time of its
engineer having worked on it.
Amtrusts files record that Mrs L phoned on 13 November 2020 and put [the gas
suppliers engineer] on the phone. This engineer has left the property in a very dangerous
state the engineer has had to isolate the boiler. This suggests the gas suppliers engineer
said the problem had been caused by the first engineer. They also left a warning notice
which said [there was a] gas leak in boiler and capped it at the meter outlet. Amtrust has not 
provided a copy of a recording of this call.
Overall, it seems to me more likely than not that something happened while the first engineerwas working on the boiler, which caused the leak, as it cannot [reasonably] just be assumed 
to be a coincidence. However, even if the first engineer didnt cause the leak, he apparently 
left the boiler in a dangerous state with a gas leak. No explanation has been given for this 
either. I therefore am satisfied that the gas leak was due to something done (or not done) by 
Amtrust and it should not have happened.
I will address how I think this should be put right below.
External damage
Amtrusts file also records that the engineer told Amtrust he had not drained down the
system, or let any pressure out, as he was working in dry system but he did top up the
pressure, as it was low. However, this contradicts Amtrusts statement to us that when its
contractor changed the thermostat, he drained the system but the central heating thermostat
must have caused the pressure relief valve to fail which has resulted in water coming out of
the over flow, a situation the Amtrust engineer didnt foresee. The second engineer
apparently says he couldnt say if the staining was [the first] engineers fault.
The photos do show considerable staining, consistent with a large volume of rusty/dirty
water coming out of the overflow pipe. I can understand why Mrs L is unhappy about this.
However, there is not sufficient evidence that this was due to anything Amtrust did wrong.
The outlet pipe is meant to take any excess water from the central heating system, so it
served its purpose here. Mrs L says the engineer should have added an extensive hose to
the outlet pipe, before working on the boiler but I do not agree this is a reasonable
expectation. As stated the outlet pipe served its purpose. I am not therefore persuaded that
Amtrust needs to do anything about this.
Service provided
Mrs L was without heating for four days between the first and the second visits. It was winter
and this would have been difficult. Amtrust says this was due to having to wait for the spare
part but there is no convincing evidence it could not have been resolved sooner. There was
then a further delay before the second engineer fixed the boiler. I do not think this was dealt
with as quickly as it could have been and this would have caused additional trouble being
without heating.
Putting matters right
Mrs L says she replaced the boiler due to concerns about its safety. While I can understand
her actions, there is no evidence it was at risk after the second engineer completed the
repairs. I cant therefore reasonably require Amtrust to pay any more towards the new boiler.
However, as well as being without heating for four/five days, Mrs L had to call out the gas
supplier as an emergency and undoubtedly suffered considerable stress and anxiety
because of the gas leak. I therefore consider some compensation for this is warranted and
consider the sum of £300 to be appropriate.
My provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint and require Amtrust Europe Limited to pay the sum of £300
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of this claim.
Responses to my provisional decisionI invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further information r 
evidence they wasnt considered. 
Mrs L has responded and confirmed she accepts my provisional decision. 
Amtrust has not responded. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at everything again and as neither party has added anything further, I see no 
reason to change my provisional findings.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Amtrust Europe Limited to pay the sum of £300
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of this claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman