DRN-2975845
The complaint
Mr T complains that Nationwide Building Society has closed his accounts and complains 
about problems trying to transfer money from an account.
What happened
Mr T says Nationwide has unfairly closed his accounts following a number of complaints he 
made about it. He says a number of the complaints were upheld and that he ought to be able 
to complain. Mr T also says he had problems trying to transfer money from one account and 
that Nationwide was unhelpful.
Nationwide says it is entitled to close an account by giving 60 days notice which it said it 
gave Mr T. It says it is clear the relationship between it and Mr T had broken down due to the 
number of complaints he made. Nationwide says it cant find a call recording in which Mr T 
says he didnt receive help trying to transfer the money, but it has paid £40 compensation for 
that complaint.
Mr T brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaints. The 
investigator didnt think Nationwide was obliged to provide reasons for closing an account 
and thought it was entitled to close an account by providing 60 days notice. The investigator 
thought the £40 compensation appropriate for that part of the complaint about the transfer.
Mt T doesnt accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr T will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked carefully at Mr Ts account terms and conditions which I think he would have 
agreed to when the account was opened. Those terms and conditions make clear that 
Nationwide can close a customers account or accounts by providing 60 days notice. I dont 
think Nationwide is obliged to provide a reason but can see it has told Mr T the reason why it 
closed his accounts. So, I dont think Nationwide made a mistake here or acted unfairly by 
providing Mr T with the required 60 days notice before closing his accounts and was entitled 
to do so in line with agreed account terms and conditions.
I appreciate Mr T says many of his complaints were upheld. But I dont think that matters or 
is relevant and think its up to both sides of this complaint to decide with whom they have a 
business relationship.
I also appreciate Mr T tried to transfer what I think was a small amount of £0.05 out of one of 
his accounts. I cant be sure what Mr T was told during a telephone call, but Im satisfied that 
Nationwide has acted fairly by paying £40 compensation. I dont think problems trying to 
transfer such a small amount justifies any further compensation even if I could be sure what 
took place and can see in any event the money was transferred.
Overall, Im satisfied Nationwide was entitled to close Mr Ts accounts and has paid a fair 
and reasonable compensation amount of £40.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman