DRN-2503750
The complaint
Mr H (via a representative) complains Provident Personal Credit Limited (trading as 
Satsuma) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr H took four instalment loans between February 2015 and March 2019. Ive included some 
of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
Loan Number Loan Amount Date of loan Actual Repayment Date
1 £100 28/02/2015 12/06/2015
2 £500 16/01/2016 22/04/2016
3 £400 31/01/2019 03/05/2019
4 £1,600 18/03/2019 outstanding
When we received the complaint, Satsuma told us there was an outstanding balance due for 
loan 4.  
Our adjudicator didnt think it was wrong to have granted the instalment loans. He thought 
the checks completed by Satsuma went far enough and the income and expenses declared 
by Mr H showed the loans were affordable. The adjudicator also felt that as Mr H didnt 
inform Satsuma of any personal difficulties when the applications were made, it couldnt take 
such difficulties into account before lending.   
Mr H disagrees with the adjudicators assessment. In summary, Mr H says that:
he couldnt afford the loans when they were lent; 
Satsuma didnt do enough checks to ensure he could afford the loans and 
he was having a tough time personally and didnt know what he was doing because 
of his health difficulties. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma had to assess the loan applications to check if Mr H could afford to pay back the 
amounts he was borrowing without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Satsumas checks could have taken into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments 
and Mr Hs income and expenditure. With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, less thorough checks might have been proportionate. 
But certain factors might suggest Satsuma should have done more to establish that any 
lending was sustainable for Mr H. These factors include: 
Mr H having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Mr H having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long 
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the 
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr H coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid 
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr H.
Satsuma was required to establish whether Mr H could sustainably repay his instalment 
loans  not just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having 
enough money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr H was able 
to repay his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. The 
Financial Conduct Authority (the industry regulatory) says in the Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC) that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and 
thought about what this means for Mr Hs complaint.
loans 1 and 2
Loan 1 (£100) was taken out over 13 weeks with weekly repayments of around £11. Mr H 
declared an income of £1,733 and, it appears, no expenses at the time of the loan 
application. Satsuma also carried out a credit check and considered as expenses any 
undeclared credit commitments that it could see together with a further buffer. This meant 
Satsuma used overall expenditure of £812.30 when assessing the application. 
Considering the amount being lent and with no previous lending history, I think the checks 
went far enough. And based on the checks Satsuma completed Im satisfied that loan 1 
wouldve seemed affordable and sustainable. 
I can see that a few scheduled repayments were missed during loan 1 and that the loan was 
repaid one week late. From what I can see though weekly payments were mostly paid 
throughout the actual term of the loan and no defaults or late payment fees were charged.
There was also then a distinct and significant break before loan 2 was lent. So, whilst I 
appreciate that Mr H hadnt made every repayment for loan 1 on the due date, overall, I think 
Satsuma could assess loan 2 afresh as the start of a new lending relationship.  
Loan 2 (£500) was also repayable over 13 weeks with weekly repayments of around £55.     
I understand Mr H didnt declare any expenses but said his income was £1,700. Following a credit check and using its own internal guidance for expenses, Satsuma assessed the loan 
using expenditure of £962.89 as a safeguard. 
I think at this stage of lending the checks went far enough and it was fair for Satsuma to 
think loan 2 would be affordable and sustainable.  
I think its important to say that I dont think Satsuma was required to complete a full review 
of Mr Hs circumstances for either loan 1 or 2. I dont think from what Satsuma knew of       
Mr Hs circumstances or the level and history of lending it needed, for example, to start 
verifying information that Satsuma was told and discovered about Mr H.     
I also appreciate Mr H says he was having a difficult time personally. Im not aware though 
that his difficulties were mentioned to Satsuma. So, it couldnt reasonably take these into 
account before it provided the loans. 
So, looking at everything together, Ive found that Satsuma wasnt wrong to lend. 
loans 3 and 4     
Loan 3 (£400) was lent more than two years after loan 2 had been repaid. I agree with the 
adjudicator that this loan was therefore the start of a new lending relationship. 
Satsuma agreed to Mr Hs application after he provided details of his monthly income and 
expenditure as well as having considered the results of a credit check. 
Based on what Satsuma was told and adding in safeguards, the information suggested that 
Mr H would be able to make the repayments he was committing to. It was the beginning of a 
new lending relationship and I think the checks it carried out were proportionate. And 
considering what Mr H declared about his monthly income (around £1,950) and his monthly 
expenditure (£509) plus the additional safeguards Satsuma used to assess the loan 
(£143.24), the repayments of around £44 per week appeared affordable based on this 
information. So I dont think it was wrong to have provided loan 3. 
I appreciate loan 3 hadnt been repaid when loan 4 (£1,600) was lent and that the level of 
lending had increased. But loan 3 was due to be repaid before the scheduled payments for 
loan 4 were due to start. I can see that Mr H called up to pay some missed payments for 
loan 3 prior to the start of the monthly payments for loan 4. I understand Mr H explained to 
Satsuma that theyd been a delay in receipt of his wages at one point and that he wasnt 
struggling financially. And loan 3 was repaid without any late fees or defaults and with 
regular payments being made.  
So, overall, Ive not seen quite enough evidence to indicate that Satsuma ought to have built
up a more detailed picture of Mr Hs finances for loan 4. As Ive said, his repayment history 
for loan 3 wasnt concerning as it appears all payments had been made on time and it was 
still relatively early in this lending relationship. 
The income and expenditure Satsuma used to assess loan 4 (based on Mr Hs declared 
income and expenses together with additional safeguards) left him with a monthly 
disposable income of just over £1,000. So, I think the monthly instalments of around £266 
wouldve seemed affordable and sustainable.
Im sorry to hear that Mr H was struggling financially and repaying these loans has proved
difficult. And I accept that Mr Hs full financial circumstances may not have been reflected ineither the information he provided, or the other information Satsuma may have seen in its 
credit checks. And it might be that Mr Hs actual financial position may well have been 
apparent if further information  such as bank statements  had been obtained.
But I dont think it had yet reached the point either in the lending relationship or based on
what Satsuma knew about Mr H, that meant it needed to verify the information. So, I dont 
think that it could or should have known that Mr H was having financial difficulties at the time.
It is of course possible that, had Mr H continued to borrow from Satsuma, then it may have 
needed to have carried out further, more in-depth, checks which may have involved asking 
for evidence of Mr Hs financial position. But considering Mr H took two loans in this period 
and these appeared affordable, I dont think Satsuma was wrong to have provided them.
Mr Hs significant financial difficulties seemed to come to light after the scheduled 
repayments for loan 4 were due. And I can see that he informed Satsuma hed had an illness 
and hadnt been working. Satsuma through its proportionate checks for loans 3 and 4 
wouldnt though have been aware of such difficulties when considering the applications and 
Mr H also didnt appear to mention any personal difficulties that Satsuma ought to have 
considered before lending. 
As this is the case, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint about these loans. I appreciate this
will be disappointing for Mr H. But I hope that hell understand why Ive reached the findings
that I have. 
I understand Satsuma has worked with Mr H and suggested an affordable repayment plan 
for loan 4 because of his financial difficulties. I think this was a reasonable response in the 
circumstances although I would remind Satsuma of its obligation to treat Mr H fairly. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman