DRN-4375925
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr M complain Amtrust Europe Limited declined their claim under their legal 
expenses insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs M and Mr M had legal expenses insurance (LEI) with Amtrust Europe Limited. Mr M 
made a claim for cover to take legal action against a third party for failing properly to deal 
with his data. 
Amtrust initially declined the claim on grounds there was no cover under the LEI policy for 
claims of that sort. They said Mr M could take advice through their legal helpline. Mr M didnt 
agree. He said he was entitled to cover to pursue legal action against the third party arising 
from a dispute about statutory rights related to his contract of employment. 
Amtrust took legal advice. The solicitors said Mr M was an office holder, not an employee. It 
was unlikely he was covered under the employment section of the policy. They hadnt seen 
any evidence the relevant privacy policy formed part of any breach of contract he might be 
able to establish. They hadnt identified any quantifiable loss and couldnt say a claim for 
breach of contract had reasonable prospects of success. They couldnt advise whether a 
claim for breach of data protection legislation would be regarded as a statutory right related 
to Mr Ms contract of employment. But they said that any such claim was unlikely to have 
reasonable prospects of success.
Amtrust declined the claim on the basis of the solicitors advice and sent a copy to Mr M. 
They said he could send further information and documentation and theyd arrange for the 
solicitors to review it and consider whether it changed their legal assessment of his claim. 
They said too he could submit a legal assessment from a solicitor of his own choice at his 
own cost. If it was supportive of his claim, they would then fund a barristers opinion. And if 
that supported Mr Ms case, they would then accept the claim.
Mr M made several points in response to the solicitors advice and submitted an opinion from 
a barrister who had advised him on another matter. He said, in summary:
The barristers opinion supported his position that as an office holder he had the 
same protection as an employee. 
Although the solicitors were right to say he couldnt pursue the claim in the 
employment tribunal, the policy didnt require that, and he could bring a claim in the 
county court.
The duty to comply with data protection legislation is a statutory right. The solicitors 
were wrong to say hed need to show it was a term of a contract with the third party 
that they should comply with the legislation in order to bring a claim. 
The third party had also breached human rights law.
There is an implied term in every contract of employment that an employer should 
comply with appropriate legislation.
The solicitors were wrong to say Mr M wouldnt be able to obtain an award of 
compensation.
Amtrust were unfair in seeking advice from lawyers who had little knowledge of the 
relevant law. 
He proposed Amtrust fund an opinion from a barrister he identified.
Amtrust referred the new information to their underwriters. They continued to decline the 
claim. Mr M then referred Amtrust to previous claims where they had treated individuals in 
his role as employees despite initially declining the claims on the same grounds as they 
were declining his current claim. But Amtrust didnt change their mind and dealt with Mr Ms 
concerns as a formal complaint.
Amtrust didnt uphold the complaint for the reasons theyd already discussed with Mr M. So, 
he brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator said it had 
been fair for Amtrust to rely on the advice of their solicitors. She noted theyd said the claim 
didnt fall within the terms of the policy and, even if it had, the claim didnt have reasonable 
prospects of success. And she thought Amtrust had reasonably declined the claim.
Mr M didnt agree. And he was unhappy our investigator hadnt addressed the points hed 
raised in correspondence with Amtrust including, in summary:
The Supreme Court case that established that an office holder  like him  had 
substantially all of the rights of an employee. 
Previous litigation where Amtrust had provided cover under a similar policy. 
Even if he didnt have employee rights, the terms of cover include pursuing a related 
statutory right.
The solicitors advice didnt make sense and was wrong  although he accepted an 
appropriate fee earner had dealt with the matter  and it wasnt right for Amtrust to 
rely on it.
Hed made a reasonable proposal that Amtrust should take advice from a barrister 
hed identified.
Since the complaint hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Ms strength of feeling about this complaint. Im grateful for the detailed 
information and comments he and Amtrust have provided. I may not mention everything 
theyve said. No discourtesy is intended by that. It simply reflects the informal nature of the 
service we provide. I note Mr Ms comments that Amtrust have accepted other claims in 
similar circumstances. But I can only look at the individual circumstances of this complaint. 
And, whilst I understand Mr M will be disappointed, Ive come to the same outcome as our 
investigator for broadly the same reasons, as Ill explain.
In line with relevant Financial Conduct Authority rules, we expect insurers to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and not to decline claims unreasonably. Ive considered this complaint 
against that background. The starting point is the LEI policy.
Subject to the terms, conditions and exclusions in the policy Mrs M and Mr M had LEI cover 
for legal costs incurred up to a certain limit in relation to disputes arising out of several 
events. Of those events, the only potentially relevant one here is Employment Disputes. 
The policy provided cover under that section for: Standard advisers costs to pursue a legal action against an employer, 
prospective employer, or ex-employer, arising from a dispute relating to your 
contract of employment or related statutory rights.
A dispute is deemed to have occurred once all internal dismissal, disciplinary and 
grievance procedures have been brought or ought to have been concluded.
In order for there to be cover, the claim had to be against an employer, and any dispute had 
to be either about an employment contract or about a statutory right related to an 
employment contract.
Mr M acknowledges that his role makes him an office holder, not an employee. The 
barristers opinion hes provided confirms that. On that basis alone his claim under the policy 
fails. He has no claim against an employer and no contract of employment so any claim in 
relation to his statutory rights isnt connected to either. I think Amtrust were right to say the 
policy didnt provide cover.
Amtrust sought legal advice about Mr Ms claim. Ive noted all the concerns Mr Ms made 
about the conclusions the solicitors reached. I cant comment on legal issues, only whether 
Amtrust could reasonably rely on the solicitors advice. 
Im satisfied the advice was obtained from a solicitor with the appropriate qualifications and 
experience to advise on the issues that arose here  and Mr M doesnt challenge that. 
Theyd considered the documentation Mr M had submitted to support his claim. As a lay 
person, I dont think there are any obvious mistakes or factual inaccuracies that would mean 
I could ask Amtrust to disregard the advice. In all the circumstances, I think it was 
reasonable for Amtrust to rely on what the solicitors said.
The solicitors advised, amongst other things, that Mr M wasnt an employee and therefore 
not likely to be entitled to cover under the Employment Disputes section of the policy. I note 
the point Mr M made that the solicitors didnt reach a conclusion about whether the policy 
covered his claim. But they did conclude he wasnt an employee. And Amtrust were entitled 
then to come to a decision about cover bearing that in mind. 
I note Amtrust said theyd ask the solicitors to consider further information Mr M submitted. 
Im not aware they sent the barristers opinion he provided or the further points he made to 
them. On balance, I dont think that was unreasonable. The barristers opinion confirmed the 
role Mr M performed didnt make him an employee, but an office holder. It supported the 
solicitors view Mr M didnt have a contractual relationship with the body he wished to sue. 
And the remaining issues covered by the opinion were about statutory rights Mr M had even 
though he wasnt an employee. 
I think it was fair for Amtrust to conclude that since there was no contractual relationship 
between him and the third party, any data protection claim he might have wasnt related to 
an employment contract. Any claim that might arise would be based on breach of statute and 
the policy didnt provide cover for that. Ive noted Mr Ms point that there is no exclusion 
under the policy for claims about data protection issues. But there is no section of the policy 
that provides cover for that separately, so the absence of an exclusion is irrelevant.
Even if the policy had provided cover, for a claim to succeed it had to meet the terms and 
conditions of the policy. It was a condition of the policy that any claim must have reasonable 
prospects of success. Thats a common term in LEI insurance and one we consider 
reasonable. We wouldnt expect a private individual to incur costs in pursuing a claim which 
is unlikely to be successful. And we dont think its fair to require an insurer to do so either.Prospects of success were defined in Mr Ms policy as follows:
There must be a 51% or greater chance of winning the case or achieving a positive 
outcome. A positive outcome includes, but is not limited to, recovering the amount of 
money at stake, enforcing a judgment or achieving an outcome which best serves 
your interests. The assessment of your claim and the prospects of its success will 
be carried out by an independent adviser. If the adviser determines that there is not 
a 51% or greater chance of success, then we may decline or discontinue support for 
your case.
And the policy conditions said:
You only have cover under this policy where there is a 51% or greater chance of 
winning the case or achieving a positive outcome.
At any time we may, but only when supported by independent legal advice, form the 
view that you do not have a 51% or greater chance of winning the case and 
achieving a positive outcome. If so, we may decline support or any further support. 
Examples of positive outcome are:
a) Being able to recover the amount of money at stake;
b) Being able to enforce a judgement;
c) Being able to achieve an outcome which best serves your interests.
The solicitors assessed the prospects of success at ten per cent or less. It was fair for 
Amtrust to decline the claim on that basis. 
Amtrust said they would consider any advice from Mr Ms own solicitors, provided it met 
certain requirements, obtained at his own cost. And if the advice was supportive they would 
obtain Counsels advice and act in accordance with that advice. I appreciate Mr M would 
prefer Amtrust to agree to appoint a barrister hes identified to advise. But their proposal is a 
reasonable way of taking things forward if Mr M doesnt accept Amtrusts position. 
Bearing everything in mind, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 November 2023. 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman