DRN-4019603
The complaint
The estate of Mrs M complains that S & L Healthcare Solutions Ltd mis-sold her a private 
medical insurance policy.
What happened
The late Mrs M took out a private medical insurance policy which was sold to her by S & L 
Healthcare Solutions Ltd in January 2020. They gave her advice about the policy. 
Mrs M had previously had a tumour removed and she wanted insurance that would cover 
her if she needed treatment for cancer. But, she also wanted to reduce the cost of the 
premiums she was paying. S & L recommended a policy offered by an insurer Ill refer to as 
N which had a lower premium, no excess and cancer cover. Mrs M took out the policy, 
which offered extensive cancer coverage.
Mrs M was later diagnosed with leukaemia and claimed on her policy. Mrs M wasnt covered 
for what she expected, in particular stem cell treatment. The estate is unhappy that this 
meant Mrs M couldnt access the treatment privately and spent over 120 days in an NHS 
hospital, which didnt offer the same comfort as a private facility. The estate also highlighted 
that this was during a time where there were significant restrictions due to Covid-19. 
S & L said they believed the issue was with the insurer and they had expected stem cell 
treatment to be covered. They said the treatment wasnt experimental and it was usually 
covered by other insurers. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. Although 
she acknowledged the policy said it offered extensive cancer cover, she didnt think that 
meant it would offer cover for every eventuality. And she noted that Mrs M had been sent a 
copy of the terms and conditions which referred to the exclusion. 
The estate disagreed and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. In summary, the 
estate said that S & L had a responsibility to highlight the exclusion, particularly given that it 
was an unusual one, and failed to meet their requirements. They said that had this exclusion 
been highlighted Mrs M wouldnt have taken out this particular policy and explained that 
S & L hadnt even known what stem cell treatment was. So, I need to make a decision.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the circumstances surrounding this complaint, particularly given that 
Mrs M spent a significant amount of time in hospital during a time when there were 
significant Covid-19 restrictions. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that S & L had a responsibility to ensure that 
the policy was right for Mrs M. And, they also needed to give her enough information to 
decide if the policy was right for her. 
Im not upholding this complaint because: 
Theres no information to suggest that Mrs M highlighted that cover for stem cell 
treatment was particularly important to her when she was taking out cover. Stem cell 
treatment isnt always recommended for treating cancer  it depends on various 
factors which would not have been foreseeable when the policy was sold. If its 
something that had been particularly important to Mrs M then its something shed 
have needed to draw to S & Ls attention when explaining her demands and needs. 
Ive looked at the summary of Mrs Ms demands and needs, prepared by S & L. Im 
satisfied that S & L adequately took into account her need for cancer cover. Thats 
reflected in the documents and I think the advisor gave considerable thought to 
whether the policy was right for Mrs M. 
The policy did cover cancer treatment. I appreciate the estate feels that it wasnt 
extensive because of the exclusion relating to stem cell treatment. But no policy will 
cover every eventuality. So, I dont think the presence of the exclusion for stem cell 
treatment meant that the policy was inherently unsuitable for Mrs M. She was still 
covered for a wide range of cancer treatments.
Even if I accepted the exclusion relating to stem cell treatment was unusual and 
ought to have been drawn to Mrs Ms attention during the sales process by S & L, it 
doesnt automatically follow that the complaint should be upheld. Thats because Ive 
considered the information provided after the sale concluded and whether that would 
have rectified any potential failure to highlight the stem cell treatment exclusion. 
If S & L didnt highlight the exclusion during the sales process it was clearly set out in 
the policy documents, which were sent to Mrs M in January 2020. The 
correspondence prompted Mrs M to check the information and get in touch with N if 
there were any queries. S & L also wrote to Mrs M in February 2020, shortly after the 
policy documentation was sent to her. The letter summarised the information 
discussed and the reasons for the recommendation S & L had given. 
I think Mrs M was given enough information to decide if the policy was right for her 
and that it would have been clear from the post-sale documentation that stem cell 
treatment wasnt covered. If this had been something Mrs M was particularly 
concerned about, she had the opportunity to contact S & L, or N, to discuss the 
exclusion. And shed have been able to cancel the policy if she decided the policy 
didnt meet her needs.   
Taking into account all of the available information Im not persuaded that S & L 
recommended a policy which was unsuitable for Mrs M. And, Im satisfied Mrs M was 
provided with enough information to decide if the policy was right for her.  
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs 
M to accept or reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 
Anna WilshawOmbudsman