DRN-3327384
The complaint
Miss T complains about the management of her account with Barclays Bank UK PLC. Miss T 
includes in her various issues the removal of an overdraft in September 2021. And that she 
was never informed about that removal. Her complaint points include that she kept receiving 
calls from Barclays when shed asked not to be contacted by telephone. And Miss T 
complains about the general handling of her complaint.
What happened
Miss T has made multiple complaints to Barclays and so defining the parameters of what this
decision covers is important.
Starting with the most recent one  Miss T has written to the Barclays Executive and has 
received a formal final response latter (FRL) dated 25 February 2022. I think that this 
decision may answer all the issues Miss T has raised with the Executive Team. If it does 
then Miss T may decide not to take that further.
Miss T may have an outstanding complaint relating to Barclaycard. I have seen a reference 
to that and her complaint form requests a resolution in relation to that. I make it clear I have 
not addressed that as it likely covers a different account.
The main issue was a complaint raised by Miss T in September 2021 which was addressed 
in detail in Barclays FRL dated 15 September 2021. That related to what Miss T considered 
to be unfair charges in relation to her overdraft on her account. Barclays did not agree that it 
had done wrong but having reviewed the account and the overdraft going back to 2018 then 
it offered to refund her some of the charges. I set out the details in that FRL here:
The amount of overdraft charges incurred totalled £3,700.19, and this is the amount 
we're proposing to refund (plus accruing charges not yet debited).
In making this payment, we'll reduce your overdraft by £3,700.00 to £1,250.00. 
Should you wish to accept this offer, please call us on 0800 282 390.
Whilst this will reduce your debit balance, it will not return your account into credit. 
I strongly recommend you speak to our Financial Assistance Team
Miss T accepted that offer by telephone and this was confirmed in a letter to her dated
20 September 2021, part of which said:
This letter is to confirm that £3,849.88 has been credited to your account. £3,700.19 
in charges already debited, £133.51 which is due to debit on 8 October and £16.18 in 
charges that have accrued since 16 September.
This has reduced your overdrawn balance to £1,471.86, which would be in excess of 
any overdraft limit.
The letter issued by our Collections and Recoveries Team confirms we've restricted 
access to your account, as the balance remains in excess of any previously agreed 
limit.
Since the September 2021 resolution Miss T complains that she has had all sorts of trouble, 
upset, inconvenience and some things, she says, have been incorrectly handled by 
Barclays. I have not set out all the details here as I dont think I need to. Both parties are 
aware of the chronology of events. I have reviewed all thats been sent to me.
Miss T has described the impact on her which has included additional late payment markers 
on her credit file plus she has faced the account being defaulted and that remaining on her 
credit file for six years. At the time I am writing this it may have been defaulted. Ive no 
recent information on the status of the account.
Miss T commenced a new complaint with Barclays in November 2021 to cover a series of 
points which stemmed from the original September 2021 complaint, its outcome and the 
handling of her account since then. I do consider that this decision will cover most, if not all, 
those points.
Miss T referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman in November 2021 and in her
complaint form has said this:
I would like all charges and interest refunded on both barclays [sic] and Barclaycard 
account, along with suspension whilst I get back on my feet and my credit file 
updating to show no late payments and those removed as I previously asked for 
support prior to this occurring
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and could see that a large part of the 
problem was that the overdraft Miss T had on her account was removed completely.
Our adjudicator discovered the factual reason for the removal of that overdraft and wrote to 
Miss T to say that Barclays was able to do this. He said that the account had exceeded its 
overdraft limit and no funds had been credited into the account since June 2021, and the
£1,250 overdraft facility was removed and reduced to £10. He thought that the overdrafts 
reduction or removal was in-line with standard industry practice, and he also went on to 
explain that the Financial Ombudsman cannot tell Barclays as to who they should be lending 
to and so reinstatement of the overdraft facility looks unlikely.
Our adjudicator reminded Miss T that in accordance with the terms and conditions, 
overdrafts are payable on demand, which means Barclays can ask for it to be paid back in 
full, at any time.
A copy of the overdraft terms and conditions has been sent to us.
Miss T disagreed with our adjudicator and said that she wanted the ombudsman to review 
the whole thing from the beginning. 
I did review the whole complaint from the beginning and on 28 March 2022 I issued a 
provisional decision giving both parties time to send me additional details and/or evidence if 
they wanted to and within the two week time frame I set.
That provisional decision and my findings are duplicated here for ease of reading. It is in 
smaller type to differentiate it from my final determination follows this. The provisional decision dated 28 March 2022
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having read all the points raised by Miss T since September 2021, with Barclays and with the 
Financial Ombudsman, and having reviewed all of the letters and account notes Barclays has sent to 
us, succinctly I think that a mistake has taken place and I do think that some things need to be put 
right.
As I am not aware of, nor am I expected to know about, the Barclays internal departments, divisions, 
staff training and systems, then I am not able to be able to pinpoint exactly what went wrong. But 
I have noticed several details which cumulatively give me the picture of what I think has taken place.
And from Miss Ts perspective as a Barclays customer I can understand why she feels that what 
should have happened has not happened. I explain here.
I make it clear now what I am not covering - I make no decision about a Barclaycard account. That will 
have to be addressed separately, if not already done so.
I make no decision about the original complaint about the charges on the overdraft as the offer to 
refund was accepted by Miss T and have been refunded.
Some of the documents sent to us by Barclays include the complaint investigation notes and there are 
some facts I have taken from those notes which have assisted me in coming to my provisional 
decision.
Miss T complained on 7 September 2021 and it seems that between 14 September 2021 and 
21 September 2021 the complaint was dealt with, including the issue of the FRL and Miss T calling in 
to accept the offer in that FRL and the monies being paid to her. And most of the notes and 
correspondence at this time were by the same person and there was continuity there. Salient facts 
are:
on 7 September 2021 an extra care indicator was added to Miss Ts account due to some 
mental health issues she was experiencing. The marker was put on the account after 
obtaining Miss Ts consent. From that I think Barclays knew she was a vulnerable customer. 
She was calling due to her arrears and so Barclays also knew she had financial concerns.
the overdraft limit was £4,250 from 5 March 2018 to 23 March 2020. It was £4,950 from 
23 March 2020 to the date of the complaint investigation (15 September 2021).
based on Miss Ts usage of the overdraft Barclays was content to refund fees charged for the 
overdraft back to March 2018 which amounted to £3,700.19 plus accruing charges.
and notes dated 15 September 2021 say that another Barclays colleague had agreed with 
the complaint investigator on the approach that the overdraft would be reduced by the 
same amount as the refund. And the refund sums  including future charges  amounted to 
£3,849.88 which included charges due September and October 2021.
A quote from the account notes includes: In line with our procedures we would 
reduce the customers o/d by the same amount, so from £4,950 to £1,250.
Then on 15 September 2021 the FRL was issued. Notes go on to show that around 10am on 
20 September 2021, Miss T called to accept the FRL resolution.
Ive been sent a copy letter dated 19 September 2021 to Miss T in which Barclays says
At the time of writing, your account is £5321.74 DR overdrawn. This is more than any 
arranged overdraft limit you may have.As you havent made a payment into your account to pay off the unauthorised borrowing 
since we last contacted you about this matter, weve restricted your access to the account.
It listed several alterations made and one was that the overdraft had been removed.
These notes and that letter tells me that the overdraft was apparently reduced from £4,950 to £10 
in one go, and not from £1,250 to £10 as our adjudicator has said.
Miss T would not have received this letter on 19 September 2021. Its likely that would have been 
received by her a few days later.
Then the times of the notes on 20 September 2021 become important. One time recorded note at 
12:40, written by the internal Barclays complaint investigator who had been handling Miss Ts 
complaint all along, says
ovd was removed from account 9.30 on 20/9/21. I have not removed the ovd. Ive 
added a note to say that if this is an error and ovd gets reapplied, it should only be 
reinstated to £1252.
ovd seems to refer to overdraft.
And in another separate set of notes for Miss T I have read:
£3700.19 for ovd charges already debited, £133.51 in advance of fees due to debit 8 Oct 
2021 and £16.18 in charges accruing up to today. My proposal was to reduce the cust 
ovd by £3700, but upon checking account today, this has been removed completely If for 
any reason we do reapply ovd, this should be for no more than £1250.
The notes also say that an ad-hoc letter was issued on afternoon of 20 September 2021 to say that 
the payment had been made to the account and as the balance remained more than the overdraft, it 
had been removed.
Account entries sent to me by Barclays show this:
07/09/2021 BALANCE FO RWARD
Tue £ 5,321.74 DR
20/09/2021
MonGOODWILL G ESTURE 
RTB CUST REL 0 MSC AS £ 3,849.88 £ 1,471.86 DR
08/10/2021
FriINTEREST CH ARGED
CHG I/G £ 133.51 £ 1,605.37 DR
In the FRL from the Barclays Exec Customer Relations team dated 25 February 2022 Miss T was told 
your overdraft facility has been removed independently of the complaint investigation and was as a 
result of your account falling into the collections process.
Recently Barclays has told us that the additional refund of £416 was only repaid into the account on 
23 February 2022. I think that £416 would have made a material difference in September 2021 or 
even October 2021.
My view is that Miss T had told Barclays, and Barclays knew anyway that she was in financial 
difficulties. Miss T had informed Barclays about her mental health linked with the arrears and her 
concerns arising from the repayments to try to cover them, and it had added a vulnerable flag to her 
account.
Barclays knew from 7 September 2021 that Miss T had made a complaint and I have seen from the 
account notes that this was investigated on 15 September 2021, and the approach to take to resolve 
it was agreed by a colleague and the complaint investigator. Then an FRL was issued and Miss T 
accepted on the morning of the 20 September 2021.
And what I think is that the notes reveal that somewhere at almost the same time Miss Ts overdraft 
was removed and that means it if was done independently of the complaint it reduced from £4,950 to £10. That is a huge reduction and at a time when Miss T was in the middle of a complaints process, 
and a vulnerable consumer with financial difficulties known by Barclays.
Even if Barclays terms and conditions allow it to do that, considering all the other elements I have 
demonstrated that Barclays knew about between 7 and 15 September 2021 and certainly on the 
morning of 20 September 2021 then I think this was the wrong course of action.
Added to which, I have seen that the same Barclays complaint investigator indicated that he thinks 
this was a mistake and has noted that if the overdraft is reinstated it should be to £1,250 or £1,252. 
This gives me an insight into what the complaint handler thought and had planned would happen.
Miss T was in financial difficulties and by doing this  removing all her overdraft apart from
£10 - I think it would have placed Miss T into further financial difficulties and I do not consider this to 
have been the correct approach. And I am not satisfied that this was the intended approach. I can 
apply my fair and reasonable remit, that within these circumstances surrounding the events with 
Miss Ts account in September 2021, this seems to have been the wrong action for Barclays to take.
And Miss Ts acceptance of the 15 September 2021 FRL seems to have been clear and Miss Ts 
explanations and contact notes and emails with Barclays since then clearly demonstrate that was the 
intended plan.
Added to which  if the reason for the removal of the overdraft completely was due to lack of credits 
and funds for some time, the refund would have resolved that. Barclays was in the middle of offering a 
large refund to Miss T. And I accept Miss Ts point that if the calculations had been correct first time 
round her outstanding balance likely would not have been over £1,600, but likely under the £1,250 
overdraft she was expecting it to be reduced to. So, the £416 paid recently likely would have assisted 
her at that time.
It logically follows, that Barclays, had it got that right, would not then have been pursuing its 
vulnerable customer to the point at which the account was going to be  or may already have been  
defaulted.
So, all this needs to be put right in my view. I am planning to uphold this part of Miss Ts complaint.
And it follows that it is more likely than not the late payment marker for September 2021 would not 
have been added to Miss Ts credit file as the refund would likely have registered as payment in. 
I dont know enough about Miss Ts other finances to know whether she would have been able to 
repay some or all of the balance from October 2015.
Having said that, I note that Miss T had the benefit of a third party charitable debt advice organisation 
before she complained and it seems that Miss T did submit an income and expenditure (I&E) form to 
Barclays in August 2021. So, I do think that it was open to Miss T to obtain additional advice from that 
quarter. An example is that I have seen a letter sent to us by Miss T which was from Barclays dated 
9 November 2021 to say that her account was overdrawn by £1,621.55 and it was very important for 
Miss T to contact them, failing which they would write to demand full payment.
I realise Miss T was in the middle of trying to get the September 2021 complaint reopened, but the 
reality is that to avoid additional issues arising I think it was open to Miss T to have contacted 
Barclays to do this. So, I think that she could have mitigated the situation with her own actions.
In relation to the part of her complaint where Miss Ts states that her understanding was that she 
should not be getting calls from them as the account should be on hold during the complaint process 
 I have seen no evidence of this having been agreed between Miss T and Barclays. It may have 
been agreed on her Barclaycard but thats a different account.
I am planning not to uphold that part of Miss Ts complaint.
I note that Miss T has complained about the fact she only wished to be contacted by email or letter 
but  she says  she continued to receive calls. Ive looked at this carefully but I am planning not to 
uphold this part of the complaint. And I say this because throughout all the records I have seen sent to me by Barclays I have noted that even the Barclays staff appear confused as to what Miss Ts 
requirements and/or instructions were. Sometimes Barclays personnel have noted that Miss T had 
requested only to be contacted by email and other times its noted that she has asked for a call back 
or had called in herself to talk about some aspect of either her account, the arrears or the complaint. 
Or Barclays has tried endlessly to call her to try to get to the bottom of things and shes not taken the 
calls.
So  I am not satisfied that this is an aspect of Miss Ts complaint where I think Barclays has
done something wrong. I am planning not to uphold this element of her complaint.
I am planning to direct that Barclays pays to Miss T a modest sum of £200 distress and inconvenience 
and I am planning to make it that figure as I think Miss T has been poorly treated as a vulnerable 
customer in financial difficulties.
Putting things right
I am planning to say to Barclays that the fair and reasonable outcome would be for it treat the account 
as if what Barclays said it was going to do in that 15 September 2021 FRL was done.
My starting point is that I think the decision taken to remove her overdraft should be notionally 
retracted. So  I think Barclays should:
notionally retract the decision to remove the overdraft
treat the account as if the full amount which ought to have been refunded at the time was 
£3,849.88 plus the recent £416 = £4,265.88
notionally reduce whatever the overdraft sum was in September 2021 by that amount, which 
my calculations lead me to think it would be under the notional new overdraft limit of £1,250
therefore, if that had been done in September 2021, no default would have been applied or 
due to have been applied. Any default needs to be removed
the late payment marker for September 2021 should be removed from Miss Ts credit file
arrange a reasonable repayment schedule for Miss T to repay the rest owed to Barclays; and
pay Miss T a money award of £200 for distress and inconvenience for the period 
19 September 2021 to date. And this is to be paid directly to her and not into the account 
about which this complaint relates. It is a matter for Miss T whether she uses it for the 
overdraft reduction or otherwise.
I will review the complaint in two weeks on 11 April 2022.
This is the end of the duplicated part of the provisional decision. What follows is what I have 
decided now.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
How both parties have responded to the provisional decision. 
Barclays replied to say that it agreed with the findings in my provisional decision as it 
accepts that the outcome is fair and reasonable. It said:
We will be happy to pay the compensation to the customers preferred account, 
please provide crediting account details. 
We will also make the recommended Credit  Reference Agency adjustments by 
removing the default and the arrears for September. 
Barclays explained that a £100.00 each month pay-down arrangement for the remaining balance was already in place with Miss T. So, it was saying that rather than reinstate the 
overdraft, Miss T would continue to repay the money owed at that same £100 each month.
We checked this last point with Miss T who has said shed like that to remain in place. 
Miss T had several responses to my provisional decision all of which I have considered but 
they do not alter my planned outcome. I summarise them here and add in my decision on 
these points having reviewed the complaint:
- Miss T says that she did try to contact Barclays from late September 2021 onwards. 
I note her points but my outcome remains the same on this.
- Barclays has agreed to do what I asked in my provisional decision which is to remove 
the September 2021 late payment marker and the default. Miss T wants her credit file 
to be cleared from September 2021 but I do not agree with that. I think its fair and 
reasonable considering the reasoning I gave in my provisional decision (and which is 
repeated here) that removal of the September 2021 late payment marker is 
satisfactory. 
- I note that Miss T says a Barclays representative told her the account was put on 
hold in November 2021 but I have no evidence of that. So, I make no additional 
finding on this. 
- Miss T has raised the issue relating to the I&E forms Miss T says were sent  I have 
received no copies from either party of these. And Miss T is concerned that if 
anything, I was put into further difficulty by removing the entire overdraft and asking 
for full payment  
This was one of the elements I addressed in my provisional decision - that I felt it was 
wrong to reduce the overdraft from £4,950 to £10 in one action and the timing as to 
when it did this. Barclays has agreed with me and so the presence or otherwise of 
the I&Es do not take this point much further. 
- Miss T wants additional compensation but having reviewed the complaint I think the 
£200 I proposed in my provisional decision is fair and reasonable. I do not alter that.
Having reviewed the complaint then I repeat my provisional decision findings here and 
I uphold Miss Ts complaint in part along the same lines as I did in my provisional decision.
I set out below the revised ways for Barclays to put things right for Miss T.  
Putting things right
I direct that the fair and reasonable outcome would be for Barclays treat the account as if 
what Barclays said it was going to do in that FRL dated 15 September 2021 was done.
My starting point is that I think the decision taken to remove her overdraft should be 
notionally retracted. 
By that I do not necessarily mean that the overdraft should be reinstated. Barclays has 
explained recently that the outstanding sum owed by Miss T is being paid down at £100 a 
month by agreement and both parties are content for that to continue. 
So, my final decision redress does not interfere with that payment arrangement. But what 
I have said below may mean that the amount Barclays says Miss T owes to it may alter. That must be checked by Barclays.
In addition to the continuation of the payment arrangement, I think Barclays should:
treat the account as if the full amount which ought to have been refunded at the time 
(September 2021) was £3,849.88 plus the recent £416 = £4,265.88; and
notionally reduce whatever the overdraft sum was in September 2021 by that 
amount, which my calculations lead me to think it would be under £1,250; and
therefore, if that had been done in September 2021, no default would have been 
applied or due to have been applied. Any default needs to be removed; and
the late payment marker for September 2021 should be removed from Miss Ts credit 
file; and
pay Miss T a money award of £200 for distress and inconvenience for the period 
19 September 2021 to date. And this is to be paid directly to her and not into the 
account about which this complaint relates. It is a matter for Miss T whether she uses 
it for the overdraft reduction or otherwise.
My final decision
I uphold Miss Ts complaint in part and I direct that Barclays Bank UK PLC does as I have 
outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman