DRN-3777061
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Lloyds Bank PLC will not refund the money they lost when Mr M 
fell victim to a purchase scam. 
What happened
Mr M wanted to buy a shipping container hed seen advertised for sale on an online 
marketplace, which Ill refer to as G. Mr M thought he was dealing with a legitimate company 
and made a payment of £1,820 from the joint account to the account details provided on the 
sales invoice. Unfortunately, Mr M was really interacting with a fraudster that had cloned 
details from a legitimate company. The scam was uncovered when Mr M contacted the 
genuine company to request a delivery update for the order. 
Mr M contacted Lloyds for help. The bank tried to recover the money from the receiving bank 
but was not successful. It then considered whether it was responsible for refunding the loss. 
Lloyds is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
Code (the CRM Code) and the bank considered its obligations under it. Lloyds turned down 
Mr Ms claim. It said he should have been more cautious and concluded he did not have a 
reasonable basis to believe the situation was real because he hadnt undertaken any checks 
before making the payment. 
Unhappy with the banks position, Mr M complained and then ultimately referred that 
complaint to us. Our Investigator looked into the situation and said Lloyds was not liable for 
reimbursing the loss. She didnt think Lloyds should have intervened to stop the payment 
from being made, or that the bank was responsible for refunding the loss under the CRM 
Code. 
Mr M disagreed. He said hed had to set up an account with G to contact the seller so 
thought there was a certain level of security in place on Gs platform. He pointed out that the 
bank has questioned high value payments that hes made since. He explained he didnt 
know that different methods of payment have different protections. He didnt think Lloyds had 
done enough at the time to protect him from becoming the victim of an online fraud. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. Im sorry to have to disappoint Mr and Mrs M, but having considered everything, I am 
unable to fairly and reasonably require Lloyds to refund the money thats been lost. I will 
explain why. 
There is no dispute here that Mr M has been the victim of a scam and was tricked into 
making a payment under false pretences. But this isnt enough, in and of itself, for Mr and 
Mrs M to automatically receive a refund of the money thats been lost from the bank. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that its customer authorises. At the time the payment was made, Lloyds 
followed its account holders legitimate instructions by sending the money. However, where 
a customer makes a payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, there may be 
situations where it would be fair and reasonable to say that the bank must reimburse them 
for some or all of the loss, even if the payment was authorised. 
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether Lloyds 
should have reimbursed Mr and Mrs M under the provisions of the CRM Code and whether it 
ought to have done more to protect them from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
The CRM Code
The CRM Code is designed to reimburse victims of authorised push payment scams. Lloyds 
has signed up to the CRM Code and it was in force when the payment was made. This 
means Lloyds has made a commitment to reimburse customers who are victims of 
authorised push payment scams like the one that Mr M fell victim to except in limited 
circumstances. 
Lloyds says it can choose not to reimburse the loss because Mr M should have done more 
to question the deal and to satisfy himself that it was valid before going ahead. Im 
persuaded one of the listed exceptions to reimbursement under the provisions of the CRM 
Code applies in the circumstances of this case. Having considered everything that both 
sides have said, I think Lloyds has established that Mr M made the payment without a 
reasonable basis for believing that it was for genuine goods and that the person/business he 
transacted with was legitimate. 
This is not a position that Ive reached lightly. This is a lot of money for anyone to lose and 
Im particularly mindful that people dont want or necessarily expect to be scammed when 
buying goods online. Its clear from what Mr M has said that he was convinced that he was 
interacting with a legitimate supplier. Ive thought carefully about all the circumstances in this 
case, taking into consideration what Mr M has told us about his inexperience with Gs 
platform and the internet more generally, along with the level of steps it would be 
proportionate to expect Mr M to have taken before making a payment of £1,820. 
Mr M explained that hed never made a purchase from this platform before. When he 
explained his rationale for making the payment to the bank, he explained that there were 
other storage containers listed for sale on G and they were all a similar price. He recalled 
that there was one cheaper and one more expensive, so he opted for this one by going in 
the middle. He explained that hed often paid invoices by bank transfer when he was in 
business, and that the invoice hed received included reference to VAT, which felt usual. 
But by taking the situation entirely at face value and not undertaking his own checks, Mr M 
was taking a risk. He placed a lot of weight on the advert as being proof that the seller really 
had the item to sell. But he was buying something hed never bought before from a seller 
and a platform hed had no previous experience of. He didnt see the item in person or by 
video before he paid for it. He told the bank that he didnt check any reviews or feedback 
ratings for the seller and that he didnt look to see how long the seller had been using Gs 
platform. The money went to a personal account and not a business account. Mr M 
explained that he thought he was paying someone senior in the company, but he did not 
take any independent steps to verify this. Mr M has placed a lot of trust in strangers to deal honestly. He didnt search for the company 
online and he didnt see Gs payment guidance about how to keep safe when using online 
marketplaces before deciding to pay. The invoice he received looked professional at first 
glance, but a closer reading identifies typos and poor written English in parts. I agree with 
Lloyds position that Mr M should have taken a more cautious approach before making the 
payment. Im not persuaded that he undertook enough diligence in all the circumstances 
here, or that it was reasonable for Mr M to have been convinced to such an extent by the 
environment created by the fraudster using Gs platform that it was appropriate for him not to 
make any checks. 
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds met its standards under the CRM Code. Whilst 
theres no doubt that Mr and Mrs M have lost money to this scam, I dont believe Lloyds 
should have identified this payment as a scam risk and then provided an effective warning. 
This means I dont need to consider whether any information Lloyds presented at the time 
the payment was made meets the standards required by the CRM Code.
Should Lloyds have done more to try and prevent the scam and protect Mr and Mrs M?
Ive thought about whether Lloyds did enough to protect Mr and Mrs M. The payment was, in 
and of itself, unremarkable. It didnt stand out enough from Mr and Mrs Ms typical spending 
patterns for me to be able to fairly say that Lloyds should have been concerned that they 
might have been at risk of financial harm from fraud. Ive thought about what Mr M has said 
about the bank asking questions about other payments that have been made since. There 
are many millions of payments made each day and it would not be possible or reasonable to 
expect a bank to check each one. Theres a balance to be struck between identifying 
payments that could potentially be fraudulent and ensuring minimal disruption to legitimate 
payments. Looking at all of the circumstances as they were at that point in time, I dont think 
it was unreasonable for Lloyds not to be concerned about this payment at the time it was 
made. This means that I cant fairly say that Lloyds ought to have challenged to find out 
more about what the payment was for at the time Mr M wanted to make it.
Once it was made aware of the scam, Lloyds did take action to try and recover the funds that 
had been sent, but none remained. This is not unusual as fraudsters typically move funds on 
very quickly and often well before their victim has realised what has happened. Taking 
everything into account, I think Lloyds actions in this particular case were appropriate and 
proportionate to a payment of £1,820. I dont believe Lloyds could reasonably be expected to 
have done any more. 
Overall
Im sorry to hear of what happened to Mr M. I understand why he wants to try and recover 
the money thats been lost. He sent it in good faith and did not receive anything in return for 
it. But I cant fairly hold Lloyds responsible for the actions of a fraudster. I can only look at 
the banks position and whether it has treated Mr and Mrs M unfairly when it concluded it 
was not responsible for refunding the loss. For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied 
Lloyds has been able to establish it can choose not to refund Mr and Mrs M under the CRM 
Code. Im also satisfied the bank processed the payment correctly when it was made and did 
all that it could to help once it knew what happened. This means I cant fairly say Lloyds 
should have done more or that it has any obligation to refund the money thats been lost. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman