DRN-3443799
The complaint
Mr R complains NewDay Ltd irresponsibly provided him with a credit card.
What happened
NewDay approved Mr R for a credit card in October 2020. The initial limit was £250. This
was later increased to £1,250. On both occasions (the initial application and the subsequent
limit increase) Mr R withdraw cash immediately. Mr R says this money was then used to
complete gambling transactions. Mr R says he was suffering from a gambling compulsion at
the time. Mr R says the two decisions by NewDay to lend were unfair as it did not complete
reasonable and proportionate checks. He says had NewDay done this it wouldve seen he
could not have afforded the repayments, and NewDay oughtve known he had a gambling
compulsion.
Mr R highlighted he had complained to NewDay previously about a separate lending
decision on a credit card prior to this complaint. Mr R explained NewDay had offered some
redress on this complaint and he had made NewDay aware of his problems with gambling.
This was around April 2020. Mr R says NewDay ought reasonably to have known he would 
use any new access to credit to do the same thing.
I wrote to both parties setting out my provisional decision. I asked for both parties to respond 
with further comments. I set out my provisional findings below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All parties agree NewDay should not have given Mr R the increase after the initial
application. So I wont make further comment on that, other than to say I agree with 
it. 
Our investigator set out a detailed opinion to both parties in relation to NewDays 
original lending decision; and as such I wont repeat the main facts. Having reviewed 
the information Im satisfied that NewDays decision to lend was unfair in this 
instance. 
NewDay says the initial decision to lend was fair. It says that proportionate checks 
were completed (in line with the initial limit of £250) and these did not show any 
indication that Mr R was in financial hardship; or that he could not have made the 
necessary repayments for the card.
Ive considered NewDays argument but Im not persuaded that it acted fairly when 
providing Mr R with the initial limit. I say this because it was aware, or ought 
reasonably shouldve been aware, that Mr R had confirmed to NewDay that he 
suffered with compulsive spending on gambling transactions. And therefore it was 
likely that further access to credit (regardless of the limit) would foreseeably be used 
for the same purpose.
I say this because Mr R had previously complained to NewDay on a separate card at 
the beginning of 2020, and NewDay had paid redress on this card and settled the 
account in April 2020. This was only a short period of time before the card which is 
the subject of this complaint was provided.
During this upheld complaint in April 2020, NewDay was made aware by Mr R that he
suffered from health problems and had a compulsive spending for gambling. I find it
important that NewDay made reference to this information in its final response letter 
to Mr R in April 2020; which included signposting Mr R to debt charities and the 
National Gambling Helpline. This persuades me that NewDay was sufficiently aware 
that Mr R had health issues and was experiencing financial hardship in part because 
of his gambling compulsion at least six months prior to the application for Mr Rs new 
credit card in October 2020.
Taking this into consideration Im satisfied that NewDay oughtve reasonably been 
aware that Mr R was not a suitable applicant to be provided further credit in October 
2020. By NewDays own checks it noted Mr R had a low credit score which likely 
indicated Mr Rs circumstances had remained similar to those discussed in April 
2020. And as NewDay was already aware Mr R could not meet the repayments of 
the previous card; I think it is likely he wouldve been unable to afford the repayments 
for this one too. As such; its decision to lend to Mr R was unfair.
So based on this information Im currently minded to say this complaint should be 
upheld in full.
Im aware Mr R has asked our service to look into wider systemic issues relating to 
not only this firm but the wider practice of lending by high cost credit providers. I 
appreciate the depth of conviction Mr R has in this aspect of his complaint; but that is 
not the role or remit of our service. Our services role is to resolve individual disputes 
informally. As such I hope Mr R understands why my provisional and final decision 
has followed these lines. 
Putting things right 
Our services usual approach for redress in unaffordable and irresponsible lending
complaints is that consumers only repay the capital balance of the amount of credit 
thats been borrowed. This means all interest and charges are refunded from the 
account.
However, considering the wider circumstances of this complaint Im not satisfied this 
is sufficient to put things right for Mr R in this instance. I say this because Im not 
satisfied Mr R has had the benefit of the capital he has had access to. I say this 
because after both the initial lending decision and subsequent increase Mr R made 
immediate cash withdrawals on the credit card. Mr R initial withdraw over £200 
(against a limit of £250) and then two separate transactions for £200 and £800 
(against the limit of £1,250). Mr R says these case withdrawals with spent 
immediately on gambling transactions.
Ive considered Mr Rs information and Im persuaded by it. That is to say I think it is 
more likely than not Mr R used the credit available to continue his compulsive 
spending. And as such Im not persuaded he had the full use of this capital. Further; 
considering what Ive outlined above, Im satisfied that NewDay ought reasonably 
been aware this was a likely outcome if Mr R was provided access to further credit. 
And so by providing the access to credit NewDay has made Mr Rs financial situation 
worse to the point that asking to repay the capital amount now would be unfair.Our service has made similar findings in cases where it is reasonably likely that credit 
would be used to fund compulsive spending that some if not all of the capital balance 
should be written off. In this instance Im currently minded to say NewDay should 
write off 50% of the capital balance which was afforded to Mr R. This is to reflect the 
fact he used the credit to continue his compulsive spending. I cant be satisfied that 
Mr R didnt receive any benefit from the spending (e.g. he may have won some of the 
bets); and as such Im not minded to say a complete write off of the capital balance 
should be completed here.
Our investigator recommended that NewDay also provide Mr R with £100 
compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience that has been caused. 
Having considered the file and our guidelines Im currently minded to say this amount 
should be increased too. Im satisfied that NewDays actions have exasperated Mr 
Rs financial situation significantly leading to considerable distress and inconvenience 
being caused. Considering what NewDay knew about Mr Rs circumstances and the 
likely impact on him, Im satisfied an award to reflect the considerable distress and 
inconvenience is warranted here  which Im satisfied is a total award of £500. This is 
in line with our services published guidelines.
Mr R responded raising some of his continuing wider concerns; but ultimately agreed to 
accept the findings and recommendations in my provisional decisions. NewDay responded 
accepting the provisional decision and making no further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As all parties have agreed with the findings set out in my provisional decision; I see no 
reason to make any further comment.
I therefore uphold this complaint for the reasons set out above; namely that Im satisfied that 
NewDay oughtve reasonably been aware that Mr R was not a suitable applicant to be 
provided further credit in October 2020. And by continuing to lend to him it acted 
irresponsibly; causing Mr R to suffer financial and non-financial loss.
Putting things right
So in order to put things right I require NewDay Ltd to:
1. Refund all interest, charges and fees Mr R has paid to date from the initial lending
decision to now;
2. Refund 50% of the total capital credit advanced on this card. Again from the initial
lending limit to now;
3. If borrowing is still in place NewDay Ltd should reduce the outstanding capital
balance by the amounts listed above in steps 1 and 2; as well as any repayments
Mr R has made to date;
4. If after these steps there remains an outstanding balance, NewDay Ltd should
ensure that it isnt subject to any historic or future interest and/or charges; and should 
work with Mr R to arrange a suitable payment plan;5. If after steps 1,2 and 3 are complete there is a positive balance this amount should
be refunded to Mr R along with 8% simple interest on this amount*;
6. If after all the steps are completed, and once there is no balance outstanding,
NewDay should remove any negative information in relation to this account from
Mr Rs credit file;
7. Pay Mr R a total award of £500 to reflect the distress and inconvenience which has
been caused.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires the business to take off tax from this interest. The business must give Mr R a certificate
showing how much tax is taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against NewDay Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman