DRN-2884699
The complaint
This is a complaint that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold Mr and Mrs E 
payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1995. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs E disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
The sale of the PPI took place about 26 years ago and, not surprisingly, none of the original 
documents from the time are now available. Also, I wouldnt expect someone to recall in 
detail everything that happened so long ago, so it can be difficult to know whether its fair to 
rely fully on everything they remember. Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence 
when considering the case. 
Mr and Mrs E have said, We were always led to believe that the policy was absolutely 
necessary. If they were wrongly told they had to have the PPI, this might have amounted to 
a mis-sale.
The problem I have, in making a decision on this, is that I couldnt know the exact words 
used by the adviser and the tone in which they were said. It isnt necessarily wrong to 
strongly set out the possible benefits of an insurance policy, even if the adviser is partly 
motivated by making a sale  as long as the policy is actually something worth having and it 
is clear the customer has a choice. The closer it gets to making someone feel they have no 
real sensible alternative to taking the policy, the less acceptable it is. But, as I say, I cant be 
sure exactly what was said. And it wouldnt be fair to say Bank of Scotland did something 
wrong unless I had stronger evidence of it. 
Ive looked to see whether there are other reasons the PPI might have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont think they apply.
I think Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs E, and this means we would 
judge its sales process by a higher standard  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for 
Mr and Mrs Es particular circumstances. However, it looks to me as though a 
recommendation would have been a suitable one, based on what Ive seen of 
Mr and Mrs Es situation at the time: 
Its true that PPI was of questionable value for many people with certain types of 
borrowing. But finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant 
difficulties, and it was often sensible to consider covering yourself with PPI for this.
Its likely Mr E (the person covered) was eligible for the policy, so would have been 
entitled to make a claim if needed. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr E received any employer 
sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits in 
addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when 
Mr and Mrs E would need to fall back on any savings or other means they may have 
had for paying the mortgage and other living costs. This all would have put 
Mr and Mrs E in a more secure position, if theyd eventually lost income due to long 
term sickness or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it 
out. And Mr and Mrs E could have cancelled the policy if this changed later on. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mr E would 
have been affected by any of these.
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. It would then be up to Mr and Mrs E to decide whether they wanted to act on the 
recommendation and agree to buy the PPI (assuming they felt they had a choice, which I 
accept they are saying wasnt the case).
Its hard now to know how well Bank of Scotland explained the costs and benefits of the 
policy. But, as Ive said, a recommendation of the policy would have been a reasonable one, 
and theres unlikely to have been any particular extra fact that would make Mr and Mrs E 
decide against the PPI.
Mr and Mrs E have said they are also dissatisfied because they later learnt that life 
insurance wasnt included. In this decision today, Ive looked just at whether the PPI was 
mis-sold. Including or not including life insurance in the package wouldnt have affected my 
view on the sale of the PPI. If Mr and Mrs E believe they suffered a loss as a result of life 
insurance not being included, they should consider raising this separately with Bank of 
Scotland. 
Mr and Mrs E have also said they contacted Bank of Scotland in 2001 to cancel the policy, 
as they had become self-employed. They say they were told they couldnt cancel because 
they were still able to claim for unemployment or sickness. Mr and Mrs E say this was wrong 
as they wouldnt have been able to claim. 
Ive not looked at how the terms of this particular policy affected self-employed people, as 
that wasnt relevant to the actual sale in 1995. But it may be helpful to say PPI policies did 
usually still cover self-employed people for sickness; and very many gave a similar level of 
unemployment cover to self-employed people (for example if their business failed) as that 
offered to employed people. I can see that it may be difficult for Mr and Mrs E to prove that they were wrongly told in 
2001 they couldnt cancel the policy. But if they feel they have good enough evidence, they 
may wish to present it to Bank of Scotland. However, Im here looking at what happened 
only in the sale of the PPI in 1995. 
Ive not found that the PPI was mis-sold. So Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs E.
But Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs E about that. Because Bank of Scotland 
didnt tell Mr and Mrs E, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs E.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs E any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman