DRN-4217785
Complaint
Mr W has complained about the overdraft charges which Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as 
Virgin Money) added to his account. 
Background
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ws concerns. He didnt think that Virgin Money had 
done anything wrong or treated Mr W unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Mr W disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws 
complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts Virgin Money charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or 
proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a 
respondent firm charges for services is a commercial decision and this isnt something for 
me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at Virgin Moneys charging structure per se, it wont have 
acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr W if it applied these interest, fees and charges to his 
account in circumstances where it was unfair to do so. Mr W says it was unfair for Virgin 
Money to charge him the fees it did here because it ought to have seen they were causing 
him hardship. So Ive considered whether Virgin Money charged Mr W even though it knew 
he was in financial difficulty or it ought to have realised this was the case. 
Ive looked through the account statements provided. And I cant see that Virgin Money 
ought to have been aware that Mr W might have been struggling. Mr W didnt really use his 
overdraft much during this period. Crucially Virgin Money also refused to make a number of 
payments from Mr Ws account which would have led to him developing an unsustainable 
overdraft debt which he wouldnt have been able to repay. 
So, in these circumstances and in the absence of being told anything by Mr W, I dont think 
that it was unreasonable for Virgin Money to have proceeded adding the charges that it did. 
And I dont think Virgin Money charged Mr W in circumstances where it ought to have 
realised that it was unfair to do so. 
Overall and having thought about everything, I dont think that Virgin Money unfairly charged    
Mr W in circumstances where it ought to have realised that he may have been experiencing 
financial difficulty. And it took reasonable steps to ensure that Mr W didnt accumulate an 
unsustainable debt that he wouldnt be able to repay. This means that I dont think that Virgin 
Money treated Mr W unfairly or that it needs to refund any interest, fees and charges. And 
Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint. 
I appreciate that this decision will be very disappointing for Mr W. But I hope hell understand 
the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman