DRN-3159933
The complaint
Ms R complains that Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) unnecessarily asked her for additional 
identification when she wanted to open a fixed rate bond.
What happened
Ms R is an existing customer of YBS. On 12 March 2021 she sent a letter with a cheque 
attached asking to open a fixed rate bond. She explained she was an existing customer and 
gave her account number. YBS responded on 15 March 2021 saying that it cannot complete 
the account opening process until it receives three forms of identification from Ms R to 
confirm her name and address. It provided a prepaid envelope and a list of acceptable 
identification. The letter said photocopies were acceptable.
Ms R complained in a letter dated 18 March 2021. She felt it was unreasonable for YBS to 
ask her for three forms of identification when she was an existing customer and it held 
information about her already. She felt the website was misleading in terms of when shed 
be asked for additional identification, and she didnt understand why she was asked for it. 
Ms R believes that YBS isnt drawing a distinction between new and existing customers as it 
should. She complains that she hasnt been given an explanation as to why the information it 
held on Ms R was deemed inadequate.
Our Investigator gave Ms R further information about the electronic check YBS carried out 
and confirmed that its request for additional identification was in line with its processes. He 
explained that it wasnt his role to ask businesses to change processes. He didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. Ms R disagreed and provided the following points she wanted 
considered by an Ombudsman:
- Basic unreasonableness  Ms R believes that with her professional standing and 
having been a customer of YBS since 2008 that it is unreasonable to ask her for 
three forms of identification because she is not a risk
- YBS website  Ms R says the website doesnt make it clear how identity is 
established. She feels it is misleading as suggests being asked for additional 
identification is the exception, but YBS told her it was a usual process.
- Procedures  Ms R says shes not complaining that YBS didnt follow procedure, but 
rather that YBS is acting unreasonably by asking her for three forms of identification. 
She believes it has wasted her time and shes suffered inconvenience from its 
actions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms R has provided detailed submissions to explain why shes complaining. Although this 
decision wont address each point in detail, I want to assure Ms R that I have considered her 
submission fully.
YBS has processes in place to satisfy itself that it is dealing with the right person and that it 
acts in line with its regulatory and legal duties. Ms R has explained shes aware of this. In 
this case, YBS is entitled to ask Ms R for proof of identification and I dont think its acted 
unreasonably in doing so.
Ms R wrote to YBS attaching a cheque for £15,000 asking to open an account. YBS carried 
out the checks on Ms R electronically which led to it asking Ms R for three forms of 
identification. It told Ms R she could provide copies and explained it wouldnt be able to open 
the account until it had received them. It told her this three days after she applied for the 
account so Im satisfied it didnt cause any delays.
Ms R believes YBS shouldnt need this information. She has said it is unreasonable given 
shes already a customer of theirs and has provided identification when she opened that 
account. I can see she opened a joint account in 2008, I dont think its unreasonable for 
YBS to have asked for identification after 13 years had passed. And, in any event, it has 
requested the information as a result of its safeguarding and anti-money laundering 
processes. I can understand Ms R believes it should treat existing customers differently to 
new customers  but overall YBS has a duty to identify each individual customer and it felt it 
needed to do so on this occasion. Ive not seen anything to suggest that it did anything 
unreasonable here. It may have been inconvenient for Ms R to provide the information, but 
this doesnt mean it was unreasonable for YBS to request it.
YBS website gives an overview of what may happen when it requires identification. Ms R 
says that it indicates asking for identification is the exception but she feels YBS has given 
her a different impression. I can see the website explains there will be occasions where a 
customer is asked for additional identification, and I can see that was the case for Ms R. 
Whether it was a rare occasion, or happens more often, Im satisfied YBS was following its 
procedures when asking for it. And the identification it has asked for doesnt appear to be 
something Ms R cant provide  she just doesnt feel she should have to because she 
believes she presents a low risk. I dont think that is a sufficient reason for YBS to bypass its 
procedures.
I understand Ms R has spent a lot of time corresponding with both the Financial 
Ombudsman Service and YBS about this issue. But I cant see that YBS has acted 
unreasonably on this occasion. So, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman