DRN-2064235
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O are unhappy with a Decreasing Term Assurance with Critical Illness Cover 
policy they have with Legal & General Partnership Services Limited (L&G).
What happened
Mr and Mrs O were sold their policy by a representative of L&G in 2008. In July 2019 Mr and 
Mrs O received a letter from L&G saying their policy would come to an end in December 
2031. Mr and Mrs O are unhappy with this as the end date is several months before the end 
of their mortgage so there will be a shortfall of time when there is no cover in place. Also 
from this letter they discovered that the policy has a decreasing value rather than being a 
level term policy. 
L&G investigated Mr and Mrs Os concerns. They thought the policy which was set up was 
the type that Mr and Mrs O had discussed and agreed with their advisor. L&G also explained 
that Mr and Mrs O had been sent a copy of the application form and had returned a 
disclaimer saying they had read the application and agreed it was accurate. Once the policy 
was set up L&G sent Mr and Mrs O further documentation confirming the term and the 
decreasing nature of the policy. 
Remaining unhappy Mr and Mrs O came to our service where one of our investigators 
looked into what happened. He thought that L&G took reasonable steps to make the type of 
policy clear to Mr and Mrs O. He couldnt explain the term mis-match other than to say that 
the policy was set up with information Mr and Mrs O gave to their advisor, or that for some 
reason the term of the mortgage mightve changed. 
Mr and Mrs O disagreed saying they thought the policy was for life and they feel it is now 
worthless. They also felt the advisors records showed they had a level term policy. Because 
of this the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs O have raised several complaint points which stem from the same time in 2008 
when they met with an advisor and the policy was taken out. To come to a decision Ive 
considered what Mr and Mrs O have said, as well as the available documentation from the 
time.
One of the important documents from the time is the client review form. This is where the 
advisor made a record of what was discussed. The advisor recorded that Mr and Mrs O said 
their mortgage had a 25 year term which had started on 1 December 2006 (so there was 23 
years remaining), and that the current balance had recently been increased to £145,000. 
The form also shows that a decreasing term policy was discussed. 
Whilst I could never be sure what was discussed at the time, the client review form is a 
record made by the advisor. Mr and Mrs O have a different recollection of events so Ive 
gone on to look at other documentation which was provided. 
The illustration prepared by the advisor, which L&G says was given to Mr and Mrs O, shows 
a decreasing term policy for 23 years ending on 1 December 2031. This information is also 
on the Protection Confirmation Schedule which Mr and Mrs O agreed was correct. 
The same information is on the policy schedule which was sent to Mr and Mrs O after the 
policy was set up. If this information wasnt correct then Mr and Mrs O had the opportunity to 
cancel the policy. And in any event, I can see the term very closely matched the term of the 
mortgage so I dont think this difference makes the advice unsuitable.
Having looked at the documentation from the time Im satisfied L&G set the policy up as the 
advisor had discussed. L&G also made clear in the documentation after the sale the type of 
policy and the term. And Ive not seen anything to suggest that a level term policy was 
discussed.
Mr and Mrs O have also said the policy wasnt suitable as they wanted a lump sum for their 
sons in event of their death. Notes from advisor at the time say policy was needed to cover 
the mortgage repayments and bills if either of them was to become critically ill or pass away. 
This seems reasonable, and suitable, as the policy was being discussed at a time when the 
mortgage balance had recently increased. And the policy was set up specifically to cover the 
mortgage rather than for family protection.
Mr and Mrs O also say that a critical illness policy wasnt suitable as Mr O had previously 
suffered a brain haemorrhage. The Protection Confirmation Schedule from the time shows 
that Mr and Mrs O were asked if either of them have, or ever had, certain medical conditions. 
One of the conditions asked about was a brain haemorrhage. The information recorded 
shows that Mr and Mrs O answered no to this question. So whilst I have no doubt this 
happened to Mr O, I cant see that it was disclosed to L&G at the time. 
Having looked at everything that happened Im satisfied L&G set up the policy as discussed, 
and they made Mr and Mrs O aware of how it worked. Looking at the circumstances Im also 
satisfied the policy was suitable for their needs at the time. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 December 2020. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman