DRN-4009674
The complaint
Miss K complains that Monzo Bank Ltd added a marker at CIFAS, the national fraud 
database, when it closed her account.
What happened
Miss K says she found out about the marker when accounts she had at other financial 
businesses were closed. She says she hasnt been involved in any fraudulent activity.
Monzo Bank said it had received a report that money paid into her account had been 
fraudulently obtained. It was quickly withdrawn. So, it closed her account and added the 
marker.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She spoke to Miss K who 
said she had no knowledge of this reported credit of £199 and other credits to her account in 
March 2021. She hadnt been selling items but said that payments sometimes came into her 
account from family members. Miss K said that shed been unable to use the app and her 
ex-partner had it downloaded onto his phone and knew the passcode as hed set this up. 
Our adjudicator noted that the same IP address had been used both before and for these 
payments. She thought that Miss K was complicit in what happened and so there were 
grounds to add the marker and close the account.
Miss K didnt agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed. She wanted to know why no 
one was taking into account that it wasnt her undertaking fraud. She wasnt selling items to 
anyone, and she wasnt prepared to wait for the six years to pass before the marker would 
be removed. She said if she had been involved she wouldnt have been contacting Monzo 
Bank and this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Monzo Bank 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted. The evidence must 
be clear, relevant and rigorous..
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered the consumers account, whether they are retained or pass through the 
account. Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer 
was deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might 
be, an illegitimate payment. This can include allowing someone else to use their account in 
order to receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against 
someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate 
complicity.
To meet the standard of proof required to register a CIFAS marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving 
the account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to 
understand their level of knowledge and intention.
Here I appreciate that Monzo Bank didnt attempt to contact Miss K at the time, and it says 
that this was because the evidence was compelling. I also take into account that Miss K did 
nothing when her account had been closed and says she didnt even know. And she hasnt 
said she would have had better evidence to show she wasnt involved at the time.
Im satisfied that a report was made that a payment into her account for an item was 
fraudulently obtained. This was preceded by other credits of a similar type. And all the 
money was quickly removed online. Ive seen the evidence from Monzo Bank that the 
same IP address was used before and during the time of this payment to access the 
account.
I appreciate that Miss K has claimed she let someone use her account. And had allowed 
that person to have her security information. She doesnt say that this was done without her 
authority or provide any evidence to support this or what that person did. She was 
reasonably required under the terms and conditions of the account to keep her security 
information safe and not let anyone use her account. If this is what happened I think shed 
generally be responsible for what that person did. And although she says she contacted 
Monzo Bank when she couldnt access her account it has no record of that, and she didnt 
pursue this. There is no evidence to support that any unknown third party could have used 
her account in this way. I cant resolve whether it was a person known to her or Miss K that 
used the account, but I think that in either event here she was responsible for what 
happened.
Monzo Bank says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Miss K received fraudulent 
funds into her account. So, Ive looked at whether it was fair to apply the marker, based on 
the evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business 
must have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. 
Any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable grounds to believe fraud or 
financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Miss Ks account of events and the evidence she has provided, Im 
satisfied that Monzo Bank had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In 
coming to this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Miss K received fraudulent funds into her account and didnt report this to Monzo 
Bank at the time.
- She authorised the withdrawal of the funds and so was in control of who had the 
benefit of this money.
- Monzo Bank had grounds to believe that Miss K had been involved in the use of 
fraudulently obtained funds based on the evidence it had and so to close her 
account.
I can appreciate Miss K will be disappointed by my assessment given what she says about 
the impact of the marker for her.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept or reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman