DRN-2580949
The complaint
Mr H says Novaloans Ltd - trading as cash4unow (Nova) - irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about five short-term loans Nova provided to Mr H between July 2016 and 
November 2019. A summary of Mr Hs borrowing history is as follows:
Mr Hs complaint was reviewed by one of our adjudicators and they didnt think it should be 
upheld. They thought there wasnt anything in the information Nova had asked Mr H to 
provide that should have prompted Nova to do more checks. So, the adjudicator couldnt say 
Nova was wrong to have given these loans to Mr H.  
Mr H disagreed and asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. Mr H said he 
was returning to borrow again shortly after repaying his previous loan. Mr H also said Nova 
hadnt treated him fairly when he told it he was struggling financially. 
I issued my provisional decision in February 2021. In it, I said I didnt think Nova should have 
done any more than it did before it issued the loans to Mr H, but I thought it could have done 
more when it dealt with him when he told it he was suffering from financial difficulties. Heres 
what I said:
Nova needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Nova should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 01/07/2016 14/09/2016 3 £100.00 £45.54
2 14/09/2016 13/01/2017 4 £300.00 £125.73
3 17/01/2017 18/08/2017 6 £500.00 £152.98
Break in lending
4 19/05/2019 28/10/2019 6 £200.00 £57.53
5 02/11/2019 outstanding 6 £300.00 £97.00the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint. Having done this, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Irresponsible lending
Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators view because he thought Nova should have been 
aware that he was struggling financially. So, it shouldnt have lent to him.
Nova has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving all of the 
borrowing. It has said it asked Mr H about his employment status and he confirmed he was 
employed and had a monthly income of £1,400. Nova also checked Mr Hs normal monthly 
living costs. Mr H declared these to be between £528 and £1,096 a month. Nova says it also 
searched Mr Hs credit file and it has provided the results of its search. There werent any 
recent adverse entries like defaults or county court judgements (CCJs) recorded on it at the 
time these loans were taken out. So there didnt look like there was anything that ought to 
have caused Nova any concern. 
I have noted Mr Hs comments about the fact he returned to borrow loan 5 only days after 
repaying loan 4.
Mr H borrowed loans 1 to 3 over five months, there was then a 21- month gap between him 
repaying loan 3 and taking out loan 4. He then borrowed loans 4 and 5 in under six months. I 
think it would be reasonable for Nova to view this gap (between loans 3 and 4) as an 
indication that Mr Hs finances had stabilised after whatever had led to him to need to borrow 
previously. 
A break in the chain of lending, in effect, starts the clock ticking again on what we would 
consider to be proportionate checks a business should carry out when considering the length 
of the borrowing relationship with the consumer. So, for both chains, Mr H was very early on 
in his lending relationship with Nova. So, loan 5 was the second loan hed borrowed from 
Nova in this chain of lending, and as such I wouldnt have expected Nova to infer any pattern 
of behaviour so early on. 
Even taking into consideration that Mr H was having to make monthly repayments, the 
highest amounts would have appeared affordable based on the information he declared to 
Nova. And there wasnt anything else in the information Mr H provided at the time which 
would have given Nova cause for concern, so I think it was reasonable of Nova to have 
relied on what Mr H gave it. 
And, whilst the information Mr H declared to Nova at the time of the loans may not have 
been an accurate reflection of his actual financial circumstances, I think Nova was entitled to 
rely on that information. 
I think these factors had an impact of what level of checks would have been appropriate for 
Nova to carry out. Given these, I think the checks Nova did before lending the loans went far 
enough and I wouldnt have expected it at this stage to undertake any more in-depth checks. Response to financial difficulties
Ive considered everything that has been provided about how Nova handled Mr H telling it he 
was in financial difficulties. When a consumer is struggling financial, under the regulation, a 
business should act reasonably and sympathetically, and it can do this in various ways. 
I can see that in January 2019, Nova agreed a repayment plan with Mr H to pay £50 a month 
for three months. Mr H says he wasnt given any option but to accept the amount. Nova has 
provided a copy of the call between Mr H and its adviser. The £50 was suggested based on 
the information Mr H had provided to Nova about his income and outgoings. Whilst it was the 
adviser who suggested the amount to pay, they did ask Mr H if he agreed to this. If the 
amount was something Mr H couldnt afford, I think he would have been able to suggest 
another amount. So, I dont agree that Nova has treated him unfairly or unsympathetically 
here. 
Nova has said that it continued to charge the standard rate of interest when Mr H agreed the 
repayment plan with it. We would normally expect a business to reduce or freeze interest 
payments when someone enters into a repayment plan  and the relevant regulations 
suggests this as one of the things a business may do. So, the fact that Nova didnt do this 
when it knew Mr H was struggling to make repayments meant that the amount he owed it 
increased which doesnt demonstrate Nova was treating him as fairly and sympathetically as 
it should have done.
From the information provided, I can see Nova froze the interest and charges from March 
2019  after Mr H didnt manage to make any of the reduced payments. But I think Nova 
should have frozen these when it arranged the repayment plan in January 2019. So, Nova 
should reduce Mr Hs outstanding balance by the amount of the two months interest. 
Ive noted Mr Hs comments about having the default removed but looking at how many 
months in arrears his account was, I dont think it was unreasonable of Nova to apply a 
default against him. Having the default means all interest and charges are frozen so Mr H is 
no longer incurring those, and his balance isnt increasing. So, I wont be asking Nova to 
remove the default. 
I asked everyone to come back with anything further they wanted me to consider before I 
issued my final decision. Both parties have confirmed they received my provisional decision, 
and both accepted my findings. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accepted my provisional decision my decision remains the same. Overall, I 
think the checks Nova did before lending the loans went far enough and I wouldnt have 
expected it at this stage to undertake any more in-depth checks. But that Nova should 
reduce Mr Hs outstanding balance by the amount of two months interest to put Mr H back in 
the position he was when he entered into the repayment plan with Nova. 
Putting things right
Nova should reduce the outstanding balance by the amount of the interest amounts it 
charged him in January and February 2019. It should then try and agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Mr H. Id like to remind Nova of its obligation to treat Mr H fairly.   
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint and Novaloans Ltd should do as I laid out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman