DRN-3717045
The complaint
Mr A complains that Nelson Insurance Company Limited (Nelson) declined his claim for the
theft of his vehicle under his commercial motor insurance policy.
Mr A is represented by Mr S and by his solicitor in his complaint. For ease I will refer to Mr A.
What happened
In August 2018 Mr A was showing a prospective buyer his vehicle. He was asked to provide
documentation and went to his other vehicle to collect the documents. Whilst he did so the
prospective buyer got into the vehicle and drove it away.
Mr A says he has been interviewed by Nelson more than once and asked ongoing additional
questions about the circumstances of the theft and how he financed the purchase of his
vehicle. He thinks its unfair that Nelson declined his claim.
Nelson relied on two exclusions from the policy terms to decline Mr As claim. It says he
didnt take reasonable precautions to safeguard the vehicle from loss, and he isnt covered
for loss from deception by a prospective buyer.
Mr A didnt accept Nelsons decision and referred his complaint to our service. Our
investigator upheld his complaint. He was satisfied that Mr A had the only key with him when
the vehicle was stolen, and that he was close by when this happened. He didnt think the
average person would expect a vehicle could be stolen in these circumstances. Because of
this he thought it was fair for Nelson to reconsider Mr As claim without relying on the
exclusions it had.
Nelson disagreed with our investigators findings. It says Mr A failed to safeguard his vehicle
by leaving it unattended with the engine running. It says this allowed the perpetrator to steal
the vehicle with ease. So, it asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in August 2022 explaining that I was intending to not uphold 
Mr As complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so my intention is to not uphold Mr As complaint. Let me explain.
The circumstances of Mr As loss are that he was showing his car to a prospective buyer.
The doors were unlocked. He went to look for documents in his other vehicle, which was
parked in-front. At this point he says the prospective buyer got into the car and drove away.
Mr A says he tried to follow in his other vehicle but lost the car in traffic.
Nelson has relied on the following exclusions from its policy terms:
Taking care of your vehicle: You are required to take all reasonable precautions to
safeguard your vehicle from loss or damage and maintain your vehicle in a sound, safe and
efficient condition. We shall have at all times, free access to allow an authorised
representative to examine your vehicle.
And:
We will not pay for: Loss of your vehicle by deception by a purported purchaser or his/her
agent or loss of proceeds of sale.
Mr A reported the theft to the police. He was also interviewed by an investigator appointed
by Nelson to validate the circumstances of the loss. The investigator did raise some
concerns about how the original purchase of the vehicle had been financed. This resulted in
further questions being asked and contact being made with an associate of Mr A.
I acknowledge the concerns raised that this delayed matters. But I dont think it was
unreasonable for Nelson to want to investigate concerns with how the car had been
financed, which could impact on the cover provided. However, the reasons for declining Mr
As claim were related to him not safeguarding his vehicle from loss, and that the loss was
the result of deception by a purported purchaser.
I have thought about whether it was fair for Nelson to rely on the loss by deception
exclusion. Where deception clauses are relied upon, the approach our service takes is to
consider whether the policyholder took reasonable steps to protect their vehicle.
Mr A says the doors were unlocked and he moved away from the car to look for the
documents the prospective buyer had asked him for. This meant searching for the
documents in his other vehicle which was parked in front. In doing so Mr A gave the
prospective buyer access to his car, where he wasnt in a position to prevent him from
getting in. It isnt in dispute that Mr A was in possession of the only key when the car was
stolen. But he left it unlocked which allowed the prospective buyer access to the car.
There seems to be some dispute about whether the car engine was left running when Mr A
went to look for the requested documents. In his correspondence to our service Mr A says
that the car wasnt left unattended with the engine running. He says he started the engine
and opened the bonnet whilst the engine was running. He then closed the bonnet and
switched off the engine. After this he says he went to his other car to look for the requested
documents, which was about three metres away.
I have read the statement Mr A gave to Nelsons investigator dated in August 2018. Mr A
signed the witness statement he provided confirming that, the facts stated are true. On
page two of the statement Mr A is reported to have said the following:
When I went to get the paperwork I still had the key for my [car] in my pocket but the [car]
was still running and unlocked.
This is at odds with Mr As later comments that the car engine wasnt running when it was
stolen. Its not clear why Mr A would sign a statement confirming the engine was running,
when it wasnt. This statement was taken ten days after the car was stolen. I would
reasonably expect Mr A to have a clear memory of what happened at this time. So, I think
its reasonable to accept the car engine was left running when Mr A went to look for the
documents in his other vehicle.Having considered this I think the evidence shows that the vehicle was left unlocked, with
the engine running whilst Mr A was looking for documents some three metres away in his
other vehicle. In these circumstances I dont think Mr A had taken reasonable steps to
safeguard his vehicle. By this I mean locking the doors to prevent the prospective buyer
being able to get in the vehicle. He could also have switched off the engine. In not doing
either of these two things, I think Nelsons view is persuasive that Mr A made it relatively
easy for his car to be stolen.
Mr As car has a keyless entry and start function. This means the key fob is needed to
unlock it and to start the engine. But it hasnt been shown that the key fob needs to be in or
near the car for it to be driven once the engine is running.
Im sorry Mr A has suffered such a significant loss as a result of the theft of his car. But I
dont think he took reasonable steps to safeguard his vehicle as required by his policy terms.
So, I dont think Nelson treated him unfairly when relying on its policy terms and declining his
claim for the reasons it gave.
I said I was intending to not uphold Mr As complaint. 
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Nelson confirmed it was happy to accept my provisional decision.
Mr S responded on Mr As behalf with further comments for me to consider. He says Mr As 
English is not at a very good level, which is why he has been appointed to represent him. He 
comments on the signed statement where Mr A said the engine was running when he went 
to his other car. 
Mr S says Mr A has previously told him that he turned the engine off before he went to his 
other car, which was not more than three metres away. He says he put this question to Mr A 
again, and also asked if he remembered signing the statement. He says Mr A told him he 
switched the engine off before looking for documents in his other vehicle. Also, that he 
believes he, probably signed some papers but that no statement was ever read back to him 
in his own language. 
Mr S says Mr A believes he took all appropriate steps to safeguard his vehicle, and that any 
further attempts couldve placed his life at risk. He also says there are devices thieves use to 
boost the remote key fob signal and can turn the engine on in seconds. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I referred to the statement Mr A gave to Nelsons investigator 
shortly after his car was stolen. The notes taken during the interview clearly state that the 
engine was left running and the car was unlocked at the time of the theft.
The investigation report explains that Mr A was easy to get hold of and was very happy to 
assist with the investigation. I can see that Mr A provided a very detailed account of the 
circumstances around the time of the theft and why his car was for sale. There is no 
reference in the statement to there being a problem with communication. Mr A signed the 
statement confirming he understood, adding a line in free hand that he believes the facts stated in this witness statement are true. This is written in English.
The statement Mr A gave was near to the time the theft occurred when the incident was 
fresh in his mind. He later changed his account of events to say that the car engine wasnt 
running when it was stolen. Although I acknowledge Mr Ss comments, I dont think hes 
adequately demonstrated that the statement contains inaccurate information about what Mr 
A said.  
Having given careful thought to this, I dont think it was unreasonable for Nelson to rely on 
the information set out in the August 2018 statement. This indicates Mr A didnt take 
reasonable precautions to safeguard his vehicle by locking it or switching off the engine 
before going to his other vehicle to find documents. In not doing so I think Nelsons view is 
reasonable that Mr As actions enabled the thief to steal his car with ease.
In summary Im not persuaded that I should change my decision. I think Nelson has 
reasonably shown that Mr A didnt safeguard his vehicle as required by his policy terms. So, 
I dont think it treated him unfairly when declining his claim for the reasons it gave.    
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr As 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman