DRN-1735252
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F say Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham Midshires allowed a fraudster 
to change Mr Fs address on the mortgage account, and disclosed information to that 
person.
For ease of reading Ill refer to the fraudster throughout this decision as Mr Z.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
I appreciate what a horrible experience this must have been for Mr and Mrs F. Discovering 
that Mr Fs identity had been stolen so comprehensively must have been incredibly 
unnerving. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the first call Mr Z gave Mr Fs full name and date of birth. In addition, he knew how much 
the monthly mortgage payment was, and the name of the building society the mortgage 
payments were made from. In the second call he again gave Mr Fs full name and date of 
birth, and the monthly mortgage payments. So both times he passed security. Ive listened to 
those calls and theres nothing in either of those that should have flagged up concerns at the 
time. They sound much like any other calls from consumers phoning their mortgage lenders. 
Im satisfied Birmingham Midshires did nothing wrong when it believed it was speaking to 
Mr F. The only information Mr Z was given was the mortgage account number, redemption 
figure for that day and the date the monthly payments were made.
As Mr Z seemed to already have access to Mr Fs bank details it seems likely that, other 
than the redemption figure, that is information he would already have been able to access by 
that means. I say that because to know who the funding account was held with and the 
monthly payments it seems he had access to that account, so he would also have been able 
to see on what date the payments were made and the mortgage account number (as that 
would show in the payment information). In any event, even if that wasnt information Mr Z 
had, there wasnt anything he could do with that to defraud Mr and Mrs F.
That information wouldnt have allowed Mr Z to borrow further funds. Potentially all he could 
have done was to stop the mortgage payments being made, which wouldnt have gained him 
anything and would have quickly alerted Mr and Mrs F to the overarching identity fraud. Or 
he could have paid off the mortgage, again that would not have gained Mr Z anything.
Birmingham Midshires didnt accept an address change over the phone. It said the request 
had to be made in writing with proof of the new address. Mr Z provided a true driving licence 
(rather than a fake) in Mr Fs name which had the new address on it. As this was a real 
driving licence, with the correct name and date of birth, Birmingham Midshires would have 
no reason to question that.
I understand Mr and Mrs F are unhappy that Birmingham Midshires didnt write to them at 
the property to say Mr Fs address had been changed, but I cant say it did anything wrong in 
not doing so. Its not unusual when theres a marital split for the leaving party not to want the 
other to know where theyre living. It sometimes happens that the leaving party might get 
their information updated in advance of leaving the other, so by writing to the other party the 
lender could put the leaving party in danger. 
Having considered everything, I dont think Birmingham Midshires has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. A change of address letter was received, apparently signed by Mr F. The 
signature on the form matched that on the driving licence, and the driving licence was 
genuine and gave Mr Fs details and the new address. All things considered I dont think 
Birmingham Midshires acted unfairly or unreasonably in believing the change of address 
request came genuinely from Mr F.
Ive listened carefully to the calls from Mr F and Mrs F to Birmingham Midshires. Its clear 
from those how upset and concerned Mr and Mrs F were, and thats completely 
understandable. Due to what had happened it is also understandable why Birmingham 
Midshires wanted to speak to Mr F rather than Mrs F. Whilst Ive absolutely no concerns this 
is the case here, at the time all this happened Birmingham Midshires needed to be sure that 
it hadnt been Mr F all along changing his address and that he wasnt now acting under 
duress having been found out by Mrs F to have been planning to leave. That may sound 
fanciful to Mr and Mrs F as they know their marriage and what actually happened, but I need 
to take a step back and consider the things Birmingham Midshires needed to think about 
when dealing with this in the moment. In that context I cant blame Birmingham Midshires for 
wanting to deal with Mr F rather than Mrs F, however difficult that was due to Mr Fs work 
patterns at the time.
We dont have the power to order a firm to change its procedures. We determine individual 
complaints on their merits. Here I cant find Birmingham Midshires acted inappropriately in 
believing it was speaking to Mr F or by giving Mr Z the information it did. I also cant find 
Birmingham Midshires acted inappropriately in changing Mr Fs address on the account.
Whilst Ive no doubt that this would have been an incredibly stressful time for Mr and Mrs F I 
dont consider that Birmingham Midshires did anything wrong. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs F to accept or reject my decision before 16 April 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman