DRN-3550281
The complaint
Mr N has complained that Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited (LV) mis-sold a 
policy to him. 
What happened
Mr N bought a mortgage and lifestyle protection insurance policy in 2009 over the telephone, 
underwritten by LV. The policy had a two-month deferred (waiting) period. 
In 2021, Mr N called LV as he had been made redundant. LV told Mr N his claim would start 
after a two-month deferred period. And so he wouldnt be able to claim until then. LV also 
told Mr N he would need to provide evidence of unemployment such as receipt of 
jobseekers allowance, before a claim could be accepted.
Mr N complained as he said he wasnt told about these requirements when he bought the 
policy in 2009. He said he was told by his adviser that any eligible claims would be paid 
immediately.
LV looked into the complaint and confirmed it no longer held a copy of the telephone call 
from the original sale. But it said Mr N was sent all of the policy documents after the sales 
call which set out the eligibility criteria for a claim.
Unhappy with its response, Mr N referred his complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think LV had done anything wrong. 
Mr N disagreed and said he requires a copy of the original sales call. He said had he been 
told of the correct requirements, he wouldnt have bought the policy and so, would like a 
refund of his premiums.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And I have noted all of Mr Ns comments even if I dont expressly refer to them in my 
decision. Instead, I have focused on what I consider to be key.
Having done so, I dont this complaint should be upheld. And largely for the same reasons 
as already explained by our investigator. 
The relevant industry rules and guidance for sales say LV should provide clear, fair and not 
misleading information when selling a policy.
Due to the passage of time, the original sales call from 2009 is no longer available and so I 
have to base my decision on the available evidence.
LV has provided the documents and letters it sent to Mr N in 2009 which include the policy 
schedule, the terms and conditions of the policy and the application form Mr N completed 
and signed. This confirms his correct details and that he wanted protection for his mortgage. 
The accompanying documents also confirm the deferred period and the requirement to 
provide evidence of unemployment. 
Mr N says he based his decision to take the policy on the phone call that was made. But as 
the phone call is no longer available, I cant conclude he was given any different information 
over the phone. If Mr N did receive conflicting information, I would have expected him to 
have queried this when he received the documents from LV. As he didnt do so, Im not 
satisfied that he was given incorrect information over the phone.
Based on the above, I find that Mr N was provided with written information which was clear, 
fair and not misleading. For that reason, I dont think the policy was mis-sold and so I cant 
fairly ask LV to refund Mr Ns premiums. Im satisfied the policy was suitable for his needs 
and that he was given the correct information and criteria for making a claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman