DRN-4212970
The complaint
The estate of Ms L has complained about the time taken to assess a claim by Legal and 
General Assurance Society Limited (L&G).
The estate is represented by Mrs L.
What happened
Very sadly Ms L passed away in December 2021. The estate made a claim under her 
decreasing term life assurance policy in early 2022. In February 2022 documents were 
submitted by the estates solicitors including a signed Access to Medical reports and 
Records form. In June 2022 L&G received confirmation from the coroners office that the 
coroner had authorised sending the post-mortem report. L&G then wrote to Ms Ls GP 
surgery for a targeted report. This was received in mid-July and led to further enquiries being 
made, but I can see this was done expediently. Overall though the claim process was rather 
drawn out. The assessment was on-going when in October 2022 Mrs L complained that the 
claim hadnt yet been decided by L&G.
L&G conceded that it had not reached the high standard that it aimed to provide and that 
there had been delays. It offered Mrs L compensation.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She explained that the 
claim was being considered and was waiting on information from third parties. 
Mrs L appealed on behalf of the estate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator. Ill explain why.
Mrs L has raised other related issues, including marketing issues and an initial response to 
the claim. However, in this decision Im considering the estates complaint about the delay in 
L&G assessing the claim up to November 2022, when it issued its final response letter. 
I can see that L&G accepted that there had been delays and offered the estate a payment in 
recognition of the trouble and upset caused. There had been a lack of contact with Mrs L 
and I find L&Gs stance was fair. I should say this service isnt able to consider the impact on 
an estate, rather only on a complainant eligible under our rules. 
However it is apparent from the claim file that L&G were seeking information from third 
parties which was needed in order to assess the claim. Unfortunately, it can take some time 
to receive information  and how long it will take once the request has been made is largely 
out of L&Gs hands. L&G wouldnt have been in a position to start considering the claim 
without this information. Once in possession of targeted medical information it will 
sometimes be necessary to request further information. Of course, this will delay a claims 
outcome, but insurers are required to properly assess a claim. That said, I would expect an 
insurer to keep the parties, here the estate, up to date with the progress of the claim.
Mrs L has raised other issues including lost correspondence, further delays and questions 
answered at the application stage. I can understand why, but these are separate issues and 
as explained in this decision Im considering only matters until November 2022.
Im sorry my decision doesnt bring the estate more welcome news.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms L 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman