DRN-3310064
Complaint
Mr B has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) irresponsibly provided increased his 
overdraft and credit card limits as well as irresponsibly provided him with a personal loan.
Background
HSBC increased Mr Bs overdraft limit from £1,500.00 to £3,000.00 in September 2018. It 
then increased the limit to £5,000.00 in the following month. In October 2018, HSBC 
provided Mr B with a loan for £14,300.00 and finally in March 2019, HSBC decided to 
increase Mr Bs credit card limit from £2,750.00 to £3,800.00. In January 2020, Mr B 
complained that HSBC irresponsibly lent to him. HSBC didnt think that it had done anything 
wrong and so didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. Mr B remained dissatisfied and referred his 
complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and thought that HSBC shouldnt have 
provided the overdraft and credit card limit increases or the personal loan. HSBC didnt 
agree with our investigator and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Mr Bs complaint.
HSBC needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is
HSBC needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr B 
would be able to repay what he was being lent before providing any credit to him. Our 
website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Ive kept this all in mind when having looked at Mr Bs complaint and having done so Im 
upholding it.
HSBC says that Mr B passed its affordability checks which were based on his income (and 
credits going into his account), information about his existing credit commitments obtained 
from a credit reference agency and an assessment of his essential spend. Each time there 
was enough disposable income left over for the proposed limit to be deemed affordable and 
as the credit checks didnt suggest Mr B had missed or late payments on his other credit, the 
limit increases in question were agreed. 
Mr Bs overdraft was an open-end (running account) agreement (in other words, while HSBC 
committed to reviewing the facility each year, there was no fixed end date) where there was 
an expectation that hed repay what he borrowed plus the interest due within a reasonable 
period of time. CONC didnt set out what a reasonable period of time was. So I think its 
important to note that a reasonable period of time will always be dependent on the 
circumstances of the individual case. 
HSBCs response to our investigator suggests that it used Mr Bs account data for some 
parts of its assessment and relied on estimates and third-party data for others. HSBC also 
appears to confirm that it treated each of Mr Bs applications in isolation with little regard to 
what had happened previously or how his circumstances were evolving. 
In my view, this approach failed to take into account Mr B was a repeat borrower and assess 
the plausibility of the monthly disposable income amount arrived at against what was 
happening on Mr Bs account. I think its fair to say that there was a pattern of Mr B relying 
on his overdraft developing in the lead up to the limit increase in September 2018 being 
provided. Mr B was seeing a credit balance for a few days after he was paid. And the only 
reason for this was because his monthly salary exceeded the amount of his overdraft limit. 
A further look at Mr Bs account usage, which HSBC says played a part in its decision to 
lend, also shows that Mr B was gambling excessive amounts that he simply couldnt afford. 
Ive seen that our investigator said that HSBC ought to have realised that Mr B was a 
vulnerable consumer. Im not sure Id go as far as this. But, in my view, there were clear 
warning signs that Mr Bs existing overdraft limit might have been becoming unsustainable 
for him. And, in these circumstances, HSBC ought to have been concerned that Mr B might 
not have been in a position to repay what he already owed, let alone take repay any further 
borrowing without borrowing further or suffering significant adverse consequences.
Bearing this in mind, Im satisfied that HSBC shouldnt have provided Mr B with the overdraft 
limit increases it provided him with, in September 2018 and October 2018, as it ought 
reasonably to have realised that he was in a position where he was unlikely to be able repay 
what he owed in a sustainable manner. The amount he was gambling suggested it was 
unlikely hed be able to repay without borrowing further or experiencing significant adverse 
consequences. Given Mr Bs position didnt materially improve by the time his loan was 
provided in October 2018 and his credit card limit was increased in March 2019, it follows 
that Im satisfied that this additional credit shouldnt have been provided either. 
In reaching my conclusions, Ive taken into account what HSBC has said about not wanting 
to exclude Mr B from accessing mainstream credit simply because of his gambling and that 
providing the loan didnt increase his indebtedness as he was consolidating his existing loan 
and his overdraft debt. But I think that HSBC had enough to see that Mr B was in no position 
to repay any further credit. And Im not persuaded that the provision of Mr Bs loan didnt (or 
at the very least have the potential to) increase Mr Bs indebtedness as his overdraft wasnt 
removed. In any event, this argument shows that HSBC expected Mr B to repay existing 
debts with further credit, which the regulators rules indicate is unsustainable. 
So Im satisfied that HSBCs decision to provide Mr B with a substantial amount of additional 
credit in the circumstances it did meant that it increased Mr Bs indebtedness in a way that it 
ought to have realised was unsustainable or otherwise harmful. 
As this is the case, I think that HSBC treated Mr B unfairly. Mr B is being expected to pay 
additional interest and charges on credit he shouldnt have been provided with in the first place. So Im satisfied that he lost out because of what HSBC did wrong and that it needs to 
put things right.
Fair compensation  what HSBC needs to do to put things right for Mr B
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Bs complaint for HSBC to put things right by:
Mr Bs overdraft and credit card
Reworking Mr Bs overdraft and credit card balances to ensure that all interest, 
fees and charges added to the overdraft from September 2018 and the credit 
card from March 2019 are removed, to reflect the fact that Mr B was already in a 
position where he was unlikely to repay what he owed in a sustainable manner;
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft or credit card once these 
adjustments have been made HSBC should contact Mr B to arrange suitable 
repayment plans, Mr B is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with 
HSBC to reach a suitable agreement for this. If it considers it appropriate to 
record negative information on Mr B credit file, it should backdate this to 
September 2018 for the overdraft and March 2019 for the credit card. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance on Mr B overdraft or credit card, then any extra 
should be treated as overpayments and returned to Mr B along with 8% simple 
interest on the overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) until 
the date of settlement. If no outstanding balances remain after all adjustments 
have been made, then HSBC should remove any adverse information from       
Mr B credit file. 
Mr Bs October 2018 loan
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to Mr Bs loan from the outset. 
The payments Mr B has made, plus a further £450 to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience HSBCs actions caused, should be deducted from the £14,300.00 
he was originally lent. HSBC should treat any payments made if and when the 
£14,300.00 has been cleared as overpayments. And any overpayments should 
be refunded to Mr B along with 8% simple interest ;
removing any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file as a result of this 
loan should no outstanding balance remain. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give    
Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
Id also remind HSBC of its obligation to exercise forbearance should outstanding balances 
remain after all adjustments have been made to Mr Bs accounts and its the case that he is 
experiencing financial difficulty.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman