DRN-3703519
The complaint
Mr D has complained that British Friendly Society Limited unfairly declined his claim. 
What happened
Mr D bought an income protection insurance policy in 2020, underwritten by British Friendly, 
which pays a benefit if he is unable to work due to illness or injury. 
Mr D is a driver and injured his back in 2021. He made a claim which British Friendly 
declined as it said Mr Ds condition was pre-existing and so it was excluded from cover. 
Unhappy, Mr D complained to British Friendly and said the injury wasnt pre-existing. He also 
said he was suffering from mental health problems which were preventing him from working. 
British Friendly maintained its decline but told Mr D that he wouldnt have to return any of the 
benefit it had paid, amounting to over £2,000, which it had paid whilst it was assessing his 
claim. 
Mr D referred his complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think British Friendly had done anything 
wrong. 
Mr D disagreed and in summary said his GP had provided medical evidence to show that his 
back problems were a new issue and not related to his previous back problems. And in 
addition, his mental health issues were serious and ongoing and preventing him from 
working.
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld and largely for the same 
reasons as already explained by our investigator.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims promptly and 
fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy definition of incapacity is:
This means that you are totally unable to carry out your occupation due to physical 
or mental illness or injury resulting in a complete or partial loss of income.
The policy terms confirm benefit will not be paid for:
any pre-existing conditions for which you have received consultation, treatment 
and/or medication, or asked advice on or had symptoms of (whether or not 
diagnosed) during the 3 years immediately before policy inception. 
British Friendly requested and reviewed Mr Ds medical records which showed that he had 
suffered from lower back pain previously and within the 3 years before he took the policy out. 
So based on the above policy terms, Mr Ds claim wasnt eligible as he was suffering from a 
pre-existing condition. 
Ive considered the following key evidence:
Mr D said his condition wasnt pre-existing and his doctor had confirmed that the 
lower back pain was different to his previous injury. The GP records were reviewed 
by British Friendlys chief medical officer (CMO) who compared the back pain to the 
previously noted injury. He concluded the recent back pain was pre-existing based 
on the similar location of pain, the way the injury happened and symptoms. He didnt 
think this was a new problem. 
In addition, Mr D says he is suffering from mental health problems. This was also 
considered by the CMO who said Mr D was feeling down and depressed but he 
wasnt keen on medication and would prefer talking therapies. The CMO said there 
was an element of work-related stress but back pain was the main factor keeping him 
off work. And symptoms of low mood didnt meet the criteria of a serious mental 
illness. Mr D wasnt taking medication and his symptoms werent affecting his 
functional ability. 
Having considered the CMOs opinion, Im not satisfied the medical evidence 
provided meets the definition of incapacity for a mental health illness as I would 
expect to see reference to how Mr Ds mental illness was preventing him from doing 
his job. In relation to the back pain, Im persuaded by the CMOs opinion that this is a 
pre-existing condition taking into account his description of the back pain and a 
previous similar injury. 
Mr D says British Friendly confirmed it would arrange a mental health assessment for 
him but then failed to do this. The CMO reviewed Mr Ds records and didnt think 
there was sufficient evidence of a serious mental illness. In addition, when declining 
the claim, British Friendly confirmed they would discuss whether an assessment 
could be arranged but didnt guarantee that this would happen. So I dont think British 
Friendly failed to complete an assessment when it should have. Im satisfied it 
properly considered Mr Ds mental health claim by requesting and reviewing medical 
evidence and referring it to its CMO.
British Friendly paid Mr D over £2,000 worth of benefit whilst it was assessing his 
claim. As his claim was ultimately declined, it initially asked Mr D to pay this back. 
However, it has since confirmed it wont ask Mr D to return the benefit which I think is 
more than reasonable. 
As British Friendly has paid Mr D some benefit and has confirmed it wont ask him to re-pay 
this, I think it has acted reasonably and has gone above and beyond what it is expected to 
do and outside the policy terms and conditions. So I wont be asking it to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman