DRN-4268660
The complaint
Miss B, represented by Mr M, has complained about her car insurer West Bay Insurance Plc 
regarding repairs it undertook to her car after a non-fault accident.
Mr M has mainly dealt with this claim and complaint. For ease, during the body of my 
decision, Ill refer mainly to him. West Bay is responsible for the companies it uses in the 
course of the claim.
What happened
There was an accident in October 2022  a low speed impact from the rear  and West Bay 
took the car for repair. It was ready to return to Miss B in early December 2022 but she was 
away. It was arranged to return in January 2023. Mr M noted damage to the car and refused 
to accept it. In February 2023 West Bay had an independent engineer (IE1) inspect the car. 
It was felt that, with the exception of a scratched wing mirror, there were no repair issues. 
West Bay said Mr M should collect the car and it would pay for repairing the wing mirror 
(£135.42).
Mr M wasnt happy. He took the car to a manufacturer repairer and had an estimate from it 
for re-work. He also paid for wheel re-alignment. He sent the details, along with photos and 
video, to West Bay. It still was not persuaded there were any faults. Mr M complained to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. Following our Investigator initially not upholding the 
complaint, Mr M obtained a report from an independent engineer (IE2). This was shared 
with West Bay and it referred the report to IE1. IE1 agreed that of 14 reported faults, four 
were valid. It said they would cost £995.20 to fix, inclusive of VAT. West Bay offered to pay 
this, along with reimbursing £230 (plus interest) for IE2s report cost and a total of £400 
compensation. 
Our Investigator felt the second report from IE2 was persuasive and that West Bays offer, 
including compensation, was fair and reasonable. Mr M said he felt his evidence had been 
dismissed. He said his two expert reports (the first of which our Investigator had explained 
was an estimate), and his photos and videos showed poor repairs  the total cost for 
rectifying which, including the cost of the wheel realignment, was nearly £6,000. The 
complaint was passed for an Ombudsmans consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Ms strength of feeling on this matter. However, having reviewed all of the 
evidence presented by both parties, I think the offer made by West Bay is fair and 
reasonable. Ill make an award in this respect, I wont be making it pay anything more.
West Bay took Mr Bs car for repair and once this was done, and Mr M was available to take 
the car back, the car was returned. However, Mr M wouldnt accept the car as he was 
concerned about the standard of repair. West Bay took the car back to assess the repairs. 
I think that was reasonable of it. This left Miss B without a car. But Mr M could have taken 
the car back and had West Bay assess the car at his home. And the repair issues were 
essentially cosmetic, so there were no safety issues preventing the car from being driven. 
Whilst I appreciate it was difficult for Miss B to be without a car at this time, I cant 
reasonably blame West Bay for that upset.
West Bay determined there were no faults with the repairs  apart from perhaps a wing 
mirror having been damaged which it agreed to pay for. So it was then up to Mr M to 
challenge that with expert evidence. I appreciate Mr M took the car to a manufacturer garage 
and obtained an estimate for repair, as well as an invoice for alignment work. But neither of 
these show that poor repairs were completed by West Bay. I know West Bay considered 
these, along with photos and videos Mr M presented. In light of its engineer having assessed 
the car though, I think it was fair and reasonable for West Bay to not change its view on the 
repair issues at that time. I appreciate that Miss B may have limited how she was using the 
car, being concerned as she was about the repairs  but again as the car was safe to drive, I 
cant reasonably blame West Bay for any further upset caused in this respect.
When Mr M obtained an expert report on the car, West Bay had IE1 reconsider matters. 
Consequently four issues of repair were accepted as needing rectification. I think West Bays 
offer for these repairs is fair and reasonable. The figure has been determined by IE1, so is 
based on generalised costs available in the industry rather than West Bays cost to repair. 
But, in any event, if Mr M thinks these four repair issues cant be repaired for that sum, hed 
still be able to ask West Bay to rectify these. But West Bay, aware that Mr M does not want 
to use its repairer, has made an offer to settle in cash  I think that is fair and reasonable. 
That leaves ten items of repair in dispute, plus the wheel realignment. Neither IE1 nor IE2 
offered any comment on the wheel realignment, other than IE1 stating that the original repair 
did not include an alignment check. West Bays in-house engineer though said that with the 
nature of the accident, its unlikely the cars alignment would have been affected and an 
alignment check would, therefore, not have been done as part of the repair. I think that is a 
reasonable comment. I havent seen any evidence to make me think this work was needed 
as a part of the repair. Im not going to require West Bay to reimburse this cost.  
The ten remaining issues affect the a-post, the right-hand rear door, the sills, a wheel arch 
and the bumper (including the number plate). Ive considered the reports and, as relevant, 
the photos and video regarding each. In respect of the latter, they are in general, in my view, 
supplementary evidence, they alone cannot out-weigh the expert opinions provided. Even 
where the videos and photos evidence the issues Mr M has highlighted, they dont show 
these were most likely caused by West Bay in the course of repairing the accident damage, 
or are the results of a failed repair. 
A-post and right-hand rear door  Mr M said there was damage, that paint was peeling from 
the door and there was overspray (internally where the door shuts). IE2 said a difference in 
texture of the door finish could be felt and overspray could be seen. IE1 said West Bays 
repairer had confirmed the damage did not occur whilst on site and there was no fault with 
the paint finish. IE1 said there was no overspray, just an indentation mark, photos were 
provided. IE1 did not recommend that West Bay reasonably needed to rectify these issues. 
I havent seen anything which makes me think West Bays garage most likely caused 
damage to the a-post or rear door, or applied a faulty paint finish to the door. Im satisfied 
there is no overspray for West Bay to resolve.Sills  Mr M says they have a different texture to the rest of the cars paint finish. IE2 did not 
comment on this. IE1 said the sills have the original manufacturer finish, and were not 
painted as part of the repair. Ive seen the photos and video which Mr M thinks show the sills 
were not like this before the accident. Im not persuaded the imagery is clear enough to 
show this is likely the case. And I cant see why sills would have been removed and replaced 
or resprayed as part of this repair. 
Wheel arch  Mr M said the paintwork finish was poor. IE2 said the edge of the wheel arch 
looks visually different and, to the touch, is almost sharp. IE2 didnt provide any photos to 
evidence the findings. IE1 said there was no fault  the area in question was merely the 
edge of the wheel liner, an image was presented in support. I think this is a finely balanced 
point  the evidence from both engineers, in my view, is not particularly persuasive.  
Essentially one believes there is a fault and one thinks the finish is normal for that part of the 
car. With the photos presented by IE1 merely depicting the problem. For me to require West 
Bay to fix this, Id have to be satisfied that it is most likely that it completed a poor repair. And 
with the evidence so finely balanced, Im not satisfied in that respect here.
Bumper  Mr M said this wasnt replaced when it should have been, rather it was just 
repainted. He said the manufacturer garage had identified this by carrying out a paint test. 
The manufacturer garage didnt provide any direct comment. West Bays in-house engineer 
said there was no way to test paint on plastic, with the bumper being plastic. Mr M pointed to 
scratches on the bumper which he said were the same as those present before the repair. 
IE2 said the scratches looked like impact damage and there were some stone chips 
suggesting the bumper had not been replaced. IE1 and IE2 noted a crack on the number 
plate. IE1 referred to this as a slight hairline crack which might be accident related  but did 
not recommend its repair. Regarding the scratches IE1 felt some had been caused since the 
loss and were consistent with the boot being used. Ive considered the photos of the bumper. 
I know Mr M thinks the same damage is present before and after the repair. I dont think that 
is the case. To me the marks look distinctly different. I think its most likely the bumper was 
replaced  not least as its been invoiced for by West Bays garage. Further the area could 
have become stone chipped since the accident and before IE2s inspection. I appreciate 
IE2s view that (some of) the scratches in question look like impact damage  but they are 
not the same as were visible following the incident. The crack in the number plate may have 
occurred at any time and gone unnoticed. In saying that I bear in mind that the impact was 
likely off-centre, with contact damage present on the near-side of the cars rear bumper. Im 
not persuaded theres any further repair I can reasonably require West Bay to complete 
regarding the bumper, including the number plate.  
I know Mr M has been concerned about the quality of repairs since January 2023. He has 
gone to some effort to show his concerns were valid and the expert report he obtained in 
May 2023 did validate some of the concerns he had. As a result of that report West Bay 
accepted liability for the post-repair condition of both the rear quarter panels, masking 
residue left on the roof and re-fixing the skirts to remove gapping. IE1 gave a cost for these 
repairs of £995.20. Theres the cost for the wing mirror too. I think its fair and reasonable 
that West Bay pays these sums in settlement of the repair issues, along with reimbursing the 
cost of IE2s report. The latter plus interest because this cost has been incurred. 
I accept that Miss B has been caused distress and inconvenience over the quality of repairs 
and that some time was spent trying to get West Bay to accept liability for further repairs. 
Even having to go to the trouble of getting an expert report to support their position. I note 
West Bay has agreed to pay £400 compensation. I think thats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. If West Bay had not offered any compensation, I would not be requiring it to 
pay more than this. Putting things right
I require West Bay to pay Miss B:
£995.20 in settlement of outstanding repairs to the rear quarter panels, roof and skirts.
£135.42 for the wing mirror.
£230 for the expert report, plus interest* applied from the date of invoice until settlement 
is made.
£400 compensation. If any of this sum has been paid before, then only the remainder 
now needs to be paid.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs may require West Bay to take off tax from this 
interest. If asked, it must give Miss B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require West Bay Plc to provide the redress set out above at 
Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman