DRN-3009297
The complaint
Mr M has complained about Complete Credit Consultancy Limited (trading as Zinc Group), 
saying they harassed him.
What happened
This complaint concerns a consumer credit debt which was passed to Zinc Group to collect 
in February 2021.
In March 2021, Mr M asked Zinc Group to call him to discuss arranging payments. A staff 
member called him and set up the arrangement.
During this call, Mr M asked for further calls to stop, and the staff member confirmed they 
would arrange to stop further calls.
However, just minutes later, Zinc Groups auto-dialler phoned Mr M again and he spoke with 
a different staff member. It quickly became apparent what had happened. The staff member 
apologised and explained it was an issue of bad timing with the auto-dialler. Mr M explained 
he felt harassed, and Zinc Group set up a complaint at his request.
In their complaint response, Zinc Group apologised again. They explained that the auto-
dialler had happened to call Mr M before the first staff member had had time to take his 
contact details off the system. They accepted theyd got things wrong, but didnt think theyd 
harassed him.
Mr M didnt feel this was sufficient. He explained hed felt hounded. He also felt Zinc Group 
had taken too long to deal with his complaint, and said theyd sent him the wrong balance. 
He asked for Zinc Group to help cover his payments as compensation.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
found that Zinc Group had made a mistake, but had identified it quickly, apologised, 
explained what happened, and had not done it again. They felt this was sufficient. They 
explained that the balance Zinc Group had quoted was right, and that we couldnt generally 
consider complaints about complaint handling.
Mr M asked for his case to be looked at afresh, so the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can certainly appreciate why it would have been frustrating for Mr M to receive another call 
so shortly after hed just spoken to Zinc Group. Ive thought carefully about whether Zinc 
Groups behaviour amounted to harassment.
Before this incident, Zinc Group had only called Mr M a handful of times. Mr M had in fact 
been trying to get in touch with Zinc Group himself, and in the lead-up to this incident had 
asked them to call him. Ive listened to recordings of the key calls involved, and I think the 
staff members acted professionally. And I cant see that Zinc Group corresponded with Mr M 
excessively or unreasonably.
Zinc Group did get things wrong by calling Mr M again so quickly. But I dont think that 
amounted to harassment on its own. It looks like that was just a simple mistake, primarily 
caused by bad timing  their auto-dialler had happened to call Mr M before the first staff 
member could arrange for further calls to stop.
I do understand why Mr M was unhappy with that situation, and I appreciate why he 
complained. But Zinc Group explained what had gone wrong, apologised, and arranged for 
the calls to stop. I think that was a reasonable way to deal with the issue. And I cant see that 
the additional call would have caused Mr M substantial enough losses that Id require Zinc 
Group to pay compensation here.
I also understand that Mr M felt Zinc Group had quoted the wrong balance. I appreciate hed 
been offered the chance to pay a lower amount. But the balance Zinc Group quoted was the 
full, correct balance  the lower amount was just a partial offer that the creditor was willing to 
accept. And Zinc Group were supposed to tell Mr M the true full balance.
Lastly, I appreciate that Mr M would like Zinc Group to have dealt with his complaint more 
quickly. As our investigator explained, were not strictly able to consider complaints about 
complaint handling. But I will note that Zinc Group were allowed 8 weeks to deal with his 
complaint, and they did so well within that time.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman