DRN-3139382
The complaint
This complaints about a pension mortgage arrangement Mr C took out in 1991. The 
mortgage was interest-only, and the intended repayment vehicle was a personal pension 
plan running for 36 years. Mr C, who has third party representation, believes the mortgage 
was mis-sold. This is because Mr C didnt want to take any risks with the repayment of his 
mortgage.
Responsibility for the sale of the pension has been accepted by Aviva Life Services UK 
Limited.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the current situation and then focus on giving the 
reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll 
be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Mr C applied for the mortgage through the lender, which Ill call A. At the time, A was a tied 
representative of a life assurance office Ill call F; F was later taken over by Aviva, and from 
hereon, Ill refer to the business solely as Aviva. Mr C was 24 years old and employed, with 
no occupational pension arrangements. He was advised to take the mortgage (£60,000) on 
an interest-only basis, and then recommended to have a personal pension plan as the 
repayment vehicle. The pension policy is designed to run to his 60th birthday. 
In 2020, Mr C complained that the mortgage had been mis-sold because it was unsuitable 
for it to have been linked to a pension policy with the associated risks. Aviva took 
responsibility for the complaint, as it related to the suitability of the pension policy as a 
repayment vehicle, and made an offer to settle it. The redress it offered was based on 
putting Mr C in the position hed now been in if the mortgage had been taken on a capital 
repayment basis rather than interest-only. 
Mr Cs representative referred the complaint to us, saying Aviva should have calculated the 
redress on the premise that the repayment mortgage would have been for 25 years, not 36 
years.
Our investigator thought Avivas offer to settle Mr Cs complaint was fair and that it didnt 
need to recalculate the redress on the basis of a 25-year repayment mortgage. Mr Cs 
representative asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a starting point, I should explain that as A was an appointed representative of Aviva for 
the provision of regulated investment advice, Aviva is responsible for the suitability of the 
repayment vehicle recommended for Mr Cs mortgage. 
Here, Aviva has reviewed the sale of the pension policy. It concluded that it couldnt 
evidence that the risks associated with the pension mortgage had been discussed with Mr C. 
The offer of redress Aviva has made is based on placing Mr C in the financial position hed 
be in if the mortgage had been repayment rather than interest-only. 
In calculating that offer, Aviva has followed guidance (known as RU89) issued by the 
regulator of mortgage, formerly the Financial Services Authority, presently the Financial 
Conduct Authority. That guidance was issued specifically in relation to the mis-sale of 
endowment policies as repayment vehicles, but the same principles apply to the mis-sale of 
other forms of investment-based repayment vehicles. The guidance requires a financial 
business to compare the position the policyholder is in, with the hypothetical position they 
would have been in if a repayment mortgage been arranged from outset. 
The calculation Aviva completed established the actual position Mr Cs mortgage is in and 
compared it to an identical repayment one. I am satisfied that this followed the regulators 
guidance and was an appropriate in the circumstances. I acknowledge what Mr Cs 
representative has said about his financial situation in 1991, and accept the possibility that a 
repayment mortgage over 25 years might have been affordable. 
But acknowledging that Mr C might have afforded a 25-year repayment mortgage in 1991, 
isnt, on its own, enough for me to find that Aviva should depart from the regulators 
guidance that redress be calculated like-for-like. Avivas offer to settle Mr Cs complaint is 
fair, and I dont find that it needs to make a different one.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman