DRN-2376599
The complaint
Mrs P says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI)
policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out by post in 2001. The policy gave Mrs P
accident, sickness and unemployment cover. It was taken a few years after Mrs P opened
her credit card.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Capital One disagreed so the complaint was passed
to me.
In my provisional decision (an extract of which follows, and forms part of this final decision) I
set out why I was planning not to uphold the complaint. I asked both parties to let me have
any comments or information by 22 November 2020.
Extract from my provisional decision
Our adjudicator said as Mrs P told us she was retired at the time of the sale she wasnt
eligible for the cover. Capital One disagreed saying on Mrs Ps PPI acceptance form, 
that she signed in October 2001, she confirmed she was employed and had been 
working for the previous six months.
Ive reviewed the PPI acceptance form and the banks statement is correct. Given the
contradictory information, we have contacted Mrs Ps representative a number of times, 
and Mrs P directly, to ask for some documentation showing when Mrs P retired, but no 
response has been received. As Mrs Ps previous employer still exists, I think it would be 
possible for her to get this.
So based on the available evidence, that shows Mrs P declared she was working in 
2001, I am currently planning to conclude that Mrs P was eligible for the cover at the 
time of the sale.
I have then looked at the other aspects of the sale.
Mrs P says she was unaware PPI was added to her account. But she signed and 
returned a PPI acceptance form indicating she wanted to take out PPI. And she took out 
PPI a few years after she opened her credit card so I think she would have known it was 
a separate product that wasnt mandatory. Overall, I think Capital One made it clear to 
Mrs P the PPI was optional and she agreed to take it out.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs P, so it didnt have to check if it was 
suitable for her. It was up to Mrs P to decide whether the policy was right for her, bearing 
in mind her ability to make her credit card repayments if she was sick or lost her job.
Its possible Capital One didnt give Mrs P all the information about the PPI that she 
needed before she made his decision. But Mrs P chose to take out the policy and so 
appears to have wanted this type of cover. It seems she wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations. Mrs P initially told us she had no pre-existing medical 
conditions. I note though she has also said her retirement was due to ill-health, so if at 
the time of the sale she had any pre-existing medical conditions she should provide 
details of these in response to this provisional decision. This should include the date of 
diagnosis, details of any ongoing medication and treatment, details of how her day-to-
day life was affected and if she had needed to take time off work (when and for how 
long).
I dont know when the cost was first made clear. But the policy was competitively priced 
and apparently affordable. So I currently think it unlikely Mrs P wouldve made a different
decision if better information had been provided.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs P because:
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs P about that. Because Capital One 
didnt tell Mrs P, that was unfair.
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this 
case.
Capital One responded to my provisional decision saying it had no further information to 
provide.
Neither Mrs P nor her representative responded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive followed it
here.
As neither party provided any new evidence or information in response to my provisional
decision, I have no reason to change the findings or outcome I set out.
My final decision
I dont think the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) Plc does not
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs P.
But Capital One (Europe) Plc does have to pay back to Mrs P any commission and profit
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Rebecca ConnelleyOmbudsman