DRN-4063122
The complaint
Mrs B, on behalf of the late Mr Bs estate, complains that Aviva Life & Pensions Limited have 
paid out less than what was paid into Mr Bs guaranteed over 50s plan.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the Investigator for these reasons:
The sale took place in 1998, and so understandably the original documentation is no 
longer available. However, Ive been provided with sample documentation of what 
the late Mr B wouldve been provided at the time for this policy  including key 
features documents, policy documentation and advertisement leaflets.
The sale was not an advised one. And as the sale was non-advised, it meant Aviva 
(previously Sun Life) only needed to ensure it provided Mr B with clear information 
about the policy for him to make an informed choice about whether he wanted to 
purchase it.
Im satisfied the documentation sent to Mr B at the time in 1998 was clear about what 
the policy was. The sample of the key features documentation Mr B wouldve 
received at the time states: If you live long enough the total premiums paid will 
eventually be greater than the amount payable on death.
This made it clear that Mr B could potentially end up paying more than what was 
eventually paid out. The documentation also made it clear that if Mr B was unhappy 
with the policy he could cancel it within 30 days. 
So, upon inspection of the evidence available Im satisfied Aviva made it reasonably 
clear that the policy Mr B had been sold was one which he could potentially pay more 
into than would eventually be paid out. 
That is the inherent risk of this type of policy  the longer the policy holder lives the 
higher the chance they pay more in premiums than the sum assured agreed to at 
inception.
I know this will come as a disappointment to the representatives of the complaint. 
However, as Im satisfied that the documentation provided to Mr B was clear about 
the policy hed taken out, I cant say Im persuaded that Aviva has acted 
unreasonably. As I think Aviva acted fairly, I wont be asking it to do any more.
For these reasons my decision is to not uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should not be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr B 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman