DRN-3625762
The complaint
Mr M complains about how Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) handled his pension 
transfer request. He said he had suffered financial loss, inconvenience and delays.
What happened
Mr M said he took out a Free Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution Plan (FSAVC) with 
Aviva in 1992. The policy had a normal retirement date (NRD) of age 60 which was in early 
2021. He planned to use the proceeds to purchase a property in January 2021. Due to 
delays by Aviva he had to cash in about £35,000 of other investments at a cost of around 
£5,900 and also lost out as he relied on information from Aviva about a loyalty bonus. He 
said that had he known it wasnt correct he would not have taken the AVC money if it meant 
he missed out on the loyalty bonus.
Aviva accepted Mr Ms complaint. It said that it had received his transfer requested on 12 
January 2021 so it should have completed payment by 1 February 2021. It accepted it had 
caused inconvenience and sent £150. It also said it had incorrectly quoted around £79,000 
in December as it included a loyalty bonus not payable on transfer but the correct figure was 
around £77,000. However the letter said that the values were not guaranteed.
Mr M didnt agree and said that as the transfer was paid after he reached age 60 it should 
have included the loyalty bonus of £5,640.96.
The investigator prepared a timeline of events as follows.
18 November 2020 Mr Ms adviser sent a letter to Aviva requesting information.
25 November 2020 Aviva said it received the letter which was undated.
27 November 2020 Aviva replied providing a letter with standard information showing a fund 
value of around £73,000 and a transfer value of around £75,000. (this was within the 10-
working day standard for replies).
2 December 2020 - Mr M requested a transfer value (TV). 
9 December 2020 Aviva provided the TV of around £79,000 and noted it wasnt guaranteed.
11 December 2020 the adviser requested some information again which it said Aviva had 
not provided. Aviva didnt agree and said it had provided the information.
15 December 2020 Aviva sent replies to questions raised by the adviser on 11 December 
2020. 
16 December 2020 Aviva sent the adviser a fund switch form.
22 December 2020 the business received a call from the adviser team asking for information 
including a transfer value.
30 December 2020 Aviva sent a current unit statement showing the plan value on 7 
December 2020 (11 working days so a delay of one day to its 10-working day standard). It 
confirmed the fund value to be around £74,291.52 and a loyalty bonus of £5,640.96 being 
around £79,900 in total. 
12 January 2021 Aviva receive an Origo transfer request.
14 January 2021 Aviva identified the National Insurance number was wrong.
15 January 2021 the adviser provided the correct NI number and Mr M confirmed this by 
email on the same day. Aviva said that once they had everything it would take 10 working 
days to complete with another 5 working days for the payment to clear.
16 January 2021 all information for transfer complete.
18 January letter from Mr M received confirming his NI number.
26 January 2020 Aviva wrote to Mr M to confirm his NI number.
4 February Mr M called unhappy the transfer still hadnt happened.
16 February Mr M made a complaint. He said due to the delay he had taken money from his 
ISA which couldnt be replaced.
18 February the transfer completed and an amount of £77,734.06 was paid (The adviser 
said it was received by the new provider on 24 February 2021).
Aviva said the transfer value of £77,647.06 was made up of fund value of £75,317.55 plus 
the loyalty bonus of £2,329.51. It said the loyalty bonus was made of 3 types. 
Type 1 was not payable if the policy was transferred before the selected retirement 
date. This was incorrectly included in the original figures, 
Type 2 related to premiums paid between 5 June 1995 to 31 January 1998 and 
applied if regular premiums had been paid for 10 years or more. If the policy had 
passed the selected retirement date then it was paid in full.
Type 3 regular premiums paid from 1 February 1998 onwards a loyalty bonus was 
added if premiums were paid for more than 5 years. 
Types 2 and 3, but not type 1 were included in the final transfer paid.
The investigator said that industry guidance suggested that a pension cash transfer such as 
this using the Origo system should take 10 business days including BACS clearance. But 
this was for applications with no missing information. Aviva didnt receive the completed 
application until 12 January and the correct NI not until 15 January 2021. So the application 
should have been ready from 16 January 2021 and the 10 business days would run from 
then to 1 February 2021.
It could never have been completed by 20 January 2021 which was when Mr M sold ISA 
assets. But there was a delay as it wasnt completed until 18 February 2021 The investigator 
thought Mr M could have applied to transfer sooner as he had the information needed on 27 
November 2020. It wasnt Avivas fault if Mr Ms adviser didnt submit the request because it 
needed to comply with various professional obligations before doing so.With respect to the loyalty bonus, one was paid. The issue was the incorrect figures Aviva 
provided. But the letter that quoted a higher transfer value of around £79,000 made clear the 
value was not guaranteed and could go down as well as up. However it still created an 
incorrect expectation as to the amount that might be received. The investigator referred to 
the policy conditions in section 6 and 17. Aviva was entitled to pay on the basis it did.
The effective date of calculation of the loyalty bonus was the date of receipt of the Origo 
transfer on 12 January 2021 so it had acted correctly and this put Mr M in the position he 
would have been in.
She suggested that an appropriate award for distress and inconvenience was £350 rather 
than the £150 paid. In addition Aviva should calculate any loss due to the delay. 
Mr M didnt agree he said:-
He was pleased the investigator agreed Aviva had not performed adequately but 
didnt feel that the amount of compensation suggested reflected the time, the delays 
and the distress it has caused him
He felt aggrieved that the original bonus suggested by Aviva has not been paid. 
Aviva still hadnt supplied details of, how they make decisions about the amount of 
bonus to be paid. If they had said the bonus would be reduced if it was paid prior to 
his 60th birthday, the advisor would have told him to leave the AVC in place. The 
adviser checked if the bonus was payable. Aviva said yes, what more could he do?
It must be incumbent on Aviva to have a clear, transparent and fair system to allocate 
these bonuses. That was certainly not the case. His adviser asked for the criteria but 
they were not supplied.
Aviva admitted to making a mistake about the bonus calculation. Surely that was 
enough to instruct them to pay the bonus as financial decisions were made based on 
their mistake.
With the delays caused by Aviva Mr M had to sell assets he would not otherwise 
have done. He still felt that by starting the process in late November 2020 his adviser 
and Aviva had enough time to process the application in the timescale he wished.
The investigator said that Aviva did have a method to calculate bonus and she had referred 
to the relevant policy conditions and the details were available on request had they been 
asked for. These details were supplied to Mr M in August 2021. So it should have been clear 
to the adviser had they asked for the policy.
What the adviser actually asked was if there is a difference between the Current
Value (CV) and the Transfer Value (TV) please confirm why there is a difference. Aviva 
replied to confirm there was a difference between the CV and TV as a loyalty bonus applied. 
The adviser was made aware the value could change but it didnt ask any further questions 
about how it would change nor how the bonus was calculated. So there was no evidence 
Aviv had not answered a questions and it was up to the adviser to advise on the most 
appropriate course of action.
With respect to the incorrect bonus figure. Mr M was not entitled to be put in the position as if 
the incorrect bonus was correct but to receive his correct entitlement.
On timing Aviva could not act on the transfer until the request was received in January 2021 
irrespective of how much earlier Mr M started the process with his adviser and via it requesting information from Aviva.
Mr M still didnt agree. He said the policy terms say how the calculations are made but does 
not say they have the freedom to alter the bonus. He still felt that Aviva had confirmed to his 
adviser that a value was correct. He said that had he been given correct information he 
would have looked to provide money for the house purchase in a different way and would 
have been offered different financial advice. He still felt he should get the bonus originally 
quoted and the criteria for calculation had never been provided or fully explained. He should 
get the full amount as the money arrived after his 60th birthday. He felt he should get 
compensation for the loss on the investments sold. He felt the lack of any reply from Aviva to 
the investigators decision underlines the lack of respect by Aviva and was a disgrace.
Aviva finally replied and said that it felt £150 was in line with a delay between 1 and 18 
February 2021. On the loss assessment it felt it had offered in line with normal procedures to 
make sure Mr M wasnt disadvantaged by the delayed investment. It asked the investigator 
to review again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva has already accepted that there was a delay in providing information and later in 
making the transfer payment.
Where the business has made a mistake I can consider an award for financial loss and 
distress and inconvenience.
In considering an award for financial loss. I have considered the delays caused by Aviva. 
While it says information was provided on 30 December (11 working days after the request) I 
dont think this caused any delay in the transfer. I say that because Mr Ms adviser didnt 
submit the transfer request until 12 January 2021.
Aviva also says that from the date it had all information needed (16 Janaury) it should have 
completed the transfer withn 10 days (plus 5 days for funds to clear). This would have meant 
the payment was made on 1 February and not 18 February 2021. This was a delay of 13 
business days. I therefore think it is appropriate to make an award for finanial loss as a 
consequence of that delay. The aim of such an award is to put Mr M back as closely as 
possible to the position he would have been in but for the delay.
Mr M said that the transfer payment was sent to a new provider and placed in a pension 
drawdown account. I have seen details of this which show it was invested on 24 Febaruy 
2021, the date he says the funds were actually received. I have therefore set out a method 
to determine whether he lost out due to the delay in that investment. I have shared this basis 
with both Mr M and Aviva and neither objected.
I have also considered Mr Ms claim that he should be enttled to higher loyalty bonus quoted 
to him by Aviva. But I dont agree for the following reasons. Aviva has provided copies of the 
terms applicabale to his policy which Mr M would have had and which would have been 
available to his adviser.
The policy terms in section 17 say the following.
These are clear that a Loyalty Bonus may be added to the Ordinary Contribution Fund 
and/or the Protected Rights Fund on Retirement Date of the Member  so it is clear this is not guaranteed. The policy says may not will. Further it is clear that the bonus may be added 
at the normal retirement date.
Further it says the terms and conditions which apply in repesct of payment of the Loyalty 
Bonus are determined at the absolute discreation of the Company.. and are available on 
request. So it seems clear that Aviva had a broad discretion as to the basis for payment it 
wished to apply.
I think it is clear from the terms that Aviva could set terms for the bonus it wished. If the basis 
of payment of the type one bonus was by reference to his normal retirement date and his 
transfer was in process before then I think that is reasonable. I cannot direct Avivia to make 
the payment. I dont think it makes a difference that the payment was made after his 60th 
birthday as it is the relevant date of calualtion that is correct. Even if I am wrong in that and 
Mr M is right, had there been no delay the payment would have been made on 1 Febraury 
2021 which was before his 60th birthday so he would not have been entitled the bonus as it 
would always have been paid before his 60th birthday.
However I do think that the information issued showing a higher total transfer of £79,000 was 
unhelpful. The law would say that Mr M is entitled to be put in the position as if there was no 
mistake, not to be put in the position as if the mistake was correct. Mr M says he should get 
the higher amount but the law would not direct that. It is clear that the higher amount was 
stated in error. I cannot see that Mr M acted in reliance on that higher figure. During the 
corresponce prior to transfer he was provided with several figures and said he was 
transferring to fund a house purchase not because the policy had a partiruclar value. There 
was no agreement that the transfer would complete in time for the house purchase nor as to 
its amount.
I can also see that the information sent out in the letter of 27 November 2020 to the adviser 
listed a fund value of £73,909.21 and loyalty bonus of £2,021.36 with a total Transfer value 
of £75,930.57. This was at odds to the higher figure which showed a much higher bonus and 
transfer value of around £79,000. Mr Ms adviser might reasonably have queried the 
difference if he was relying on a particular figure. But the adviser didnt say that he was 
relying on that figure and the transfer value quotes are clear. The fund value and transfer 
value figures were marked by an asterisk which says please note these values are not 
guaranteed and can go down as well as up. So I think it was clear that the final figure could 
be different.
I think it was up to the adviser to ask the right questions. Had it referred to the policy terms it 
might have noticed that the loyalty bonus section referred to bonus being added at 
retirement date. 
So in summary it does not seem that Mr M relied on the higher figure, the higher amount 
was listed in error and the law does not say that he is entitled to the higher amount, so I am 
not directing Aviva to pay it.
I have considered an award for distress and inconvenience. Such an award is intended to 
reflect the impact on Mr M not to punish Aviva. It is clear that the delay was very frustrating 
for Mr M who was at the time arranging a house purchase and must have been very busy. I 
also note that Aviva didnt reply within its own 10 working day timescale, twice. While it did 
not make a difference to Mr M achieving his deadline in January it must have been 
frustrating. We all experience inconvenience from time to time and this is a normal part of 
everyday life. But I think the level of inconvenience was greater than that, not least because 
Aviva accepts it didnt meet its own standards. But I dont think the impact was significant as 
Mr M would never have received the money in time for his house purchase and I would 
expect him to make plans for that or not to have entered into a legally binding contract for purchase without ensuring he had funds to hand. So on balance I think an award of £350 as 
proposed by the investigator is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Putting things right
I have concluded that Aviva paid the transfer 13 business days later than it should have 
done. My aim in awarding fair compensation for that error is to put Mr M back into the 
position he would likely have been in, had it not been for Avivas error. I think this would 
have meant he invested in the PruFund Risk Managed Fund 3 Series E fund. 
I say that because Mr M has produced copy details from his draw down account to show that 
of the just over £77,000 transferred he took tax free cash and invested the remaining 
£56,123.99 into that fund on 24 February 2021, which he says was the date of receipt of the 
funds from Aviva and the total balance in his drawdown account at that date was about 
£85,000. He said it remained invested in that fund until he took a further lump sum of 
£15,000 on 18 January 2022 (prior to that disinvestment the fund value was around £91,162) 
and took another £15,000 on 20 June 2022. He has confirmed that the money remains 
invested in the same fund.
I think it is therefore reasonable to assume that he would have invested in the same fund 
had the transfer been sent on 1 February 2021 and arrived 13 business days earlier than 24 
February 2021 which was on 5 February 2021. As the amount withdrawn is broadly the 
equivalent to the value that would have been in the account prior to the transfer in, I have 
assumed that the two withdrawals of £15,000 each were in effect taken from pre-exisitng 
money and not from the transfer in. I have explained this to both parties and neither party 
objected to this approach.
Any loss Mr M has suffered should be determined by obtaining the number of units in the 
PruFund Risk Managed Fund 3 Series E fund which Mr M would have received had he 
invested £56,123.99 on 5 February 2021, and subtracting the number of units in the 
PruFund Risk Managed Fund 3 Series E he actually received when he invested £56,123.99 
on 24 February 2021. 
If the answer is negative, theres a gain and no redress is payable.
If the answer is positive he should have received that number of additional units in the 
PruFund Risk Managed Fund 3 Series E and his loss shall be calculated as follows:-
1.by multiplying the number of additional units calculated above in the PruFund Risk 
Managed Fund 3 Series E by the unit price on the date of calculation of his loss.
2. Mr M says he has already withdrawn his money from his pension plan and taken his 
tax-free cash so I have not made allowance for the possibility of paying the amount of 
compensation into his pension drawdown plan. Instead the compensation for loss 
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to 
allow for future income tax that would otherwise have been paid, presumed to be 
20% as this is the rate Mr M says he pays.
The calculations should allow for the effect of charges. 
Such amount as is calculated as payable under 1 and adjusted under 2 above should be 
paid directly to Mr M Aviva should pay Mr M a total of £350 for distress and inconvenience so it should pay a 
further £200 as it says it has already paid the £150 set out in its original offer or such other 
amount as is needed to ensure he receives £350 in total. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and direct that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should within 
30 days of this service notifying it that Mr M has accepted this decision pay Mr M:-
1. A total of £350 for distress and inconvenience (but for the avoidance of doubt it need 
only pay any further amount required to make the total payment £350 if it has already 
paid an amount to Mr M for this).
2. Such amount (if any) as calculated under my direction above in the putting things 
right section for calculating fair compensation for financial loss due to the delay.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman