DRN-2190958
The complaint
Ms C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard failed to identify and 
prevent two duplicate payments on her Barclaycard. Ms C is also unhappy about the poor 
customer service she received when she contacted the bank to ask for a refund.
What happened
On 26 May 2020 Miss C made an online payment for £4,107 with her Barclaycard. Almost 
immediately, the same payment was taken again. Ms C didnt realise this at the time but on 
5 June, another payment to another company was declined because of insufficient funds 
and Ms C then spotted the mistake. While the payment was refunded by the merchant 
shortly after that, Ms C feels Barclaycard should have identified that thered been a duplicate 
payment at the time and prevented it from going through.
Ms Cs also unhappy with the service she received when she tried to contact Barclaycard to 
let it know about the problem. She called Barclaycard on 9 June but had difficulty in getting 
through. She had to call several times and there were long delays in her being able to talk to 
anyone. She then tried to contact the Premier Banking Team to see if it could help but it 
wasnt able to do so as the problem related to her credit card not her bank account. 
Ms C doesnt think it was reasonable for Barclaycard to tell her shed have to wait 15 days 
before it could make a claim for a refund or to suggest that she contact the merchant direct. 
She feels it could have done more, both to prevent the payment and to help her reclaim it 
afterwards, and shed like Barclaycard to apologise and to pay her £250 compensation for 
the inconvenience and upset that shes had.
Barclaycard agreed thered been two almost simultaneous payment for the same amount to 
the same payee but said there were no indicators of fraud so there was no reason for it to 
stop them. It didnt agree it had made a mistake with this payment. When Ms C had 
contacted it about the payments, it had noted the dispute on her file and sent her a dispute 
form for completion but under the VISA chargeback rules it couldnt lodge the claim for 15 
days and that was outside of its control. 
However, it acknowledged Ms C had had some difficulties in getting through to Barclaycard 
on the phone and that she felt shed had little support from the Premier Banking Team. It 
apologised for that and offered £150 compensation for the inconvenience this had caused.
Our investigator felt Barclaycard had dealt with the complaint fairly. However while he 
acknowledged the inconvenience caused by the duplicate payment, he couldnt agree 
Barclaycard had made a mistake, either by not flagging it up as a suspicious transaction or 
in the way it had dealt with the chargeback claim afterwards. The rules for chargebacks were 
set by the card provider, not Barclaycard, and under these rules Barclaycard wasnt able to 
lodge the claim for 15 days so until then there was nothing further it could do. It was often 
the case that contacting the merchant direct could resolve matter more quickly so he felt it 
was reasonable of Barclaycard to suggest this and pleased to see this had resulted in a 
refund. With regard to the declined payment, he noted that, even if the duplicate payment 
hadnt gone though, the second payment would have taken Ms C above her credit card limit 
so he didnt agree Barclaycard was responsible for this.
However hed listened to Mrs Cs call with Barclaycard and felt this could have been handled 
better. Hed also taken into account the problems shed had in getting through to report the 
problem. He understood her frustration but in the circumstances, he felt the £150 
compensation offered by Barclaycard was reasonable and for that reason he wouldnt be 
asking it to do anything more.
Mrs C disagreed and asked for her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. She said, in 
summary:
The two payments had gone through almost instantaneously. She felt Barclaycard 
should have identified this and might have done so if it had issued a receipt reference 
for each payment. Barclaycard has previously queried other much lower amounts on 
her card and she questioned why it hadnt queried these payments
While she agreed the second declined payment would have taken her above her 
card limit, this could have been resolved by Barclaycard sending her a text so she 
could have moved funds to her account. She had always paid her card off in full and 
had a good history with Barclaycard.
Shed tried calling Barclaycard 5 or 6 times and had been kept hanging on for a 
considerable time, on two occasions for more than an hour. This was unacceptable.
She felt Barclaycard didnt care about her missing funds and it was unreasonable for 
it to expect her to wait 15 days for reimbursement. She was also unhappy that the 
Premier Banking service hadnt been able to assist.
She didnt consider that £150 was enough for what had happened and felt £250 was more 
appropriate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I consider that Barclaycard has dealt with the complaint fairly as Ill now 
explain.
The background to the complaint has been set out above so I wont repeat it in detail again 
but, in essence, 2 payments were mistakenly taken from Ms Cs barclaycard on 26 May.  
Barclaycard didnt identify a problem at the time and it was only when Ms C went to make 
another payment some 10 days later, which was declined, that she realised what had 
happened.
Ms C has explained very clearly how worried she was and I can understand that. But in this 
case the merchant has confirmed that it was its mistake, not Barclaycards, so the question 
is whether Barclaycard took the appropriate steps to deal with the problem once it was made 
aware of what had happened.
Ive seen Ms C feels Barclaycards systems should have flagged up this was a duplicate 
payment and shes pointed out that its contacted her before about much smaller  and less 
suspicious- payments.  Its clear the two payments to this payee were made almost 
simultaneously and for an identical amount but that doesnt mean, in itself, that they would trigger a fraud alert. That depends on the fraud detection systems in place at Barclaycard 
and the criteria it uses, which can include the amount of a payment. Its location, the payee or 
how it fits with the customers usual type of spend. Thats a commercial decision for the 
business and I cant interfere with that but I note Ms C has said that shes been contacted 
before about other transactions so I cant reasonably say Barclaycard doesnt have 
appropriate fraud detection systems in place.
Id also add that, even without the duplicated payment, the total of the payments on 26 May 
and 5 June would have taken Mrs C above the credit limit on her card so Im not satisfied 
this was the only reason this second payment was declined. 
Ive every sympathy for the position Ms C found herself in at this time - the duplicated 
payment was for a significant amount and Ms C wanted to know how she could get this 
refunded as quickly as possible. However the payment had been made using Ms Cs 
Barclaycard and, even though it was clearly a mistake, the process for reclaiming this money 
was for Barclaycard to apply for a chargeback against the merchants bank.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary one run by the card providers, which in this case was 
VISA, and although Barclaycard doesnt set the rules, it has to comply with them.  As it 
explained, under those rules it wasnt able to make a claim for a chargeback until after 15 
days had elapsed so while I understand Ms Cs frustration at this delay, I cant reasonably 
say Barclaycard is responsible for it. I also consider that it was trying to be helpful in 
suggesting Ms C contact the merchant direct as in cases like this where theres a clear 
mistake, thats often the quickest way and Im pleased to see that, once this was done, the 
refund was made without delay.
However, Im satisfied that Ms C had considerable difficulty in contacting Barclaycard to 
report the problem and that this would only have added to her worry and stress at this time. 
Ive also listened to her call with the advisor and, while I think his advice was reasonable 
overall, I appreciate Ms C didnt feel she got the support she was expecting. I note that 
Barclaycard has accepted this and offered Ms C £150 for her upset and inconvenience. It 
has also confirmed that the offer is still open to Ms C to accept if she wishes to do so.
I accept that Ms C doesnt feel this is enough to reflect the impact on her. However, for the 
reasons set out above, I dont agree Barclaycard made a mistake with the duplicated 
payment or that it was responsible for the subsequent declined payment. The compensation 
therefore is for the poor customer service Ms C received when reporting this payment and, 
on that basis, I consider it is fair and I wont be asking Barclaycard to pay anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2020.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman