DRN-1982403
The complaint
Mr C1 and Mr C2 complain on behalf of their late mothers (Mrs Cs) estate. They say that in 
August 2017 she was incorrectly advised by Skipton Financial Services Limited (Skipton) 
that her investment bonds werent exempt from long term care costs. 
 
What happened
In January 2004, Mrs C and her husband Mr C were advised to invest £50,000 into a Legal 
& General (L&G) investment bond. In July 2004 they were advised to top-up their investment 
by £25,000. 
In December 2005, Mr and Mrs C were advised to invest £15,000 into a Prudential 
investment bond. Sadly, in May 2007, Mr C passed away. 
In August 2017, Mrs C needed to go to a care home, and Mr C1 and Mr C2 had a meeting 
with the advisor to discuss  amongst other things  whether (or not) her investments were 
exempt from care home funding. 
In late November 2017, the adviser assisted Mr C1 and Mr C2 with withdrawing money from 
the L&G bond. In April and October 2018, they withdrew more money from the L&G bond, 
and in April 2019 withdrew money from the Prudential bond. 
In July 2019, Mr C1 and Mr C2 complained to Skipton. They say they were told the 
investments werent exempt but shouldve been advised that they were. Skipton maintains 
that in August 2017 they were advised to contact their local authority regarding such matters. 
In November 2019, the local authority approved funding backdated to when the application 
was first made in April 2019. Sadly, Mrs C passed away in December 2019. 
Skipton didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, it said:
It has never provided any assurance or guidance of any kind in relation to the 
protection of investments from care home funding. 
Its a matter of policy for Skipton financial advisers not to advise on whether 
investments might be exempt from care home costs. Such advice can be seen by 
local authorities as deprivation of assets. 
Local authorities differ in their approach to what they consider to be assets, so it 
could never guarantee which assets would be considered exempt.  
At the time of the first two sets of advice (in December 2003 and June 2004) it was 
standard policy to cover the question of payment of long-term care costs for 
customers within a certain age range. So, Mr and Mrs C were advised to take out 
insurance in respect of such costs. 
Documentation confirms that Mr and Mrs C rejected this advice and accepted the 
consequences of doing so. In 2005, Mr and Mrs C wanted advice in respect of investing a lump sum for income. 
 Theres no evidence that this was connected to care home costs.
On 25 August 2017, the advisers notes of the meeting confirmed that she was asked 
whether these investments could be excluded from long-term care funding and that 
she confirmed that she couldnt provide such guidance, and that Mrs C and Mr C1 
should speak to their local authority  which was the correct advice. 
Three months later they decided to withdraw money, but it cant be held responsible 
for whether (or not) they chose to follow advice and consult the local authority. 
Although its advisers can assist customers with withdrawals it doesnt mean Mrs C 
was advised to make withdrawals in this instance. 
At no point has the adviser advised on whether Mrs Cs investments be included in 
care cost funding.  
 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
This complaint stems from the conversation Mr C1 and Mr C2 had with the adviser in 
August 2017 regarding whether (or not) the bonds needed to be declared for funding 
purposes. He notes: 
oMr C1 and Mr C2 say they decided not to apply for funding following the 
meeting. They felt the value of Mrs Cs bonds wouldve been far higher than 
the upper threshold for care costs funding. 
oBut the contact notes from the 25 August 2017 meeting state: 
met (Mr C1) son, he has a POA registered with SBS and know him 
hence review with him, (Mrs C) is in care, fully aware so spoke with 
her, they are trying to see if the investment can be excluded from ltc 
funding, advised to speak with local authority as I cannot help, also 
wanting to gift £3000, as POA regd advised that as (Mrs C) has never 
done this before better that they don't do this. Leave it to them.'
Although the note of the meeting is different to the recollection of Mr C1 and Mr C2, it 
still suggests that there was a short meeting, and that they discussed whether the 
bonds were exempt (for funding purposes), and Mr C1 (and Mr C2) were more likely 
(than not) to have been told to speak to the local authority as the adviser was in no 
position to advise. 
Skipton has made clear that as a matter of policy its advisers dont advise on such 
matters. 
Regular withdrawals were made until April 2019  at which point an application was 
made to the local authority. But hes not clear why Mr C1 and Mr C2 sought advice at 
that stage, or what promoted them to apply for funding. 
It seems advice from two separate Independent Financial Advisers (IFAs) suggested 
the Mrs Cs bonds were exempt  and Mr C1 and Mr C2s application was granted in 
due course. 
Even if the Skiptons adviser  in August 2017  had suggested that the bonds were 
exempt, Mr C1 and Mr C2 shouldve gone to the local authority as it wouldve been 
prudent to do so regarding costs.  
Although the adviser assisted with the surrender in November 2017 and wrote care 
costs on the form, this only suggests she knew what they were for, not that she 
advised Mr C1 and Mr C2 that that they werent exempt. 
Mr C1 and Mr C2 were assisted by Skipton with the first two withdrawals, but theres 
no evidence that it did anything wrong by refusing to assist with the third and fourth 
withdrawals.  
 Mr C1 and Mr C2 disagreed with the investigators findings. They made the following key 
points:
The investigators view is full of assumptions but always in favour of Skipton. 
The adviser didnt speak to Mrs C during the August 2017 meeting as she was 
already in care and had difficulty with her speech. 
Mr C1 was also at the meeting, the purpose of which was to seek advice about filling 
in the application form.  
They werent advised to contact the local authority, they were incorrectly told the 
rules had changed and the bonds were no longer exempt.
Regardless of what Skiptons policy mightve been this doesnt mean the adviser 
didnt act outside of them. In this instance the adviser failed her duty to give correct 
advice causing them to use the funds to pay for care costs. 
Mr C1 and Mr C2 chose to seek advice following their conversations with the 
prudential bond provider  not because they were told to. They were simply looking 
to clarify whether the bonds were exempt. 
The adviser assisting with the surrender of the bond in November 2017 shows just 
how incompetent she is and shouldve advised them not to surrender the bond. 
 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. In short, he said:
Mr C1 and Mr C2 thought they were receiving advice  about whether (or not) the 
bonds were exempt  at the meeting of August 2017, but they werent. Hes seen no 
fact find or reasons why letter. It was therefore Mr C1 and Mr C2s responsibility to 
make sure they were doing what was right for Mrs C, and not Skiptons.  
The adviser couldve made clear that she wasnt giving advice, but nevertheless this 
doesnt mean that Skipton is now responsible for Mr C1 and Mr C2 surrendering the 
bonds.
The call recording hes heard  between Mr C1 and Prudential  doesnt suggest that 
he should go and seek advice. 
 
Mr C1 and Mr C2 disagreed with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons 
as before and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In summary, they said:
They want to know why the investigator thinks everything Skipton is saying is true. 
Has the investigator asked Prudential for copies of all recordings between 1 March 
2019 and 30 April 2019?
Theyve listened to the recording and the conversation theyve referred to isnt part of 
it, but they havent dreamt or made up that part of the conversation  so there must 
be calls that havent been obtained. 
I spoke to someone earlier would imply that Mr C1 spoke to someone earlier that 
day. Can the investigator confirm that he is looking for/will obtain the call recordings 
for the period specified above? 
 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr C1 and Mr C2 say, Im unable 
to safely say that Mrs C was advised that her investments werent exempt. 
But before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I recognise Mr 
C1 and Mr C2s strength of feeling about this matter. 
Theyve provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope they wont take the fact my findings focus on what 
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr C1 and Mr C2 and Skipton, and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry practice, but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
I know Mr C1 was keen for the investigator to obtain all call recordings between 1 March and 
April 2019, but I can confirm that I dont need any further information in order to reach a 
decision in this case. Ive listened to the calls that are available on file. 
I note that discussions initially took place in August 2017  roughly the same time that Mrs C 
needed to go into care  so its likely that the discussions (amongst other things) included 
the topic of care and funding. But the only record of what mightve been discussed at the 
time is from a contact note by the adviser which states:  
met (Mr C1) son, he has a POA registered with SBS and know him hence review with him, 
(Mrs C) is in care, fully aware so spoke with her, they are trying to see if the investment can 
be excluded from ltc funding, advised to speak with local authority as I cannot help, also 
wanting to gift £3000, as POA regd advised that as (Mrs C) has never done this before 
better that they don't do this. Leave it to them.
 
I note Mr C1 and Mr C2 say Mrs C was in care at the time (which is what the note confirms) 
but didnt speak with the adviser, so its not clear why the adviser said she spoke with Mrs C. 
Nevertheless, the note very clearly states that Mrs C and Mr C1 were advised to speak with 
the local authority  regarding local authority funding  as the adviser couldnt help. I note 
the contact note mentions another matter and concludes by saying Leave it to them which 
would suggest that the matters were left with them to decide how they wanted to move 
forward.  Im conscious that other than this note (and what Mr C1 and Mr C2 say), theres no 
other evidence or record of the meeting. 
Im not saying that I disbelieve Mr C1 and Mr C2s account of events  it may be that they 
were (incorrectly) told that the investments werent exempt and werent told to check with the local authority but on the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what they say, Im 
unable to safely conclude that this is what happened. In other words, on a balance of 
probabilities Im not persuaded that this is whats more likely (than not) to have happened. 
I note that Skipton says its a matter of policy for its financial advisers not to advise on 
whether investments might be exempt from care home costs. Im aware that such advice can 
be seen by local authorities as deprivation of assets and any attempt to deliberately deprive 
assets can have serious consequences. In the circumstances I dont think Skiptons stance 
on such matters is unreasonable. 
In any event, what local authorities might consider to be assets for the purposes of funding 
can be different, so the adviser wouldnt have been able to give them a definitive answer, 
without their local authority input. 
It wouldve been reasonable for Mr C1 and Mr C2 to speak to their local authority to see 
where they stand but Ive seen nothing to suggest that they did. Even if they were told the 
bonds were no longer exempt  which on balance Im unable to say they were - Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that Mr C1 and Mr C2 were advised to start withdrawing funds from the 
bonds, which Im satisfied they did of their own volition some two or three months later in 
November 2017 (intermittently) until April 2019. On balance Im unable to safely say that this 
was as a result of their meeting in August 2017.  
Its in April 2019  when presumably the money had been withdrawn  they applied to the 
local authority for funding which was granted November 2019 and backdated to April 2019. 
Notwithstanding their meeting with Skipton  and the points made by Mr C1 and C2 about 
their conversation with Prudential  its not clear why Mr C1 and Mr C2 didnt apply for 
funding much sooner when Mrs C went into care. Im confident this wouldve clarified 
matters; however, it was their decision. 
Im mindful in the first call to Prudential Mr C1 says I spoke to a guy a little while ago he 
gave me some surrender value on the policypossibly send me some surrender forms 
please?. 
Even if the adviser assisted with the withdrawal of funds on two occasions, it doesnt mean 
that she advised Mr C1 and C2 to withdraw funds because they werent exempt from the 
local authority funding. She was merely assisting them as per their instructions. I also dont 
think Skipton did anything wrong by not assisting with the subsequent withdrawals.
I appreciate Mr C1 and C2 will be disappointed Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what they want to hear. 
But on the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give them 
what they want.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs C 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 September 2020.Dara Islam
Ombudsman