DRN-3632739
The complaint
Mr P complains that TSB Bank plc failed to refund transactions he didnt recognise.
What happened
Mr P held a current account with TSB and noticed several payments to a merchant Ill refer 
to as G that he didnt recognise. These payments were made using his debit card via either 
the internet or a phone call.
These payments took place over several days in late 2020 and Mr P notified TSB about 
them. Mr P still had possession of his debit card at that point and hadnt given the details to 
anyone else to use them. TSB issued a refund for the disputed transactions, cancelled his 
card, and re-issued a new one with a different card number. 
Early in 2021, there were a number of transactions to another business Ill refer to as J. 
These took place over a two-week period and amounted to several thousand pounds. Mr P 
didnt recognise these transactions which were made with the new card details recently 
issued to him. Again, Mr P notified TSB about these transactions and they were investigated 
by TSB.
TSB were concerned about the two fraud claims and contacted both G and J. After 
considering the situation, TSB recovered the original refunds theyd made to Mr P and 
declined to refund the second set of disputed transactions from J. TSB believed Mr P was 
responsible for making all the transactions hed disputed.
Mr P was unhappy with TSB and made a complaint to them. TSB again looked into the 
situation but didnt change their position and declined to refund him. Mr P then brought his 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review. It was looked into 
by one of our investigators who asked both parties for information about the situation.
Mr P explained that he hadnt given either of his cards or their details to anyone else, but it 
was possible for their details to be acquired through various means. TSB provided details of 
their investigation and information about the transactions which had all been made as 
distance contracts  which meant they were made either over the internet or via a phone 
call. 
The information required to make the transactions needed the various details from the card 
including the three-digit security number (CVV). TSB were concerned about discussions 
theyd had with G & J as they indicated links with Mr Ps accounts and addresses to another 
person. 
After considering the evidence, our investigator thought it was reasonable for TSB to hold Mr 
P responsible for the transactions. Mr P disagreed with the outcome and maintained that he 
wasnt responsible for the payments and was also a victim of fraud. 
Mr Ps complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that TSB can hold Mr P liable for the disputed payments if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made them or authorised them. 
TSB can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Mr P authorised the 
transactions, but TSB cannot say that the use of the card details conclusively proves that the 
payments were authorised. Unless TSB can show that consent has been given, it has no 
authority to make the payment or to debit Mr Ps account and any such transaction must be 
regarded as unauthorised. 
To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed transactions. It shows 
that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools issued to Mr P. Ill now 
need to consider the information provided by both parties to determine whether theres 
sufficient evidence to hold Mr P responsible for the disputed transactions or not.
Due to the age of the transactions, TSB were unable to provide all the details about the 
payments, but theyve explained that the use of the CVV in the transactions was likely 
required when the payments were made. This is relevant to my considerations because the 
CVV isnt generally available anywhere but from the card. Looking at the amounts of the 
payments made to both G & J, I think its likely that the CVV was required, at least for the 
original payments made to them. It wouldnt be usual for a legitimate merchant (such as G & 
J) to fail to ask for the CVV on a new payment from a person as its an integral part of the 
security of the card and would put themselves at further risk of fraud.
There were two sets of disputed transactions, each of them amounting to several thousand 
pounds. The first set used the details from Mr Ps original debit card, including the CVV. The 
second set of payments used the details from Mr Ps new card that had only been issued to 
him some weeks earlier. In order for an unauthorised third party to carry out these 
transactions, they would have needed to obtain two sets of details from Mr P, including the 
CVV from each card which as Ive already mentioned isnt generally available from anywhere 
but the card itself. 
Mr P has confirmed he didnt reveal the card details to anyone else to use his card, but he 
believes there are ways to obtain the card details. By that he means either physically ( taking 
the card and copying the details) or some form of electronic or social engineering attack 
(phishing). Whilst its true that the card details can be obtained by various methods, I dont 
think thats the explanation here.
I say that because these transactions required two different sets of card details including the 
CVV. Mr P hasnt been able to provide any evidence that he was the victim of a phishing 
attack that would have had to have happened twice to obtain both numbers, nor is there any 
evidence that his card details were obtained by anyone being able to physically take them 
and copy the details.
Both sets of payments also needed other details including the address the card was 
registered to. TSBs records indicated that both G & J had various details held on their 
systems that were linked to Mr P, including his address. Mr P believed it was straight 
forwards for his details to be added to both G & Js records by whoever carried out these 
transactions. Its possible that someone else was responsible for them and orchestrated 
various false accounts with G & J, but having looked at Mr Ps internet usage of his account, its apparent that he was using his online banking at various times between the disputed 
transactions (which took place over an extended period of time). I think it unlikely that these 
payments wouldnt have been noticed earlier as they were relatively large. 
Prior to the first set of payments to J, the account received a number of payments which 
appear to have been sent from another account belonging to Mr P. Three payments were 
then made to J which amounted to over £1,500 and the account then received further inward 
payments, again from accounts belonging to Mr P before further payments were made to J. 
The account was, at that point, quite low and Mr P transferred further funds into it, before 
further payments were made to J. So, it appears that the account was somewhat managed 
throughout this period because many of the disputed transactions couldnt have taken place 
without further funds being transferred in from Mr P. I think it unlikely that Mr P wasnt aware 
of these large payments leaving his account, so Id question why he didnt notify TSB about 
them earlier.
Taking everything into account I think it more likely than not that Mr P was responsible for 
making these transactions and that it was reasonable for TSB to hold him responsible for 
them. Whilst Im sure Mr P will disagree with me, theres no evidence to show these 
transactions were carried out by anyone else and the operation of his account indicates that 
he was likely aware of the disputed transactions some time before he notified TSB about 
them. Its also unlikely that an unauthorised third party was able to obtain two different sets 
of card details including the CVV.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman