DRN-4053516
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about the decisions and handling and payment for their claim for 
damage from an escape of water at their home by their insurer, Fairmead Insurance Limited. 
All references to Fairmead include its agents. 
What happened
In October 2020 Mr and Mrs B reported an escape of water at their home. Mr and Mrs B said 
this was coming from under their kitchen floor, and they had the leak repaired. 
Fairmead appointed loss adjusters to manage the claim and they visited Mr and Mrs B in 
October 2020. They appointed contractors who managed the strip out works of the damaged 
fixtures and fittings. Alternative accommodation was required, but Fairmead said it took until 
March 2021 to agree this as Mr and Mrs B rejected properties that didnt meet their needs, 
then moving in with relatives at an agreed allowance of £2,500 per month. 
Drying out was completed in April 2021 and Fairmead said it was only at this point it was 
able to appoint contractors to begin the repairs. Fairmead said that during the stripping out a 
second leak was discovered, and this had damaged a base unit etc, and plaster and flooring. 
Fairmead said there was also evidence of rising damp in the hall, kitchen and lounge.
Fairmead offered Mr and Mrs B a cash settlement in April 2021 for £10,500. Mr and Mrs B 
rejected this and requested that the contractors complete the works. The contractors began 
flooring work in May 2021, but Mr and Mrs B were concerned about the workmanship. 
Fairmead acknowledged that a gas pipe was damaged during the work but said this was 
fixed immediately and safety tested. 
Fairmead explained about the work that had been carried out and provided an allowance of 
£150 per base unit and met Mr and Mrs Bs quote for tiling. It said it paid Mr and Mrs B for 
replacement of the valves in their radiators and after some confusion about rehanging the 
radiators, Fairmead offered them £50 per radiator. In July 2021 Fairmead made a further 
offer of cash settlement for the kitchen in the sum of £3,700. It explained to Mr and Mrs B 
that this covered what its labour cost would have been and the materials and half the cost of 
the kitchen doors. Mr and Mrs B then submitted their kitchen quote for over £12,000.
Mr and Mrs B bought their new kitchen but Fairmead said it wasnt like for like and it wouldnt 
increase its offer. It said it would review the remaining parts of the claim such as increased 
electricity costs during the drying out. Mr and Mrs B complained to Fairmead about very poor 
service saying it had tried to restore unsanitary kitchen units and then made an inadequate 
offer for replacement. Mr and Mrs B said they had to stay at their relatives house for two 
extra weeks due to uncompleted electrical work and should be paid a further allowance of 
£1,250. Fairmead said when the kitchen was installed the house was then habitable and it 
wouldnt make a further payment. It said payments were on a monthly, not four-weekly basis. 
In respect of Mr and Mrs Bs kitchen units, Fairmead said that items not damaged by the 
insured event that are part of a set or suite, would not be covered by the policy. It referred to 
page 33 of the policy booklet under section 14 General Exceptions, which states;
9. Matching of items.
The costs of replacing any undamaged or unbroken item or parts of items forming part of a 
set, suite or other article of uniform nature, colour or design if damage occurs within a clearly 
identifiable area or to a specific part and it is not possible to match replacements.
Despite this, Fairmead agreed to pay half the cost of the undamaged items to be replaced to 
allow a matching set of units to be installed. Fairmead apologised to Mr and Mrs B for 
providing a less than desired level of service and paid them compensation of £350.  
Mr and Mrs B were dissatisfied with Fairmeads response and referred their complaint to our 
service. They said they had no help finding alternative accommodation and had to arrange 
this themselves. And said the kitchen worktops had warped and needed to be replaced and 
other fittings were unsanitary. Mr and Mrs B said they had to collect their kitchen tiles and 
source a vanity unit as the contractors broke their one. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Fairmead had 
offered the correct amount for the repairs and compensation fair its poor service. The 
investigator said there was no evidence that Fairmead agreed to pay Mr and Mrs Bs 
alternative accommodation every four weeks, and she wouldnt recommend anything further. 
Mr and Mrs B disagreed and requested an ombudsman review their complaint. They said 
Fairmeads workmen had damaged their carpet and should replace it. And Fairmead had 
agreed to pay the accommodation allowance every four weeks. They said Fairmead sent 
nothing in support of its offer for their kitchen and they couldnt have replaced it for the 
amount offered. They said their relatives should be compensated for their disruption.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked carefully at the records of the claim and Mr and Mrs Bs policy to see if they have 
been treated in accordance with the terms and fairly. However, we can only look into 
Fairmeads actions up to its final response to Mr and Mrs Bs complaint on 1 December 
2021. If Mr and Mrs B have any complaints about what took place after this, they will need to 
raise this with Fairmead first.
The parties disagree about the cause of the delay in completing the work of the claim. From 
the records the claim was slow to get going with the lack of available property at the time 
and Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with the suggested type of alternative accommodation put 
forward by Fairmeads relocation agents. The strip out work had to await their relocation and 
couldnt start until March 2021 with drying out completed the following month. 
Mr and Mrs B consider their kitchen units to have been damaged by waste water beyond 
repair. Mr and Mrs B said the kitchen cupboards were left in situ with work carrying on 
around them causing damage. Fairmead and its agents disagree and said the kitchen units 
werent damaged and were capable of being restored to the kitchen.
When there is a dispute about whether damage has occurred, we have to rely on the 
available evidence. The only expert report is from Fairmeads loss adjusters. This states that 
the leak was located to the toilet and fixed, but effluent had travelled under the floor and so 
the damage spread. The report states that not all parts of the kitchen were damaged but that 
a contribution would be made towards replacement. From this its not possible to conclude that all of the kitchen was beyond economic repair and there does appear to have been 
fittings in the old kitchen that could have been re-used.
Ive also seen photos, but I havent seen images of damage. I dont think Fairmeads agents 
would have taken the trouble to remove and subsequently incur storage costs if they 
considered the units to be damaged beyond repair. From what I have seen I think Fairmead 
has made reasonable decisions about the damaged and undamaged units and the 
respective payments. I also think it was reasonable for Mr and Mrs B to take the opportunity 
of the kitchens removal to install a new and better kitchen, but this doesnt make the cost a 
liability to Fairmead. Mr and Mrs Bs policy, in common with other home insurance policies, 
provides them with indemnity for their damage or losses. This means they should be 
restored to their pre-loss position, but doesnt provide any cover for undamaged items. 
Mr and Mrs Bs policy also allows Fairmead to offer a cash settlement for their claim. If this is 
offered as an alternative to carrying out the repairs, we wouldnt ask Fairmead to pay more 
than it would have cost it to complete and  as I have said - only cover the cost of repairs for 
the damaged items. Fairmead has offered to cover the cost of the damaged units. The new 
kitchen Mr and Mrs B installed appears to be of a better quality than their previous kitchen. I 
can see that Fairmeads offer is based on the original kitchen and its replacement cost. 
Most home insurers offer policyholders the option of taking out matching sets cover when 
the policy is taken out. Mr and Mrs Bs policy does not include this cover which means that 
the cost of providing matching units for those which werent damaged isnt a cost the policy 
requires Fairmead to pay. Notwithstanding this Im pleased to see that Fairmead has offered 
to pay for half of the cost of undamaged items as I agree with Mr and Mrs B that no one 
would want a mixed match kitchen. Im sorry to see that Mr and Mrs B borrowed money and 
incurred interest in paying for their new kitchen, but I think Fairmeads offer is reasonable as 
it is beyond what the policy requires it to do.
Fairmead has told us that no additional electricity costs have been paid to Mr and Mrs B, as 
they havent responded to its requests for details. It still remains open to Mr and Mrs B to 
claim for excess energy bills incurred during the drying out process and they should contact 
Fairmead directly about this. 
Mr and Mrs B said they had no help finding alternative accommodation and had to arrange 
this themselves. From the records, Mr and Mrs B found a rental which was agreed, but 
unfortunately this fell through, and they went into a hotel. Fairmead said its agents continued 
to search for accommodation, but nothing was suitable, and Mr and Mrs B rented a relatives 
property. I dont think Fairmead was to blame for the lack of alternative accommodation for 
Mr and Mrs B and a compromise arrangement was made, albeit after a delay. 
Mr and Mrs B said Fairmead made a verbal agreement to pay an allowance for their 
alternative accommodation on a four-weekly basis. Fairmead has said this was agreed on a 
calendar month basis. I havent seen anything to indicate that Fairmead agreed to pay every 
four weeks, though the initial hotel accommodation was agreed for four weeks. On 5 
September 2021 Fairmeads loss adjusters emailed Mr and Mrs B and said, Insurers deal 
with this on a month-by-month basis and the standard approach is to make it payable on a 
per calendar month basis not 4 week as suggested. I have noted that Fairmead paid Mr and 
Mrs B £1,400 disturbance allowance whilst they stayed at the hotel. 
The normal arrangement by an insurer would be payment per calendar month and I think 
thats what the arrangement was here, and so I dont think Fairmead needs to pay anything 
more. Mr and Mrs B said their relatives should also be compensated for their disruption, but 
it is outside of the remit of a complaint for us to consider the impact on third parties. It is inherent within a large escape of water claim that there will be multiple parties involved 
and a degree of inconvenience and stress. Our role is to see if this has been caused 
unnecessarily by an insurer. In this case there have been delays and some poor 
communications by Fairmead. Their agents were working under covid restrictions, but I think 
they could have managed the claim more effectively. Fairmead has paid Mr and Mrs B £350 
compensation for the stress and inconvenience it caused, and having considered what took 
place I think this is fair and consistent with other awards made in similar circumstances.
In conclusion, I do not expect Fairmead to pay further towards Mr and Mrs Bs kitchen or 
more compensation, but I do expect it to meet all commitments if it hasnt already done so in 
terms of its offers towards costs, and these should be up to date costs. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman