DRN-1693234
Complaint 
Miss A complains that AXA France IARD mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
her alongside a store card in July 2000.
Although the PPI was sold by another business AXA France IARD has taken responsibility 
for this complaint. For ease of reference, I will refer to AXA throughout this decision.
Background
Miss A applied for the PPI in the store when she took out her store card there. This policy 
covered her if she lost her job, was off work because she was sick, or if she had an accident. 
The policy cost no more than £1.00 for every £100.00 of the outstanding balance owed on 
the card. On a successful claim, it would have paid 15% of that balance until the outstanding 
balance on the card was repaid or until Miss A returned to work.
Our adjudicator said he didn't think this was a case that should be upheld. Miss A disagreed 
with our adjudicators view. She said the sales advisor never mentioned PPI and at no point 
was any information given about the policy. She told us it was an extra cost and a waste of 
money, and she wouldn't have known she could make a claim because she didn't know she 
had the policy.
She asked that the matter be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in deciding 
this case.  
Im sorry to disappoint Miss A, but I havent upheld her complaint. Ill explain why below.
The first thing Ive considered is whether Miss A had a choice about buying the PPI. She has 
told us there was no mention of the cover, and she was unaware that a fee was being 
attached in addition to the monthly repayments for the store card. 
AXA has provided a copy of the agreement Miss A saw and signed at the time of the sale. 
On it theres a section about PPI. Miss A has signed separately in the section headed 
Account Cover to confirm she wanted her account covered by the insurance. If she 
hadn't wanted to take out the cover, she could have left this part of the form blank. Miss A 
has also signed and dated the application. I have no doubt Miss A has told me what she 
honestly remembers about the sale but I have also taken into account that this sale 
happened nearly twenty years ago. I can also see that Miss A hasn't opted to take out card 
protection, another optional insurance policy. I think Miss A would more likely have read the 
form confirming all her personal details and understood she had applied for the insurance at 
the time. In addition, I think the PPI would have likely appeared on Miss As statements, so if she didn't want the policy or didn't know she had it she could have questioned it at the time. I 
havent seen evidence she did so.
Taking everything into account, on balance, I think its more likely that Miss A agreed to take 
the PPI out at the time knowing she could refuse it if she didn't want it, even if its 
understandable if she cant remember that now after such a long time. 
I dont think AXA recommended this policy to Miss A. So, it didn't have to make sure it was 
suitable for her circumstances. But it still had to give her enough clear information, so she 
could decide for herself whether she wanted to take out the policy or leave it.
Its possible that not all the information was as clear as it should have been. But even if the 
information could have been clearer that doesn't mean I can automatically uphold Miss As 
complaint. I have to decide whether Miss A would have acted differently if shed been given 
all the information she should have been given. 
To help me decide, Ive thought about the terms and conditions of the policy and Miss As 
personal circumstances. Taking these things into account, I still think Miss A would have 
bought the cover. 
I say this as it appears Miss A was eligible for the policy. And as she was in full time 
employment and had no pre-existing medical conditions, I dont think she would have been 
affected by any of the main limitations or exclusions of the policy which might have made it 
more difficult to make a successful claim.
Miss A has told us she wouldn't have received any sick pay from her employer, but she said 
she had savings of between three and six months she could fall back on if things went 
wrong. I can see if Miss A had to make a claim on the PPI, 15% of her balance would have 
been paid every month until the balance was repaid. I accept Miss A had some savings but 
with this cover, she could have used her savings on her other essential expenditure at what 
would have no doubt been a very stressful time for her if she was out of work. I have also 
taken into consideration that this policy would have paid out in addition to any savings she 
had. Overall, I still think the policy was useful to her. 
So, for the reasons Ive given above I still think the PPI could have been useful if Miss A lost 
her job or couldn't work. And it looks as though she chose to buy the insurance, so it 
seems like she wanted that type of cover at the time. I also havent seen anything to suggest 
the premiums were unaffordable. With that in mind, I dont think Miss A would have acted 
differently even if AXA had given her more or better information about the policy. 
I am sorry to disappoint Miss A, but after taking everything into account, it follows that I 
havent upheld her complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint about AXA France IARD. I dont 
require AXA France IARD to take any further action in respect of it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman