DRN-2869834
The complaint
Mr B complains about the quality of a car he purchased in part, with a credit card provided 
by Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds).  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr B made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then theres been a breach of contract and Id ask Lloyds 
to put things right.
The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that 
a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr B. The car here was about 
nine years old and had already completed about 78,000 miles. So, I think a reasonable 
person would expect to find some wear and tear, but I think the damage identified here is in 
excess of what would be considered normal.
I think theres clear evidence this car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied, the 
point at which Lloyds are responsible for its quality. I say that because the dealership 
completed repairs to the Exhaust Gas Recirculation (EGR) valve.
The relevant legislation gives the business the opportunity to repair a fault present when 
supplied but if repairs fail legislation requires the business to allow rejection of the vehicle. I 
think the repairs that were completed by the dealership didnt resolve matters for Mr B. I say 
that because I can see Mr B had to pay to repair a wheel, replace another and respray the 
grill. A subsequent inspection of the car also highlighted previous repair damage that Mr B 
wasnt informed of and that the inspector agreed would reduce the cars value. Whether a 
car is of satisfactory quality at the point of supply isnt limited to its mechanical condition.
Whilst Lloyds have suggested Mr B accepted the car in that condition when he inspected it 
prior to sale, I dont think theres evidence Mr B did inspect the car prior to sale. He 
complained about the condition of the car as soon as he received it. So, Im persuaded this 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied and as repairs have failed the business 
should allow Mr B to reject it.
The relevant legislation explains that a consumer doesnt have to accept rejection of the car 
and that they can instead opt for a price reduction. Thats the case here and in those 
circumstances the price reduction should reflect the difference in value between what the 
consumer paid for the goods and the value of what they actually received. 
Putting things right
The investigator generated CAP valuations for the car in various conditions at the time of 
sale. Having reviewed that information Im persuaded his opinion the car was worth £5,000 
at the point of sale and not the £5,995 that Mr B paid, is reasonable. I think Lloyds should 
therefore refund the difference and they should add interest as Mr B has been deprived of 
that money.
Mr B has explained that the dealership replaced the Exhaust Gas Recirculation (EGR) valve 
when they repaired his vehicle after sale. Hes disappointed that the valve failed again 10 
months and 3,375 miles later. The CAP valuation Ive used to calculate a reasonable sales 
price for the vehicle is one that I think its fair to say mirrors a poor condition where, in CAPs 
words, a car is hard worked. So, Im persuaded the refund Im proposing is a fair one and 
one that reflects the condition of the car when supplied; a condition that incorporated a faulty 
EGR valve. So, I think the fairest resolution is for Lloyds to refund the difference in price 
between what Mr B paid and what the CAP valuation says he should have paid.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Lloyds Bank PLC to:
provide a refund of £995 to Mr B to reflect the difference between the CAP valuation 
and the price Mr B paid for the car. Lloyds Bank PLC should add 8% simple interest* 
per year to that refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to deduct tax from the interest they should give Mr B 
a certificate showing how much tax theyve deducted, if Mr B requests it.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman