DRN-1744321
The complaint
Ms K is unhappy with Virgin Money plcs service during her buy-to-let (BTL) re-mortgage 
applications. She complains about:
 the overall delays caused; 
 pre-dated documents sent her; 
 lack of updates and call backs as agreed; 
 the cut-off date being missed on one of her applications; 
 incorrect breakdown of repayments 
She wants compensation for the higher mortgage payments she had to make during this 
time.
What happened
Ms Ks re-mortgage applications took place around the end of 2018 to early 2019. I wont go 
into any detail about the timeline of events for each re-mortgage application as these are 
lengthy and well known to both sides. Where there is any discrepancy in relation to dates, 
these will be addressed separately below. 
Ms K had an existing BTL mortgage with Virgin. Unhappy with the service received during 
this re-mortgage application, she raised a complaint with Virgin in early March 2019. At the 
time, Ms K had enquired about switching two other BTL mortgages from other lender(s) but 
was yet to submit her applications.
 
Virgin investigated her concerns about the existing mortgage and also reviewed its service in 
relation to the other re-mortgage applications. It provided its final response on 3 April 2019. 
Virgin accepted responsibility for some of the delays caused and the level of service it 
provided. It offered Ms K £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused and made an 
interest adjustment of £70.08 for the seven days overpayment on her existing mortgage. 
Dissatisfied with Virgins response, Ms K brought her complaint to our service in July 2019. 
An investigator looked into things and felt Virgins offer was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. Ms K didnt agree. She says she was paying twice the amount on all her 
mortgages for months, amounting to more than £70.08. 
The investigator looked into things again. His opinion didnt change. He still felt that Virgin 
had fairly compensated Ms K for the delays it had caused. He couldnt hold Virgin 
responsible for all the expenses incurred as there were some delays to the applications that 
were outside of Virgins control.
Ms K didnt agree. She provided a timeline of events according to her records and more 
information about things that happened after Virgin issued its final response letter. This did 
not change the investigators opinion. Because an agreement has not been reached, the 
case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, as some of it is here, I reach my decision 
on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to have happened, in 
light of the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
Ive considered each of Ms Ks re-mortgage applications in turn.
Existing Virgin mortgage
Ms Ks existing mortgage deal with Virgin was ending on 1 January 2019. Virgin wrote to 
Ms K about her options on 3 September 2018. Ms K submitted an application for a new 
product and additional borrowing to extend her lease on 22 December 2018. 
Ms Ks request to borrow additional funds was subject to a full affordability assessment and 
underwriting process. So, Im satisfied it was not possible for the re-mortgage application to 
complete by the product end date of 1 January 2019. 
An offer was issued on 17 January 2019. Eight working days after Virgin received the 
necessary documents on 7 January 2019. I dont think it took Virgin an unreasonable length 
of time to issue its offer. 
Virgin asked for acceptance along with further information from the instructed solicitors. 
Some communication took place between both parties and the required information was 
submitted to Virgin on 6 March 2019. The solicitors asked for completion to take place on 18 
March 2019. This did not happen until 25 March 2019 and Ms K was charged interest at the 
higher rate during this time. Virgin has admitted it got things wrong and has put Ms K back in 
the position she should have been in. It credited her account with £70.08 which equates to 
seven days interest at the higher rate. 
Part of Ms Ks response to the investigators view was that completion should have taken 
place on 25 March 2019, but this didnt happen until 1 April 2019 and no one told her about 
the delay. Ive seen Virgins contact notes that confirm completion took place on 25 March 
2019. 
Ms K complains that it took three months for the re-mortgage to complete and as a result 
she was paying more towards her mortgage during this time on the standard variable rate.  
There was some confusion regarding the instruction of the solicitors, and I do agree 
completion could have possibly taken place sooner than it did. But what I need to consider is 
whether Virgin has done anything wrong during the process and what impact, if any, its 
actions has had on Ms K. 
Ive considered the way Virgin administered the re-mortgage application and I dont think its 
responsible for any other delays caused. I say this because I can see it actioned everything 
from its end within reasonable timescales.
The necessary information was requested from the solicitors on 17 January 2019 and not 
received by Virgin until 6 March 2019. I think this caused most of the delay to Ms Ks 
application. The solicitor in this case was acting for both Virgin and Ms K. Some of the things it did were 
solely for Virgin, some were solely for Ms K and some were for both Virgin and Ms K. Virgin 
is responsible for things the solicitor did on its behalf that were solely for it. Ms K would need 
to complain to the solicitor if she is dissatisfied with its actions where it was acting for her or 
both her and Virgin. 
In this case I cant hold Virgin responsible for the actions of the solicitor as the events in 
question were being carried out on behalf of both parties.
Virgin has explained that its not its process to keep customers updated during the mortgage 
process unless it needs specific information from the customer to progress the application. 
It is not unusual for all communication to take place between the lender and the solicitor. 
However, Virgin has acknowledged that it could have provided a better service at some 
stages during the application and has referred to times when calls backs didnt take place as 
agreed.
Ive noted all the things Ms K has said about Virgins lack of contact and the deadline for the 
offer acceptance being the same as the issue date. I dont think either of these issues 
affected the delayed competition date in anyway. 
When considering everything, I think the compensation offered to Ms K is fair and 
reasonable. I say this because Ms K has been put back in the position she would have been 
in - had completion taken place on the date requested by the solicitors. And I think the offer 
of £200 compensation takes into account the distress and inconvenience caused as a result 
of Virgins failings.
 
Two further BTL re-mortgage applications
Two further BTL re-mortgage applications Ms K enquired about these applications in late 
January and late February. Both her applications were returned to Virgin on 14 March 2019. 
Ms K wanted to complete on 1 April 2019. This only allowed Virgin two weeks. 
When moving a mortgage from another lender, the conveyancing and underwriting process 
will involve a longer and more thorough process than applying for a rate switch with the 
same lender. So, I cant reasonably hold Virgin responsible for not meeting Ms Ks expected 
completion date.
 
When Virgin issued its final response on 3 April 2019, it had only considered its handling of 
Ms Ks applications until this date. Virgin admitted it got some things wrong. So I have to 
decide whether the things it has done to put things right, including the amount of 
compensation its offered, is fair and reasonable. 
Virgin has explained that its request for a BTL business plan wasnt necessary and it entered 
Ms Ks incorrect contact details on its system. This led to delays of two and four working 
days on her applications.
Virgins offer of £200 compensation takes in account the delays caused during the early 
stages of these two applications. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
In response to our investigators opinion, Ms K has mentioned delays occurring on these two 
re-mortgage applications that took place after Virgin issued its final response. These are new 
issues that need to be investigated by Virgin before I can issue my decision on these 
matters.Virgin accepts it caused a few days delay during the early stages of these mortgage 
applications and a better service could have been provided during the re-mortgage on Ms 
Ks existing mortgage. When considering everything, I think the compensation fairly reflects 
the impact of these shortcomings on Ms K. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Virgin Money plc should pay Ms K the £200 compensation offered. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman