DRN-3530464
The complaint
Mr F complains about the way that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) handled his claim for 
money back in respect of carpets he bought using a loan from it. 
What happened
In November 2019 Mr F bought carpets for his house from a supplier Ill call S at a cost of 
£2,651.15. He paid a deposit of £251.15 and paid the remainder using a fixed sum loan from 
Ikano.
Mr F arranged through S for a fitter to deliver and fit the carpets. Mr F said when the fitter 
arrived a few weeks later they had not been provided with enough carpet to complete the 
job. Mr F said the job was rescheduled for early December, but another problem meant the 
job could not be completed fully again. Mr F said the parts of the carpet that were fitted were 
laid poorly and came loose, the stairs were fitted with loose cuts that were coming away and 
not fully carpeted, there were stains on the carpet and the wrong underlay was used.
 
Mr F said S sent someone to look at the carpet that had been laid in December 2019 and 
they concluded both it and the underlay should be replaced. Mr F said another inspection 
took place in January 2020 with the same result.
Mr F asked Ikano for help in February 2020 having still not received any confirmation from S 
as to when the replacement carpets would be delivered and fitted. 
 
S called Mr F in July 2020 to arrange the fitting of new carpets and presumably to complete 
the parts of the job that remained unfinished. Its internal notes say that Mr F couldnt talk 
and the call was terminated.
 
Ss notes show it called Mr F again in October 2020 but there was no answer.
Ikano responded to Mr Fs claim in January 2021. It said S had been trying to get in touch 
with him to put things right and was still willing to replace the carpets. So, it said he should 
contact F to arrange this. 
 
Mr F and S couldnt agree the basis on which the rectification work should take place. Mr F 
said hed furnished his house while he was waiting for the carpets to be replaced so this 
would need to be moved first but S wouldnt agree to do this for him. It said the terms of its 
contract with Mr F made clear that rooms should be cleared before carpet is delivered.
 
Mr F complained to Ikano. It again declined to meet his claim and said S had tried to arrange 
the replacement and fitting of missing carpet with Mr F but he had not co-operated with it. It 
did however offer to pay him £50 in recognition of the time it had taken to look into the 
matter. 
Our investigator thought Mr Fs complaint should be upheld. She said it was clear S had 
decided the carpets needed to be replaced and this had not happened in reasonable time. 
She said given the stalemate that had been reached  and the time that had passed, the 
fairest thing to do was to remove the carpets, cancel the loan agreement, refund everything 
Mr F had paid, pay him additional compensation of £150 and amend his credit file. 
Ikano did not agree with the investigator. It said the time taken to complete the replacement 
had been affected by the government restrictions in response to the covid-19 pandemic. And 
it said Mr Fs failure to cooperate with S when it was willing to replace the carpets had added 
significantly to this time also. It said Ss offer to replace the carpets and complete the job 
subject to Mr F moving his own furniture was a fair offer to put things right
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case, I am required to give consideration to 
relevant law. This includes Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75) which says 
that, in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has an equal right to 
claim against the credit provider if theres either a breach of contract or a misrepresentation 
by the supplier of goods or services. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is also relevant. This implies terms in consumer 
contracts that where goods are to be supplied they must be of satisfactory quality and where 
services are being provided they must be carried out with reasonable care and skill. 
I have seen photos of Mr Fs property showing his stairs are not fully carpeted. And although 
I have not been provided with the report that was completed by Ss inspector (I asked Ikano 
for it but it didnt reply), there does not appear to be any dispute that the carpet needed to be 
replaced. Ss internal notes and its emails to Ikano show a senior manager had agreed to 
the replacement in April 2020 having seen the report. All of this persuades me that S did not 
supply Mr F with everything it had agreed to and/or not to the appropriate standard. 
So, overall and on balance it seems there was a breach of contract by S. 
Where there is disagreement is in what should happen to put things right now. Ikano said   
Mr F could have had replacement carpets in 2020 when S was trying to get in touch with 
him. And it said its Mr Fs lack of cooperation with S that had prevented this from happening. 
Its given examples of this such as Mr F not agreeing to move his furniture so the rectification 
work could be completed, telling S some of his furniture was fitted when it turned out it 
wasnt and not getting back in touch with S when it was trying to arrange the rectification 
work. 
Mr F on the other hand has said hed always been willing to have the replacement carpets 
fitted but because S wouldnt move his furniture for him, no agreement could be reached.
 
There does appear to be a period of a few months where S was trying to contact Mr F to fit 
the carpets but without success. But I dont think Mr F was being evasive and Ive seen 
enough in the available evidence to make me think he was keen to have the rectification 
work completed. And even if S had got in touch with Mr F earlier, it seems likely the parties 
would have arrived at the same stalemate as to what should be done with the furniture. So, I 
need to consider whether Ss/Ikanos position on that matter was reasonable.
 
It is true to say that Mr Fs contract with S said that rooms in which product will be placed 
should be cleared. I note however that Mr F said his house was a new build and clear of 
furniture when the carpet was originally delivered and fitted. And he said its only because it took so long for S to offer to put things right that he had no choice but to begin to furnish 
parts of the house. Mr Fs decision to start to furnish his house in such circumstances was 
not an unreasonable one. And the suggestion that he should have waited the near eight 
months it to took S to contact him to put things right before doing this is unrealistic.
S will not agree to move Mr Fs furniture for him which means in order to have the 
replacement carpets fitted he will need to do it himself or pay to have someone else do it for 
him. I do note that Ikano has said S offered to cover the cost of this and Mr F still refused. 
But Ive not seen any evidence of this (I asked Ikano but did not receive a response). The 
contact notes supplied only show that S offered to complete the rectification work over two 
days, not that it would cover the cost of moving Mr Fs furniture.
I also note that Ss contact notes show Mr F told it some of his furniture was fitted and I can 
understand how this might have affected its decision to help him move it. However, it has 
since been clarified the furniture is not fitted yet as far as I can see no offer has been made 
to move it for Mr F. So, the parties still appear to be at a stalemate on this point. 
   
Ultimately, having to move his furniture is an additional inconvenience or cost Mr F must now 
meet that he wouldnt have had to if the carpets had been delivered in full and fitted when 
they were supposed to. I find therefore that in supporting Ss position and refusing to cover 
the cost of moving the furniture Ikano has handled Mr Fs claim unfairly. I dont find a 
reasonable offer had been made to put things right after S had breached its contract with    
Mr F.
Thinking about what Ikano needs to do to put things right, firstly S has said the carpets it had 
cut have now been sent back to the manufacturer. So, it could be a long time again before S 
is in a position to complete the work. Secondly the relationship between Mr F and S is at 
best now strained.
 
I take note also that the CRA implied terms in Mr Fs contract with S that where the supply of 
goods did not conform to contract, and repair or replacement was an appropriate remedy 
under  as it likely was here  then that repair had to be carried out in reasonable time and 
without significant inconvenience. And where repair/replacement is not offered in reasonable 
time, a consumer is entitled to seek a price reduction up to the full amount of the price paid. 
From when the carpets were first supplied to Mr F in an incomplete state in November 2019 
it took around eight months for S to contact him to arrange the rectification work. And even 
then the offer came with conditions that Ive found were not reasonable to attach. So, its 
arguable that an appropriate offer of repair has yet to be made.  
I know Ikano disagrees but I do not find this was a reasonable time in this particular case. In 
making this finding Ive taken into account what Mr F said about his stairs being left in a 
dangerous state with carpet not fully laid and hanging loose.  And there were other 
implications of the contract not having being properly fulfilled  such as Mr F not being able 
to furnish his property in the way in he wanted. 
I recognise some of the delay was caused by government restrictions in response to the 
Covid-19 pandemic. But S still had from November 2019 until March 2020 to carry out the 
necessary work and I think that was long enough, considering again the factors above. 
So, with all things considered I think the fairest thing to do now is to place Mr F in a position 
where he can go and buy replacement carpets himself. This would involve refunding his 
payments and cancelling his liability under the loan as well as removing the existing carpets 
and underlay at no cost to him. Ikano may reasonably require proof of payment of an invoice 
before paying any fitting costs Mr F paid to a third party. Mr F has had the benefit of whatever has been fitted in his house. However, I agree with the 
investigator that this was deemed by the supplier to require replacement as long ago as April 
2020, and it seems it was clear from the start Mr F didnt get everything was supposed to. So 
I dont find any deduction should made for use in this case.
 
Mr F did stop making repayments on his loan which of course is not ideal. However, he 
hadnt received all of what hed paid for, so I dont think its fair that his credit record is 
adversely impacted as a result. S should therefore make the necessary arrangements to 
remove all adverse information about the loan from his records with the credit reference 
agencies. 
The investigator asked Ikano to pay a total of £150 (in addition the £50 it had already 
offered) to Mr F for the distress and inconvenience hed been caused by S. I assess this at 
the same level. Ikano took nearly a year to deliver a claim outcome to Mr F. I accept this is 
likely because it was liaising with S but irrespective of this Mr F chose to bring his claim 
against Ikano so it should have handled it in a reasonable time. Mr F has had to live with 
unfinished and defective carpets in his house for all of that time so hes undoubtedly suffered 
inconvenience. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Fs complaint. To put things right Ikano Bank AB (publ) 
must do the following:
My understanding is that the loan has been sold or passed on to a third party. I cannot make 
any directions as to what I think a third party should or should not do. If Ikano Bank AB (publ) 
can bring the debt back in-house or buy the debt back it must do that and action what Ive 
said below. If it cant buy the debt back then it must liaise with the new debt owner to 
achieve the same result.
cancel Mr Fs loan and write off any existing debt attached to it;
refund all payments made by Mr F towards the loan;
pay Mr F the deposit sum of £251.15;
pay the fitting costs Mr F paid to a third party (subject to proof of payment if required);  
remove the carpets from Mr Fs house at no cost to him; 
arrange for the removal of any adverse information about the loan with the credit 
reference agencies, and; 
pay Mr F £200 for distress and inconvenience (less the £50 already offered to him if 
this has been paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman