DRN-3416716
The complaint
Mr P complains about advice received from Phoenix Life Limited when taking out a whole of 
life policy in 1988.
Mr P is being represented in his complaint by a Claims Management Company (CMC). For 
ease I will refer to all actions as being those of Mr P.
What happened
Mr P took out a whole of life policy after taking advice from Phoenix in 1988.
In 2020 Mr P complained to Phoenix saying the policy had been mis-sold. He said that there 
was no paperwork to justify the sale, he didnt require life cover, and that he wasnt made 
aware of any alternatives.
Phoenix upheld the complaint saying that a term assurance policy over 32 years wouldve 
been more suitable for Mr P than a whole of life policy. To put things right Phoenix calculated 
the cost of a term assurance policy and compared that to the cost of the whole of life plan, 
which is still in place. Phoenix said the cost of a term assurance policy wouldve been higher 
than the cost of the whole of life plan so said that Mr P didnt suffer any financial loss.
Mr P disagreed saying that Phoenix should be deducting the actual cost of the cover, and 
not the cost of a 32 year term policy, so brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
Investigators looked into what happened and agreed that a term assurance policy wouldve 
been more suitable, and they also agreed with the way that Phoenix had offered redress. 
Mr P was unhappy with this and provided extra information about his circumstances at the 
time. Our Investigator considered this but still felt that what Phoenix had proposed was fair. 
Mr P remained unhappy so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information about what happened is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as 
some of it is here, Ive come to a decision based on the balance of probabilities about what I 
think is most likely to have happened. Ive also summarised some things, both of which 
reflect the informal nature of our service.
The Personal Financial Analysis (PFA) form from 1988 says Client wants term insurance, 
and the number one priority is recorded as protection for family. So looking at the evidence 
from the time I think there was a want and a need for cover, and I think a term policy 
wouldve been suitable for those needs rather than a whole of life policy.
Theres no record on the PFA of why the amount of £100,000 was chosen for the policy, but 
I note that Phoenix say this was the maximum amount of cover available. This amount 
wouldve been around four times Mr Ps declared salary at the time. The PFA shows there 
was an existing mortgage of £30,000 at the time and other debts totalling £41,500, with the 
only existing cover for those debts being an endowment policy for £16,000. Considering its 
recorded that Mr P wanted to protect his family, alongside the level of debt and shortfall in 
cover, I think the £100,000 was a reasonable amount. 
When proposing the redress of a term assurance policy Phoenix used the term of 32 years 
for the calculations; but Mr P disagrees with this. However 32 years was the outstanding 
term of the mortgage at the time, and also this wouldve lasted up until very close to the 
projected retirement age of 65 when three other existing pension policies wouldve matured. 
So taking into account all the factors Im satisfied a term assurance policy for £100,000 with 
a term of 32 years wouldve been more suitable for Mr P.  
Ive reviewed the comparison data between the whole of life policy which was sold and the 
term assurance policy which I think wouldve been more suitable. This shows that had the 
term assurance policy been sold the premiums wouldve been higher. So I dont think Mr P 
suffered a financial loss from what happened. 
Mr P has said that in the past Phoenix have offered redress on situations like this one by 
deducting the actual cost of cover rather than the cost of a term policy. Its of course possible 
this is the case, however Im considering the circumstances of Mr P and this complaint. And 
having done so I think the way Phoenix have offered to resolve the complaint is fair. 
Ive also seen that Mr P complained in late 2003 saying that the reviewable nature of the 
policy hadnt been made clear to him. At that time the predecessor business to Phoenix 
explained how the policy worked, and the premiums continued to be paid.
When dealing with our Investigator Mr P provided details of a life insurance policy he says 
was in place in 1988 for the amount of £100,000 which covered the mortgage. The details of 
this policy had not previously been disclosed to our Investigator and seemingly not to 
Phoenix when they were looking into the complaint. 
I think its important that this policy is not recorded on the PFA from the time of the sale. I 
cant say why this policy wasnt declared if it was in existence, though Ive got no reason to 
doubt what Mr P has said. However other details of Mr Ps finances were recorded including 
income, debts, pensions and an endowment policy. So it seems most likely to me, on the 
balance of probabilities, that Mr P was asked full and open questions about his finances, 
however for some unknown reason this policy wasnt declared. I dont think it would be fair to 
hold Phoenix to account for this policy if, as seems most likely to me, it wasnt declared by 
Mr P as part of the advice process. 
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied the response from 
Phoenix is a fair and reasonable way of resolving the complaint. I think that a term insurance 
policy was more suitable than the whole of life policy which was sold, and that the 
methodology behind the redress is fair. This means I dont think Mr P suffered any financial 
loss so I wont be asking Phoenix to take any further action.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022. 
Warren WilsonOmbudsman