DRN-4113993
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with Toyota 
Financial Services (UK) Plc trading as Redline Financial Services (Redline) was of an 
unsatisfactory quality.
Mr M is being represented in this complaint by Miss K. However, for ease of reference, Ill 
refer to any actions or comments by either Mr M or Miss K as being by Mr M.
What happened
On 6 August 2022, Mr M was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with Redline. Mr M paid a deposit of £4,650 (which included a £1,150 part-exchange value of 
his existing car), and the agreement was for £17,654 over 48 months; with 47 monthly 
repayments of £282.90, and a final payment of £8,392.50. At the time the car was just over 
six and a half years old and had done 71,829 miles.
Mr M collected the car on 7 August 2022 and, when driving home, an engine warning light 
came on and indicated a gearbox fault. He reported this to the supplying dealership, who 
arranged for the car to be taken to a local manufactures dealership for investigation. A 
diagnostic was completed on 30 September 2022, for which Mr M paid £119.58. A gearbox 
fault was diagnosed, but the supplying dealership said the repair costs were too high and 
didnt authorise the manufacturers dealership to repair the car. The car was returned to Mr 
M on 16 October 2022.
The supplying dealership then arranged for the car to be repaired by another manufacturers 
dealership on 22 October 2022. And Mr M was supplied with a courtesy car. However, Mr M 
wasnt happy with the courtesy car as it was much smaller than his car, and this was causing 
him difficulties carrying out normal day to day family activities.
Mr M was told the repairs were completed and, on 12 December 2022, he collected the car. 
However, on driving the car home, warning lights illuminated again, and the car was returned 
to the second manufacturers dealership the same day. And Mr M was given back the same 
courtesy car hed previously been using.
Due to the issues with the car, and the delay in the repair, on 16 January 2023 Mr M asked 
Redline to reject the car. Redline responded on 27 March 2023, saying that the supplying 
dealership had offered to repair the car (if Mr M covered 50% of the costs), and he would 
need to contact the second manufacturers dealership to arrange for this. Mr M wasnt happy 
with how hed been treated, and he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that both Redline and the supplying dealership accept there is a 
problem with the gearbox on the car. And, this made the car of an unsatisfactory quality at 
the point of supply. As the first attempt to repair this fault failed, the investigator said Mr M 
has the right of rejection.
So, the investigator said that Redline should end the agreement and collect the car; refund 
the deposit Mr M paid, as well as any payments hed made when he didnt have use of the 
car or a courtesy car; refund 25% of any payments Mr M made while he had the courtesy 
car, due to its size and unsuitability; refund the cost of the diagnostic report Mr M paid for; 
pay statutory interest on all of these refunds; and pay Mr M an additional £150 for the trouble 
and upset hed been caused.
Redline didnt respond to the investigators view and have instead continued to ask Mr M to 
arrange for repair. Theyve also told him they are going to remove the insurance from the 
courtesy car so Mr M can no longer use this. As such, this matter has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr M was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to investigate complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, 
Redline are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Redline can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified 
after the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Mr M to show it was present when the 
car was supplied. 
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr M took possession of it, and this made the car not 
of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask Redline to put this right.
Based on the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied there was a fault with the gearbox on the car 
when it was supplied to Mr M. And this is confirmed by the diagnostic report on 30 
September 2022. Im also satisfied that the gearbox fault made the car of an unsatisfactory 
quality when it was supplied.
In circumstances like this, the CRA allows for a single chance at repair. And the car was 
being repaired from 20 October to 6 December 2022. Ive seen an invoice from the second 
manufacturers dealership to the supplying dealership, dated 6 December 2022, which 
confirms that the gearbox repair had been completed.However, when Mr M collected the car on 12 December 2022, the gearbox fault reoccurred 
the same day. And the car was returned to the second manufacturers dealership for repair. 
An estimate dated 16 February 2023 shows that further repairs to the gearbox were 
required. As such, Im satisfied that the single chance of repair allowed by the CRA failed, 
and the car remains faulty.
As such, the CRA allows Mr M the right to reject the car. And, as hes now been asked to 
cover 50% of the costs of repairing the faulty gearbox, Mr M wants to reject the car. Given 
these circumstances, Im satisfied that Mr M should now be allowed to reject the car.
Putting things right
When the fault with the car first occurred, given that this was the day Mr M collected the car, 
Id expect either the supplying dealership or Redline to investigate what was wrong, and 
cover the costs of the investigation. However, in this instance, Mr M had to do and pay for 
this. He was also without the use of the car (or any courtesy car) from 30 September to 16 
October 2022 as a result. As such, I think its reasonable that Redline both reimburse Mr M 
for the cost of the diagnosis, and refund him 50% of one payment to compensate him for the 
period of time he was paying for a car, but was left without transportation.
When the car went in for repair on 20 October 2022, Mr M was provided with a courtesy car. 
And its my understanding that Mr M still has use of this courtesy car. Given this, as he was 
provided with alternate transportation, I dont think its fair to ask Redline to refund all the 
payments Mr M has made since 20 October 2022.
However, its clear from Mr Ms correspondence that the courtesy car wasnt suitable for his 
needs  it wasnt big enough for his family. As such, I think its reasonable that Redline 
refund some of the payments Mr M made (while he had the courtesy car) to recognise this.
The investigator has recommended Redline refund 25% of these payments, and this is in 
line with what I wouldve directed had no recommendation been made. As such, I intend to 
adopt this as part of my final decision.
Finally, Im satisfied that Mr M has been inconvenienced by what has happened. Hes had to 
arrange for the diagnostic himself, and hes had to travel to and from the second 
manufacturers dealership (which is quite some distance from his home) to collect a car that 
hadnt been repaired correctly. Mr M has also explained that hes been unable to plan any 
holidays due to the uncertainty about whether he will have a working car. Because of this, 
Im also satisfied that Redline should compensate Mr M for the inconvenience caused.
So, Redline should:
end the agreement with nothing more to pay;
collect the car at no cost to Mr M;
remove any adverse entries relating to this agreement from Mr Ms credit file;
refund the £4,650 deposit Mr M paid;
refund 50% of the September 2022 payment to Mr M, to compensate him for the 
period he didnt have use of the car;
refund 25% of all payments Mr M made after 20 October 2022 (but before the return 
of the courtesy car, if applicable), to compensate him for being provided with an 
unsuitable courtesy car;
reimburse Mr M for the £119.58 diagnostic report he paid;
apply 8% simple yearly interest on the refunds, calculated from the date Mr M made 
the payment to the date of the refund ; andpay Mr M an additional £150 to compensate him for the trouble and inconvenience 
caused by being supplied with a car that wasnt of a satisfactory quality.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Redline to take off tax from this interest. Redline must 
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Ms complaint and Toyota Financial Services (UK) 
Plc trading as Redline Financial Services should follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman