DRN-3138064
The complaint
Miss C and Mr S complain that Zurich Assurance Ltd refused a critical illness claim under 
their joint term assurance policy, and instead cancelled the policy altogether. 
To resolve their complaint, Miss C and Mr S want Zurich to reinstate the policy, pay their 
claim in full and pay compensation for the distress and disruption it has caused them.       
What happened
Miss C and Mr Ss policy began on 12 August 2019 and offered them an initial £50,000 of 
decreasing term life cover and critical illness benefit over a 26 year term.
In July 2020, Miss C was sadly diagnosed with multiple sclerosis (MS). She and Mr S 
therefore made a claim to Zurich for critical illness benefit.  
In March 2021, Zurich refused the claim. It said that having reviewed the application, it 
believed Miss C had failed to accurately disclose her medical history, specifically that she 
had suffered from a period of numbness in her left foot in 2016. It felt that Miss C had made 
a misrepresentation, and this was best categorised as deliberate or reckless.  
Miss C and Mr S complained, but Zurich was not prepared to change its view on refusing the 
claim. It did accept that Miss C had not behaved deliberately, and revised its view of the 
misrepresentation to careless. But, it said that even accounting for that, it could not have 
offered Miss C insurance for MS. It would have instead excluded MS from the policy. It said 
it would otherwise be prepared to reinstate the policy on that basis.   
Miss C and Mr S declined Zurichs offer on the grounds that they felt Miss C had behaved 
innocently. They therefore lodged their complaint with this service. They explained that the 
question asked of Miss C was unreasonable and ambiguous; it could be interpreted as 
meaning if Miss C had undergone any treatment or received medication for the numbness  
which she hadnt. 
Miss C also said she had never had any further numbness episodes until she became unwell 
with MS and the issue was so slight she almost cancelled her appointment  and this could 
be verified by a confirmed text message sent at that time. The GP had been more concerned 
about her low Vitamin D levels, and put the numbness down to a trapped nerve.
Finally, Miss C said the numbness had no influence on her everyday life whatsoever, and 
she therefore had no reason to recall it when asked in 2019. She couldnt say which leg was 
affected. Her GP referred to it in 2020, but only when looking back after her MS diagnosis.  
An investigator reviewed the complaint but he did not think it should succeed. He said he felt 
the question put to Miss C was clear and not ambiguous. He therefore concluded she should 
have told Zurich about her numbness, and he thought it was significant enough that she 
ought to have recalled it.  
As a result, the investigator believed Zurich was able to revise the terms it offered to Miss C 
and Mr S  and whilst it had originally cancelled the policy, it had now amended that to 
reinstate it with an exclusion for MS. Miss C and Mr S didnt want that, but Zurich had 
reached the right outcome under relevant law on misrepresentation. So the investigator 
didnt think it should do anything else.  
Miss C said she and Mr S did not agree. She pointed to a decision issued by another 
ombudsman from this service, where he had concluded that two minor episodes of 
numbness was an innocent action by a policyholder that had forgotten about them and later 
went on to be diagnosed with MS. 
She also said that her GP was not concerned; she continued in her physically demanding 
public service role and attended the gym. Though shed had the sensation for a few weeks, 
she was a shift worker who hadnt gotten around to seeing the GP  nor did she take time 
off. Miss C said she and Mr S wanted the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to learn of Miss Cs diagnosis. Having reviewed all of the information carefully, I 
am of the view that Zurich has acted reasonably in the circumstances of the complaint. I 
recognise Miss C and Mr S will be disappointed by my decision, but Ill set my reasons for 
my conclusions out below so they can understand why Ive reached this outcome.  
When applying for insurance, if an applicant doesnt tell his or her insurer relevant 
information in response to a clear question its known as misrepresentation. If the 
circumstances around a claim prompt an insurer to believe a misrepresentation may have 
occurred within an application, its entitled to consider what ought to have happened at that 
time. That is what Zurich has done. 
When it received the information to process Miss Cs claim, Zurich was prompted to review 
her medical records, because in the report sent to Zurich, Dr R, the treating consultant said 
Miss C had symptoms dating from 2016. Specifically she was asked when the symptoms of 
MS first began and she noted Miss C in 2016 had attended GP with numbness of left foot 
and leg which had resolved on their own. This then recurred in the other leg in 2020 along 
with other truncal symptoms on Miss Cs left side and a later episode of optic neuritis. 
Dr R concluded the episode of 2016 was the first episode of relapsing/remitting MS. 
It is therefore reasonable that Zurich reviewed what Miss C was asked on the policy 
application. It said:
In the last 5 years, unless you have already told us earlier in this application, have 
you had, or been advised to take any medication or have any treatment for:
any tremor, numbness, loss of feeling or tingling in the limbs or face, blurred 
vision, loss of balance or co-ordination, epilepsy, seizure, or loss of muscle 
power?
Miss C replied, no.  
However, Miss Cs medical reports confirmed she had numbness for a few months in 2016. 
When revisiting this after her diagnosis, it appears the timescale was revised to six weeks. 
I realise that Miss C did make a material disclosure to Zurich about a parents medical history and I am not suggesting that in saying no she had tried to mislead Zurich. But its my 
view that more care ought to have been shown over the question. It asks if Miss C has had 
any of the listed symptoms (or medication or treatment for those) within five years. It is not a 
catch-all question insofar as it does ask for specific symptoms in a defined period. 
Given the length of time that Miss C had the numbness and loss of feeling in her leg  even 
at the shorter end of the scale  I do think this is something she ought reasonably to have 
been able to recall, with reflection. 
Im also mindful that during the application process and when the policy offer was sent to 
Miss C and Mr S, Zurich provided clear reminders of the importance of answering questions 
accurately. For example, the letter of 11 August 2019 sent to each of them set out that:
If anything changes or is incorrect
We know how important the cover is to you so if you think anything youve told us is 
wrong, or has changed up to the policy start date, let us know as soon as possible. If 
you don't tell us about something that's incorrect we may have to cancel the policy or 
be unable to pay a claim.
I realise Miss C says she didnt recall the issue with her foot when applying for the cover, but 
she was given an opportunity to revisit her answers before the policy started. I accept her 
explanation of why she did not do so, but these symptoms were something Miss C did attend 
a doctor for as a change to her health which had lasted for several weeks, if not months.  
In my view, I think this is something which would have otherwise been out of the ordinary for 
Miss C  she has said how she was fit and healthy and had a physical job. I believe that 
suffering from numbness and loss of feeling in one leg and foot for six weeks is something 
which she ought to have recalled, if reasonable care had been given to the question  
because it specifically asked about symptoms of numbness and loss of feeling. 
I therefore believe there was a misrepresentation. And once thats been established, 
relevant law on disclosure in consumer insurance contracts says that it should be 
categorised in one of two ways  either, as deliberate/reckless or otherwise as careless. 
Any deliberate or reckless misrepresentation will result in the voiding of an insurance policy, 
with or without the return of premiums.  
In the event of careless misrepresentation, an insurer must consider a proportionate 
remedy. This means the outcome will depend on what the underwriting decision would have 
been had the misrepresentation not occurred at the time. If insurance could have been 
offered under different terms or for a different cost, an insurer can amend the contract to 
reflect this. Otherwise, if it would not have been able to insure the applicant, it can void the 
policy.
In my view Miss Cs actions fall within the careless category, and that she made a mistake 
or oversight resulting from a lack of care rather than any intent to deceive Zurich as he has 
previously suggested. Careless misrepresentation is set out as anything from an 
understandable oversight, or an inadvertent mistake, to serious negligence. I believe Miss 
Cs failure to recall the episode sits in the lower end of that band.  
I also recognise Miss Cs GP said the numbness didnt seem significant until later when Miss 
C developed other neurological symptoms and that there was no realisation Miss C had a 
symptom of MS in 2016. I dont doubt that, and I dont believe Miss C has tried to mislead 
Zurich. But not knowing what the cause of a symptom could be does not mean I can 
disregard what Miss C was asked. Zurich will ask questions about an applicants health because insurers try to assess the risk of offering insurance for common critical illnesses. 
Zurich has provided underwriting guidance to confirm that had it known Miss Cs accurate 
medical history, it could not have offered her insurance for MS - that condition would have 
been excluded. It is therefore correct that it offered to continue the cover going forward for 
both Miss C and Mr S but with an exclusion on the policy. 
It was for Miss C and Mr S to choose if they wanted to remain covered with Zurich, and they 
decided not to accept the offer. But it was the correct approach by Zurich as a response to 
their complaint.  
I know Miss C has referred to innocent misrepresentation, and specifically to a decision 
which she feels is akin to her situation. Firstly, I must point out that complaints at this service 
arent determined by precedent as no two matters are factually identical. I will look at the 
evidence in the specific case before me and make findings which I believe to be a fair and 
reasonable outcome in the circumstances of the specific complaint. 
I recognise that guidance on misrepresentation issued by the Association of British Insurers 
(ABI) Code of Practice on Misrepresentation provides categorisation for three outcomes, 
innocent, careless and deliberate or reckless. The Code explains how innocent 
misrepresentation will be based on one of three typical circumstances, that the question was 
unclear, it did not apply to the facts in question or it was reasonable for the customer to have 
overlooked it  such as a childhood ailment.  
But, the relevant law on disclosure in consumer insurance contracts (which came into force 
after the decision Miss C has referenced) does not include an innocent category. What the 
law requires is determination of whether there has been a qualifying misrepresentation  
meaning the consumer has made a misrepresentation and it would have affected the terms 
an insurer would have offered. The other two categories must then apply. 
As Ive explained, I believe Miss C did make a misrepresentation as my view is she should 
have answered the above question differently. And, in any event, I dont believe that 
innocent misrepresentation applies here. The question was not ambiguous, it was relevant 
to the facts of Miss Cs GP visit, and whilst the symptoms with her foot and leg did not recur 
before 2020, I cant agree that it was reasonable to overlook them in the circumstances.  
My final decision
Despite my sympathy for Miss Cs position, I cannot uphold her and Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C and Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman