DRN-2503302
The complaint
Mr W, Mr W1, Mrs W and Miss B say that Rock Insurance Services Limited mis-sold them a 
travel insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr W has made a complaint that Rock mis-sold a travel insurance policy he bought to cover 
himself and other family members. He says, in summary, that he wasnt told that there would 
be an excess to pay if he claimed. 
Mr W made a complaint to Rock. They said that the relevant policy information had been 
provided to Mr W during the sales process and that he was also sent a copy of the policy 
documentation afterwards. Unhappy, Mr W made a complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what happened. He didnt think the policy had been mis-sold 
because he was satisfied Mr W had access to information about the excess during the sales 
process. So, he thought Mr W had enough information to decide if the policy was right for 
him. 
Mr W asked an ombudsman to look into his complaint. He said that the sales process didnt 
include the policy documentation and it was a tick box exercise. He also said it wasnt 
acceptable for Rock to sell a product which cost more than the value of the goods. So, I 
need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Rock didnt provide Mr W with advice about the policy. So, it didnt need to ensure it was 
suitable for his demands and needs. However, the relevant rules and industry guidelines say 
that Rock needs to ensure that Mr W had enough information about the policy to decide if it 
was right for him.
I dont think Rock mis-sold the policy because: 
Mr W did tick a box to select the insurance cover during the sales process. But Ive 
looked at a screen shot of the sales process and I can see that underneath the tick 
box it says more about insurance. Clicking on that brings up more information about 
the policy including the links to Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) and 
the full policy document. And the same screen also mentioned the right to cancel the 
policy within 14 days of taking it out
The IPID has a list of what is insured and what isnt insured. The first item on the list 
of what is not insured says, the excess as set out in the policy wording. The policy 
documentation which was available during the sales process also explained that an 
excess was payable. It included a table which set out what excess applied in the 
event of different types of claim. So, Im satisfied that Mr W had the opportunity to 
access information about the policy during the sales process, including the 
information about the excess. And I therefore think he had enough information to 
decide if the policy was right for him. He also had the opportunity to cancel the policy 
without penalty if he didnt think it offered the right level of cover
Before clicking Book this holiday Mr W was again prompted to read the IPID and 
policy terms. The information next to the Book this holiday button says that by 
clicking to confirm the booking Mr W was accepting that hed read and accepted the 
terms of the travel insurance policy and the IPID  
Its standard industry practice for travel insurers to apply an excess to the policy. 
Some insurers offer the opportunity to purchase additional cover options to waive 
the excess or reduce it. As Ive outlined above, I think Mr W had enough information 
about the policy and so if he wasnt happy with this level of cover, he could have 
arranged cover elsewhere
Mr W appears to have suggested to Rock that he didnt receive their follow up email 
which contained the policy information. Rock says that it automatically sends the 
policyholders documents to customers after purchase and their systems show that 
they held the correct email address for Mr W. Based on the available evidence I 
think its most likely that the email was sent to Mr W 
 Mr W said that Rock had sold insurance which cost more than the value of the 
goods. But Mr W was covered for a range of insured events, for example emergency 
medical expenses. And, whilst I appreciate that when the holiday was cancelled the 
cost of the policy excesses may have outweighed the cost of the holiday, I think 
Mr W had enough information about the policy to decide if this policy was right for 
him based on the cost of his trip.  
 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B, Mr W, Mrs 
W and Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman