DRN-3332504
The complaint
Mrs and Mr S complain that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited has 
unfairly declined Mrs Ss total and permanently disability (TPD) claim.
For ease, Ill refer to Mrs S throughout my decision. 
What happened
In 2013 Mrs S was diagnosed with rheumatoid arthritis. 
In April 2020 Mrs S submitted a TPD claim and in July 2020 the policy expired. Royal 
London considered the claim but didnt accept it. It initially said Mrs S hadnt met the 
following definition of TPD in its policy; 
In our opinion, the life assured in respect of whom a claim is being made is, due to disability 
[] permanently unable to perform all of the tasks contained in two out of the six work tasks 
set out in the work tasks paragraph below, without the assistance of another person, but with 
the use of appropriate assistive devices.
bb) Work tasks total permanent disability
 In our opinion, the life assured in respect of whom a claim is being made is, due to 
disability, either:
i) Permanently unable to perform all of the tasks contained in two out of the six work 
tasks set out in the work tasks paragraph below, without the assistance of 
another person, but with the use of appropriate assistive devices,
dd) Work Tasks
      The six work tasks referred to above are as follows: 
Walking  the ability to walk 200 meters on a level surface with a stick or other aid     
without stopping or severe discomfort.
Lifting  the ability to pick up 1kg from table height and carry it for five metres.
Using a pen/pencil/keyboard  the ability to use a pen, pencil or keyboard with either 
hand or using any aids.
Hearing  the ability to hear well enough to understand someone speaking a common 
language in a normal voice in a quiet room with a hearing aid.
Speech  the ability to be understood in a common language in a quiet room.
Vision  the ability to see well enough to read 16 point print using spectacles or other 
aids.
Royal London also asked for an independent medical expert (IME) to review the evidence on 
the claim. The IME said that on the balance of probabilities, Mrs S hadnt exhausted all of 
the available treatment options and that an occupational therapist said Mrs S should be 
referred for further treatment of physiotherapy, education and self-management, as well as 
pain management. He added that Mrs S should be referred to an NHS pain management 
course. 
Mrs S remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. She 
said her consultant had said there was nothing else that could be done to improve her 
condition. 
Royal London then confirmed to us that Mrs S wasnt able to do two of the six work tasks at 
the time of the clam, but it wasnt satisfied she had exhausted all of the available treatment 
options, which meant it wasnt satisfied she was permanently unable to do the tasks when 
the policy expired.  
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said from the evidence hed 
seen that Mrs S didnt meet the terms and conditions of her policy for a TPD claim because 
she hadnt exhausted all the available treatment options. The investigator said he didnt think 
Royal London had treated Mrs S unfairly when it approached one of Mrs Ss treating 
consultant for additional evidence or when it asked an IME to review her medical file. And 
the investigator found the IMEs evidence supported the occupational therapists 
recommendation for Mrs S to undergo multidisciplinary rehabilitation, and pointed out that a 
letter  dated July 2019  from a consultant rheumatologist shed approached for a second 
opinion said there was little evidence at the time of ongoing damage to her hands and feet. 
Mrs S disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. She said Royal London failed to 
investigate the claim properly and ask for all the medical evidence going back to 2013. And if 
it had done so it, wouldve seen the physiotherapy referrals she completed. Mrs S then 
provided further evidence of treatment she had with a physiotherapist in 2013. She said this 
shows that she has already exhausted all the available treatment and Royal London should 
accept the claim. 
Royal London considered that evidence but said this didnt change its opinion on the claim 
due to the IME report and the treatment recommended by the occupational therapist. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid Im not upholding it. I know this will be very disappointing news for 
Mrs S. I want to assure her that I didnt take this decision lightly. I understand this is a 
difficult time for her and her family. While I dont want to add to her distress, I cant say Royal 
London has treated her unfairly. Ill explain why. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I have to make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than not to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
I should explain that in considering this complaint its not for me to reach a medical opinion 
on whether Mrs S met the above definitions. Instead, I have to consider whether Royal 
London assessed the claim fairly and reasonably in light of the medical evidence and 
opinions it was presented with. Having carefully considered all the available evidence, Im 
satisfied that it did.
Mrs Ss treating rheumatologist sent a letter to Royal London which said there is very little 
she can do for Mrs S because she has completed the rheumatoid occupational therapy. And 
Mrs S said she completed the multi-disciplinary pain relief treatments with the NHS in 2013 
and has provided further evidence of her attending and being discharged from physiotherapy 
at that time. 
The occupational therapist working in the rheumatology department said in January 2020 
that Mrs S should be referred to a rehabilitation team for treatment that would include 
physiotherapy, education and self-management, as well as pain management. The IME 
Royal London instructed, who was a consultant rheumatologist, has also recommended the 
NHS pain management course, and at the time of writing his report, he hadnt seen 
persuasive evidence that Mrs S had severe osteoarthritis because there had been no 
recommendation of joint replacement surgery. In his opinion, he felt Mrs Ss inability to 
perform two of the six tasks is likely to be related to her subjective report of pain and fatigue, 
rather than significant structural or destructive change in her joints nor significant 
inflammatory or degenerative arthritis.
Mrs S said that shes already had orthopaedics and physio amongst other treatments, so 
she doesnt think any further referrals are going to help. And that one of her consultants had 
said in May 2020 that her disabilities are likely to be permanent. 
In the evidence Mrs S provided of her NHS multi-disciplinary treatment in 2013, it said she 
attended physiotherapy sessions with treatment consisting of soft tissue techniques and 
advice to try gentle exercise with a possible referral to hydrotherapy after she stabilised on 
her new medications, but there was no further contact with the patient. 
Ive considered the above evidence carefully. Having done so, Im more persuaded by the 
opinion of the IME which says not all treatment options have been exhausted. I accept that 
Mrs S did see a physiotherapist in 2013 and Royal London hadnt previously considered 
that. But I dont think this shows she has already completed the same treatment in the NHS 
pain management course. Physiotherapy is only one part of that course as per the letter 
written by the occupational therapist. And Ive noted the occupational therapist also 
recommended Mrs S to a rehabilitation team in January 2020. 
I understand why Mrs S doubts that any further referrals will change things. But the Financial 
Ombudsman doesnt think its unreasonable for Royal London to say that whilst there were 
still treatment options available that couldve improved her ability to do the Walking and 
Lifting tasks before the policy lapsed, then a TPD claim cant be accepted even if shes been 
told by her treating consultant that her disabilities are likely to be permanent. Thats because 
Royal London cant fairly accept a TPD claim solely due to the permanence of her disabilities 
 it must also be satisfied that there is no further improvement (permanently) in her ability to 
do two of the six tasks outlined in her policy. 
I accept that Mrs S will be disappointed with my decision, but I dont think Royal London has 
unfairly decided she didnt meet the TPD definition in her policy before it expired. Royal Londons handling of the claim 
Ive considered the points Mrs S has made about Royal London only attempting to find 
information that it can use to refute a claim. From reviewing Royal Londons information 
requests, I cant see that its been unfair in its approach and consideration of the claim. I can 
see its asked for the relevant records in order to assess Mrs Ss conditions and from the 
relevant specialists. And its not unreasonable to request an IME to review medical records 
when a claim is finely balanced and there is a disagreement between the insurer and the 
customer on whether a TPD definition has been met. 
I note Royal London didnt request the information about Mrs Ss physiotherapy 
appointments in 2013. But I dont think it unreasonably declined the claim based upon the 
evidence it already had, and it hasnt unreasonably said that this evidence doesnt change its 
opinion on the claim for the reasons Ive explained. 
So, Im afraid I cannot fairly ask Royal London to accept Mrs Ss claim based upon the 
medical evidence Ive seen here. 
I appreciate that my decision leaves Mrs S in a difficult position. She is entitled to make a 
further claim to Royal London if she has new medical evidence upon completing the 
recommended treatments set out by the occupational therapist and the NHS pain 
management course that she was permanently unable to do two of the six tasks before her 
policy expired, which Royal London hasnt already considered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman