DRN-3986891
The complaint
Ms K is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, didnt reactive her account as 
they should have done.
What happened
Ms K visited a Halifax branch and presented branch staff with the correct identity verification
(IDV) documents to reactive an account she held with Halifax which had fallen into a
dormant status. Halifaxs branch staff reactivated the account and Ms K was provided with a
new debit card for the account.
Ms K then travelled overseas. But when she attempted to access the money in the
reactivated account  which she needed to complete a property purchase  she discovered
the account was again restricted and had been placed back into a dormant status by Halifax.
Ms K contacted Halifax but was told shed need to re-present her IDV documents in a UK
Halifax branch to reactivate the account. Ms K wasnt happy about this, especially as she
was overseas with no immediate plans to return to the UK, and so she raised a complaint.
Halifax looked at Ms Ks complaint. They acknowledged their branch staff had made an error
by not forwarding copies of Ms Ks IDV documents to the correct Halifax department, which
had meant the account activation process hadnt completed and led to the account being
reverted back to a dormant status. Halifax apologised to Ms K for this and made a payment
of £150 to her as compensation for any trouble and upset she may have incurred. Ms K
didnt feel Halifaxs response went far enough, so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They recommended that Halifax should
increase their offer of compensation payable to Ms K to £400. Ms K remained dissatisfied,
so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 13 February 2023 as follows:
Halifax dont dispute that it was an error made by their branch staff  who failed to 
forward the copies of Ms Ks IDV documents to the Halifax department that needed 
to receive those documents in order for the account reactivation process to be 
successful  that led to Ms Ks account being placed back into a dormant state.
The question here then isnt whether Halifax did anything wrong, but what actions 
Halifax should fairly be instructed to take to return Ms K to the financial position she 
should have been in, had the error not occurred, as well as whether the payment of 
£150 compensation that Halifax paid to Ms K for the worry and trouble that this 
matter caused is a fair amount.
Ms K has explained that the impact of Halifaxs error was intensified by the fact she 
was overseas, trying to complete a complete a property purchase, and that she was 
depending on the money in the Halifax account in order to complete that property 
purchase.
Ms K therefore feels that Halifax should cover the costs she incurred because she 
couldnt access the money in her Halifax account. These include that Ms K had to 
borrow the money to complete the purchase from friends and family members and 
had to pay a fee for a solicitor to draw up loan contracts between herself and her 
friends and family members.
Ms K has provided this service with an invoice to that effect, from an overseas 
solicitor, for 363.00 Euros. Im satisfied that Ms K wouldnt have incurred this 
expense had Halifax not made the error that they did, and so my provisional 
instruction here will be that Halifax must reimburse this amount to Ms K  either in 
Euros to an account of Ms Ks choosing, or, if Ms K would prefer, to her UK Halifax 
account, converted to UK Sterling by Halifax at the exchange rate applicable at the 
time of the reimbursement.
Ms K would also like Halifax to reimburse her the costs of returning to the UK to re-
present her IDV documents in branch so that the account could be reactivated again 
 which Ms K did in December 2022. However, I dont feel that Halifax should 
reasonably be instructed to cover this cost as Ms K would like.
This is because I dont feel it can reasonably be said that the only reason Ms K 
returned to the UK in December 2022 was to re-present her IDV documents to 
Halifax, and I note that in her initial correspondence with Halifax about this issue in 
July 2022, Ms K stated that she had no intention to return to the UK until at least 
October 2022, which indicates that Ms K did have prior plans to return to the UK that 
werent dependent on here having to re-present her IDV documents at a Halifax 
branch. Additionally, by her own admission, Ms K spent a week in the UK in 
December 2022 and visited friends and family during her trip.
As such, it seems to me that Ms K returned to the UK in line with when she wanted to 
return for other matters and re-presented her IDV documents to Halifax at that time. 
And I dont feel it would be fair to ask Halifax to reimburse Ms Ks travel costs under 
these circumstances.
Finally, I also feel that Ms K should be compensated for the worry and trouble she 
incurred surrounding this matter. This includes in regard to the calls and 
correspondence Ms K had to engage in with Halifax and the undoubted stress and 
concern that the possibility of not being able to complete the planned property 
purchase, through no fault of her own would have caused. This also includes the 
inconvenience Ms K incurred in having to re-present her documents to Halifax in 
branch while visiting the UK.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, but in this instance, I feel that an 
increased compensation amount of £500 is a fair amount in consideration of what 
happened here. This means that my provisional instructions here will also include 
that Halifax must pay Ms K a further £350 compensation, in addition to the £150 
theyve already paid.
In arriving at this position, Ive thought what happened and the impact of Halifaxs 
error on Ms K, as well as the general framework by which this service considers awards for upset and inconvenience  further details of which can be found on this 
services website.
All of which means that my provisional decision here is that I uphold this complaint in 
Ms Ks favour and that my provisional instructions are that Halifax must pay a further 
£350 compensation to Ms K as well as 363.00 Euros to cover the solicitor fee that Ms 
K incurred when drawing up the loan agreements she was forced to resort to 
because she couldnt access the money in her Halifax account  as described above.
Ms K and Halifax have both confirmed that theyre happy to accept my provisional decision, 
although Ms K asked Halifax to cancel the cheque for £150, which she had received but not 
yet cashed, and to pay the £500 compensation instructed in my provisional decision as a 
single amount  a request which its my understanding Halifax have agreed to.
As such, I see no reason not to uphold this complaint in Ms Ks favour on the basis 
described in my provisional decision above. And I therefore confirm that I do uphold this 
complaint on that basis accordingly.
Putting things right
Halifax must pay Ms K 363.00 Euros in reimbursement of the solicitor fee she incurred when 
having to draw up loan agreements. 
Halifax must also pay Ms K compensation totalling £500 for the trouble and upset shes 
experienced here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc, trading as 
Halifax, on the basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman