DRN-3811487
The complaint
Mr R says MBNA Limited, has treated him unfairly in relation to a transaction on his credit 
card which paid for accommodation.
What happened
In February 2019 Mr R used his MBNA credit card to make payment for accommodation 
abroad for to stay during August 2020. Mr R agreed to pay 2600 Euro for the 
accommodation in total and paid 780 Euro as a deposit up front. 
In June 2020 Mrs R emails the accommodation provider (the Provider) to ask to move the 
dates to August 2021 which is agreed.
On 09 June 2021 Mrs R texts the Provider and explains that shes suffered a bereavement 
and goes on to say: could you therefore please cancel our booking for 10-16 August, so it 
gives you time to get someone else in. Would you be willing to give me a refund of 780 
(Euro) and I promise to rebook and start again 
On 12 June 2021 and 13 June 2021 there are further texts from Mrs R asking for the refund 
to be paid but no indication of that being agreed. On 15 June 2021 Mr R raises his dispute 
with the Provider to MBNA. MBNAs internal notes of this communication note that theyve 
requested the booking be refunded. MBNAs records also show on 24 June 2021 that there 
was communication with Mr R and its records MBNA notes Merch (the Provider) will move 
booking but at additional cost they have refused refund. The records then show that MBNA 
then sent Mr R an email declining his claim due to the Providers terms showing deposits 
were non-refundable.
I can also see text messages between Mrs R and the Provider which appear to be after 29 
June 2021 when the Provider confirms dates in July 2022 are available. Ive seen later 
attempts by Mrs R to contact the Provider and the Provider appears not to respond. In the 
end Mr R and Mrs R dont pay the full amount due and dont travel. They had asked for a 
refund from the Provider but were not successful.
In July 2022 MBNA issued its response to Mr Rs complaint about how it dealt with his 
dispute. In that it said that when it considered the matter in 2021 it noted the non-refundable 
nature of the payment and that at that point it saw no evidence of breach of contract as the 
accommodation was still available at that point. So Mr R, still unsatisfied, brought his 
complaint to this service.
Our Investigator felt MBNA didnt have to do anymore. And Mr R remains unhappy and so 
this complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R used his MBNA credit card to pay the Provider for the accommodation. This means 
that if certain criteria are met MBNA can have certain responsibilities to Mr R which arise 
from the relevant law, specifically, Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA). 
In summary, in certain circumstances, Section 75 has the effect of allowing Mr R to hold 
MBNA liable for breaches of contract, or misrepresentations made in relation to the 
agreement made. In essence MBNA can be held responsible for a like claim as Mr R could 
hold the Provider. And consequently MBNA could also rely on the same defences to such a 
claim as the Provider.
Mr Rs MBNA credit card is also part of a card scheme which is operated by another 
company. And this scheme has rules which includes giving MBNA an avenue for card 
transactions to be disputed with Merchants such as the Provider, namely through the 
Chargeback process. This isnt a right for consumers and the ultimate decision maker on 
such chargebacks is the scheme itself and not MBNA. So it is possible that MBNA could 
take the chargeback as far as possible and Mr R still not be successful.
I should also add at this juncture that this decision is solely about MBNA and whether it did 
what it should have and whether it treated Mr R fairly when Mr R took his dispute with the 
Provider to MBNA. This decision isnt about the Provider, which isnt within this Services 
remit for complaints regarding Chargeback and S75. I hope this distinction is clear.
could MBNA challenge the transaction through a Chargeback? 
Mr R doesnt dispute that he used his MBNA credit card here. Nor does he dispute the 
amount, date, or any other details about the transaction itself. So I dont think MBNA 
couldve challenged the payment on the basis Mr R didnt properly authorise the transaction, 
given what Ive just set out.
MBNA is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the Chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. And it can fairly decide to not proceed at any stage if it 
doesnt think there is a reasonable prospect of success.
MBNA didnt raise a chargeback here. Broadly it has said it considered the matter and didnt 
consider that any such chargeback would have had a reasonable prospect of success 
because when Mr R raised his dispute with the Provider to MBNA it was already significantly 
outside the time limits set out in the card scheme rules. Having considered everything in the 
round Im satisfied that MBNAs decision not to do a chargeback was fair in the 
circumstances. There are strict time limits for chargebacks and include a longstop time limit 
for all chargeback reasons from the date of the transaction. Ive considered what happened 
here and Im satisfied Mr Rs dispute is outside of the time limit to bring a chargeback. So I 
dont think MBNA led to Mr R losing out here.
Section 75
Before deciding on whether there is breach or misrepresentation here, there are some 
requirements set out in the CCA which also have to be met. Im satisfied the DCS agreement 
is in place and that the transaction meets the financial limits requirements.
For MBNA to be held accountable under a like claim under s75 it has to be shown that the 
supplier either breached the contract or materially misrepresented something to Mr R which 
was untrue and that led to loss. And as its a like claim MBNA is entitled to rely on any 
evidence or arguments that the Provider could rely on.Ive not seen anything persuasive to show that Mr R was told something prior to the booking 
that led him to make the booking for the accommodation that wasnt true. So I dont think he 
was misrepresented into the booking unfairly.
I can see that the terms and conditions on the website of the accommodation from when 
MBNA considered the matter it says Please note that the deposit is not refundable in case 
of cancelation. It is evident from what Mr R says that they never took up the accommodation 
and didnt travel to the accommodation and all booking dates discussed between Mr R, Mrs 
R and the Provider have passed. So Im satisfied in any event that there is no basis for 
MBNA to be liable for the deposit amount to be refunded to Mr R.
Mr R has argued that they didnt cancel. On 09 June 2021 Mrs R texts the Provider and 
explains that shes suffered a bereavement and goes on to say: could you therefore please 
cancel our booking for 10-16 August, so it gives you time to get someone else in. Would you 
be willing to give me a refund of 780 (Euro) and I promise to rebook and start again I can 
also see MBNA notes from the time (2021) which state using the initialisation of CH (which I 
take to mean Card Holder) CH has cancelled the villa. So I am satisfied on balance that 
the booking was cancelled and as per the agreed terms the Provider was entitled to keep the 
deposit paid from that point.
Mr R argues that a date in 2022 was agreed subsequently. And I can see text messages 
from after Mrs R cancelled the accommodation where dates in 2022 are agreed. And within 
that I can see the Provider agrees those dates and says will send confirmation. I can then 
see Mrs R chasing for confirmation in late June 2021 and then February and asking why the 
booking isnt showing on the online diary. From here there is no further successful 
communication with the Provider. It is unclear what the Providers view on these 
communications. They could have considered it an entirely new booking requiring a new 
deposit bearing in mind Mrs R cancelled.
Its clear that Mr R feels he changed the original booking from the original date, to that in 
2021 and then again until 2022. And I can see he complained to MBNA in 2021. As MBNA 
has stated it cant be held responsible for a breach of contract that hadnt happened at the 
point when it considers such a claim because any breach hasnt had opportunity to happen 
yet. And it is entitled to rely on what Mr R told it-that he had a booking for 2022. So Im not 
persuaded MBNA did anything wrong in how it handled his claim in 2021.
MBNA considered Mr Rs complaint about this in 2022. And I note it said it felt it hadnt done 
anything wrong when he made his claim in 2021. And I dont think it has treated him unfairly. 
Im satisfied that Mrs R cancelled the booking in the text message Ive described. And from 
that moment the Provider was entitled to keep the deposit under the agreement made.
Ive not seen any persuasive evidence from the Provider saying the deposit could be carried 
over to the booking for 2022. Ive seen texts where Mrs R is asking for the money to be 
refunded but no agreement to that by the Provider in early June 2021. And then I can see 
the notes MBNA made on 24 June 2021 where it notes its communication with Mr R as 
Merch (the Provider) will move booking but at additional cost they have refused refund. 
And I can see Mrs R chasing the Provider for confirmation on 29 June 2021 which wasnt 
forthcoming.
Based on the information available that there was agreement about availability of dates for 
2022, but based on the text messages Ive seen and the MBNA notes of communication at 
the time I havent seen agreement between the parties about how to treat the refund and 
what the new dates were to cost. Bearing in mind the original price agreed was in 2019 and 
that by 2021 when these discussions were being had, the Pandemic had been having 
substantial impact on the world and the accommodation letting business in particular for a significant period of time. I think it likely that the additional cost referred to in MBNAs notes 
referred to price increases which were common at this time in the accommodation market. It 
seems likely to me in these circumstances there was disagreement between the parties as 
to the refund and the additional cost based on the evidence available. It is possible that Mr R 
wanted the original cost and considered the matter to be the same booking and the Provider 
was suggesting a significantly higher cost for a new booking as the previous one had been 
cancelled. So I can well imagine there was opportunity here for disagreement between the 
parties.
As there is clear evidence that the original booking was cancelled Im satisfied that the 
Provider was entitled to keep the deposit paid. And hence MBNA has nothing further to do. 
And as Ive described and no persuasive evidence showing that the treatment of the refund 
and the additional costs had been agreed with regard to the agreed dates in 2022 when 
taking the texts and MBNAs records of its communications with Mr R together. Im satisfied 
on balance that there was still no agreement to key aspects of the terms here. So Im not 
persuaded that a new agreement had been created or the original one extended to cover the 
dates in 2022 due to these significant points of difference between the parties.
So although I think MBNA could have considered the matter more thoroughly in 2022 Im not 
persuaded Mr R has lost out because of its stance. Im satisfied the agreement was 
cancelled and the Provider was entitled to keep the deposit as per the agreed terms.
Since the Investigators assessment was provided to Mr R he has responded to say he 
doesnt consider the accommodation was a genuine business offering and that the 
Investigator had expected us to attend our honeymoon when we had heard
nothing from the property owner for nearly a year despite contacting her. At no stage did the 
Investigator say that they expected Mr R to attend the accommodation. Mr R has provided 
no persuasive evidence of the accommodation not being a genuine business offering. I note 
the property is still being advertised on websites and through introducer websites. I also see 
that Mr R and Mrs R havent actually described what MBNA actually did wrong. And for me 
to uphold a complaint against MBNA I need to be persuaded it did do something wrong. And 
Im not.
I appreciate that this isnt the decision Mr R wishes to read. And I also appreciate that the 
agreement was cancelled at a very sad time when Mr R and Mrs R were very recently 
bereaved. But that doesnt make it fair for MBNA to have to cover the costs of this deposit 
which Mr R paid on a non-refundable basis. And the Provider was entitled to rely on a clear 
instruction to cancel. Mr R hasnt persuasively demonstrated what MBNA did wrong or 
indeed explained how it treated him unfairly. And it would only be fair to make MBNA pay if it 
had treated Mr R unfairly. But I dont think it has treated him unfairly in terms of either its 
approach to chargeback or section 75. So accordingly Mr Rs complaint does not succeed.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint against MBNA Limited. It has 
nothing further to do in respect of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman