DRN-3553356
The complaint
Mr A complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited trading as Legal and General unfairly 
declined claims he made for damage to his property and a theft of items on a home 
insurance policy.
Mr As been represented in his dealings with our service by a solicitor. Where I refer to Mr A 
within this decision, this should be taken to include the solicitor acting on his behalf.
What happened
Mr A insures his home with Fairmead. He sought to make claims on the policy in relation to 
two related matters. He said a building contractor had carried out poor quality works  and not 
returned to complete the contracted works. He also claimed that items of jewellery had been 
stolen from the property by the contractor.
Fairmead declined cover for both claims. It said the circumstances of the damage to the 
property werent covered by the policy, and that the policy terms and conditions required that 
either forced entry or deception was used to gain access to the property.
Mr A complained to Fairmead, and when it rejected his complaint, he referred it to our 
service. Our investigator thought that Fairmead had acted fairly when it declined cover for 
the damage to the property. Mr A didnt agree with this. Our investigator did think that 
Fairmead should reconsider the theft claim. She thought the circumstances of what had 
happened meant that deception had been used to carry out the theft. Fairmead didnt agree 
with this.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaints come to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While the root cause of the matters complained about are the same, that being the alleged 
conduct of the contractor, there are two claims under separate sections of the policy here, 
and so Ill look at them separately.
The damage to the property
Mr As policy provides cover for malicious damage, and its this cover that Mr A contends 
applies to his claim. In brief, he engaged a contractor to carry out works at the property 
which included the removal of existing walls at the property. 
Mr A says that after the works were started, the contractor recommended further works 
which he agreed to. Some new walls were partially constructed but not completed before the 
contractor failed to return to complete the agreed works.
Mr As position that this should be considered malicious damage is based on a number of 
points:
That the contractor is now the subject of a prosecution by local trading standards.
The contractor has a history of starting but not completing works.
The contractor used false details in their dealings with Mr A.
An inspection of the works completed suggests they are of a poor standard.
The necessary permissions and regulations werent complied with for the works 
completed.
The contractor never intended to complete the works to a proper standard.
In the absence of any definition of malicious damage in the policy terms and conditions, I 
need to consider the ordinary and normal meaning of the words. Our investigator 
considered, and it hasnt been disputed by the parties, that this should mean damage 
caused with the intention of causing harm. Im satisfied that this is a reasonable definition.
At this point, the contractor has been charged by trading standards but hasnt been 
convicted of any offence in relation to their actions at Mr As property. Unlike the theft (which 
Ive addressed below), Fairmead doesnt appear to accept Mr As contention that the 
contractor never intended to complete the works.
My consideration here is therefore whether I think, on balance, the contractor intended to 
cause harm to Mr A by demolishing parts of the property and partially completing building 
works, to a poor standard. It isnt disputed that Mr A agreed to the works which were carried 
out by the contractor. So ordinarily I dont think it would be reasonable to say that works 
carried out by a contractor with the agreement of the property owner (and policyholder) could 
constitute malicious damage  damage to the property (for example demolishing existing 
parts of the property) has been caused intentionally, but not with the intent to cause harm.
I do agree things are slightly different here. If Im satisfied that, on balance, the contractor 
had no intention of completing all the works when the parts of the property were demolished, 
my conclusion may be different. While I note Mr As position regarding the conduct of the 
contractor previously with other clients, Im not persuaded I can reasonably reach such a 
conclusion here. Im aware that in addition to the works which had been carried out, there 
were additional materials which had been delivered to the property to allow further 
scheduled works to take place. I think this is suggestive that the contractor intended to carry 
out further works which had been agreed with Mr A. 
I cant say why the contractor didnt attend the property to complete the works. I dont have 
any statement from them or evidence from any proceedings taken against them. On 
balance, however, I dont think I can safely reach a conclusion that they carried out 
demolition works at the property, and started new construction, with the intent of causing Mr 
A harm. Im not persuaded that the circumstances described here mean that whats 
happened amounts to malicious damage.
Ive also thought about whether the poor quality of works constitutes malicious damage. For 
this to be the case, Id have to be satisfied that the works were carried out to a poor standard 
intentionally, to cause harm to Mr A.  While the works may not be to the required standard, 
this isnt evidence that they were done poorly deliberately. I havent seen any evidence from 
monitoring of the contractors work, or observation of it, to show that the work was 
intentionally poor.
The theft 
Mr A has said that he believes the contractor stole items of jewellery from a bedroom when they had access to the property after asking to use the bathroom. Im aware that the 
contractor hasnt (to date) been convicted of the theft, but for the purposes of my decision I 
will have to assume that the circumstances of the theft are accepted  as this is what 
Fairmead has assessed the claim on.
The terms and conditions of Mr As policy say for claims caused by theft or attempted theft, 
no cover is provided: unless there are signs of damage caused by the thief (or thieves) to get 
into the home or violence or deception was used to gain entry.
It isnt disputed that there was no forced entry to the property. The question to be considered 
is whether the circumstances outlined meant that deception had been used. Fairmeads view 
is that deception wasnt used to gain access to the property.
What obviously cant be said with certainty is whether the theft arose on an opportunistic 
basis, essentially by the contractor taking advantage of them having access to the property 
when using the bathroom, or whether it was planned, with the contractor lying that they 
needed to use the bathroom, to gain access to the property. 
I dont think this affects my decision here. Whichever applies, I think a fair and reasonable 
interpretation of whats happened is that Mr A has provided access to his property for a 
legitimate reason  he was told the contractor needed to use the bathroom. That legitimate 
access has been used for an illegitimate purpose. I think a reasonable interpretation is that 
Mr A has been deceived as to the ultimate aim of the contractor having access to the 
property  whether that was the contractors aim from the outset or this was doing 
opportunistically doesnt change that point for me. I think its fair to say that deception has 
been used to gain access to the bedroom where the jewellery was kept. I think a fair and 
reasonable interpretation of the policy terms and conditions means that the exclusion 
shouldnt apply in these circumstances.
Im satisfied that the Fairmead couldnt fairly rely on the exclusion to decline cover for the 
claim. In order to put things right, Fairmead will need to re-consider the claim in accordance 
with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. My finding here doesnt place an 
obligation on Fairmead to settle the claim, or restrict their ability to undertake reasonable 
enquiries and investigations to establish whether the policy provides cover.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint in part. In order to put things right, Fairmead 
Insurance Limited trading as Legal and General must reconsider the theft claim in 
accordance with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman