DRN-1672013
 
The complaint
Mrs C says Barclays Bank UK Plc (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy Mrs C took out in 2000. It was added to her 
account shortly after she had applied for the card.
Our adjudicator thought we should uphold the complaint. Barclays disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs C applied for her credit card by post. I can see from the application form there was a 
option to tick a box select PPI  and Mrs C did not complete it. Barclays has confirmed this 
and said that the PPI was added shortly after Mrs C applied for the card during a telephone 
call. But it cant say whether Mrs C phoned it or the other way round.
Barclays hasnt been able to provide any information about the phone call where it says it 
sold PPI to Mrs C. I havent seen a copy of the call recording, a transcript of the call or the 
sales script that its representative shouldve used when it sold the PPI. So to reach my 
decision Ive thought about what Mrs C has said and looked at the information I have.
Mrs C says she didnt ask for the insurance and knows she wouldnt have agreed to it. 
Barclays hasnt been able to show me anything to indicate how the cover was presented on 
the phone call, or that Mrs C agreed to have it.
And its not clear to me why, if she knew it was optional, she wouldve agreed to take it only 
a short time after choosing not to take it when she applied for the card. So having looked at 
everything, I dont think its most likely Barclays made it clear to Mrs C that she had a choice 
about taking the policy. And I cant be sure that Mrs C agreed to take it.
Barclays sent us information about the codes of practice governing the selling of PPI at the 
time that it says it would have followed. But this doesnt change my decision to uphold this 
complaint. I say this because I dont have any information about how this particular PPI 
policy was sold. And therefore I cant fairly say that the PPI was presented as optional to Mrs 
C, or that its representative got Mrs Cs consent before adding the PPI to her account.putting things right
Barclays should put Mrs C in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out 
PPI.
A. Barclays should find out how much Mrs C would have owed when she closed her 
credit card account if the policy hadnt been added. So, it should remove the PPI 
premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those premiums. It should also 
remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any 
interest added to those charges. Barclays should then refund the difference between 
what Mrs C owed when she closed her account and what she would have owed if she 
hadnt had PPI. If Mrs C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays can 
take off what she got for the claim from the amount it owes her. 
B. Barclays should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs C would 
have owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the 
refund. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when Barclays works out what Mrs C would have owed each month without PPI 
 Mrs C paid more than enough to clear her balance, Barclays should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mrs C paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Mrs C wouldve owed Barclays something on her credit card. The interest rate 
should be 8% a year.
D. Barclays should tell Mrs C what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must 
give Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Cs complaint. Barclays Bank UK Plc should put 
things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman