DRN-2962557
The complaint
Mr A complains that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc didnt update his personal details following a 
name change. 
Mr A would like Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc to update his details and apologise for the 
inconvenience.
What happened
Mr A took out a £25,000 loan with Hitachi. Shortly afterwards, Mr A contacted Hitachi to 
update his name and address. Mr A provided Hitachi with a copy of the deed poll certificate, 
but Hitachi asked for more information to process the change.
Hitachi got in touch with Mr As bank provider, but they confirmed they still held Mr As 
original name for the bank account where he was due to make his loan payments from. In 
November 2019, Hitachi asked Mr A for further identification to update his personal details. 
In February 2020 Mr A explained to Hitachi that he didnt have the documents Hitachi were 
asking for but explained that his bank account had now been updated. Hitachi got back in 
touch with Mr As bank, but they confirmed no change had been made.
In April 2020, as no payments had been made towards the loan, Mr As account fell into 
arrears of around £8,000. Given Mr As personal circumstances, Hitachi agreed to a £1 per 
month repayment plan for a period of three months.
Mr A sent Hitachi a copy of his driving licence with his new name, but Hitachi said they 
couldnt accept it as the scanned copy wasnt clear. 
Hitachi explained to Mr A that they require a dated copy of his name change, a dated copy of 
his bank statement showing his new name and a clear copy of his drivers licence or 
passport to allow them to update his personal details. Hitachi have also asked Mr A to start 
making payments towards his loan account.
Mr A has explained that he has sent the required documentation to Hitachi several times  
and on occasion he has sent certified copies from the post office which has cost him money.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr As complaint. He agreed the copy of Mr As driving licence 
which was sent to Hitachi wasnt clear and hadnt seen any evidence that the deed poll 
certificate had been sent. So, he thought the documentation Hitachi was asking for was 
reasonable. Mr A asked for an ombudsman to review things. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, like our investigator, I think Hitachi are entitled to ask for the documentation 
before updating Mr As name.
Mr As loan account had been open for a relatively short period of time when hed changed 
his name by deed poll. I appreciate the circumstances in which Mr A changed his name and 
while I havent gone into those details in my decision, Id like to reassure Mr A that I have 
carefully considered them. But despite that, due to the account being relatively new, and no 
payments had yet been made, I think it was reasonable for Hitachi to make further checks 
and enquiries before updating Mr As personal details.
I havent seen a copy of the deed poll certificate Mr A initially sent to Hitachi  but I have 
seen a copy of the driving licence he provided. I agree the copy of the licence isnt entirely 
clear and as Mr A is requesting a financial agreement to be updated, I think a clear copy 
ought to be provided for Hitachis records and to ensure Mr As details are updated correctly.
I note Mr A says he has sent the required documentation to Hitachi several times  and on 
occasion it has cost him money. Mr A hasnt supplied evidence to our service of him sending 
the documentation, and while I have no reason to disbelieve him, its not reasonable for me 
to uphold his complaint on this part without sufficient evidence. If Mr A sent the 
documentation through a post office delivery service like he says, Id expect him to have a 
tracking number which hed be able to trace. But Im not aware that he has explored that with 
the post office or Hitachi.
Mr A says his bank details have been updated but Hitachi have been in touch with Mr As 
bank who has provided conflicting information. Im not able to comment on the actions of the 
third-party bank as part of my decision, but even if they confirmed Mr As bank account had 
been updated, Hitachi would still require a clear copy of photo identification and the name 
change document. So, I dont think this makes an overall difference to Mr As complaint.
I dont doubt how difficult and frustrating this overall situation must be for Mr A. But Hitachi 
require clear copies of the documentation to be able to update Mr As details, so I dont find 
their requests unreasonable. While I recognise the inconvenience to Mr A, its necessary he 
sends Hitachi the required documentation again  and Id recommend he use a tracking 
service so he can ensure their safe delivery. Once Mr A provides Hitachi with the necessary 
documentation, Id expect Hitachi to update the details without any undue delay. 
I also note Mr As account is in arrears and Id urge him to get in touch with Hitachi and 
arrange for a suitable payment plan.
Overall, while I recognise the distressing time Mr A has faced, I cant reasonably say 
Hitachis actions of asking for certain documentation to update Mr As name is unfair. And as 
I havent seen any evidence of the required documents being sent to Hitachi, I cant fairly 
uphold the complaint. So, I wont be asking Hitachi to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman