DRN-2706195
The complaint
Ms R complains that Erudio Student Loans Limited didnt process her deferment application, 
leading it to cancel the loan and request full payment 
What happened
Ms R has a loan taken out via the Student Loans Company that is now administered by 
Erudio. In August 2019, Ms R applied to defer her loan as she was under the earning 
threshold.
Ms Rs application to defer wasnt accepted as Erudio wanted to see bank statements that 
hadnt been filtered. Ms R didnt reply to Erudios requests for additional information. As her 
account was then in arrears, Erudio took steps to default it.
Ms R says she didnt receive the letters so had no reason to believe her application to defer 
hadnt been successful.
The investigator wasnt satisfied that Ms R received Erudios letters asking for further 
information as her address was incomplete. The investigator recommended that Ms Rs 
complaint be upheld, and she be put back in the position she wouldve been had her 
deferment application been accepted. 
Eruido disagrees with the investigators recommendation. It agrees that it didnt use Ms Rs 
full address but as Ms R has confirmed receipt of one letter, its likely she received the 
others as well.
Erudio says it was reasonable to expect Ms R to make contact once she didnt receive 
written confirmation of the deferment.  And that under the terms of Ms Rs loan agreement, 
its her responsibility to make repayments until a new deferment term is granted. 
Eruido says that its not possible to reinstate an account unless terminated in error. In Ms Rs 
case Erudio says it was reasonable to terminate the account due to the arrears.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think theres any dispute that in 2019 Ms R was eligible for the deferment, so I dont 
want to spend time dealing with this in my decision. 
Erudios written requests for further information didnt include the country in Ms Rs address. 
And Ms R says she didnt receive the letters. Erudio says that if Ms R received at least one 
letter, its likely she received them all. But I dont agree.
I have had a look at Royal Mails website for information on what address format should be 
used when sending mail internationally. For the country where Ms R currently lives, Royal 
Mail says that the country should be written in capital letters on the last line of the address. 
The fact that one letter made its way to Ms R doesnt mean that all letters did. I think the 
evidence for this is strong because when Ms R did receive Erudios letter of 26 February 
2020, she promptly made contact to find out what happened. 
Ms R has since been able to provide the evidence that Erudio asked for. On balance, it 
seems likely to me that if Ms R had received Erudios requests for further evidence, she 
wouldve responded. Then Ms Rs deferment wouldve been processed, and her account 
would not have defaulted.
Ive considered what Erudio said about Ms Rs responsibility to provide the right evidence 
when she applied for the deferment. But I cant find that this means I shouldnt require Eruido 
to put things right now. Ms R made the application to defer online and received an 
acknowledgment of her application. As far as Im aware she didnt receive an error message 
to say there had been a problem. 
This was the seventh time that Ms R had deferred with Erudio. I havent been told that 
Erudio had to ask for additional evidence in the past. So, it seems reasonable for Ms R to 
assume shed provided the right information on this occasion.
Although Erudio says Ms R shouldve noticed that it didnt send her confirmation of her 
successful deferment by post, this doesnt change my decision. In the absence of further 
correspondence from Erudio, I think it was reasonable of Ms R to assume that everything 
was okay. I dont consider Ms R shouldve been chasing Eruido for confirmation or that the 
lack of it shouldve necessarily rung alarm bells for her  particularly as Erudio had her email 
address to make contact and didnt do so.
Overall, Im satisfied that its reasonable to uphold this complaint. Ms R should be put back 
in the position she wouldve been had Erudio accepted her application to defer in 2019.
The investigator has identified an issue with the current deferral period running from October 
2020 to October 2021. He has already sent Erudio some evidence to support Ms Rs 
application to defer. 
I dont make any finding on whether Erudio should agree to defer the loan for October 2020 
to October 2021. However, once Ms Rs loan is reinstated, I would expect Erudio to treat any 
application she might make to defer, reasonably and sympathetically, taking account of the 
logistics of international mail delivery. 
As the investigator has suggested, it would seem sensible for Erudio to use Ms Rs email 
address in the future as well as ensuring it correctly addresses any letters to be sent in the 
mail.
Putting things right
To put things right, Erudio Student Loans Limited should:
Reinstate Ms Rs loan agreement; 
Remove any interest or charges that it mightve applied to the loan account because 
Ms Rs loan wasnt deferred from October 2019;
Remove any negative information that it may have reported to the credit reference 
agencies as a result of Ms Rs loan not being deferred from October 2019; and
Pay Ms R £100 compensationMy final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things right, I require Erudio Student 
Loans Limited to put things right in line with the directions above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman