DRN-2889909
The complaint
Mr H complains that Allianz Insurance Plc declined his pet insurance claim, added specific 
exclusions to his policy and about its service. My references to Allianz include its agents 
What happened
On 9 February 2019 Mr H took out a pet insurance for his dog, insured by Allianz. The policy 
started on 27 February 2019. The policy gave cover for life subject to the policy terms, limits 
and exclusions while the policy was in force.
Before Mr H bought the policy Allianz asked him questions about his dogs health. Mr H told 
Allianz his dog had seen a vet for a bad stomach from drinking dirty water and Allianz placed 
an exclusion on the policy for claims resulting from or connected to gastro-intestinal / 
digestive system disorders.
In May 2019 Mr Hs dog was referred by his vet for an MRI scan to find out the cause of a 
cough. Mr H sent a pre-authorisation claim form to Allianz asking for the costs to be covered.
The next day Allianz sent Mr H an email amending the policy schedule to include the 
following additional exclusions to apply from the start of the policy:
Exclusions for claims resulting from or connected to:
Respiratory System
Skin Disorders
Ear Disorders
Wart(s)
Granuloma(s).
Allianz told Mr H it had added the additional exclusions because of the dogs medical history 
from his vets notes, which it saw when Mr H made the pre-authorisation claim. Allianz said if 
Mr H had answered the questions about his dogs health correctly it would have added those 
additional exclusions when he bought the policy. It also said that under the policy terms it 
could place exclusions on the policy if Mr H had provided inaccurate information when 
buying the policy regardless of whether he thought the information correct at the time.
Allianz used the exclusion for claims connected to the respiratory system to decline the pre-
authorisation claim.
Mr H complained to Allianz. Ultimately his dog had been diagnosed with chronic bronchitis. 
Mr H said Allianz should pay the claim as he and his vet thought his dog had kennel cough
which cleared up before he bought the policy and the cough he was claiming for was 
different. He also said the vet never told him his dog had any ongoing medical conditions so 
it was unfair for Allianz to add the additional exclusions. Mr H was also unhappy that Allianz 
had just sent a list of exclusions in response to his pre-authorisation claim, not a decision to 
his claim.
Allianz spoke to Mr Hs vet and removed the exclusion for granuloma. Allianzs vet didnt 
agree with Mr Hs vet that the cough before the policy started was different to the cough 
claimed for and it continued to decline the claim.
Allianz accepted it should have explained to Mr H that he would be contacted separately 
about the outcome of his claim and that it delayed in fully responding to his complaint. It said 
it paid Mr H £50 for his distress and inconvenience.
Mr H complained to us. He said he answered the questions about his dogs health to the 
best of his knowledge as the law required, as he was under the impression he was being 
asked about long term illness or anything that was being treated at the time. Hed paid about 
£1,500 for his dog to be treated privately and wants Allianz to pay the cost. He also wants 
the remaining additional exclusions removed from his policy or be redefined to be not so 
broad. He says the exclusions are so wide Allianz was charging him for worthless insurance 
and hadnt offered a refund. Hes still unhappy with Allianzs service.
Before I made my provisional decision I asked Allianz for some more information on its 
underwriting criteria, which it provided. 
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision that I was intending to not uphold the complaint. I said:
Mr H has only complained about the additional exclusions Allianz added around May 2019 
so those are the exclusions Ive considered in this decision.
I see that although Mr H has asked for information from his file, in particular Allianzs 
underwriting criteria for the exclusions, hes said hes happy for me to do a decision without 
him seeing that information. Our investigator has correctly explained that underwriting 
criteria is commercially sensitive information which we cannot send to Mr H. Ive seen the 
criteria and in my findings Ill cover whether the additional exclusions Allianz placed on the 
policy are in line with its underwriting criteria.
I have to decide wither Allianz acted fairly and reasonably in adding the additional 
exclusions, declining the claim and paying Mr H £50 compensation for his distress and 
inconvenience at its poor service, and I think it did.
The policy says:
Extra exclusions that can apply to the cover for your pet:
We can place exclusions on your policy at the start of your cover based on your pets 
veterinary history and your answers to our questions. We can also place exclusions 
during the policy year but we can only do this if we find out, that when we asked 
during your application, you did not tell us about something or you provided us with 
inaccurate information (regardless of whether or not you thought it was accurate at 
the time). In these cases the exclusion(s) will be placed back to the start of your 
policy.
So the policy terms say Allianz can add such exclusions whether or not a consumer thought 
the information they were giving was correct. However, generally I dont think its fair and reasonable for an insurer to add backdated exclusions if a consumer has taken reasonable 
care in their answers to a clear question asked when they apply for a policy.
Our approach is in line with the relevant law on this issue, The Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance 
contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
If a consumer fails to take reasonable care, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is, what CIDRA describes as, a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a 
qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Ive considered the circumstances of this case to consider whether Allianz fairly added the 
exclusions given our approach, in line with CIDRA.
When Mr H bought the policy in February 2019 he was asked:
Has (dogs name) shown any sign of illness or injury or been unwell either now or in 
the past? This is regardless of whether or not (dogs name) has been seen by a vet 
for the problem.
Mr H replied that his dog had a bad stomach from drinking dirty water six months ago. He 
was then asked:
Have you had discussed anything else with your vet about (dogs name). We need to 
know about any potential signs of illness or injury even if the vet didnt feel there was 
anything to worry about at the time or even if the signs went away quickly.
Mr H didnt give any further information.
But Mr Hs dogs vet records show that since 2012 hed been seen by the vet for various 
issues which have led to Allianz adding the additional exclusions. Ill consider each 
exclusion.
Did Allianz fairly add and apply the exclusion for respiratory system disorders to decline the 
claim?
On 7 January 2019 the vet notes say the dog had been coughing for 3 weeks and on 
30 January 2019 that hed been prescribed medication.
Mr H says his vet told him the dog had kennel cough. When Allianz spoke to the vet he told it 
he thought the cough in January 2019 was kennel cough/laryngeal cough, not related to the 
chronic bronchitis later diagnosed, because the cough cleared before the retching/ chronic 
bronchitis was seen in May 2019. However when Allianz asked Mr Hs vet why in 
January 2019 the dog had been given medication, which treated bacterial infections, Mr Hs 
vet confirmed it was for bronchopneumonia.
Even if Mr H was told by the vet that his dog had kennel cough in January 2019 I think it 
would have reasonable for him to have told Allianz about his dogs very recent visits to the 
vet due to the cough in answer to the above questions he was asked when he bought the policy. I dont think Mr H could reasonably understand the clear wording of those questions 
meant that he just needed to tell Allianz about long term illness or anything that was being 
treated at the time.
So I dont think Mr H took reasonable care in not telling Allianz about his dogs cough.
Allianzs underwriting criteria shows that if it had known the dog had a cough before the 
policy started it would have added an exclusion, different ones depending on the type of 
cough, which Ill detail further below.
This means Im satisfied Mr Hs misrepresentation was a qualifying one. I need to decide 
whether Mr Hs qualifying misrepresentation about his dogs cough was deliberate or 
reckless, or careless.
Allianz hasnt said Mr Hs misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless. If Allianz thought it 
was, under CIDRA it could have voided the policy and kept the premiums which it didnt do.
As Allianz has put forward no evidence that Mr Hs misrepresentation was deliberate or 
reckless Im satisfied Mr Hs misrepresentation should be treated as careless.
Allianz has acted on the basis that it believes Mr H made a careless misrepresentation in 
that it added an exclusion which it said was in line with its underwriting criteria, as CIDRA 
allows it to do.
Allianzs underwriting criteria shows if kennel cough was the problem in January 2019 then 
the correct exclusion would be for kennel cough. But for pneumonia or cough the correct 
exclusion would be for respiratory system disorders.
So I have to decide whether Allianz reasonably believed the January 2019 cough probably 
wasnt kennel cough and fairly added the exclusion for respiratory system disorders.
Mr Hs dogs vet notes in January 2019 dont give a diagnosis of kennel cough. Although his 
vet told Allianz he thought it was kennel cough Allianzs vet doesnt agree because Mr Hs 
vet took no swabs in January 2019 to confirm his diagnosis and importantly he prescribed 
medication for the dog in late January 2019 for bronchopneumonia. Allianzs vet said the 
prescription for medication showed the cough was ongoing and bronchopneumonia 
suspected. Also, given the dogs age (8 years old at the time) the coughing in January 2019 
was probably a symptom of the chronic bronchitis later diagnosed.
Im more persuaded by Allianzs vets opinion that the dog didnt have kennel cough in 
January 2019 as there were no diagnostic test in January 2019 and the medication given to 
the dog was for bronchopneumonia. So I think Allianz fairly added the exclusion for 
respiratory system disorders from the start of the policy.
Im satisfied that Allianz fairly applied the respiratory system disorders exclusion to decline 
Mr Hs pre-authorisation claim. It doesnt need to pay Mr Hs dogs treatment costs that he 
claimed for.
Allianz has said the respiratory system disorders exclusion is reviewable where a pet has 
12 consecutive months clear of any respiratory problems. I appreciate thats unlikely as 
Mr Hs dog has been diagnosed with chronic bronchitis but he may wish to contact Allianz 
about review in the future.
Did Allianz fairly add the other additional exclusions?Allianzs final response letter to Mr H details why it added the other exclusions. The vet 
notes show that in 2018 Mr Hs dog saw the vet for his sore paw caused by licking and sore 
fold on his ear. He was treated with a topical treatment for skin diseases.
I think Mr H should have reasonably told Allianz that his dog had been seen by a vet for his 
sore paw and ear in response to the clear questions he asked when taking out the policy. 
I dont think Mr H took reasonable care in not telling Allianz about his dogs vet visit for his 
sore paw and ear.
Allianzs underwriting criteria shows that if it had known the dog had itchy skin before the 
policy started it would have added exclusions for claims for skin disorders and ear disorders.
So Im satisfied Mr Hs misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Allianz hasnt said Mr Hs misrepresentation about his dogs visit to the vet about his sore 
paw and ear was deliberate or reckless. As Allianz has put forward no evidence that Mr Hs 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless Im satisfied Mr Hs misrepresentation should 
be treated as careless.
Allianz has acted on the basis that it believes Mr H made a careless misrepresentation in 
that it added an exclusion which Ive seen is in line with its underwriting criteria, as CIDRA 
allows it to do.
Im satisfied that Allianz fairly added the exclusions for skin disorders and ear disorders to 
the policy from the policy start date.
Allianz says the exclusions for skin disorders and ear disorders are reviewable if Mr Hs dog 
has been clear of any skin and ear problems for 24 consecutive months providing he hasnt 
been diagnosed with any allergies or been on any prescription or special diet/food/ 
management during that time. So Mr H may want to contact Allianz now with his dogs 
clinical history if he thinks his dogs health meets the reviewable requirements to see if those 
two exclusions can be removed.
The vet notes show that in 2017 the vet and Mr H discussed a wart on his dogs leg and the 
possibility of it being removed.
I think Mr H should have reasonably told Allianz about the conversation he had with the vet 
about the wart in response to the clear questions he asked when taking out the policy. I dont 
think Mr H took reasonable care in not telling Allianz about the wart.
Allianzs underwriting criteria shows that if it had known the dog had a wart before the policy 
started it would have added exclusions for claims for wart(s). So Im satisfied Mr Hs 
misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Allianz hasnt said Mr Hs misrepresentation about his dogs conversation with the vet about 
the wart was deliberate or reckless. As Allianz has put forward no evidence that Mr Hs 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless Im satisfied Mr Hs misrepresentation should 
be treated as careless.
Allianz has acted on the basis that it believes Mr H made a careless misrepresentation in 
that it added an exclusion which Ive seen is in line with its underwriting criteria, as CIDRA 
allows it to do.
Im satisfied that Allianz fairly added the exclusion for wart(s) to the policy from the policy 
start date.When Allianz spoke to Mr Hs vet he said the wart was still present. Allianz says it can look 
to remove this exclusion if the wart has either regressed fully or has been removed, and the 
dog has been 3 consecutive months clear of any warts from that point. So Mr H may wish to 
contact Allianz about the exclusion being reviewed and removed.
Allianz had already removed the exclusions for granuloma, so I havent considered that 
exclusion.
As a final point on the exclusions, Mr H says they are so wide ranging they would a exclude 
a claim if for example his dog needed surgery for swallowing a stick or was bitten by another 
dog. I havent seen any evidence he was told that information by Allianz. Even if he was we 
wouldnt necessarily think that was fair decision for Allianz to make. Ive no evidence that 
Allianz declined a claim for Mr H on the scenarios hes suggested and I understand he was 
giving examples only. If there are other claims Allianz has declined that Mr H disputes hell 
need to make a separate complaint to it.
Service and refund of premiums
Allianz accepts it should have better dealt with Mr Hs pre-authorisation request by making it 
clear it would contact him separately about its claim decision. I understand why Mr H was 
shocked to receive by a return a list of additional exclusions to the policy in response to his 
request, with no claims decision. But I think Allianzs payment of £50 compensation for his 
upset and inconvenience for its poor service was a reasonable amount.
As Mr H has chosen to keep the policy Allianz has acted reasonably by continuing to charge 
premiums. I dont think the policy is worthless, as Mr H suggests, as matters that fall 
outside the exclusions are still covered. As Ive said Mr H can contact Allianz to see if the 
reviewable exclusions can be removed. Allianz doesnt need to refund premiums to Mr H.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr H disagreed with my provisional decision. In summary he said:
hed asked his vet if his dog needed any ongoing treatment before he took out the 
policy. The vet said no so he gave no details when he took out the policy 
if hed known he needed to tell Allianz about all the vets visits he would have done so 
and Allianz should have asked for all the vet records before issuing the policy
hed not intentionally misinterpreted information and he could only be expected to 
have a reasonable understanding as he relied on his dogs vet 
Allianz had told him that due to the exclusions he wouldnt be covered if his dog 
needed surgery for eating a sock which is why he said the policy was worthless 
he hadnt received the £50 compensation from Allianz for its poor service.
We checked with Allianz whether it had paid Mr H the £50 compensation. It said it hadnt as 
Mr H hadnt accepted the amount but it would do so. It had no other comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs response to my provisional decision hasnt changed my mind. Even if his vet told him 
his dog didnt need any ongoing treatment for the cough or any other matter I dont think that 
adequately explains Mr Hs response to the questions Allianz asked when he took out the 
policy. Ive detailed the wording of the questions above but in summary he was asked:
if his dog had shown signs of illness or injury or been unwell either now or in the past 
regardless of whether the dog had been seen by a vet for the problem, and
had he discussed anything else about his dog with his vet even if the vet thought 
there was nothing to worry about at the time or even if the signs went away quickly.
Mr H says he misinterpreted the questions. But I think the questions are very clear Allianz 
wasnt just asking about matters that his dog needed ongoing treatment for or just asking 
about long term illness. 
I dont think Allianz had to ask for all Mr Hs dogs vet records before issuing the policy. 
Allianz could reasonably understand it had asked Mr H clear questions about his dogs 
health for Mr H to provide correct information.
In response to the questions Mr H only told Allianz that his dog had seen the vet for a bad 
stomach due to drinking dirty water. He didnt tell Allianz about the cough his dog had very 
recently seen the vet for or any of the other matters and I think it would have been 
reasonable for him to do so given the questions he was asked.
I dont think Mr H took reasonable care in answering the questions and was careless. Ive 
explained above why I think Allianz acted fairly in applying the relevant exclusions to the 
policy on that basis.
Ive also explained that if Allianz did use the exclusions to decline a claim for his dog 
swallowing an object we wouldnt necessarily think that was fair decision for Allianz to make  
and why I dont think the policy is worthless as Mr H suggests.
For the reasons Ive given in my provisional  findings and these findings Im satisfied that:
Allianz fairly added and applied the respiratory system disorders exclusion to the 
policy to decline Mr Hs pre-authorisation claim. It doesnt need to pay Mr Hs dogs 
treatment costs that he claimed for, and 
Allianz fairly added exclusions for claims resulting from or connected to skin 
disorders, ear disorders and wart(s) to the policy, and 
Allianz doesnt need to refund premiums to Mr H.
Ive detailed above that some of those exclusions are reviewable and its up to Mr H to 
contact Allianz with his dogs updated medical history to see if those reviewable exclusions 
can be removed.
I think Allianzs offer of £50 compensation for Mr Hs upset and inconvenience due to it not 
telling him he would be contacted separately about the outcome of his claim and its delay in 
fully responding was a reasonable amount. Allianz has now clarified it didnt pay the £50 to  
Mr H as he didnt accept the offer. If he now wishes to accept the offer he should contact 
Allianz and its confirmed it will pay him the £50 compensation.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman