DRN-4278291
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) has unfairly handled an 
escape of water claim under her home insurance.
Any reference to Fairmead includes its respective agents or representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known between parties, so Ive summarised events.
Mrs F made a claim on her policy following an escape of water in July 2021.
Fairmead accepted the claim. The property was dried over the next two months, and 
Mrs F and her family were put into alternative accommodation (AA) and given a 
disturbance allowance.
Fairmead says that due to errors regarding AA Mrs F had to stay in hotel 
accommodation longer than anticipated. A contractor was appointed to complete the 
works, and they visited in October 2021. Following some back and forth Fairmead 
agreed its costs in November 2021. 
Fairmead said its contractor had delays in completing works due to large items in the 
home not being removed from the property until February 2022. The contractor 
reported to Fairmead in March 2022 that Mrs F had stripped the kitchen and removed 
units which werent claim related. And that it suffered a severe rodent infestation that 
was not claim related.
Mrs F made a series of complaints to Fairmead about its actions. These included 
concerns about the handling of the claim, the extent of works (she said a kitchen 
ceiling needed replacement and separate works to her garage), as well as costs she 
said Fairmead promised to pay her  including parking and Wi-Fi costs related to her 
AA, and material costs that were agreed with the contractor.
Fairmead issued a number of separate final responses: on these matters in 
November 2021 (FRL1), April 2022 (FRL2), and September 2022 (FRL3). 
oNovember 2021 (FRL1)  Fairmead apologised for poor service and 
communication and awarded £200 compensation.
oApril 2022 (FRL2)  Fairmead said it was satisfied that use of stain blocker 
and repainting Mrs Fs kitchen ceiling was sufficient and that a replacement 
wasnt necessary. It considered damage to the garage and agreed to pay a 
cash settlement in line with Mrs Fs wishes. It also detailed a rodent 
infestation that it said Mrs F had said was resolved that prevented works 
going ahead.
Fairmead stood by its cash settlement that it said factored damage to the 
bathroom and downstairs WC  and it would consider the garage and new 
leak. It awarded an additional £100 compensation at this time in relation to 
service.
oSeptember 2022 (FRL3)  it stated all further AA costs, including parking 
and Wi-Fi costs that Mrs F was seeking, would be declined as the policy limit 
was met. It said the bath was not damaged by the incident so it wouldnt 
cover this, and water stains to the garage were not linked to the escape of 
water in question. It also said the rodent infestation that Mrs F had said was 
resolved, had not been and which in turn caused delays to repairs alongside 
other issues outside of Fairmeads control. It awarded an additional £200 in 
compensation.
Mrs F brought the complaint to this Service. She reiterated her concerns and also 
said shed purchased flooring and kitchen items and the builders had asked if they 
could use her materials which they would reimburse  totalling £1,273,20. And that 
Fairmeads contractors damaged her bath during works. And she hired a contractor 
to repair this herself due to Fairmead refusing to attend. She said Fairmead had 
unfairly refused to pay these costs due to the policy limits being reached.
One of our Investigators looked into what happened. She initially didnt uphold the 
complaint, saying:
oThe policy limit on the AA cover was £50,000, and this had been exhausted. 
And so, it wasnt fair to direct it to make payments above the policy terms.
oMrs Fs claims for additional damage was not supported by evidence linking 
such damage to the escape of water in question. But she said Fairmead 
should consider this if she were to provide it.
oThe compensation awarded by Fairmead was fair and reasonable to account 
for the service and poor communication issues during the claim.
Mrs F disagreed. She reiterated there were issues with AA and that they had been 
told parking and other costs would be covered. She said the impact of the claim was 
severe on her and her children. And challenged the infestation had delayed the claim 
by many months. 
The Investigator said there was no supporting evidence to show the garage damage 
was related to the escape of water. She also said Fairmead had fairly asked for 
evidence related to the bathroom costs which Mrs F hadnt provided.
Following some back and forth, the Investigator looked again. She explained for 
reasons related to the jurisdiction of this Service, this complaint would only deal with 
the matters that took place after November 2021 as Mrs F had brought the matter 
related to FRL1 out of time. And she upheld the complaint in part.
oFairmeads internal notes show its staff commenting that AA costs wouldve 
been significantly lower had a rental property been sought much earlier than it 
was. So, she was satisfied the policy limit hadnt been used fairly, and as a 
result it wouldnt be fair for Fairmead to rely on this to exclude further costs.
oMrs F had not provided evidence of additional material costs that were 
outstanding and Fairmead had indicated these had all been settled. So, she 
said anything else should be sent to Fairmead in the first instance.
oThe total compensation awarded in FRL2 and FRL3 of £300 was fair in the 
circumstances.
oFairmead should cover the additional costs Mrs F had incurred (including Wi-
Fi and parking costs) plus 8% simple interest from the date B declined to 
cover these costs, and it should re-consider any other costs that wouldve 
fallen under the AA section of the policy upon receipt of appropriate evidence 
of costs incurred.Neither party provided anything further, so the complaint has been passed to me for an 
Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
My role as an Ombudsman at this Service requires me to say how I think a complaint 
should be resolved quickly and with minimal formality. That means Ill focus on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint. Where I dont comment on every point made 
by the parties, thats not to say I havent seen or considered them, its just I dont 
consider it necessary to specifically reference them in reaching my decision.
The crux of this matter falls into Fairmeads use of the policy limit, and outstanding 
costs Mrs F says are owed, handling of the claim, and a dispute over scope of works. 
Ill consider these in turn.
Policy limit 
Its not in dispute that Mrs Fs policy has a £50,000 limit for AA costs. In this instance, 
Fairmead has declined a range of costs that Mrs F has sought, including parking and 
Wi-Fi costs as it says this £50,000 limit had been reached from the costs incurred 
related to the claim. On its face, I would consider this to be reasonable as theres no 
dispute the policy limit was reached through the costs incurred related to the claim.
But in this case, Fairmeads own agents have made comments about the way it 
handled the AA. And it will be aware of the comments of its own agents in relation to 
its choice of AA  and the impact of this on costs  as our Investigator has 
highlighted these previously. Put simply, Fairmeads notes reflect that if it had 
considered a long term let instead of hotels and self-serviced apartments it wouldve 
led to a considerably cheaper monthly cost and therefore a significant reduction of 
the AA spent.
This has been put to Fairmead and it hasnt provided any breakdown of costs or 
potential impact of such a mistake. So, Im not satisfied it is fair in this particular case 
for Fairmead to rely on its £50,000 limit as it has sought to. And as a result, Im 
directing it to settle the costs related to Wi-Fi and parking  paying 8% simple interest 
from the date these costs were declined by Fairmead until date of payment. I also 
direct it to reconsider any other reasonable costs Mrs F has incurred in line with its 
remaining terms related to AA under the policy.
Outstanding costs
Mrs F has said Fairmead and its agents owe her outstanding costs related to the 
claim. Fairmead said all outstanding material costs had been settled. Our Investigator 
put this to both parties and highlighted Mrs F had provided no evidence supporting 
these outstanding invoices. Since then weve been given no further evidence of such 
costs. So, Im not going to direct Fairmead to do anything further in regards to these 
at this time. If Mrs F has any outstanding costs she believes are still owed, she will 
need to put these to Fairmead in the first instance for its consideration.
Handling Ive reviewed the events of the claim in detail between FRL2 and FRL3. And while I 
acknowledge in some places Fairmead may have been able to act quicker, the 
majority of the delays incurred from what Ive seen relate to matters outside of 
Fairmeads hands  this includes issues with the rodent infestation amongst others. 
So, Im not persuaded its actions have led to any excessive or avoidable delay that 
would lead me to direct it to pay additional compensation.
Fairmead has said it has been clear with Mrs F about whats happening with the 
claim, but it seems to me its communication at times couldve been better, including 
around the AA. But given my direction above, Im satisfied paying the related AA 
costs plus 8% puts this right and no further compensation is warranted.
Scope of works
Mrs F has objected to Fairmeads scope of works related to her garage, kitchen 
ceiling and elsewhere. Mrs F has not provided evidence to support her assertions, 
including any technical opinion or reports to support why Fairmeads scope was 
wrong. Ive also seen Fairmead requested reasonable evidence from Mrs F in 
relation to the bathroom  and Ive not been provided with evidence from her or 
elsewhere that suggests this was returned. 
For these reasons, Ive not seen enough to persuade me Fairmeads scope of works 
was unfair or shouldnt be relied upon.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Fairmead Insurance Limited to do the following:
Pay Mrs F £300 in compensation (if it hasnt already done so) for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to her. 
Settle Mrs Fs AA costs related to Wi-Fi and parking  paying 8% simple interest from 
the date these costs were declined by Fairmead until date of payment.
Reconsider any other reasonable costs Mrs F has incurred in line with its remaining 
terms related to AA under the policy  not subject to its £50,000 policy limit.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2023.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman