DRN-3409033
The complaint
Mr E complains about Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) and banking services and support he 
received during a visit to branch, and subsequently in a telephone call. He wants Lloyds to 
apologise for his experience and to pay him compensation.
What happened
Mr E held accounts with Lloyds. He says that he was sent a debit card for his account, but 
that this was out of date.
In January 2021, Mr E went into branch to pay some cheques into his account. 
He did not have his debit card with him, but had other identification including his passport 
and driving licence.
Mr E says the cashier he spoke to in branch told him that he could not deposit his cheques 
at a counter without his debit card.
Mr E left without paying in his cheques and a few days later called Lloyds to complain about 
this.
He spoke with an agent and wanted to make a complaint. As the conversation progressed 
Mr E asked for the agents name to make a complaint about her, and she did not give her 
name. She recorded details of his complaint, but this was not completed, and the call ended. 
Mr E then submitted a complaint. He mentioned the visit to branch and how he did not think 
that the branch had observed proper social distancing measures and that this made him feel 
unsafe. He also complained about the manner of the agent on the call.
Lloyds sent him its final response in February 2021. Lloyds partially upheld his complaint in 
that it acknowledged the agent ought to have given her name during the phone call. Lloyds 
offered him £15 to reflect this.
Lloyds did not, however, uphold the remainder of Mr Es complaint. It explained that deposits 
at the counter required debit cards, but that Mr E could use immediate deposit machines in 
branch without a debit card.
Mr E was not happy with this response and contacted us.
One of our investigators has looked into this matter and set out his view to the parties, this 
was that Lloyds had not done anything substantially wrong. He thought that Lloyds had 
acted reasonably in its offer of £15 and did not ask Lloyds to do anything further.
Mr E did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
I issued a provisional decision in respect of this complaint in March 2022. In that provisional 
decision I explained that I could not reach conclusions on some parts of Mr Es complaint, 
but that I thought that there was evidence that Lloyds had not done enough to help Mr E pay 
in his cheques. This was because there were self service machines present in the branch 
which did not need a debit card, and it does not appear that Mr E was guided to use these 
instead. 
I considered that to reflect this Lloyds ought to increase its offer of compensation by a further 
£85. 
That provisional decision has been shared with the parties and they have been invited to 
comment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E has responded indicating that he accepts the provisional decision. 
Lloyds has also responded accepting the decision. 
As a result, and since there have been no further evidence or arguments produced, I remain 
of the view I set out in my provisional decision. 
I therefore adopt my provisional decision and reasoning as my final decision. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right Lloyds should now pay a further £85 to Mr E as compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Es complaint and 
direct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay a further £85 compensation to Mr E. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman