DRN-4030054
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Nestegg Financial Services (NFS), their financial adviser, gave 
them inappropriate advice to invest their personal pensions in cash funds, rather than 
advising them to invest in line with their assessed Attitudes to Risk (ATR) and term of 
investment. They want to be put back into the position they feel they would now be in but for 
the inappropriate advice. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs G said that they approached NFS for pensions advice in late 2015. They wanted 
to withdraw a Tax-Free Cash (TFC) Iump sum from their pensions to help fund their planned 
travels. 
NFS wrote to Mr and Mrs G on 8 January 2016, to confirm that following their enquiry that 
day, itd arranged an appointment with its adviser on 18 January 2016.
On 11 January 2016, Mr and Mrs G provided NFS with information about some of their 
existing pension plans. They provided further information about other pension plans on 14 
January 2016. NFS said that the information showed that Mr and Mrs G didnt have the 
option to take flexible benefits directly from these plans.
On 18 January 2016, NFS had an initial meeting with Mrs G. NFS said it carried out an initial 
fact find which showed that Mr and Mrs G wanted to take a £15,000 TFC lump sum as a 
safety net for their planned trip, with a view to taking an annual income of around £6,000 to 
£7,000 in the future. 
NFS also recorded that Mr and Mrs G also owned four properties, three of which were let, so 
werent reliant on their pensions. NFS said the adviser told Mrs G he couldnt advise on her 
Defined Benefit (DB) pensions. And that he would need to look into their Defined 
Contribution (DC) pensions further, as some of these contained a Guaranteed Annuity Rate 
(GAR). 
NFS said that it discussed the charges for the advice at this meeting. And that its notes 
stated Mrs G was happy to proceed, and took a client information pack to review and blank 
fact find to complete and return.
Mr G wrote to NFSs adviser on 21 January 2016 to ask him some questions about his 
pensions and his and his wifes decision on what to do next. He asked if there was any merit 
in combining his pensions. Mr G confirmed his and his wifes intention was to access 
£15,000 TFC straight away. And asked for details of NFSs charges.
NFSs adviser replied to Mr G the same day. He said there could be some merit in 
combining some of his pensions, but he warned that moving the plans with a guarantee 
would mean the guarantee would be lost. He also provided details of NFSs charges. The 
advice Mr and Mrs G had asked about would cost a fixed fee of 1% of the funds advised on. 
And a fund monitoring/suitability assessment would cost 0.7% each year. 
NFS wrote to Mr and Mrs G again on 26 January 2016 after Mrs G had spoken to it again. It 
said that it was possible for Mr and Mrs G to have full access to their pension pots. But it 
strongly advised that they seriously considered the pros and cons. It said this was also the 
case if they were thinking of moving all the pensions into one pot. It also said that if Mr and 
Mrs G decided to move any of the pensions with guarantees, theyd be required to confirm 
theyd received independent financial advice. 
NFS had a further meeting with Mr and Mrs G on 4 February 2016. They signed a client 
agreement and completed a further fact find. This showed:
- Mr G was 59 and Mrs G was 56. They were married with two adult children 
- Both in good health and non-smokers
- Both self-employed 
- Their total net monthly income was £4,100 and their monthly expenditure was 
£1,800, meaning they had surplus income of £2,300 each month
- Mr G had a total of seven pensions and Mrs G had two pensions (including 
DB/deferred annuity contracts) totaling £142,089.17
- They owned property, including their home, with a total value of £885,000. Their 
mortgages totaled £275,000 
- Mr and Mrs G had a personal loan with £20,000 remaining. This cost them £330 
each month and was due to end on 1 February 2021
- They had £15,000 in cash and other assets of £315,000, although no details were 
provided
- They were both identified as having a medium ATR
On 8 February 2016 NFS wrote to Mr and Mrs G to confirm that their main objective was to 
draw £15,000 from their pensions. NFS said that it would charge no more than £795 to 
provide the required service under its Partnership Strategy Service. A fee agreement, risk 
profile questionnaire and six authority letters were provided with the letter for Mr and Mrs G 
to complete, sign and return.
On 23 February 2016 Mr and Mrs G signed the fee agreement to confirm they wanted to 
proceed under NFSs Partnership Focus Service. NFSs service guide for their Partnership 
services defined its Partnership Focus Service as follows:
This is a one-off advice service that caters for those occasions where you do not require 
detailed financial planning but have need for a particular product to suit your needs. This 
includes Life Protection.
Mr and Mrs G also completed the risk profile questionnaire to determine their ATR. The 
results showed that Mr G had a risk profile of 5 (low/medium risk) and Mrs G had a risk 
profile of 4 (lowest medium risk)
In March 2016, NFS started to receive information about Mr and Mrs Gs pensions from their 
existing providers.  
On 15 March 2016, NFS spoke to Mr and Mrs G. Its notes from the call said: Spoke to client who expressed concern re time taken over process. Want tax free cash quickly. Concerned 
too about market instability - worried about volatility and losing money. After tax free cash 
received would prefer things to settle before deciding what/when to act next. Advised client 
of admin process involved nfs & providers. Also, view investment strategy over medium/long 
term. If worried about losing money start cautious. Can change later but nfs focus service 
doesn't include monitoring. After RR nfs will not do anything further. Client's responsibility. 
Client accepted but reiterated matters to be addressed urgently.
On 20 March 2016, NFS issued its Suitability Letter to Mr and Mrs G. It said that Mr G was a 
Progressive investor, who would likely be willing to risk at least part of his available assets. 
And that Mrs G was a Moderate investor, who would be comfortable taking risk with a 
proportion of her investments and accepted that higher risk investments were more likely to 
achieve long-term positive returns. It also said that they had a 5 to 13 year investment term. 
The Suitability Letter recommended that Mr and Mrs G accessed the required TFC from their 
pensions, with the funds placed into the Deposit and Cash funds with a provider Ill refer to 
as provider A for Mr G, and another provider who Ill refer to as provider B, for Mrs C. It also 
said that Mr and Mrs G had chosen to receive the Partnership Focus Service, where fund 
performance wasnt monitored or reviewed.
On 22 March 2016, NFS had a follow-up meeting with Mr and Mrs G. The notes from that 
meeting stated: Went through and discussed recommendation report. Agreed financial 
uncertainty could continue. Client reiterated want to make money but also worried about 
losing money. Agreed start cautious and go from there. Also, accept that with focus service 
nfs will not monitor or advise further beyond recommendation report. Client's responsibility to 
take action beyond RR. Clients anxious to obtain tax free cash as quickly as possible. Next 
Step - proceed as per recommendation report.
On 29 March 2016 Mr and Mrs G signed the Instructions to Proceed declaration. NFS said 
its notes indicated Mr and Mrs G had confirmed theyd be away from 31 March 2016 for 
several months and would need future contact via email only. Mrs G also signed the 
application form for a drawdown plan with provider B on the same date. 
On 6 April 2016, NFS emailed Mr and Mrs G to tell them that provider A needed discharge 
forms for Mr Gs existing pensions, and that these would need his signature. NFS 
acknowledged that this would be difficult given Mr and Mrs G were overseas. 
Mr G replied to NFS. He said he was disappointed that he had to sort out further paperwork 
while he was away. He said he assumed Mrs Gs transfer to provider B was going ahead. 
And asked for assurance that the only remaining requirement for his transfer to provider A 
was his signature on the relevant document. 
NFS replied to Mr and Mrs G on 8 April 2016, attaching the forms for signature. It said there 
was one transfer discharge form for each of Mr Gs five pensions. And one transfer 
discharge form and a client declaration form for Mrs Gs pension. It confirmed all they 
needed to do was sign and return the forms.
Mr and Mrs G returned the signed discharge forms on 8 April 2016. NFS said it would send 
them onto provider A and B that evening. 
Provider B wrote to Mrs G on 27 April 2016 to confirm that her portfolio with it had been set 
up and telling her she could now register to use its website. Mr Gs plan with provider A 
started on 5 May 2016.
Provider A wrote to NFS on 9 May 2016 to provide details of Mr G's plan and copies of the plan documentation itd sent to him. This showed that a transfer value of £12,924.75 had 
been received to date, with a TFC amount of £3,231.19 paid to Mr G.
Provider B wrote to Mrs G on 10 May 2016 to confirm that her transfer of £12,810.15 had 
completed.
Mr and Mrs G wrote to NFS on 12 May 2016 to tell it they were concerned that only one of 
Mr Gs transfers had gone ahead, so hed only received part of the required £15,000 TFC. 
He asked for an update.
NFS emailed Mr and Mrs G on 13 May 2016 to tell them that provider A had confirmed it was 
processing Mr Gs remaining four transfers. And that the TFC was due to be paid out early 
the following week. It also said that provider B had told it on 27 April 2016 that Mrs Gs 
transfer would take 3 weeks to process, so should be completed on 18 May 2016. 
Provider B wrote to Mrs G on 13 May 2016 to confirm it had bought 12,810.15 Cash Deposit 
Account units at £1 per unit. And that after her £3,205.54 TFC lump sum was taken she now 
had £9,607.61 invested in the Cash Deposit Account.
Provider A wrote to NFS on 16 May 2016 with further details of Mr G's plan and copies of the 
plan documentation sent to him. This showed that further transfer funds of £36,016 had been 
received, with a further TFC amount of £9,004 paid to Mr G. The letter said the remainder of 
the funds had been invested in the Deposit fund. And also detailed the remaining expected 
transfers. 
Provider A wrote to NFS on 17 May 2016 to tell it a further transfer of £30,525.80 had been 
received on 10 May 2016. And that TFC of £7,631.45 had been paid to Mr G. It said the 
remaining funds had been invested in the Deposit Fund. And noted that it wasnt expecting 
any more transfer payments.
NFS emailed Mr and Mrs G on 2 June 2016, attaching its invoice for £795 in respect of the 
advice it had provided. It said the email itd sent had included the wording: As part of our 
Partnership Focus Service we will not continue to monitor your arrangements to ensure they 
continue to meet your needs. But that this wording didnt appear in the email Mr and Mrs G 
received.
Mr G said he paid £700, rather than the full amount, as he was unhappy with the service.
On 19 June 2016, provider B sent Mrs G a portfolio valuation summary. This showed that 
her pension had a value of £9,606.14. And that it was 100% invested in the Cash Deposit 
account. 
Mr and Mrs G received various other statements from provider A and provider B between 
2016 and the time of their complaint to NFS. These all clearly showed the values of their 
funds. And that they were fully invested in cash-type funds. 
Mr and Mrs G complained to NFS on 1 November 2021. They said they were preparing to 
retire, so had reviewed their finances. And had been shocked and dismayed to discover that 
their pension funds had fallen in value over the last five-plus years. 
Mr and Mrs G said theyd found some major discrepancies between the Suitability Letter and 
their current pension holdings. They said the letter had confirmed that they were investing for 
5 to 13 years. And that the adviser had expected the investment return to provide enough 
return to make the giving up of guarantees in the old plans worthwhile. So they couldnt 
understand why the adviser had placed their pensions in deposit funds. They said their pensions had fallen in value because they hadnt even produced enough investment return 
to cover their charges. And deposit funds werent the same kind of investment that NFSs 
adviser had discussed with them at the time. 
Mr and Mrs G asked NFS to explain this discrepancy. And to assess how much theyd lost 
compared with if theyd been invested in line with their ATRs for the medium to long term. 
NFS issued a response to the complaint on 30 November 2021. This letter didnt contain 
referral rights to this service. But both Mr and Mrs G and NFS have said it can be accepted 
as their final response to the complaint. 
NFS considered Mr and Mrs Gs complaints, but didnt think itd done anything wrong. 
Regarding the complaint about the fall in the value of funds, it said its Suitability Letter had 
highlighted that fund values werent guaranteed. And that the capital value could be eroded. 
It also said it had explained that investment returns may be lower than those illustrated. It 
also said that it had given Mr and Mrs G Key Investor Information Documents and 
illustrations relating to the specific investment and funds.
NFS didnt agree that the funds the transfers had been invested in didnt match Mr and Mrs 
Gs ATR. It said theyd wanted to quickly access TFC from their pensions. And that they had 
agreed, as a straightforward way to access the TFC, to first place the transferred pension 
funds into deposit/cash-based funds. It said it had provided the KIIDs document for the fund. 
NFS also said that a further reason for the deposit/cash-based funds investment was that in 
2016 thered been high market anxiety and global stock markets were very volatile. 
NFS also said that it had provided Mr and Mrs G with literature about the services it could 
provide. It said that Mr and Mrs G had chosen its Focus service, accepting that this didnt 
include further support or ongoing monitoring. It acknowledged that it could be said that the 
investments didnt match their ATR, but said that trying to protect their money in a volatile 
market was in their best interests. 
Mr and Mrs G were unhappy with this response. So brought their complaint to this service. 
Mr and Mrs G said that NFS had told them that they had been classed as Progressive and 
Moderate investors and that theyd agreed with this. And that NFS had also said that they 
would be placed in an investment, after theyd taken their TFC, that would meet this 
investment risk type and be appropriate for a 5 to 13 year time horizon. They said theyd had 
no reason to be concerned about the advice until theyd recently started to plan for their 
imminent retirement. And had realised that their pensions had basically been held as cash 
for the last five years. 
Mr and Mrs G said they couldnt remember any discussion of a temporary investment 
solution. And said theyd certainly not receive any invitation to review this later. They said 
that theyd now reviewed the original Suitability Letter. They acknowledged it did state their 
investments were in deposit funds. But said this meant nothing to them. They said such an 
investment wasnt in keeping with the conversations theyd had with NFS. And had they 
known it was a temporary solution they wouldve arranged for a review. They said theyd 
understood they could leave their pensions alone until their retirement.
Mr and Mrs G also said that the Suitability Letter had stated that their ATRs were 
Progressive and Moderate for 5 to 13 years, and that the investment was appropriate to this. 
They said the letter didnt make clear that their money had actually been invested in cash. 
Mr and Mrs G said their pensions were much smaller than they wouldve been if the 
investments had matched the advice theyd been given. They wanted to be put back into the situation they would now be in but for the inappropriate advice. 
Our investigator spoke to Mrs G about her complaint. She told him that although she and Mr 
G had received statements over time, theyd assumed their funds werent going up because 
investments and interest rates in general were also going down. She said it was only when 
theyd spoken to someone they realised the funds had been left in cash. 
Mrs G also told our investigator that she and Mr G had arranged to take six months to travel 
around Europe and that theyd wanted to access maximum TFC for the trip. She said theyd 
explained to NFS that this had to be completed by 31 March 2016. But that in the end, she 
and Mr G had had to chase around getting six more forms signed, printed and sent back 
because NFS hadnt sorted them out earlier. She said their main complaint was about the 
incorrect investment. 
Our investigator didnt consider that the complaint should be upheld. While he didnt doubt 
Mr and Mrs Gs recollections, he felt the documentary evidence showed that they had 
discussed their funds being initially held in deposit funds with provider A and provider B. He 
also felt that meeting notes showed that Mr and Mrs G had been worried about losing money 
given the financial uncertainty at the time of the advice, so felt theyd wanted to arrange the 
transfer of their pensions and then deal with the investment of those funds themselves at a 
later date.
Our investigator also felt that NFSs notes showed that Mr and Mrs G had concerns over 
NFSs fees so had agreed to proceed with its Partnership Focus Service, with no ongoing 
monitoring or reviews taking place. He felt that as theyd chosen this service, rather than an 
ongoing monitoring service, Mr and Mrs G had accepted that it would be their responsibility 
to take further action with their investments as required. He also considered that the 
Suitability Letter had confirmed their choice of service. And had detailed the 
recommendation for the transferred funds to be placed into the deposit/cash funds with 
providers A and B. He also felt that the evidence showed that the Suitability Letter had been 
discussed. And that Mr and Mrs G hadnt raised any issues about the recommended funds. 
Our investigator also said that Mr and Mrs G had signed the Instructions to Proceed 
declaration on 29 March 2016. And that theyd therefore confirmed that theyd read and 
understood the Suitability Letter and that they wanted to proceed with the recommendations
it contained. He also said that the plan documents provider A and B had sent Mr and Mrs G 
when the transfers took place, and since then, confirmed that the funds had been invested in 
deposit/cash funds.  
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree with our investigator. They said they could only remember one 
face to face meeting. And they couldnt remember saying that they didnt want to lose 
money. They said theyd trusted the adviser and didnt scrutinise the paperwork to ensure 
the money was invested. And that they couldnt recall being made aware that the funds were 
placed in deposit/cash funds.
Mr and Mrs G said that after theyd taken the TFC, they wanted the remaining funds 
invested. They said that if theyd been aware of the fact that the money had been placed in 
cash funds, which meant no interest, and that they would be responsible for investing it they 
wouldve said it wasnt what they wanted. They said they remembered that NFSs adviser 
had changed his attitude when theyd said they didn't need the ongoing review. 
Mr and Mrs G said theyd now taken advice from a recommended Independent Financial 
Advisor (IFA), who had reviewed their situation and provided a report.The report said that in the opinion of Mr and Mrs Gs IFA, Mr and Mrs G had suffered 
measurable detriment due to the advice in question. 
The report contained a number of additional complaints over and above what Mr and Mrs G 
had already asked NFS to consider. As it isnt appropriate for me to consider new aspects of 
the complaint before NFS has had the opportunity to, Ive only noted the points the IFA 
made which relate to Mr and Mrs Gs existing complaint to NFS. Mr and Mrs G can, of 
course, make a separate complaint to NFS about the additional points their IFA raised if they 
choose to.
The IFAs report raised the following points about Mr and Mrs Gs existing complaint:
- Mr and Mrs G had been placed in a temporary investment solution without warnings 
of it being such and without a plan for review. They couldnt have known that the 
recommendation would be for a temporary solution. The key point was that as the 
service NFS had agreed to provided didnt include ongoing reviews, it shouldve 
made sure it limited the need for ongoing reviews. So it wasnt fair that our 
investigator appeared to have placed some blame on Mr and Mrs G for having been 
unwilling to pay for an ongoing service.
- The Suitability Letter contained discrepancies of information which made it very 
difficult to rely on
- The Suitability Letter failed to acknowledge or reinforce the huge disconnects in 
advice and information and gave Mr and Mrs G no opportunity to act upon them. Mr 
and Mrs G had been invested in a way that couldnt be suitable in the medium/long 
term without reviews and changes. And NFS hadnt warned that this was the case. 
- Mr and Mrs G didnt recall being nervous about markets at the time and clearly didnt 
understand the investment decisions that were made, or know theyd been placed in 
cash. He didnt agree that early 2016 was a particularly fraught time investment-wise.
The report also made several points about the Suitability Letter, as follows:
- Page 1 recorded Mr and Mrs Gs ATRs as Progressive and Moderate. Page 3 
recorded the desired investment outcome as growth.
- Page 3 further recorded the Progressive and Moderate results, and went into detail 
about what this meant, then confirmed that the investment recommendations would 
match this
- The Suitability Letter didnt document that Mr and Mrs G had now allegedly agreed to 
go cautious and do something different later. The report queried why it didnt.
- Pages 3 and 4 stated that Mr and Mrs G agreed that they had sufficient capacity to 
bear investment loss to invest in a Progressive and Moderate manner
- Page 9 again stated the advice took account of Mr and Mrs Gs ATR as detailed
- Page 15 states that, for both Mr and Mrs G, the investment recommendation was for 
a period of 5-13 years and that the fund was appropriate to their ATR. 
- Page 18 again said that the recommendation was in keeping with their ATR
- Page 18 did briefly inform Mr and Mrs G that investment performance wouldnt be monitored or reviewed. But didnt state that Mr and Mrs G being placed on deposit 
meant that it had to be reviewed.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on 
the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of 
the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
Having considered the documentary evidence, and Mr and Mrs Gs testimony, I dont uphold 
the complaint. Im not persuaded that NFS invested Mr and Mrs G in deposit/cash funds 
against their wishes. And Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs G did know that they hadnt signed up 
for an ongoing review service for their investments. I know my decision will disappoint Mr 
and Mrs G. Ill explain the reasons for my decision. 
Mr and Mrs G approached NFS for pensions advice. They wanted to access TFC relatively 
quickly, so that they could use the funds for a long trip overseas. They made it clear that 
they didnt want an ongoing monitoring service for the remaining funds, despite the fact that 
they expected to keep their pensions invested for a period of 5 to 13 years.
From what Ive seen, NFS helped Mr and Mrs G to access the TFC they wanted. But Mr and 
Mrs G say that NFS then recommended that they invested their remaining funds in the 
Deposit Fund/Cash Deposit Account. They say this didnt meet their ATR or investment term 
requirements, which they felt NFS had correctly assessed as Progressive and Moderate, 
and 5 to 13 years.
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs G dont recall telling NFS that they didnt want to lose money. 
And neither do they recall being nervous about markets at the time of the advice. And while 
NFS said that thered been high market anxiety and global stock markets had been very 
volatile in 2016, Mr and Mrs Gs IFAs report states that it didnt agree that 2016 was a 
particularly fraught time investment-wise.
However, Im satisfied that the evidence shows that Mr and Mrs G did have concerns at the 
time of the advice. I say this for the following reasons:
- NFSs notes from the 4 February 2016 meeting with Mr and Mrs G stated: Saying 
medium/progressive risk but also saying worried about losing money. Stage 1 
security stage 2 growth?; Current economic climate uncertainty. I consider this 
shows that Mr and Mrs G did tell NFS that they were concerned about investment 
markets at the time of the advice. I acknowledge they dont recall being worried, but I 
consider the evidence is clear on this point.
- The 10 questions dynamic planner signed by Mr and Mrs G on 23 February 2016 
included the following question: How much of this investment could you stand to 
lose without having a significant impact on your future standard of living?. Mr and 
Mrs G ticked the response: None or very limited losses. Im satisfied that this 
indicated they couldnt afford to lose much of their pension funds.
- The notes from the 22 March 2016 follow-up meeting between NFS and Mr and Mrs 
G stated: Went through and discussed recommendation report. Agreed financial uncertainty could continue. Client reiterated want to make money but also worried 
about losing money. Agreed start cautious and go from there. This shows that NFS 
discussed the Suitability Letter with Mr and Mrs G.  Financial uncertainty was 
discussed. And Mr and Mrs G did indicate that they were concerned about losing 
money. So they agreed to start cautious. 
Mr and Mrs G also said that they didnt understand the investment decisions that were 
made, or know theyd been placed in cash. They said that after theyd taken the TFC, they 
wanted the remaining funds invested. And if theyd been aware that the money had been 
place in cash funds, they wouldve said it wasnt what they wanted. 
But again, Im satisfied that the evidence shows otherwise. I say this because Mr and Mrs G 
signed the: Instructions to proceed documents on 23 March 2016. This confirmed theyd 
read and understood the Suitability Letter and wanted to proceed with all the 
recommendations made by the adviser. These were, for Mr G:
Transfer all existing [provider name] pensions into [provider A] Core Investments (personal 
Pension) with Income Release and invest 100% into the Deposit Fund and take the 
maximum tax free cash.
And for Mrs G:
Transfer existing [provider name] pension into [provider B] Pension Portfolio Income 
Drawdown Flexi-access Single and invest 100% into the Cash Deposit Account and take the 
maximum tax free cash.
I consider this clearly states that the remaining pension funds would be invested in cash-
style accounts.
I also note that the Suitability Letter contained in Appendix 2 Key Investor Information 
Documents (KIIDs) for the recommended cash-style funds. These wouldve clearly explained 
the funds thatd been recommended. 
While I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs G said theyd trusted NFS, and they hadnt scrutinised 
the paperwork to ensure the money was invested, I cant fairly hold NFS responsible for their 
failure to read the important information that was provided for them.
I say this because the first page of the Suitability Letter stated:
This letter contains important information and provides the reasons for my recommendation, 
so please take the time to read through it thoroughly. If any of the information is not accurate 
or you would like further clarification on anything, please contact me as soon as you can, as 
this may affect my recommendation. 
It also stated:
Should this letter not accord with your understanding of the situation or, should you not 
understand or disagree with any of its contents, please do not hesitate to contact us directly.
I consider this to be a clear warning that Mr and Mrs G needed to review the information, 
and to ask for clarification if they needed it. If theyd done so, the investment 
recommendation couldve been changed before itd been implemented. And in any event, I 
would expect a reasonable person to read and understand important financial information 
before committing to it.Even if Mr and Mrs G werent aware of the cash-style investments at the time of the advice, I 
consider that they were regularly made aware of their investments in the months and years 
that followed the advice. I say this because the statements from provider A and provider B 
Ive seen clearly show what Mr and Mrs G were invested in. Therefore Im satisfied that even 
if Mr and Mrs G had failed to read both the Suitability Letter and the Instructions to proceed 
before they signed it, they went on to receive many statements which shouldve made them 
aware of what they were invested in. 
Despite my view that Mr and Mrs G mustve known about the cash-style investments, theres 
no evidence that Mr and Mrs G raised any issues about the investments. These were 
detailed in the Suitability Letter, which was discussed during a meeting with NFS on 22 
March 2016, and also detailed on the Instruction to proceed document. So Im persuaded 
that the recommended investments were in line with their wishes at the time of the advice.
Mr and Mrs Gs IFAs report also said that theyd been placed in a temporary investment 
solution without warnings of it being such and without a plan for review. And that they 
couldnt have known that the recommendation would be for a temporary solution. The report 
also said the Suitability Letter didnt state that Mr and Mrs G being placed on deposit meant 
that their investments would have to be reviewed. But I dont agree that this was the case. Ill 
explain why. 
- NFSs notes from the 4 February 2016 meeting with Mr and Mrs G stated: Concerns 
over fees/costs; Deal with invested funds themselves once transferred (Focus 
service). I consider this shows that Mr and Mrs G wanted to sort out their 
investments themselves after the TFC that they quickly needed had been arranged. 
And that they didnt want to pay for the ongoing monitoring service as they had 
concerns about the costs of that service.  
- NFSs notes from its 15 March 2016 call with Mr and Mrs G stated that it told them 
thered be no ongoing monitoring and that it would take no further action on their 
behalf. Instead, their investments would be Mr and Mrs Gs responsibility. The notes 
recorded that Mr and Mrs G accepted this but repeated that they needed the TFC 
quickly. 
- Page 18 of the Suitability Letter stated that investment performance wouldnt be 
monitored or reviewed. It said, under Summary & Future Contact: As you have 
elected to receive our Partnership Focus service the fund performance will not be 
monitored or reviewed. 
- The notes from the 22 March 2016 follow-up meeting between NFS and Mr and Mrs 
G stated: Also accept that with focus service nfs will not monitor or advise further 
beyond recommendation report. Client's responsibility to take action beyond RR. I 
consider that this also shows that NFS warned Mr and Mrs G that the monitoring of 
their investments was their responsibility. 
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs Gs IFAs report said that theyd been invested in a way that 
couldnt be suitable in the medium/long term without reviews and changes. And NFS hadnt 
warned that this was the case. I also acknowledge that Mr and Mrs G said they remembered 
that NFSs adviser had changed his attitude when theyd said they didn't need the ongoing 
review. 
While I agree that the way Mr and Mrs G had been invested wasnt suitable in the 
medium/long term given their ATRs, I dont agree that NFS didnt warn them that this was 
the case. And from the evidence Ive referenced above, I think it was clear that Mr and Mrs 
G had been invested in cash-style funds because of their concerns over the volatility of the investment market and their desire not to lose money. 
From what Ive seen, NFS fairly assessed Mr and Mrs Gs ATR as Progressive and 
Moderate. But it also knew from their response to the question: How much of this 
investment could you stand to lose without having a significant impact on your future 
standard of living? that Mr and Mrs G could afford none or very limited losses, that is, they 
had a very low capacity for loss. Based on the evidence, Im satisfied that NFS had further 
conversations with Mr and Mrs G about this, and that these discussions informed the 
investment recommendation NFS made, alongside the ATR assessment. I think this was a 
reasonable thing to do. And I consider that these conversations led to the temporary 
recommendation to invest in cash-style funds.
I can see no logical reason that NFS wouldve recommended cash-style investments for Mr 
and Mrs G unless theyd asked it to. There was no advantage for NFS to recommend such 
an investment to Mr and Mrs G. 
Mr and Mrs Gs IFAs report said that the Suitability Letter contained discrepancies of 
information which made it very difficult to rely on. And that it failed to acknowledge or 
reinforce the huge disconnects in advice and information and gave Mr and Mrs G no 
opportunity to act upon them. 
I agree that the Suitability Letter wasnt perfect. I acknowledge that while the Suitability 
Letter does cite cash-style funds as the proposed fund choice, it didnt give any justification 
for that recommendation. I agree that it should have.  
I also agree that the Suitability Letter recorded Mr and Mrs Gs ATRs as Progressive and 
Moderate. And stated that their desired investment outcome was growth. The letter also 
appeared to confirm that the investment recommendations would match this. I also agree 
that the letter appeared to state that the investment recommendation was for a period of 5-
13 years. 
Having said that, as I noted earlier Key Investor Information Documents (KIIDs) for the 
recommended cash-style funds were provided to Mr and Mrs G alongside the Suitability 
Letter. So Im satisfied Mr and Mrs G had enough information to have questioned the advice 
at the time if it hadnt reflected what they wanted. 
From the evidence Ive seen, NFS did make it clear to Mr and Mrs G what was going to 
happen. And gave them a number of opportunities to question the recommendation if it 
wasnt what they wanted. But they didnt question it around the time of the advice, and they 
agreed to the recommendation in full when they signed the Instruction to proceed. This 
clearly outlined what was going to happen without referencing Mr and Mrs Gs ATRs or 
terms of investment.
My decision doesnt mean I doubt Mr and Mrs Gs recollections of what happened during 
their meetings with NFS. I have no way of knowing exactly what was said. But Im more 
persuaded by the documentary evidence that NFS didnt give Mr and Mrs G inappropriate 
advice about their investments. So I dont uphold the complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman