DRN-3504793
The complaint
This complaints about an equity release lifetime mortgage that Mrs W took out in 
October 2013 with Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited, on the advice of a third party advisor. 
The complaint is that the interest rate is too high, and that an early repayment charge (ERC) 
is due if the mortgage is repaid.
What happened
In what follows, I have summarised events in rather less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words and rounding the figures involved. No discourtesys intended by that; 
its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont mention something, it wont 
be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which in my view will have little or no impact on the broader outcome. 
Mrs W took the mortgage out in 2013. The terms of the mortgage provide that no monthly 
repayments are required. The intention is that the mortgage is due to be repaid if the last 
surviving borrower goes into full-time nursing care or after their death. It can be repaid 
voluntarily before either of those events have happened, but then an ERC is usually payable. 
Interest on the loan is rolled up into the outstanding balance and is compounded until the 
debt is repaid. All of this means that if the loan runs for a number of years, there can be a 
significant balance to be repaid. 
In 2021, Mrs W complained that the interest rate Aviva charges is too high, as it will soon 
erode all of her equity. She has found a new mortgage provider charging a lower rate, but 
had to pay an ERC of around £48,000 on top of the principle debt which had grown to 
around £300,000.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld; Mrs W asked for the case to be 
referred to an ombudsman for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).  We 
deal with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we 
dont replicate the work of the courts.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having no regulatory function means its not my role to decide if a particular interest rate is 
fair or not. So I can only comment in general terms. Its normal for interest to roll up on a 
lifetime equity release mortgage, and then to attract further interest on a compounding basis. 
The effect of this is demonstrated in monetary terms by a projection included in the 
point-of sale material. Ive seen the mortgage offer Mrs W accepted and agreed to be bound 
by when she borrowed the money. The projection uses an assumption that the mortgage will 
last for 22 years, but it includes a narrative pointing out this assumption and reminding the 
reader of the lifetime nature of the mortgage. The projected figure for the balance at the end 
of year seven (so, from 2013 to 2020, the last full year before the mortgage was repaid) is 
just over £299,000. 
The rate charged is 6.52% fixed for the duration of the mortgage, and that is set out in the 
offer. The use of fixed rather than variable rates has always been normal on equity release 
mortgages, as they enable a lender to forecast the likely growth in the debt over time as the 
interest rolls up. Thats important to the lender, from a risk assessment point of view when 
deciding how much to lend. But it also gives a degree of clarity to the borrower about how 
their debt will grow over time, because that forecast can be incorporated into the mortgage 
offer, as it was in this case. Yes, 6.52% sounds very high in the current climate. But this rate 
was set in 2013, when the financial landscape was different from what it is now. 
Similarly, the mortgage offer document sets out the provision for an ERC; the circumstances 
in which it might be chargeable, a description of the mechanism for calculating it, and finally 
some numerical examples, including the maximum amount the ERC could possibly be. That 
maximum was just over £48,000.
I cant know, and wont speculate on, how closely Mrs W studied the mortgage offer, or how 
much of the information it contained she assimilated; before she agreed to borrow the 
money in 2013. In any event, responsibility for ensuring Mrs W knew and understood what 
she was agreeing to, lay with her advisor. Nonetheless, the information was set out in a 
manner prescribed by the FCA., and the amounts Mrs W paid to redeem the mortgage in 
2021 are entirely consistent with the projections given in the offer. Theres no basis for me to 
find that Aviva has treated Mrs W unfairly. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 August 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman