DRN-3453732
The complaint
Mr T complains about the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled an emergency 
assistance claim he made on his travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr T has travel insurance as a benefit of an account with his building society.
Mr T was abroad in a country Ill call P. Ahead of travel, hed purchased an optional trip 
length extension to extend his travel insurance cover from the 31-day standard trip length to 
50 days. He had been due to return to the UK on 9 December 2020. 
However, in early November 2020, Mr Ts return flight was cancelled by the airline. He got in 
touch with UKIs assistance team to clarify whether his policy would continue to provide 
cover. During the call, UKIs call handler told Mr T that his travel insurance policy would 
automatically extend until the first available flight home. Mr T let the call handler know that 
his airline appeared to have availability for flights later in December 2020 and the call 
handler told Mr T that hed need to book one of these flights in order to be covered.
It seems Mr T booked flights with his airline which were also cancelled. On 12 January 2021, 
Mr T got back in touch with UKIs assistance team to explain his situation and to check the 
status of his insurance policy. 
UKI contacted Mr T on 18 January 2021. The call handler reiterated that Mr T would be 
covered until the first available flight home. They let Mr T know that its travel agent could 
look into arranging the next available flight back to the UK, which would be at Mr Ts cost 
and which might not be with the same airline and might not return to the original airport.
Ultimately, UKIs travel agent was able to offer Mr T a flight back to the UK, via another 
country, which departed on 22 January 2021. Mr T needed to undergo a Covid-19 test 
ahead of travel. So UKI gave Mr T details of a local Covid-19 testing lab to allow him to get 
the test he needed.
Mr T was unhappy with the option UKI had offered him and he complained. He had concerns 
about the validity of the Covid-19 test for both legs of his return flight; the relevant timeframe 
for testing and the flight route hed been offered. As he chose not to proceed with the return 
flight UKI had found, it ended his cover from the point that flight departed from P. Mr T 
ultimately arranged a return flight via another route and returned to the UK on 30 January 
2021. 
UKI concluded its assistance team had acted fairly by deciding not to extend Mr Ts travel 
insurance past the date the flight option itd offered him departed P. But it did think that it 
couldve handled some of the calls Mr T had with the team better, so it paid him £50 
compensation to reflect this.
Remaining unhappy with UKIs stance, Mr T asked us to look into his complaint. He told us 
that hed been able to arrange his own return flight at significantly less cost than the option 
UKI had offered wouldve cost him.
Our investigator didnt think that Mr Ts complaint should be upheld. She felt that UKIs 
assistance team had handled his request fairly and had given Mr T reasonable warnings that 
if he didnt take the first available flight back to the UK, policy cover would end. So she 
thought itd taken reasonable steps to help Mr T.
Mr T disagreed and Ive summarised his response to our investigator.
Hed travelled to P in the early autumn. If hed known the Covid-19 situation would 
deteriorate as it did, he wouldnt have left the UK;
Hed checked online and found alternative flight route options (including the route 
hed taken). But UKI would only consider its own suggestions;
He remained concerned whether hed have been able to transit through the country 
UKI had suggested;
The experience with UKI had been traumatic. The insurance policy hadnt acted as a 
safeguard. He felt UKI had provided a total lack of support  especially because it 
hadnt followed up with him between November 2020 and the point hed got back in 
touch with it.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr T, I think UKI treated him fairly and Ill 
explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr T that while Ive summarised the background to his complaint 
and his detailed submissions to us, Ive carefully considered all hes said and sent us. Within 
this decision though, I havent commented on each point hes raised and nor do our rules 
require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key issues.
It's clear that Mr T found himself in a difficult and frustrating situation. His original return flight 
(and subsequently booked return flights) were cancelled as a result of Covid-19 and hed 
been delayed abroad though no fault of his own. But in deciding whats fair and reasonable, I 
need to consider whether I think UKI gave him clear and accurate information about the 
policy cover and whether Im satisfied it took reasonable steps to help him.
Ive carefully listened to the calls UKI provided between its call handlers and Mr T. In 
November 2020, when Mr T first got in touch with UKI to ask if he could pay for an additional 
trip extension upgrade, he was correctly informed that this wasnt an available option. 
Instead, UKI let him know that it would continue to provide insurance cover until the first 
available flight back to the UK. During the call, Mr T mentioned published future flight dates 
with his original airline and appeared to understand that hed need to book the earliest of 
those return flights in order for cover to continue. Based on what Ive seen, it appears that Mr 
T did go on to book new flights back to the UK with that airline, which suggests to me that he 
had taken on board what the call handler had told him. 
Mr Ts mentioned hes unhappy that UKI didnt follow-up with him after this call to check on 
his progress. During the call though, Mr T didnt indicate that he wanted any further follow-up 
and in my view, the call handler had provided the appropriate level of available assistance. 
Based on the way the call ended, I think both parties had understood that Mr T would go on to book the next available flight and that he could be reassured that his travel cover would 
remain in place.
Subsequently, Mr T got in touch with UKI on 12 January 2021 to ask the current status of his 
travel insurance. Its unfortunate that this wasnt picked-up until 18 January 2021. UKIs call 
handler clearly reiterated to Mr T that he would continue to be covered until the first available 
flight back to the UK. They also let Mr T know that UKIs travel agent could look into flights 
for him, which would be at his cost. They told Mr T that the flights the agent could find 
wouldnt necessarily be with the same airline or returning to the same airport.  Again, Mr T 
seemed to broadly accept and understand what the call handler was saying.
UKI followed-up this call by sending Mr T an email which restated the main points of the call. 
It also let Mr T know that its agent could locate a local Covid-19 testing facility for him. I think 
this email clearly set out UKIs position  both in terms of the assistance it could provide Mr 
T and how the travel insurance would work. 
In my view, UKI responded appropriately to Mr Ts contact. While the cost of Mr Ts new 
return flight wouldnt be covered by the policy terms, given the situation in which he found 
himself, it offered to take reasonable and proactive steps to offer him assistance.
On 19 January 2021, UKI set out the flight options its travel agent had found to Mr T. It 
acknowledged that the flights werent ideal. But its email clearly informed Mr T that it 
expected him to return on the first flight home and that the flights didnt need to be direct. Its 
agents also found a Covid-19 testing centre which was broadly an hour and a half walk from 
where Mr T was staying. This seems to have been the most local clinic available (and 
indeed, I understand Mr T did go on to undergo testing at this clinic before his eventual 
return to the UK). So I think UKI did offer Mr T the assistance itd suggested it could provide 
 an agent to locate flights and details of a Covid-19 testing facility.
It's clear that Mr T had real concerns about the proposed flight route and the likely validity of 
the Covid-19 test when he reached the transit country. However, I think UKI had acted 
appropriately by asking a specialist travel agent to look into flight options for Mr T. And its 
agent reassured UKI that the Covid-19 test would be valid for the journey itd suggested. I 
think UKI was reasonably entitled to rely on the travel information it was given by its 
specialist providers. And I dont think UKI was placing Mr T under any obligation to take the 
suggested flight if he didnt wish to  it simply highlighted that if he chose not to do so, hed 
no longer be covered for the remainder of his trip.
As UKI didnt receive a definitive response from Mr T to its email of 19 January 2021, it 
made further attempts to contact him. On 21 January 2021, it emailed Mr T to let him know 
that if he didnt take the flight whichd been offered to him on 22 January 2021, cover under 
his policy would end. This accorded with the information Mr T had previously been given by 
UKI. While the email stated that cover would end on 21 January 2021, it referred to a flight 
that was departing tomorrow and which was scheduled to depart on 22 January 2021. So I 
dont think UKI had withdrawn cover on 21 January 2021 or before the flight had departed.
UKI was able to speak with Mr T later that day and reiterated its stance. It seems that by that 
point; it wouldve been too late for Mr T to take the Covid-19 test and make the flight. But 
again, I think UKI made it clear that Mr T would no longer be covered by his policy after the 
flight had departed the following day.
In my view, UKI made Mr Ts options clear to him, in a timely way, and highlighted on a 
number of occasions that if he chose not to return to the UK on the first available flight, hed 
no longer be covered. So I think it gave him sufficient warning of the consequences if he 
chose to remain in P beyond the point he could return home. It was down to Mr T to decide how he wanted to proceed, based on the information available to him and I think UKI had 
given him accurate and clear information to allow him to make an informed choice about 
what actions to take. While I entirely understand why Mr T preferred to return by a different 
route and to be given more time to arrange things, I cant fairly hold UKI responsible for his 
choice to do so.
I appreciate too that Mr T was able to arrange his own flight for substantially less than hed 
have paid had he taken up the flight UKI suggested. I can understand why Mr T found this 
worrying. But I dont think its evidence that UKI made any error here and indeed, Mr T didnt 
suffer any financial loss in this case. So Im not directing UKI to refund his travel costs on 
this basis.
UKI acknowledged that its call handlers couldve handled some of its calls with Mr T better 
than it did. Having listened to the calls, while I think the call handlers provided accurate 
information, I do think it was reasonable for UKI to conclude that the calls couldve gone 
better. With that said, I dont think the call handlers were intentionally abrupt or sought to put 
Mr T off in any way. So I think the £50 compensation UKI has already paid Mr T to reflect the 
upset he was caused by its handling of the claim was fair in the circumstances. 
Overall, I do sympathise with Mr Ts position, as I appreciate he needed to make decisions 
at short notice and its very clear that keeping travel cover in place was important to him. But 
I do find that UKI took reasonable and fair steps to try to assist Mr T in returning to the UK 
and gave him enough information to help him make his own choice about what course of 
action to take. And as Mr T chose not to take up UKIs offer of assistance, I think it was fair 
for it to decide to end travel insurance cover on 22 January 2021.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman