DRN-3233190
The complaint
Mr W complains that Santander UK Plc didnt send the one-time passcodes (OTP) required 
when he was trying to complete transactions online.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties and has been detailed by our 
investigator previously. So, Ill summarise the key points Ive focused on within my decision.
In July 2021 Mr W was trying to complete transactions online but was getting blocked as an 
OTP was required. Mr W says he was not receiving the OTPs. 
Santander has said once it was provided with Mr Ws mobile number it was sending him the 
OTPs. However, as a gesture of goodwill for any inconvenience it sent Mr W £25 
compensation.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as he felt based on the evidence provided 
Santander had more likely than not provided the OTPs. 
Mr W disagrees and asked for a final decision
. 
Since requesting the decision I asked the investigator to follow up with Santander about 
setting up Mr Ws account so that the OTPs can get sent to his email address. We have 
asked Mr W if that would draw this complaint to a closure but as weve not had a response, 
Ive gone on to make this final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr W has categorically said he did not receive the OTPs and I dont disbelieve 
his testimony. But what I have to consider is was this due to an error caused by Santander 
or could there be other factors to why Mr W didnt get the OTPs that were outside of 
Santanders control. 
Ive seen contact notes from Santander that show Mr W updated his mobile phone number 
with it on 22 July 2021. So, the reason Santander blocked some online transactions prior to 
this date was because it didnt have contact details and was unable to send the OTPs. 
From the 22 July onwards, it shows OTPs were being sent and there were different reasons 
for transactions to fail for example passcode had expired or it had been entered incorrectly. 
Ive checked that the mobile number Mr W gave Santander has been entered correctly onto 
Santanders system so I can rule out that being the cause of him not receiving the OTP by 
way of text messages. The mobile number matches what Mr W provided us. 
Santander has also told us it didnt have any reported IT system wide issues and as the 
OTPs are automatically generated there is no evidence to show the OTPs were not 
generated and sent. 
Based on what Ive seen Im persuaded that Santander more likely than not sent the OTPs 
to Mr Ws mobile phone. There could be a number of reasons outside of Santanders control 
as to why the messages didnt get through to Mr W. For example, a problem with the phone 
a problem with mobile network provider or possibly weak signal strength in the area but I 
cant hold Santander responsible for this.
I understand Mr W felt the customer service representative was rude and said he needed to 
purchase a better phone. Ive listened to the call, the representative confirmed that even a 
cheap phone would still receive a text message. It was clear during the call that Mr W wasnt 
familiar with using his mobile phone and I could hear the representative trying to guide Mr W 
through the phone menus to find his message inbox. Im satisfied that the representative had 
been proactive in trying to help Mr W.
Mr W has said he has in the past been able to complete his transactions without having to 
enter an OTP and since coming to this service he has also done a transaction where he 
wasnt asked for a OTP. And he wants the OTPs to be overridden. 
An EU directive means banks need to operate a two-stage log on process when customers 
are accessing online banking. So, this isnt something that can just be overridden or 
removed. From my understanding OTPs are randomly generated so may not appear on 
every online transaction but they are a requirement to protect customer accounts it is an 
extra level of security when making payments online and a fraud prevention measure.
So, taking everything into account, Im not persuaded its most likely Santander made an 
error. However, when Mr W came to this service he asked if it was possible to have the 
OTPs sent via email. Santander has said in exceptional circumstances it can look to do this. 
I can see our investigator has been in contact with both parties and I request that Santander 
follow this up with Mr W. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 
17 March 2022.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman