DRN-3139839
The complaint
Mr B complains about the advice he received from Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited. He 
was advised to invest in capital bonds, which he says were unsuitable for him.
Mr B is being represented. All references to Mr B will include information from his 
representative.
What happened
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision, so I wont repeat 
that again here. Instead Ill concentrate my decision on the findings of this case.
Aviva didnt respond to my provisional findings. Mr B responded saying he had nothing 
further to add. 
So, the matter has been passed back to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new evidence to my provisional findings, my decision 
remains that I dont think Aviva has acted unfairly or unreasonably in this case. The reasons 
for this were set out in my provisional decision. The relevant extract from my provisional 
decision which now forms part of my final decision, is as follows:
My role is to decide whether or not Aviva acted fairly and reasonably. When making an 
assessment of someones wants and needs, theres a degree of subjective judgment when 
an adviser makes a recommendation. Different advisers can reasonably make different 
recommendations when considering a customers demands and needs. Its not my role to 
substitute the advisers recommendation for what I may consider to be a slightly more 
suitable recommendation. And so with this in mind, Id have to be persuaded that the 
advisers recommendation was wholly unsuitable for Mr B. Having looked at everything Im 
not persuaded this is the case. Ill explain why.
In terms of the 1998 advice there is very little evidence remaining as Avivas files have been 
corrupted and only small parts are now legible. But Aviva have provided our service with a 
copy of the key facts that would have been given to Mr B at the time and Mr B has provided 
information about his circumstances.
Based on what Mr B has said of his circumstances in 1998, its clear he received a 
substantial pay out of £198,000 following a CI [critical illness] claim. I accept its unlikely that 
Mr B had any significant investment experience but his circumstances had changed 
considerably with a lump sum payment being awarded following his CI claim. So, it seems 
reasonable that Mr B would be looking to make the most out of it and investing clearly was 
one of the ways he could do this. Its not possible to know what the adviser assessed Mr Bs 
risk rating in 1998 to be. But I can see from the 1999 fact find he was classified in the 
moderately secure category. I think its unlikely that Mr B was in a different category in 
September 1998, which was only eight months prior to the May 1999 advice.
This WP [with-profit] fund itself did seem to be something that would match Mr Bs attitude to 
risk. As noted above, the Aviva guide says a with-profit fund was categorised as moderately 
secure. The WP fund provided regular bonuses based on how well the money invested in a 
mix of stocks, bonds and property performed, but wouldnt be subjected to the same ups and 
downs of direct investment in stocks and shares. The bond structure also allowed Mr B to 
have access to his money without penalty. And it provided a small element of life assurance 
for his family in the event of his death.
All in all, I cant fairly say that the recommendation was an unreasonable one to make as I 
think the fund matched his risk rating. And I think its likely it met with Mr Bs objectives, 
which in 1999 was recorded as longer term growth.
Whilst Mr B says he would not have had time to make up any losses, he was only 39 years 
old. I understand hed suffered from ill health to the extent he received a CI claim but he had 
returned to work and he did tell the same adviser less than a year later in May 1999, that he 
was in good health. Further, the recommendation was to invest £39,000 which was only a 
quarter of his total capital. Overall, Im satisfied Mr B had the capacity for loss.
In terms of the 1999 advice, whilst its not possible to know the exact amount Mr B had 
remaining from his CI pay-out, the adviser noted in the fact find that Mr B wanted to invest 
surplus funds of £37,000, held in a building society deposit account. This would suggest 
that an assessment had been made of the amount Mr B could afford to invest. I take on 
board the point about Mr Bs planned expenditure. But I dont think theres sufficient 
evidence to show the adviser either didnt consider this or that he (the adviser), was told 
about it by Mr B.
In 1999 Mr B was advised to increase his investment in an Aviva bond but on this occasion it 
was invested in a different fund. The 1999 investment was in a Deferred Distribution fund. 
This invested in a mix of assets including fixed interest securities, equities and property. 
While this presented Mr B with a certain level of risk, the assets which were more towards 
the riskier end of the spectrum, were balanced by those which presented Mr B with very little 
or no risk. And because Mr B was invested in two separate funds, he wasnt too heavily 
reliant on just one fund to perform to make any money. Together with his stated objective of 
wanting longer term growth, I think this was largely a suitable recommendation to make.
Ive considered whether Mr B was advised to invest too much of his available cash. 
Following the 1999 advice, this brought the amount of his investments to 38% of the CI claim 
amount. The first thing to note is that he was being advised to invest in funds that were both 
categorised as moderately secure. And he still had a significant surplus. Further, as noted 
above, he was still working and there was a significant amount of time before his likely 
retirement. Whilst he was self-employed, he did give details to the adviser of his income and 
expenditure which would suggest there was some level of certainty in this regard. Part of the 
advice he received in 1999 involved pension/ retirement planning, which does suggest he 
was thinking about his longer term finances. So, taking everything into account, I dont think 
the total amount recommended to invest in the Aviva capital bonds, was unreasonable.
Whilst Mr B says he should have been advised to pay outstanding loans, our remit in this 
service in cases like these is to consider the suitability of advice given to an investor and my 
conclusion relates to that only. Even if Mr B believes that another recommendation would 
have been more suitable, that does not automatically mean that the recommendation he received from Aviva was unsuitable. In any event, from what he says, his only outstanding 
loan was a mortgage and this was adequately covered by an endowment policy.
I can see Mr B did make a small loss on his investment, but he made a significant withdrawal 
within the first year and again in the fourth year. I think the paperwork made it clear that the 
investment was to be held for the medium to long term and that withdrawals in the early 
years would be likely to reduce investment returns.
For all these reasons Im not persuaded that Avivas recommendations to Mr B in 1998 and 
1999 were unsuitable.
As I noted above, neither party has provided anything further in support of their case. So, my 
decision remains that I dont think Avivas recommendations to Mr B in 1998 and 1999, were 
unsuitable. 
For all these reasons, Im not upholding the complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman