DRN-4321564
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as W, is unhappy with the service it received from 
Barclays Bank UK PLC surrounding the defaulting of its Bounce Back Loan (BBL).
Ws complaint is brought to this service by its director, whom Ill refer to as Mr K.
What happened
W had a BBL with Barclays and was making monthly payments towards the loan in line with 
its contractual repayment obligations. However, in November 2022, W didnt make the 
monthly payment for the BBL. And it also didnt make the monthly payments for December 
2022 and for January and February 2023.
Barclays tried to contact W to discuss the deteriorating position of the BBL. Mr K received 
Barclays correspondence, but because he has a severe hearing impairment, he wasnt 
comfortable speaking with Barclays on the telephone as they wanted him to. Because of his 
hearing impairment, Mr K asked Barclays to correspond with him about Ws BBL arrears by 
email. But Barclays refused, and in March 2023 they issued a formal demand to W regarding 
the BBL and defaulted the loan the following month. Mr K wasnt happy about this, so he 
raised a complaint on Ws behalf.
Before Barclays issued a formal response to Ws complaint, Mr K referred the complaint to 
this service. Shortly afterwards, Barclays explained to this service that they didnt feel that 
theyd acted unfairly in how theyd managed this situation and noted that they do have 
support available for account holders with hearing impairments, but that Mr K hadnt 
requested any such support when he had spoken with them. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Barclays had acted 
unfairly in how theyd administered the BBL or interacted with Mr K, and so didnt uphold the 
complaint. Mr K remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the BBL, to which Mr K agreed when applying for and accepting 
the loan on Ws behalf, include the contractual obligation to make the monthly payments 
towards the BBL as stipulated by the agreement. And the BBL agreement also confirms that 
a loan account holder will be considered to have defaulted on the terms of the loan if they 
dont meet these contractual repayment obligations.
In this instance, W missed several monthly payments from November 2022 onwards. This 
meant that Ws BBL fell into a position of multiple arrears. Because of this, Im satisfied that 
W didnt meet its contractual repayment obligations as per the loan agreement. And Im 
consequently satisfied that that it was fair for Barclays to consider W to have defaulted on 
the BBL agreement and to have issued the formal demand for full repayment of the 
outstanding BBL balance that it did in March 2022.
Notably, when W missed its first monthly payment in November 2022, Barclays sent 
correspondence to Mr K advising him of the missed payment and asking him to call Barclays 
and speak with them about the arrears that had accrued the loan. Barclays then sent several 
further letters of a similar nature to W as later monthly payments werent made. 
It was Mr Ks responsibility, as the director of W, to have monitored the BBL by whatever 
means necessary and to have understood that payments had been missed which needed to 
be addressed. And this is regardless of whether Mr K was receiving the arrears 
correspondence from Barclays that Ive mentioned above.
Mr K has explained that he suffers with a severe hearing impairment which means that its 
difficult and painful for him to hold a conversation on the telephone. I can only sympathise 
with Mr K in this regard. But it must be noted immediately that Mr Ks hearing impairment 
didnt in any way affect Ws contractual obligations regarding the BBL. And this includes Ws 
obligation to make the ongoing monthly payments towards the loan that were contractually 
required of it by the BBL agreement.
Mr K has explained that the letters W received from Barclays asked him to telephone them 
to discuss Ws BBL. And Mr K feels that he wasnt reasonably able to do this because of his 
hearing impairment and the difficulty and discomfort it caused him when using the phone.
But the letters Mr K was receiving also said that Mr K could make an in-person visit to one of 
their branches to discuss the arrears. This seems like a fair alternative to a telephone call to 
me. And while I can appreciate that it might have been inconvenient for Mr K to have visited 
a Barclays branch in person, I feel that Mr Ks contractual obligations towards the BBL, in his 
role as the director of W, reasonably outweigh any inconvenience that visiting a branch in 
person may have caused him.
Im aware that Mr K is unhappy that Barclays wouldnt allow him to correspond with them by 
email, and he feels that Barclays are discriminating against him on the basis of his hearing 
impairment by not doing so. 
Barclays explained to Mr K that in this instance, email correspondence wasnt possible. And 
theyve further explained that the reason for this is that their account security protocols dont 
allow for an account holder to confirm their identity and pass those security protocols by 
email. Instead, Barclays require to speak with an account holder, either on the telephone or 
in person, for the relevant security protocols to be passed.
Ultimately, its for Barclays to set their security requirements as they see fit. Additionally, 
Barclays have explained that they do have reasonable alternatives in place for account 
holders with hearing impairments. These include that Mr K could have nominated a trusted 
person to speak on the phone on his behalf, or he could have visited a Barclays branch and 
been assisted on the telephone by one of Barclays branch staff. 
Barclays position here seems reasonable to me, and I feel that their account security 
requirements outweigh Mr Ks wish to correspond by email, especially as Barclays had 
alternative options available for Mr K, as described above. So, while I acknowledge that Mr K 
feels that Barclays have discriminated against him given the problems hes experienced, 
having looked at all the evidence I dont think Barclays have done so. Nor do I think that 
Barclays have acted unfairly or unreasonably. I hope that it helps Mr K, as the director of W, 
to know that someone impartial and independent has looked into their concernsHaving listened to a recording of a March 2023 phone call between Mr K and Barclays, its 
notable that when Mr K explains his hearing impairment to Barclays agent and refers to it 
again later in the call, that Barclays agent asked Mr K if he wanted to continue the call or 
discuss the reasonable adjustments that Barclays could provide. However, on all occasions, 
Mr K said that he was willing to continue to call. And while Mr K mentions to Barclays agent 
that he finds the call difficult because of his hearing impairment, at no time does he explain 
to the agent that the call is causing him pain. 
Mr K has explained that he didnt mention the pain he was experiencing because he was 
embarrassed to do so. Again, I can only sympathise with Mr K in this regard. But I can also 
only reasonably expect Barclays agent to have responded to the information that Mr K gave 
to them. And, in this instance, Im satisfied that Mr K did indicate that he was willing and able 
to continue with the phone call and didnt inform the agent that he was in pain.
It also seems evident to me, having listened to the call, that Mr K was able to understand the 
conversation he was having with Barclays agent. Importantly, this included that Mr K would 
call Barclays back the next day to provide financial information for W that he didnt have on 
him at that time which would allow Barclays to consider how they might assist W in clearing 
the outstanding arrears on the BBL. But Mr K didnt call Barclays back the next day as hed 
promised to, and he didnt visit a branch or contact Barclays by any other means. 
All of which means that I dont feel that Barclays have done anything wrong or acted unfairly 
here as Mr K contends. And it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or 
instructing Barclays to take any further or alternative action here.  This is because, 
ultimately, W didnt meet its contractual repayment obligations as per the BBL agreement. 
Because of this, I feel its fair that Barclays followed the account arrears process that and 
they did which resulted in the eventual defaulting of Ws BBL. 
And its also because I feel that Barclays are entitled to hold the account security 
requirements that they do, which means that Mr K couldnt correspond with them by email as 
he wanted. And I feel that this is fair even is in consideration of the hearing impairment Mr K 
suffers with, for which Im satisfied Barclays could have provided reasonable adjustments for 
Mr K as a director of W, but which he didnt request.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023. 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman