DRN-3193131
The complaint
 Mr S says Steven Day (trading as AJ Life) is responsible for an error in the assignment of
ownership within an AXA Investment Bond and that it is responsible for his inability to
liquidate his share of the bond  an inability caused by the assignment error  since October
2019. He seeks redress for this. The complaint began with Mr S as sole complainant, then
the estate of X became joint complainant. 
In 2016, two investment bonds were bequeathed to Mr S and another beneficiary (B2),
each bond to be shared equally between them. The AXA bond was one, and a St.
Jamess Place investment bond (the SJP bond) was the other. This decision is only about
the AXA bond, but the SJP bond is mentioned where relevant. Mr S represents himself
in the complaint. B2 is now deceased and his interests are represented by the estate of X. 
The AXA bond has 10 segments and the SJP bond has five segments. AJ Life managed 
both bonds. It erroneously assigned four of the five SJP bond segments to Mr S (and his 
wife) and assigned one segment to B2. Furthermore, it erroneously assigned five of the 10 
AXA bond segments to B2 and assigned the other five segments to Mr S and B2 jointly 
(instead of an assignment to Mr S only). There is no dispute about the incorrect assignment 
of the AXA bond segments and AJ Life expressly accepts full responsibility for it. The parties 
dispute is over redress.
What happened
Another ombudsman issued a Provisional Decision (PD1) for this complaint on 9 July 2020. 
I reviewed the case afresh and I reached provisional conclusions that endorsed some of the 
findings in PD1, and that presented some new findings. I issued a second Provisional 
Decision (PD2) on 4 November 2021. I quote PD2s main findings as follows:
I endorse the finding in PD1 that the present complaint, and any decision on it, should relate
only to resolving the incorrect assignment of the AXA bonds segments. The complaint about
the SJP bond was made by Mr S, it has been addressed by this service and an 
ombudsmans decision concluded our treatment of it. If Mr S wishes to pursue it further,
beyond this service, that is a matter for him, and if the estate of X wishes to make its own
complaint about the SJP bond, that is a matter for it to consider.
I also endorse the findings in PD1 that the incorrect assignment of the AXA bonds segments
is not disputed; that AJ Life has conceded its responsibility for committing the error and that
the complaint is only about redress for Mr S. I consider it implicit that the estate of X
supports these findings  otherwise it will not be a joint complainant in a complaint that rests
upon them  however, I acknowledge that it reserves its right to a view on what amounts to
fair redress, as does Mr S.
I do not consider that this service should be drawn into any ancillary issues (about the
redress) in which the joint complainants disagree. The complaints sole respondent is AJ Life
and it is mutually agreed  and is supported by evidence  that AJ Life is responsible for the
matter that has been complained about, so this services task is to determine a fair,
reasonable and practical redress for the complaint.
I also do not consider that it is fair to treat the complaint in any way as a complaint between
one joint complainant against the other. The complaint is only about AJ Lifes wrongdoing in
respect of the AXA bond. Mr S alone has suffered the consequences of that wrongdoing. It
would be unreasonable to suspend his entitlement to a correction  that is, to redress for any
financial loss he has incurred because of that wrongdoing  pending a time when he might
or might not reach an agreement with the estate of X on matters beyond this complaint. At
the very least, I consider that I should provide an outcome to the complaint that is fair and 
that is viable for AJ Life to implement.
Fair compensation, for the benefit of Mr S, will be to put him in the position he would have
been at present, but for the erroneous assignment of the AXA bonds segments by AJ Life,
which prevented him from liquidating his share of the bond on 21 October 2019. I am
satisfied from the available evidence that he would have sold his share of the bond on that
date if he could, and that he could not do so because his share was wrongly jointly owned by
B2. I consider that what I have set out below is a fair, reasonable and viable basis for
redress that reflects but also develops what was concluded in PD1.
I have not seen any evidence that suggests Mr S planned to reinvest the proceeds of the
liquidation or that he planned to do anything specific with the proceeds. I cannot say, with
any certainty, that he would have held the proceeds in deposit from the point of liquidation
and to date. However, on balance and in the absence of evidence to the contrary, I consider
it a broadly safe provisional finding that he would have done so. Had he wanted to remain
invested in the AXA bond he would not have sought its liquidation; and had he wanted to
reinvest the liquidation proceeds, financial loss related to that would have been  but has not
been  included in his claim. As such, fair compensation should also include interest on the
liquidation proceeds from 21 October 2019 to the date of settlement.
I am persuaded that Mr S and the estate of X should also receive payment in compensation 
for the trouble, distress and inconvenience that the matter has caused them. I recognise 
that, to date, resolution of the problem with the AXA bond has required cooperation between 
all three parties in the complaint, but the fact remains that Mr S and the estate of X would 
have avoided the problem altogether  and avoided the trouble, distress and inconvenience 
it has caused them  but for AJ Lifes original assignment error.
For this reason, and with allowance for the benefit of the effort (albeit insufficient) that AJ Life
has made over time to help resolve the problem, I consider that it should pay the joint
complainants £500 for the trouble, distress and inconvenience the matter has caused them.
I provisionally conclude as follows 
AJ Life must accurately calculate the liquidation value that the relevant five segments 
of the relevant AXA bond would have had if they were liquidated on 21 October 2019. 
It must provide a clear and simple calculation of this to me and to each of the joint 
complainants by the same deadline for comments given at the outset of this 
provisional decision. The result will be the total liquidation value (the TLV).
Mr S is entitled to, and must be paid, the TLV in compensation for the financial loss 
he has incurred as a result of being unable to liquidate his share of the AXA bond on 
21 October 2019, and since.
To compensate Mr S for the loss of use of the TLV, he is also entitled to, and must 
be paid, interest on the TLV at the rate of 8% simple per year from 21 October 2019 
to the date of settlement.AJ Life must pay Mr S, directly, the TLV plus interest (as set out above), on the 
condition that he must first give AJ Life a legally binding undertaking that is 
professionally drafted (at AJ Lifes expense) and that reflects, in clear and simple 
terms, no less and no more than the following  that in return for receipt of the TLV 
(and interest) Mr S will assign completely to AJ Life ownership of his total beneficial 
interest in the AXA bond (or of his total rightful share of the AXA bond) as soon as he 
is in a position to do so; that, in the interim, Mr S expressly acknowledges AJ Lifes 
ongoing entitlement to receive the transfer of ownership of his beneficial 
interest/share of the AXA bond as soon as he is in a position to transfer such 
ownership to AJ Life; that all costs/expenses associated with that future transfer of 
ownership, to AJ Life, of Mr S beneficial interest/share of the AXA bond will be AJ 
Lifes responsibility; and that AJ Life reserves a right to recover, from Mr S, the total 
TLV (and interest) payment made to him in the event that he breaches the 
undertaking (in particular, his undertaking to assign his beneficial interest/share of 
the AXA bond to AJ Life as soon as he is in a position to do so).
For the sake of clarity, nothing in the undertaking should impose a time limit upon Mr 
S being in a position to assign to AJ Life ownership of his beneficial interest in the 
AXA bond (or of his rightful share of the AXA bond) and nothing in the undertaking 
should refer to or depend on resolution of the erroneous assignments of either of the 
two bonds segments. It would not be fair to have the redress he is entitled to 
dependent in any way on resolution of the bond assignment errors/problems caused 
by AJ Life or dependent on the time it might take to reach any such resolution. In 
addition, nothing in the undertaking should apply or refer to the estate of X, because 
the financial loss that the undertaking relates to has been incurred only by Mr S.
Further for the sake of clarity, I expressly confirm that execution of the undertaking is 
an important basis of redress in this complaint because compensation to Mr S is 
dependent upon it and it illustrates the need to ensure that Mr S is not unjustly 
enriched (and does not receive double recovery) with regards to redress in this 
matter. In other words, Mr S should not receive compensation from AJ Life and then, 
in the future, receive and retain the value of his beneficial interest in the AXA bond 
beneficial interest which, based on the undertaking, he will be required to assign 
completely to AJ Life as soon as he is in a position to do so. Nothing in my findings 
intends to allow for such double recovery. Opportunity for that has not been 
overlooked, but there should be no such opportunity, the undertaking will oblige Mr S 
against that and, as stated above, AJ Life reserves its right to recover from Mr S the 
total TLV (and interest) paid to him in the event that he breaches the undertaking.
AJ Life must pay both complainants the total of £500 for the trouble, distress and 
inconvenience they have been caused in this matter. To simplify this, I propose that 
payment of £250 should be made to Mr S and payment of £250 should be made to 
the estate of X.
All parties were invited to comment. The estate of X does not appear to have done so. Mr S 
accepted PD2, but he also referred to legal advice on potential litigation from him against AJ 
Life and, it appears, against the estate of X. He submitted some potential evidence in this 
respect and he appears to have invited this service to note, comment on or address this.
AJ Life objected to what it perceived as the insinuation within PD2 that it is  at fault for 
more than a simple administrative error with regards to the Axa policy. It said such an 
insinuation is wrong and that it should be expressly withdrawn and corrected in the final 
decision. AJ Life also said that it had spoken to the provider of the AXA bond and that it was told that 
following the passing of B2 all five segments of the bond were assigned back to Mr S  since 
27 January 2021. It said the provider failed to update AJ Life and Mr S and that it cannot 
reasonably share any responsibility for that. It submitted that Mr S can now arrange access 
to and use of the bond segments by simply telephoning the provider, so the redress for him 
set out in PD2 is mainly redundant. It proposed that its responsibility should cease as of 27 
January 2021, after which it considers the bond provider to have been at fault, and that no 
interest payment would be due from AJ Life to Mr S for the period between 21 October 2019 
and 27 January 2021 because based on the current value of the segments Mr S presently 
has gains that exceed total interest for this period  so, it said, he has incurred no loss.
With regards to PD2s finding that Mr S should receive £250 for trouble, upset and 
inconvenience AJ Life said there should be no such award, that there are no grounds to 
justify it, that it has endured a troubled experience of its own with Mr S and that it is now 
clear the AXA bond provider played a role in the matter.
The case was returned to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, I have reviewed the case, PD2 and the parties comments. Having done so, I 
retain the findings and conclusions in PD2 and I incorporate them into this decision.
I welcome Mr S acceptance of PD2, but as its contents made clear this service will not be 
drawn into matters between the joint complainants. The complaint is from them, jointly, and it 
is against AJ Life, so that is the scope for our determinations. I do not have evidence of 
newly launched or ongoing litigation against AJ Life and no party has referred to such, so I 
can conclude this services process for the complaint within this decision. If Mr S elects to 
consider and/or pursue any potential litigation against AJ Life and to reject this decision for 
that purpose, that is a matter for him. I also have no cause to comment on or address any of 
the legal advice or potential litigation evidence he has referred to.
On balance, I do not consider that there is a basis for the perception of PD2 that AJ Life 
refers to or for the insinuations it alleges. To its credit, available evidence prior to PD2 
features forthcoming, repeated and clear admissions of responsibility for the incorrect 
assignment of the AXA bond, which it volunteered to Mr S and to this service a number of 
times. PD2 reflected this admission of responsibility on its part and it is not clear how or from 
which contents AJ Life perceived the insinuations it alleges. I also note that it has made no 
specific reference to particular contents in this respect.
I repeat a finding of PD2, with regards to redress for Mr S, as follows  
It would be unreasonable to suspend his entitlement to a correction  that is, to redress for 
any financial loss he has incurred because of that wrongdoing  pending a time when he 
might or might not reach an agreement with the estate of X on matters beyond this 
complaint. At the very least, I consider that I should provide an outcome to the complaint that 
is fair and that is viable for AJ Life to implement.
Whilst AJ Lifes submissions about the AXA bonds provider are not about the estate of X, I 
retain the same core reasoning as above  that is, Mr S entitlement to resolution of the 
complaint matter should not be unreasonably suspended where there is a fair and viable 
resolution that AJ Life can implement.Overall and on balance, I do not consider it safe to abandon this decision (or any part of it) 
based on AJ Lifes summary of a telephone conversation with the provider and its assertions 
about what happened on 27 January 2021 and about Mr S supposedly being in a position to 
access and use his bond segments through a simple telephone call. I have not seen reliable 
evidence to support these assertions and I do not consider it fair to Mr S (and to the estate of 
X) to suspend this services conclusion of the case whilst AJ Lifes claims are tested. The 
redress provisions in PD2, as repeated below, include a requirement for Mr S to give an 
undertaking to assign ownership of the AXA bond segments to AJ Life  as soon as he is 
in a position to do so, so if what AJ Life says is true this undertaking will ensure he is not 
unjustly enriched (and AJ Life is not unjustly deprived).
I do not accept AJ Lifes argument that a third party has broken the chain of its responsibility 
in this case. Available evidence is that it caused the incorrect assignment of the AXA bond 
segments and that it was obliged to resolve it  and that it accepted this responsibility. I have 
not seen evidence confirming that a third party shared that responsibility or obstructed AJ 
Life from discharging it. Its argument about how the segments have behaved to date 
appears to have been pre-empted by the following finding in PD2  
I have not seen any evidence that suggests Mr S planned to reinvest the proceeds of the
liquidation or that he planned to do anything specific with the proceeds. I cannot say, with
any certainty, that he would have held the proceeds in deposit from the point of liquidation
and to date. However, on balance and in the absence of evidence to the contrary, I consider
it a broadly safe provisional finding that he would have done so. Had he wanted to remain
invested in the AXA bond he would not have sought its liquidation; and had he wanted to
reinvest the liquidation proceeds, financial loss related to that would have been  but has not
been  included in his claim. As such, fair compensation should also include interest on the
liquidation proceeds from 21 October 2019 to the date of settlement.
I remain without evidence that Mr S would have continued the investment in the segments  
in contrast to available evidence that he would have liquidated them on 21 October 2019 if 
he could. On balance, I am satisfied with the interest payment provisions in PD2, and as 
repeated in the redress section below.
Overall, I have considered what AJ Life has said about the AXA bond segments, and I have 
reached the conclusions above (for the reasons given above). PD2 was clear in inviting the 
parties to present evidence in response to its findings, yet AJ Life has not presented 
meaningful, tangible and/or reliable evidence of the resolution of the bond segments problem 
that it claims to have happened on 27 January 2021  such evidence being reasonably 
required in order to consider abandoning the case as it would like us to do. 
AJ Lifes argument about the segments performance also does not appear relevant to this 
case. It is this services usual approach to compensate a successful complainant for a 
compensatory sum that should have been available in the past but has been outstanding to 
date. Where there is no evidence of something specific that sum would probably have been 
used for, such compensation is done through interest from the relevant past date to the date 
of settlement. This is what applies to the present case. As set out below, settlement is 
dependent on Mr S giving an associated undertaking to assign the bond segments to AJ 
Life, so in the context of settlement, how-ever the segments have performed to date is 
essentially a matter for AJ Life, not for Mr S. 
Putting things right
 Fair compensation, for the benefit of Mr S, is to put him in the position he would have
been at present, but for the erroneous assignment of the AXA bonds segments by AJ Life,which prevented him from liquidating his share of the bond on 21 October 2019. I am
satisfied from the available evidence that he would have sold his share of the bond on that
date if he could, and that he could not do so because his share was wrongly jointly owned by
B2. I consider that what I have set out below is a fair, reasonable and viable basis for
redress.
I have not seen any evidence that suggests Mr S planned to reinvest the proceeds of the
liquidation or that he planned to do anything specific with the proceeds. I cannot say, with
any certainty, that he would have held the proceeds in deposit from the point of liquidation
and to date. However, on balance and in the absence of evidence to the contrary, I consider
it a broadly safe finding that he would have done so. Had he wanted to remain
invested in the AXA bond he would not have sought its liquidation; and had he wanted to
reinvest the liquidation proceeds, financial loss related to that would have been  but has not
been  included in his claim. As such, fair compensation must also include interest on the
liquidation value from 21 October 2019 to the date of settlement.
Mr S and the estate of X must also receive payment in compensation for the trouble, distress 
and inconvenience that the matter has caused them. I recognise that, to date, resolution of 
the problem with the AXA bond has required cooperation between all three parties in the 
complaint, but the fact remains that Mr S and the estate of X would have avoided the 
problem altogether  and avoided the trouble, distress and inconvenience it has caused 
them  but for AJ Lifes original assignment error.
For this reason, and with allowance for the benefit of the effort (albeit insufficient) that AJ Life
has made over time to help resolve the problem, it must pay the joint complainants £500 for 
the trouble, distress and inconvenience the matter has caused them.
I conclude and order as follows 
AJ Life must accurately calculate the liquidation value that the relevant five segments 
of the relevant AXA bond would have had if they were liquidated on 21 October 2019. 
It must provide a clear and simple calculation of this to each of the joint 
complainants. The result will be the total liquidation value (the TLV).
Mr S is entitled to, and must be paid, the TLV in compensation for the financial loss 
he has incurred as a result of being unable to liquidate his share of the AXA bond on 
21 October 2019, and since.
To compensate Mr S for the loss of use of the TLV, he is also entitled to, and must 
be paid, interest on the TLV at the rate of 8% simple per year from 21 October 2019 
to the date of settlement.
AJ Life must pay Mr S, directly, the TLV plus interest (as set out above), on the 
condition that he must first give AJ Life a legally binding undertaking that is 
professionally drafted (at AJ Lifes expense) and that reflects, in clear and simple 
terms, no less and no more than the following  that in return for receipt of the TLV 
(and interest) Mr S will assign completely to AJ Life ownership of his total beneficial 
interest in the AXA bond (or of his total rightful share of the AXA bond) as soon as he 
is in a position to do so; that, in the interim, Mr S expressly acknowledges AJ Lifes 
ongoing entitlement to receive the transfer of ownership of his beneficial 
interest/share of the AXA bond as soon as he is in a position to transfer such 
ownership to AJ Life; that all costs/expenses associated with that future transfer of 
ownership, to AJ Life, of Mr S beneficial interest/share of the AXA bond will be AJ 
Lifes responsibility; and that AJ Life reserves a right to recover, from Mr S, the total TLV (and interest) payment made to him in the event that he breaches the 
undertaking (in particular, his undertaking to assign his beneficial interest/share of 
the AXA bond to AJ Life as soon as he is in a position to do so).
For the sake of clarity, nothing in the undertaking should impose a time limit upon Mr 
S being in a position to assign to AJ Life ownership of his beneficial interest in the 
AXA bond (or of his rightful share of the AXA bond) and nothing in the undertaking 
should refer to or depend on resolution of the erroneous assignments of either of the 
two bonds segments. It would not be fair to have the redress he is entitled to 
dependent in any way on resolution of the bond assignment errors/problems caused 
by AJ Life or dependent on the time it might take to reach any such resolution. In 
addition, nothing in the undertaking should apply or refer to the estate of X, because 
the financial loss that the undertaking relates to has been incurred only by Mr S.
Further for the sake of clarity, execution of the undertaking is an important basis of 
redress in this complaint because compensation to Mr S is dependent upon it and it 
illustrates the need to ensure that Mr S is not unjustly enriched (and does not receive 
double recovery) with regards to redress in this matter. In other words, Mr S should 
not receive compensation from AJ Life and then, in the future, receive and retain the 
value of his beneficial interest in the AXA bond beneficial interest which, based on 
the undertaking, he will be required to assign completely to AJ Life as soon as he is 
in a position to do so. Nothing in these orders intends to allow for such double 
recovery. Opportunity for that has not been overlooked, but there should be no such 
opportunity, the undertaking will oblige Mr S against that and, as stated above, AJ 
Life reserves its right to recover from Mr S the total TLV (and interest) paid to him in 
the event that he breaches the undertaking.
AJ Life must pay both complainants the total of £500 for the trouble, distress and 
inconvenience they have been caused in this matter. To simplify this, a payment of 
£250 must be made to Mr S and a payment of £250 must be made to the estate of X. 
compensation limit
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000 or £355,000 (depending on when the 
complaint event occurred and when the complaint was referred to us) plus any interest that I 
consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds the compensation limit the respondent 
firm may be asked to pay the balance. Payment of such balance is not part of my 
determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and it is unlikely that a 
complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such balance. A complainant 
may therefore want to consider getting independent legal advice in this respect before 
deciding whether to accept the decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold the complaint from Mr S and the estate of X and I 
order Steven Day (trading as AJ Life) to calculate and pay compensation as set out above, 
and to provide them with the calculation of the compensation in a clear and simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and the 
estate of X to accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman