DRN-1660972
The complaint
Mrs P complains through her representative that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) has not paid her 
redress following a mis-sold packaged bank account.
What happened
Mrs P took out a Gold Added Value Account (GAVA) in September 2004. She complained to 
Lloyds that it was mis-sold.
Lloyds upheld Mrs Ps complaint but says that she paid no fees because the account was 
always more than £2000 in credit, and so has offered no redress.
Mrs P accepts that no fees were paid but says that she should be given interest for the 
money held in the account to avoid paying the fees.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Ps complaint. Mrs P disagrees, so the complaint has 
come to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Lloyds has upheld Mrs Ps complaint because she didnt use the travel 
insurance or car breakdown service that came with the GAVA.
The usual redress this service would award for this is the return of all the monthly fees Mrs P 
paid with interest. Mrs P didnt pay any monthly fees because she kept her GAVAs balance 
over £2000, so Lloyds is not paying any redress. 
Mrs P asks for interest to be paid to her on the high balance she kept in the GAVA to avoid 
the monthly fees.
In considering this, I need to consider what Mrs P got with the GAVA, and what she might 
have done if instead she used an ordinary current account without a monthly fee.
I note that Mrs P used the Gold saver account which came with the GAVA and she 
benefitted from the higher interest rates which that provided. She also registered 4 mobile 
phones for insurance cover between 2004 and 2012 and beyond. So, she did enjoy some 
financial benefits while paying no fee.
If Mrs P had used an ordinary current account instead of a GAVA, I think her balance would 
still have been substantial on a regular basis. I say this because her account shows she had 
a regular income of about £2000 a month into the account, and she also used her current 
account to hold and move money between other accounts. So, I dont think its fair for me to 
just accept her case that she would have run the account substantially below £2000 for 
significant periods if it hadnt been a GAVA.
Ive read Lloyds records of its discussions with Mrs P. From these its apparent that Mrs P is 
financially aware and used to moving money around and opening and closing accounts. And 
she regularly discussed her situation with Lloyds. 
So, I think that if making interest on the £2000 required to keep her account open was 
important to her, she would have acted to close the account and make alternative 
arrangements. But she didnt and kept it open for many years.
So, taking all this into account, I dont think its fair to ask Lloyds to pay any redress.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman