DRN-3240658
The complaint
Miss C complained that Deeside Insurance Brokers Ltd (Deeside) unfairly charged a 
cancellation fee when it arranged her insurance policy.
What happened
Miss C was charged a cancellation fee by her broker when she cancelled her insurance 
policy. Miss C said she bought the policy online via a comparison website, with the sale 
concluded on the brokers website. Miss C said the link to the terms and conditions on the 
website was broken, but she chose to go ahead with the purchase of the policy.
When Miss C received the policy she decided it wasnt suitable for her, so she cancelled it 
the following day. Deeside charged Miss C a cancellation fee, which it said was in line with 
its terms and conditions.
Miss C was unhappy as she felt she shouldnt be charged the cancellation within the 
cooling-off period. She said her insurers terms and conditions indicated she wouldnt be 
charged.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She said Deeside had applied its 
cancellation charge in line with its terms and conditions, so didnt think it had acted unfairly. 
Miss C disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Miss C was frustrated as the cancellation fee she was charged 
seemed high when compared to the overall cost of her insurance policy. So, Ive considered 
the terms and conditions of the policy to see if Deeside has acted fairly. Miss C has raised 
points about her insurers policy, but I dont think this is relevant to this complaint which has 
been made against Deeside, who acted as a broker.
Deesides policy sets out that that the policy can be cancelled within the cooling period along 
with the charges that apply. The cooling period is defined as 14 days from the point the 
policy is received. It reads
If you cancel your insurance within the cooling off period, you will be charged by the 
insurer for the service they have provided up to the point of your cancellation. If a claim has 
occurred on your policy, no refund may be due.
In addition, we will also charge a cancellation fee of £65.00. Our new policy fee or renewal 
fee for arranging your insurance will also not be refunded.
I think Deeside has acted fairly in charging a cancellation fee, as the fee is set out clearly in 
its policy and Miss C cancelled the policy during the cooling off period. Miss C said she didnt 
have the opportunity to review the policy before she purchased it, as the website link to the 
policy was broken. I dont think its fair to expect Deeside to waive its fees for this. Miss C 
couldve delayed purchasing the policy or spoken to Deeside about receiving the policy 
terms through a different route. Ive also listened to the sales call. I think this supports 
Deesides decision. The call agent sets out the cancellation fee is due during the cooling off 
period. Therefore, I think its reasonable that Deeside has enforced these terms, so I dont 
uphold this complaint.
Miss C thought the charge was disproportionate to the work required by Deeside and the 
overall cost of the policy. Deeside has explained to our service the costs it incurs in 
administering the policy. I wont share these, as I think its commercial information, but Im 
assured these are fair and consistent with how it set its fee. Having reviewed this, I think its 
cancellation fee is reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Deeside Insurance 
Brokers Ltd to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman