DRN-3237030
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S bring this complaint on behalf of the estate of Mrs B  Mr Ss late mother in 
law. Mr and Mrs S complain that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) took an 
unreasonable amount of time to settle Mrs Bs account, which prevented them from settling 
the estates affairs. 
Mr and Mrs S feel NS&I should pay them compensation for the difficulties they say theyve 
experienced. 
Mr S has been dealing with this complaint, so for ease Ill refer to him throughout
What happened
Mrs B held savings and premium bonds with NS&I. Sadly she passed away in 
October 2020.
Mr S contacted NS&I to acquire Mrs Bs bonds and savings. 
On 23 November 2020, NS&I asked Mr S to complete a form and to return it with the 
Grant of Probate. 
A week later, Mr S returned the form, and included a copy of Mrs Bs death certificate 
and will. 
On 11 December 2020, NS&I replied. It said it couldnt proceed with the request 
because it needed the Grant of Probate.
On 31 March 2021, Mr S sent the Grant of Probate to NS&I. 
On 23 April 2021, NS&I said it couldnt accept the photocopy of the Grant of Probate 
because it didnt have the official Probate Registry Seal. 
Shortly after, Mr S complained to NS&I. He was unhappy with the amount of time it 
had taken to process the bereavement claim. 
In its final response NS&I explained why it had requested the Grant of Probate and 
that it needed to be sealed.
On 29 April 2021, Mr S sent the original Grant of Probate to NS&I. He asked for the 
matter to be settled within seven days.
The Grant of Probate was returned to Mr S on 4 May 2021.
Mr S remained unhappy and so brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered the complaint. She explained that NS&I has said its 
correspondence didnt explain that the Grant of Probate needed to be the original or 
a sealed copy, and that thered been a delay in making the payment. 
While she agreed NS&I service had fallen short, she explained that it wasnt possible 
for her to award Mr and Mrs S compensation for distress and inconvenience as they 
are representing the estate. 
Mr S disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome the investigator reached and Ill explain why.
Its apparent that had NS&I made it clear to Mr S at the outset what was required for it to 
progress his request  namely the original grant of probate or a sealed copy of it  it was 
unlikely he would have experienced the difficulties he did. And NS&I agrees its 
correspondence could have been clearer. 
Its also acknowledged that there was a delay in the payment being processed but that this 
was attributable to the pandemic and this impacting NS&Is ability to operate as normal.
Understandably, the difficulties Mr S experienced were exacerbated by the fact he and          
Mrs S were going through an upsetting time in having to deal with the passing of a family 
member. And its apparent from reading his letters that he was deeply frustrated by not 
having been given helpful information at the right time. 
Whilst I recognise the frustration Mr S experienced, even if I thought compensation was 
warranted, I wouldnt be able to award it to him or Mrs S because under the rules governing 
our service, Mr and Mrs S, as the executors of Mrs Bs estate, are not personally entitled to 
compensation for any impact incurred by them, when representing the estate.
I know Mr S will be disappointed by my decision, but I hope for the reasons set out above 
they understand why.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs B 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman