DRN-1554210
 
Complaint
Mr A and Mrs N say National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr A and Mrs N took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2005. Mr A and Mrs N paid for the 
PPI with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered them both in 
case either of them was off work sick.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr A and Mrs N disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr A and Mrs Ns case. 
Having done that, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr A and Mrs Ns mortgage application offered them the choice to take out PPI or turn it 
down. It was recorded that they wanted joint accident and sickness cover with a benefit of 
just under £1,200. The options to turn down PPI were left blank. Mr A and Mrs N signed their 
application to confirm what theyd chosen. They also signed and submitted a separate 
application specifically for PPI, along with setting up a direct debit specifically to pay for it. 
Then their mortgage offer reiterated that Mr A and Mrs N didnt have to buy any insurance 
from NatWest if they didnt want to. It described the PPI as optional and set out its cost as 
separate from the mortgages cost  it wasnt part and parcel of the mortgage. Again, Mr A 
and Mrs N accepted that mortgage offer on that basis. I think these documents were clear 
about Mr A and Mrs Ns choice in taking or leaving PPI, and Mr A and Mrs N did have a 
responsibility to read what they were agreeing to.
Mr A and Mrs N said they were recommended PPI, and so they felt they werent given a fair 
choice. I cant see that they were given a recommendation. In any case, a recommendation 
is something that can be freely accepted or turned down  its not a requirement. And given 
all the evidence here, I think that NatWest made Mr A and Mrs N aware they had a choice 
about buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time.
It doesnt look like NatWest gave Mr A or Mrs N tailored financial advice about buying PPI. 
Mr A and Mrs N strongly believe they were given advice, so for completeness Ill explore 
whether a recommendation for PPI would have been suitable. In Mr A and Mrs Ns 
circumstances, I think it would have been. For example, it looks like Mr A and Mrs N were 
eligible for the cover and werent affected by any of its key exclusions or limitations.While Mr A and Mrs N say they had benefits through work, the PPI wouldve paid out on top 
of those benefits and for longer, giving them more comprehensive cover. It also meant they 
could effectively protect their savings and investments, and wouldnt have to sacrifice one 
asset to save another. Further, this mortgage was a very significant, long-term commitment, 
and there was no guarantee that Mr A or Mrs N wouldve had the same benefits or savings 
in the many years to come. And ultimately, if theyd fallen behind on their mortgage they 
couldve lost their home. So in their situation, it seems reasonable that they took out PPI to 
protect their home and provide some peace of mind.
It is possible that the information NatWest gave Mr A and Mrs N about PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. That, alone, does not mean that the policy was mis-sold. The question 
is whether I think better information was likely to have changed their minds. Here, Mr A and 
Mrs N chose to take out PPI, which indicates they wanted this type of cover. As I explained 
above, Mr A and Mrs N werent affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover, 
and it couldve really been useful for them in case something went wrong. The policy was 
competitively priced given how much it would pay out in a claim, and it looks like it wouldve 
been affordable. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr A and Mrs N could 
cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely 
to have put them off taking out the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr A and Mrs Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 March 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman