DRN-4274515
The complaint
Mr L complains that Klarna Bank AB (publ) recorded a missed payment marker on his credit 
file.
What happened
Mr L purchased a sofa and entered into a finance agreement with Klarna.
Mr L says that in or around January 2023 he checked on the Klarna app and saw that there 
was nothing outstanding on his account, so he cancelled his direct debit.
Mr L later discovered that Klarna had recorded a missed payment marker on his credit file.  
Mr L complained to Klarna and asked it to remove the marker. Klarna didnt uphold the 
complaint so Mr L referred the matter to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They said that because Mr L had cancelled his 
direct debit payment before his final payment could be collected, a payment remained 
outstanding. The investigator said because Klarna had sent Mr L notifications that the 
payment hadnt gone through in January and February 2023 and because he didnt settle the 
account, she didnt think Klarna had acted unfairly or unreasonably by recording a missed 
payment marker on his credit file.
Mr L didnt agree. He said there had been an issue with Klarnas systems when he checked 
his account and the system showed that he had completed his final payment so he thought 
he could cancel his debit. Mr L said he didnt look at any subsequent emails from Klarna. He 
said that if Klarna had called him and advised him that hed missed his last payment he 
wouldve paid it immediately. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the system notes provided by Klarna. These show that an email was sent to Mr 
L on 30 December 2022 advising him that his bank account would be debited by direct debit 
on or shortly after 6 January 2023 in respect of a payment due on 30 December 2022.
I can see that Klarna requested the direct debit on 4 January 2023 and received notification 
from Mr Ls bank that it had failed on 9 January 2023. The reason for failure was stated as 
the direct debit having been cancelled on 5 January 2023 before payment could be 
collected.
Mr L doesnt dispute that he cancelled his direct debit. He says he did this because he 
thought  based on what hed seen on the Klarna app  that hed settled his account.
I understand that Mr L thought that his account had been settled. However, I can see that 
Klarna sent a notification to him on 9 January 2023 advising him that the payment hadnt 
gone through. I can see from Klarnas system records that the notification was opened by Mr 
L.
I can see that Klarna sent Mr L a statement by email on 4 February 2023 advising him that a 
payment of £231.99 was due by 28 February 2023. I can see from Klarnas system records 
that the email wasnt opened until 12 April 2023.
I can see that Klarna sent a payment reminder to Mr L on 26 February 2023, reminding him 
that the payment of £231.99 was due by 28 February 2023. I can see from Klarnas system 
records that the reminder was opened on the day it was sent.
I can also see that Klarna sent Mr L a statement by email on 5 March 2023 advising him that 
a payment of £233.64 was due by 31 March 2023. I can see from Klarnas system records 
that this email was never opened. 
Based on everything Ive reviewed, Im satisfied that the reason why Mr Ls payment wasnt 
collected was because he cancelled the direct debit. 
I appreciate that Mr L thought hed settled the account. Im unable to comment on what Mr L 
saw when he checked his Klarna app, because he hasnt provided a screenshot of this. 
Ive looked at the statement which was produced on 4 January 2023 and sent to Mr L which 
shows that a payment of £230,40 was paid and that the balance was £0. Klarna has said 
that the statement reflected the fact that it was produced at the same time as the direct debit 
was in the process of being collected. 
I understand why Mr L thought hed settled the account. However, I think Mr L ought to have 
been aware that there was an outstanding payment. I say this because of the notification 
sent to Mr L by Klarna on 9 January 2023 and payment reminder email sent on 28 February 
2023, both of which were opened on the day they were sent. I also think it wouldve been 
clear to Mr L that his final payment hadnt been made if hed checked his bank account.
Taking everything into consideration and whilst I understand that Mr L has now settled the 
account, Im unable, to say that Klarna has made an error or that it has acted unfairly by 
reporting the missed payment. Klarna is under an obligation to report accurate information to 
the credit reference agencies and therefore it was obliged to report the missed payment. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman