DRN-3083422
The complaint
Mr Ks complaint is that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited has not met his claim 
under his bike insurance policy and has cancelled the policy. Watford uses agents to deal 
with claims on its behalf. For ease, all references in this decision to Watford should be read 
as also including those agents. 
What happened
Mr K kept his two bikes locked up outside his home, as he was not allowed to keep them 
inside. Both bikes were stolen on the same night and so Mr K made a claim under the policy. 
Watford initially said it would cover the loss of one of the bikes but not both (as one had 
been left outside for more than 24 hours and the policy excludes cover in such 
circumstances). However, Watford then said it would not meet either claim and was going to 
cancel the policy. Watford said this was because Mr K had not told it that he had had 
previous claims for stolen bikes when he took out the policy. Watford says that if it had 
known about his previous claims, it would not have issued the policy. Watford cancelled the 
policy and refunded the premium. 
Mr K is very unhappy about this, as his bikes are very important to him. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter and did not recommend it be upheld, as he 
thought Watford was entitled to cancel the policy.  
Mr K doesnt accept this, so the matter has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise how important these bikes were to Mr K and how upsetting the theft must have 
been. However, I am sorry to say I do not uphold this complaint. I will explain why. 
Mr K first called Watford to enquire about the policy in May 2021. He called back in June 
2021 to apply for the cover. Mr K told the operator, when asked about previous claims, that 
he had made three previous claims for stolen bikes within the preceeding three years. As a 
result of this, the operator told Mr K it could not offer him cover. 
 
Later the same day Mr K phoned again and spoke to a different operator. He applied for 
cover again, this time telling the operator when asked about previous claims, that he had not 
made any previous claims. On the basis of this answer, the policy was set up. 
I am satisfied that the question asked of Mr K during that call was clear and that he 
understood it. Watford has provided evidence that it does not provide cover to anyone that 
as had more than two claims within the year prior, or more than three claims in the three 
years prior, to the policy start date. Mr K confirmed to us that he had had a number of 
previous claims and so Im satisfied the answer he gave the second operator was not 
correct. 
Given this, I am satisfied that if Watford had known about Mr Ks previous claims, it would 
not have offered the policy during that second call. As I think the policy would not have been 
issued, I agree that Watford is entitled to cancel the policy and therefore not meet the claims. 
Watford agreed to refund the premiums and I think this is reasonable. 
Mr K also says Watford mis-spelt his name on the policy documents. This may well have 
been annoying but administrative errors happen sometimes and I do not consider this 
affected the outcome of Mr Ks claim.  I do not therefore intend to take this any further. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman