DRN-4200375
The complaint
Mr D complains that AXIS Speciality Europe SE declined a claim he made under his 
buildings insurance policy for roof damage and a water leak.
Reference to AXIS includes its agents and representatives.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, Ill summarise my findings.
Mr D owns a property that he rents to tenants. Following a water leak, he got in touch 
with AXIS to make a claim. It appointed a loss adjuster who inspected the problem.
The loss adjuster said the area of damage was in need of maintenance and damp 
had occurred over a prolonged period of time, so the problem had been caused by 
wear and tear rather than a one-off storm. They also said the weather records didnt 
show storm conditions. So they declined the claim.
Mr D didnt think this was fair and complained. He said the leak had occurred due to 
a loose roof tile, and not as a result of a lack of maintenance. He also said the roof 
damage may have occurred before the water damage was noticed, so weather 
conditions prior to that time were relevant too.
AXIS didnt change its position. It said there was no evidence of storm damage to the 
roof, or storm conditions around that time, and the problem was wear and tear.
Our investigator thought AXIS had acted fairly. She said the weather conditions didnt 
amount to a storm and the damage was indicative of wear and tear.
The policy covers damage caused by storm. For a claim to be accepted, Id usually 
expect to see evidence to show storm conditions at the relevant time  and that those 
conditions were the primary cause of the damage.
Ive checked the weather records around the date Mr D said the damage happened. I 
havent seen any evidence of winds that amount to storm conditions. They peaked at 
36mph in the preceding month, which I dont consider to be storm strength wind. A 
well maintained roof is unlikely to be damaged by this kind of weather.
The opinion of the loss adjuster about the cause of damage has been supported by a 
thorough report with colour photographs and a clear explanation for how their opinion 
was reached. I havent seen any other professional opinion that might challenge what 
the loss adjuster has said.
There arent any clear signs of typical storm damage to the roof. And the internal 
water damage appears to be widespread and longstanding. So Im satisfied the 
available evidence supports the position AXIS has taken  that the damage has been 
caused by wear and tear and gradual deterioration, rather than a one off storm.
As a result, Im satisfied it was fair for AXIS to decline the claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman