DRN-4470980
The complaint
Ms A complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) has unfairly declined her travel 
insurance claim.
What happened
Ms A had an annual multi trip travel insurance policy which was underwritten by IPA. Ms A 
travelled from the UK to a country Ill refer to as B, before travelling to her final destination 
country, which Ill call G. 
On her return journey, Ms A boarded a train in G travelling to B from where she was due to 
catch another train to come back to the UK. Unfortunately, the train from G was delayed, 
causing Ms A to arrive too late in B to catch her onward connection home. She therefore had 
to purchase a new train ticket for the next day and incurred the cost of overnight 
accommodation. Upon her return she made a claim for her expenses to IPA.
IPA declined the claim. It initially said that her delay was less than 12 hours, so she didnt 
qualify under the delayed departure section, however, Ms A referred to the missed departure 
section of the policy and asked IPA to reconsider. It responded to say that there wasnt cover 
under this section as she wasnt delayed from her initial departure point. Unhappy with this 
answer Ms A complained to IPA about the claim and also how her claim had been handled. 
IPA didnt change its stance on the claim but did agree to pay £100 compensation for the 
way the claim was handled. Ms A then brought the complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into the matter but didnt uphold the complaint. He said that the 
policy didnt provide cover for the circumstances Ms A found herself in. And he felt that the 
£100 compensation was fair. As no agreement could be reached, the matter has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding 
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Ms As complaint.
The policy terms and conditions
The train Ms A was travelling in was delayed and this meant she missed the departure of her 
next train which was bringing her back to the UK. The cover under Section I  Missed 
departure states the following:
What is covered
We will pay you up to £1,000 for reasonable additional accommodation (room only) 
and travel expenses necessarily incurred in reaching your overseas destination or 
returning to your home, if you fail to arrive at the departure point (including for 
residents of Northern Ireland any departure point in the Republic of Ireland) in time to 
board the public transport on which you are booked to travel on for the initial 
international outbound and return legs only of the trip as a result of:
1. The failure of other public transport.
2. An accident to or breakdown of the vehicle in which you are travelling.
3. An accident or breakdown happening ahead of you on a public road which causes 
an unexpected delay to the vehicle in which you are travelling.
4. Strike or industrial action or adverse weather conditions
There is also a list of exclusions which specifically apply to claims under this section. This 
includes the following:
What is not covered
e. Your failure to arrive at the departure point in time to board any connecting public 
transport after your departure on the initial international outbound and return legs of 
the trip.
Has the claim been declined fairly?
Based on the policy terms above, I can see that there is cover for missed departure on the 
policy if this is caused by the failure of public transport. And as Ms A has told us, the train 
taking her from G to B was delayed. However, there is other criteria which also needs to be 
met in order for a claim to be paid. 
The policy states it will only provide cover for missed departure if you fail to arrive at the 
departure point in time to board the initial international return leg of the trip. Ms As initial 
international return leg was the train from G to B, as this was the initial journey taking her 
from one country to another on her return. If Ms A had arrived too late to make her departure 
from G, for one of the listed reasons, cover would have been provided. But this didnt 
happen in her circumstances. It was the ongoing connection from B back to the UK that she 
missed, not the initial international return leg of her journey. So, I dont think IPA has acted 
unreasonably by declining to pay her claim.
Ive also looked at the remainder of the policy wording to see if there are any other sections 
which would consider Ms As claim, but the circumstances she found herself in dont appear 
to fall within any of the other sections of cover provided. Taking everything into account, I 
dont think Ms As claim is covered under the policy terms and conditions, nor are there 
reasonable grounds upon which it would be fair for me to ask IPA to accept this claim. Im 
therefore not persuaded that IPA needs to do anything more.
Customer service
Ms A has said that she is unhappy with the handling of her claim by IPA. She has referred to 
a conversation she had with IPA where it didnt action what it said it would, causing her case 
not to be reopened and the case reconsidered within a reasonable length of time. 
I appreciate this must have been frustrating for Ms A who was trying to get a resolution to 
her claim. Ive noted IPA has apologised for this and offered a payment of £100 as 
compensation. Having carefully considered the matter, Im satisfied that this offer of 
compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I dont require IPA to pay anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman