DRN-1642145
The complaint
Mr N complains that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr N took out a credit card in 1995. At the same time he was sold a PPI policy to protect his 
credit card monthly repayments. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ns complaint. Mr N disagrees. Hes mainly concerned that 
PPI wasnt something he needed because his employer already offered him good sick pay 
benefits. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Mr N applied for this credit card with PPI by filling in a postal application. 
Its completely understandable that Mr N mightve forgotten exactly what happened so long 
ago. But the way the application form is set out makes it clear that it was up to Mr N to say if 
he wanted to take out PPI with his credit card. 
And he indicated on the form that he wanted to have PPI by ticking the box to add it on to his 
credit card account.
So, I think that Bank of Scotland made Mr N aware that the PPI was optional and it was 
added to his account because he chose to take it.
Bank of Scotland didnt recommend the PPI to Mr N, so it didnt have to check the policy was 
suitable for him. 
But it still had to make sure that it gave Mr N enough information to make a proper decision 
about whether PPI was right for him.
Ive thought carefully about the policy terms that probably wouldve applied when Mr N took 
out PPI. I think Mr N was eligible for the policy when he took it out. 
The available information suggests that the policy covered Mr N in the event of accident, 
sickness and unemployment for up to 12 months per claim. 
Looking at the other means Mr N couldve relied on to make his credit card repayments if he 
couldnt work I think he couldve benefitted from having PPI if hed needed to claim. 
Ive taken into account that Mr N wouldve had 6 months full sick pay followed by half pay for 
6 months. 
But the PPI wouldve paid out on top of this  and in full - for up to 12 months if he was off 
work sick or disabled. 
So it provided better protection than Mr N wouldve had if hed just been relying on his sick 
pay through work. 
And the policy wouldve also paid out if he lost his job unexpectedly and was out of work.  
Based on everything hes told us, I think Mr N couldve benefitted from the PPI.   
Its possible some information Bank of Scotland gave Mr N about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. There were some things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look as if 
those applied in Mr Ns case. 
So, I dont think having more information about things the policy didnt cover wouldve 
affected his decision to have PPI.
I dont think the PPI cost was made clear to Mr N when he bought the policy. But, from what 
Ive seen, Mr N hasnt suggested that he couldnt afford the monthly premiums. 
And he chose to take out the policy when he didnt have to, so it seems Mr N wanted this 
type of cover at the time. 
Looked at overall, I think Mr N still wouldve decided to buy the policy if hed been better 
informed. The policy gave him worthwhile protection in his particular situation. 
So I dont think better information wouldve stopped him buying it.
This means Bank of Scotland doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr N.
But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr N because: 
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr N about that. Because Bank of Scotland didnt 
tell Mr N, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland Bank plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr N.
But Bank of Scotland Bank plc does have to pay back to Mr N any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman