DRN-3632876
The complaint
Mrs G complains about Vanquis Bank Limited. She is unhappy that Vanquis wont refund her 
money that she lost to a scam in February 2021. 
Mrs G feels that Vanquis should have done more to protect her from the scam and pay her 
back the money that she has lost.
What happened
In February 2021, Mrs G came across a scammer on Facebook. The scammer messaged 
Mrs G through Facebook messenger, and presented her with an investment opportunity in 
which Mrs G could double her money. Mrs G was persuaded to purchase Cryptocurrency 
from M and transfer the funds to the scammer. She made five payments totalling £2702.70.
Once Mrs G realised she had been the victim of a scam she reported this to Vanquis. Initially 
Vanquis raised a chargeback and refunded Mrs G the money she had lost but this was later 
reversed as the chargeback was disputed.
Mrs G complained, but Vanquis didnt uphold her complaint. She then brought her complaint 
to this Service. Our Investigator considered the complaint but didnt think that the complaint 
should be upheld. 
Mrs G asked for an Ombudsman to consider the complaint, so the case has been passed to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Gs complaint for materially the same 
reasons as our Investigator. I know that this will be disappointing for Mrs G, so Ill explain 
why.
It is not in dispute that Mrs G has been the victim of a scam so firstly I need to consider if 
Vanquis out to have prevented what happened.
Should Vanquis have prevented the payments in the first place
I dont think that Vanquis could reasonably have been expected to prevent the payments that 
Mrs G lost to a scam. This is because at the time generally, banks were expected to process 
payments a customer authorised it to make. And under The Payment Services
Regulations and terms and conditions of the account, Mrs G is presumed liable for the loss 
in the first instance, in circumstances where she authorised the payment. That said, as a 
matter of good industry practice, Vanquis should have taken proactive steps to identify and 
help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic transactions  that could
involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there is a balance to be struck: banks had
(and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their customers best
interests, but they cant reasonably be involved in every transaction.
I understand that Vanquis previously blocked five transactions Mrs G attempted to make on 
18 February 2021 to the seller of the Cryptocurrency  M  she was persuaded to buy by 
the scammer  these payments were for £2959.30 each. Mrs G called Vanquis on the 19 
February 2021 to query why her payments had been declined. Vanquis has provided a call 
recording of the conversation that took place. 
In this call Vanquis explained that the payments had been blocked because it wasnt sure 
that it was Mrs G attempting to make the payments as the security code that had been 
entered was incorrect. Mrs G explained that it was her trying to make the payments, and so 
the block was removed from her account. Mrs G then went on to make five smaller 
payments totalling £2702.70.
I dont think that Vanquis needed to do any more here  it had already blocked the payments 
Mrs G was attempting to make, and Mrs G had explained that it was a genuine transaction 
she was attempting. I would expect a business to make proportionate checks here  and as 
there was no risk identified with the transaction itself other than the incorrect security code 
being entered Im satisfied that Vanquis did enough here.
The payment was also not to the scammer directly, but to M a legitimate merchant which 
sold Cryptocurrency. The Cryptocurrency was transferred into Mrs Gs Crypto-wallet, which 
she then independently transferred on to the scammers. I cant see that there were any 
warnings about the merchant Mrs G paid that ought to have given Vanquis cause for 
concern  and not all payments made for Cryptocurrency are a result of a scam either.
So, Im satisfied that Vanquis didnt miss an opportunity to prevent the payments before they 
were made.
Vanquis attempts to recover Mrs Gs payments
Mrs G made her payments by her Vanquis credit card  however, she does not enjoy 
protection under the Section 75 Consumer credit Act 1974 for the payments that she made. 
This is because the involvement of the cryptocurrency provider breaks the debtor (Mrs G) - 
creditor (Vanquis) - supplier (scammer) chain as the 'supplier' in this scenario and according 
to the statement is the cryptocurrency provider (M) itself. M is not the scammer 
complained about here  and provided the Cryptocurrency to Mrs G. 
Vanquis did raise a chargeback on behalf of Mrs G when she told it that she had been the 
victim of a scam. Chargeback is a process by which disputes are resolved between card
issuers (in this instance Vanquis) and the merchant (M). It initially refunded Mrs G the 
payments she had made pending the outcome of the chargeback.
However, Vanquis re-debited Mrs G when on receipt of a chargeback defence from M. I 
understand that Mrs G was disappointed with this as it must have appeared like the matter 
was resolved. But as our Investigator explained to Mrs G, there was no recourse available 
through a chargeback as M provided the service Mrs G had requested, which was the 
purchase of Cryptocurrency, and transferred this to Mrs Gs own crypto-wallet as requested. 
The subsequent transfer of the Cryptocurrency to a different wallet (which Mrs G made as a 
result of the scam she fell victim to) is therefore a separate matter  and so a successful 
chargeback would never have been possible. And so, Vanquis reasonably re-debited the funds from Mrs G.
I do have sympathy for the situation that Mrs G now finds herself in  she has been the 
victim of cruel scam  this is not in dispute. However, the loss that she has suffered is 
ultimately caused by the scammers themselves  not Vanquis. And I cant ask Vanquis to 
refund this loss to Mrs G when I dont think that it has done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman