DRN-3082604
The complaint
Ms D has complained about the way AXA Insurance UK Plc handled a number of claims she 
made under her home and buildings insurance policy.
All references to the insurer AXA in my decision include its agents.
What happened
In June 2019 Ms D reported water damage to her property to her insurer, AXA. A plumber 
thought the escape of water was due to a blocked drain outside the property. However, the 
local water authority attended and advised there was no problem with the drains. Water was 
building up from an upstairs bath and sink, cascading through the walls when in use. 
A plumber attended to carry out Trace and Access. They reported issues with the pipework 
that needed repair and capped off the pipes to prevent further damage. AXA accepted this 
claim. Before finalising things, in August 2019 Ms D reported another leak. She said water 
was coming in to the hallway in the same areas as the first escape of water. 
AXA said the damage was due to repointing required to the roof immediately above the front 
door of the property. AXA said it wouldnt cover the second claim as no insured peril had 
occurred. It said it would settle the first claim  which included drying out works - once Ms D 
had arranged for repairs to the pipework in the bathroom and the roof repointing repairs to 
be done.  
Ms D said she intended to change the use of the bathroom and so it wasnt in her interest to 
have the pipes repaired. In February 2020 Ms D provided evidence of the roof repairs. On 
inspection of the roof repairs, AXA settled Ms Ds first claim on a cash in lieu basis as 
requested by Ms D. This happened in June 2020  following lockdown restrictions. 
In August 2020 Ms D contacted AXA as she said there was an ongoing leak in the same 
area of her house. When AXA replied to decline the third claim, it provided some incorrect 
information as to the background of what happened and what Ms D had reported. It 
concluded that the damage was caused by either poor workmanship or wear and tear, both 
of which are excluded under the policy. 
Ms D raised a complaint with AXA. She thought the leak detecting company that had 
previously visited twice before hadnt properly diagnosed the cause of the water ingress into 
her home. She wasnt confident that AXA had properly investigated her concerns, due to the 
inaccurate information it gave her. 
In February 2021 Ms D contacted AXA to say that water was continuing to ingress into her 
home in the same areas as the previous two leaks. AXA agreed for a further inspection to be 
carried out. The findings were that there was a hole in the roof next to the soil vent pipe and 
this was causing water to leak into the property in the same area as the previous leaks. AXA 
said this was a separate issue  and not one covered by an insured peril such as accidental 
damage or a storm. 
AXA said that its appointed technician wouldnt look to survey the whole house to look for 
separate areas of damage if a leak was detected and there were no additional areas of 
concern. In this case, AXA said it had acted reasonably and correctly in declining Ms Ds 
third claim. 
Ms D remained unhappy and asked us to look at her complaint. Our investigator thought 
AXAs decision in relation to all claims was reached reasonably and in line with the policy. 
But she found that AXA had at times provided a poor service to Ms D and caused undue 
delay when Ms D reported the third leak. For this the investigator recommended AXA pay 
Ms D compensation of £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Ms D didnt agree. She says the compensation should include a partial refund of the 
premiums she paid for the policy. 
AXA said it would review and provide comments. As the deadline the investigator gave has 
passed, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Ms D has concerns that the original cause of damage may either have 
been caused by the hole in the roof  or that the hole in the roof should have been identified 
in June 2019. Ms D says if it had, the damage wouldnt have got worse and could have been 
put right sooner. 
However, Im satisfied that AXA investigated each claim properly in determining the cause of 
damage. Each time a leak detection company visited Ms Ds home and was able to 
diagnose a separate cause of damage. There are gaps between the claims  where either 
the pipes were capped  or the roof mortar and repointing repairs were done  where there 
was no water ingress continuing to the property. And so I dont think its likely that the cause 
of damage for the first and second claims were incorrectly diagnosed. And I think it was 
reasonable that  having diagnosed a cause of damage each time which prevented further 
leaks  there was no cause for the contractor to continue to look for further damage outside 
of the scope of each claim. 
However, I do think AXA provided a poor service to Ms D when she contacted it about a third 
claim in August 2020. The LA on AXAs behalf incorrectly said that Ms D had said the leak 
detection company had carried out the roof repairs, which wasnt correct. And they 
incorrectly said that as Ms D chose the contractor to carry out the roof repairs following her 
declined claim in August 2019, the cause of damage must have been caused by poor 
workmanship. But AXA didnt arrange for a surveyor to identify a cause of damage as poor 
workmanship. And AXA had arranged for the roof repair works to be inspected and had 
approved them in April 2020. And it wasnt until February 2021  when Ms D contacted it 
again  that AXA agreed to send out a contractor.
So I think AXA provided Ms D with poor service and caused undue delay. For the distress 
and inconvenience this caused, I think AXA should pay Ms D £150 compensation. Although I 
dont think it changes the outcome, I think AXA failed to properly address Ms Ds concerns 
when she made her third claim in a timely manner. 
I understand Ms D will be upset with my decision. But I dont think AXA owes Ms D a partial 
refund of the premiums paid under her policy. I think it has provided cover under the terms of the policy for the duration of the policy. And I think it reached is decision in relation to the 
claims she made in a reasonable way. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Ms D £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused her by its poor service and delay when she made a claim in August 
2020. 
AXA Insurance UK Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Ms D accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of 
8% a year.
If AXA Insurance UK Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms D how much its taken off. It should also give 
Ms D a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman