DRN-4384562
The complaint
Mr M complains that his pension with Prudential Assurance Limited fell in value close to his 
retirement. Mr M says that he doesnt recall selecting the funds that his pension was 
invested in.
Mr M would now like Prudential to recompense him for his investment loses.
What happened
In 1996, Mr M took out a personal pension with Prudential with a planned retirement age of 
60. At the outset, his monies were invested in a managed equity fund. Despite the plans 
initial retirement date being set to his 60th birthday, which he reached in 2020, Mr M didnt 
draw his pension at that point and left his monies invested. 
In 2020, Mr Ms pension was valued at £99,959 but by January 2023, the value of his pot 
had fallen to £90,473. Mr M raised a complaint with Prudential about the customer service 
hed received from them following a number of queries hed needed to raise, and Prudential 
upheld that complaint and offered him £200 for the trouble that theyd caused him.
Mr M was unhappy with Prudentials response, so he referred his complaint to this service  
but importantly, he raised a different complaint point to the one raised in his original letter to 
Prudential. Mr M told us that he didnt recall ever selecting the funds his pension was 
invested in and he felt that, as he neared retirement, he wouldve expected Prudential to 
have moved his monies in to safer, lower risk investments.
As Mr M had raised a new issue that Prudential hadnt been given the opportunity to respond 
to, our Investigator approached them for comment. Prudential explained that Mr Ms pension 
included their lifestyle feature. That meant, as he neared retirement, his monies were 
gradually moved to lower risk investments, but they werent totally risk free. Prudential 
explained that didnt think they had done anything wrong.
The complaint was then considered by one of our Investigators. He concluded that 
Prudential had treated Mr M fairly. Given the nature of the lifestyle feature on Mr Ms plan, 
his monies had been phased to lower risk investments, but as Prudential had already 
pointed out, those werent totally risk free and meant that his funds could still fall in value.
Mr M however, disagreed with our Investigators findings. In summary, he said that he still 
didnt see how Prudential were able to switch his funds without first telling him. He says, had 
the monies been switched to cash or gilts, that wouldve been fine but they werent. He went 
on to say that hed have preferred Prudential to have kept his monies where they were. 
Our Investigator was not persuaded to change his view as he didnt believe that Mr M had 
presented any new arguments that hed not already considered or responded to. Mr M then 
asked the Investigator to pass the case to an Ombudsman to review that outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important for me to note that I very much recognise Mr Ms strength of feeling 
about this matter. He has provided submissions to support his complaint, which Ive read 
and considered very carefully. However, I hope that Mr M wont take the fact that my 
findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail as he 
has outlined, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr M and Prudential to reach what I think is an independent, fair 
and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats fair and 
reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best industry practice, but it is 
for me to decide, based on the available information that I've been given, what's more likely 
than not to have happened. 
I can imagine how concerned Mr M must have been, seeing the value of his pension fund 
fall in value as he neared taking his benefits. Losing money at any time can be worrisome, 
and thats even more so when nearing retirement. But, having carefully considered both 
sets of submissions, Im broadly in agreement with our Investigator and for the same 
reasons  and as such, I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
Our Investigator has already explained in some detail to Mr M how the lifestyle option, 
which applies to his pension plan, works. Theres not an awful lot I can add other than to 
briefly summarise the management approach thats taken with the feature. Lifestyling is 
where investments within the pension plan are gradually moved into lower risk funds, such 
as fixed interest funds, as the scheme member approaches their selected retirement date. 
The result is that when the member wants to start taking benefits upon retirement, their 
pension is invested largely in a mix of investments which are less exposed to stock market 
volatility but still offer some growth potential. But importantly, this approach doesnt remove 
all of the risks and thats because those fixed interest funds are impacted by changes in 
interest rates. As interest rates rise, as they have done on a number of occasions over the 
last two to three years, a fall in the value of those fixed interest funds is then often seen. 
But importantly, at the same time there will typically be an increase in annuity rates (an 
annuity is a product that provides the consumer with a guaranteed income for life in 
exchange for their pension lump sum). So, although Mr Ms fund value had fallen, its 
annuity purchasing power may appreciate. This is different to a loss that might be incurred 
in a higher risk fund when annuity rates might be falling. Obviously, that would only be 
beneficial if Mr M was taking a guaranteed income rather than accessing his monies 
flexibly. 
I also think that its important to acknowledge that Prudential have no control over how 
investment markets perform and unfortunately, Mr Ms pension, like those of many other 
consumers, has been impacted by significant world events such as the pandemic, the war 
in Ukraine and the wider economy in general over the last 24 months.
As Ive already explained, Mr M took his pension out back in 1996, so Im not really 
surprised that he doesnt remember much about the choices he made back then. And, 
thats why all consumers need to ensure that they keep an eye on their funds, more so as 
retirement nears. Ive looked carefully at three years worth of annual statements Prudential 
provided. The statements all provide clear warnings that the benefits from the plan arent guaranteed and that Mr M should regularly review his investments to ensure that theyre on 
track to meet his objectives. They also highlight that if Mr M is in any doubt about how his 
pension is being managed, he should contact them, or importantly, speak to a financial 
adviser. So, Im satisfied that Prudential were indicating the need for Mr M to start 
considering his options and this can be seen as early as the 2016 statement. 
Allied to this, it appears that Mr M wasnt paying Prudential to provide him with any financial 
advice. As such, their primary responsibility was to manage his pension to his selected fund 
and risk choice  and from what I can see, theyve done just that. Mr M has said that 
Prudential should have moved his money to cash or gilts given that they knew he was 
retiring at 60 years old. However, they did move his monies into lower risk funds as he 
approached 60 but, they werent zero risk funds. Had Mr M wanted personalised guidance 
on whether the funds he was invested in were appropriate for his circumstances or 
whether, as he says, his money shouldve been moved to cash, he wouldve needed to 
have paid for either a financial adviser to provide that guidance to him or sought fact-based 
information from Prudential. Thats because Prudentials role is to manage the money in 
line with the risk profile of the fund until theyve been specifically told to do so otherwise by 
the plan holder or their financial adviser.
In support of his complaint, Mr M submitted the key features brochure he received from the 
time he took his plan out. He pointed to a section that stated his pension included a feature 
called pension protector  he felt that shouldve stopped his pension monies from falling in 
value immediately before he retired. Ive had a look at the brochure that Mr M has sent in. 
The pension protector feature is just another name for the lifestyling feature, which as Ive 
already explained, gradually moves policy holders monies to lower risk funds the closer they 
get to retirement. But, as Ive already highlighted, the funds that the policy holders monies 
are moved to are not totally risk free. Thats because, as Prudential moves monies out of 
equities, it phases the funds into bond and fixed interest securities, the value of which can 
fall as well as rise in value.
So, I cant say that Prudential have acted unfairly, nor can I hold them responsible for a fall 
in the value of a pension fund due to the current market conditions. And, whilst I appreciate 
Mr M will be disappointed, Im not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint and as such, I do not require Prudential Assurance 
Limited to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman