DRN-2010699
 
The complaint
Mr A complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) hasnt fairly settled a claim he made for 
jewellery stolen from his home. He says hes more than £7,000 out of pocket and wants 
Aviva to pay him this amount.
What happened
Throughout this decision, where I refer to Aviva this includes its representatives and/or the 
specialists who handled Mr As claim.
Mr As home was burgled in January 2019. He reported this to Aviva which agreed to 
consider his claim for stolen items. Included in the claim was a substantial amount of 
jewellery.
Aviva offered Mr A the choice of vouchers for replacement jewellery totalling more than 
£21,000  or a cash settlement for the much lower amount of just over £16,000. The cash 
settlement offer was reduced when Aviva realised it had included vouchers for a ring at 
£4,400, when in fact there was a single item limit of £2,500 on Mr As policy. So it reduced to 
just over £14,000 although the voucher offer remained at its original figure.
Mr S said he accepted the vouchers, but they didnt arrive. And he also discovered there 
were restrictions on how he could use the vouchers. For example, he couldnt use them for 
prestige brands of jewellery, or for sale items. After a few days he decided hed have to take 
the cash settlement  but would ask Aviva to pay him the difference between the cash and 
voucher values.
Mr A complained about both the way the claim was handled and the settlement, and wants 
Aviva to pay him the difference between the cash he got and the voucher value  about 
£7,000. He was also annoyed that Aviva would only pay up to the limit on his policy for a ring 
(£2,500) as it was going to cost more than twice that amount to replace it.
Aviva acknowledged that there had been a communication gap between it and the 
specialists dealing with the claim. It said it should have explained at the beginning of the 
claim that vouchers would be linked to the lost items  so Mr A might well receive a voucher 
that could only be used for a watch, if thats what had been stolen. It paid Mr A some 
compensation for this, and said it would talk to the specialists who handled the claim so 
things were made clearer in the future.
With regards to the settlement itself, Aviva maintained that it had given Mr A the choice of 
vouchers or cash and explained the different amounts. It said although the vouchers were 
delayed, Mr A had asked for the claim to be settled in cash only a couple of days later. It 
said it had applied the correct limit to the payment for the ring. It didnt think it needed to pay 
him any additional money.
Mr S brought his complaint to us. Our investigator didnt think Aviva needed to do any more 
than it had. He said Mr A had the option to return the cash settlement and take the vouchers 
instead if he so wished.
Mr A remains unhappy about this so Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There doesnt seem to have been any problem with Aviva deciding it could meet Mr As 
claim, so Im not going to comment further on this point.
In common with many policies, the terms and conditions attached to Mr As insurance say, in 
summary, that Aviva can choose how to settle a complaint. When replacing jewellery, the 
options are usually vouchers or cash. The value of the vouchers is often substantially more 
than the cash amount. That reflects the fact that insurers negotiate substantial discounts with 
retailers that arent available to the general public. An insurer should explain both options 
and any limitations so Mr A could choose which he wanted. 
Mr A was unhappy to discover that the vouchers he agreed to take had some limitations  so 
he couldnt simply spend them on whatever he wished. However, once its accepted a claim, 
Avivas responsibility is to put Mr A in the position he was in before the burglary. So if he 
claimed for a stolen watch or bracelet, for example, its not unfair for Aviva to offer vouchers 
to buy a watch or bracelet. It doesnt have to provide vouchers that can be used for any 
jewellery Mr A might choose. Of course, if Mr A wanted that flexibility he could achieve this  
but only by accepting the lower cash offer.
Aviva did acknowledge it should have explained how the vouchers could be used more 
clearly and paid Mr A some compensation for this. I dont know the exact amount as within 
the £100 Aviva paid there was some compensation for another issue that isnt included in 
this complaint. Aviva also said it would talk to its specialists in this type of claim so things 
would be clearer for customers in the future.  Overall this seems to be a reasonable 
response.
Once Mr A said hed take the vouchers, Aviva arranged for them to be issued. It then 
realised it had offered too much in the case of an expensive ring Mr A claimed for. It hadnt 
been noted specifically on Mr As policy, so Aviva said it would only pay up to the single item 
limit for the ring - £2,500  even though Mr A said it would cost well over £5,000 to replace it. 
Mr A says he didnt think he needed to tell Aviva about the ring when he bought his policy 
because hed bought it in a sale some time earlier and paid less than £2,500 for it.  He says 
he told the bank that sold the policy this when he was buying the insurance. I cant comment 
on how Mr As policy was sold here, as hell need to complain to the bank rather than Aviva. 
As there was no ring listed with a replacement value of more than £2,500 on Mr As policy 
its most likely Aviva didnt know about it. So I cant conclude that Aviva was unfair when it 
limited the amount it paid for the ring to £2,500.
Mr A says he also complained about other issues surrounding the claim, although Aviva 
says they have no record of this. Our investigator asked Aviva to consider the additional 
points Mr A made and help him set up a new complaint if necessary. That seems a fair way 
to take things forward.
Finally Mr A wanted us to tell the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) about how unhappy he 
is with the way Aviva (and its representatives) manages claims. Im afraid I cant do that, as 
this service can only look at specific complaints, not Avivas general processes. If Mr A 
thinks these are unfair he could contact the FCA. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2020.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman