DRN-3658926
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L have complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold them a fee-paying 
Advantage Gold account (later rebranded as a Select Platinum account) in November 2009.
Mr and Mrs L say that they were led to believe they had to take out the Advantage Gold 
account to secure a mortgage with NatWest. They also say they were led to believe they 
would get a preferential interest rate on their mortgage, but they say they never received 
one.
Mr and Mrs L have also said they had to pay to have Mr Ls vehicle recovered, despite 
having breakdown cover with their Advantage Gold account.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think that the Advantage 
Gold account was mis-sold.
Mr and Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the complaint was referred for 
an ombudsmans decision.
As explained by the adjudicator, if Mr and Mrs L are unhappy about how their breakdown 
claim was handled, they will need raise a separate complaint. This usually needs to be 
raised with whoever the breakdown provider was at the time of their claim, although I can 
see that NatWest has offered to look into matters further for Mr and Mrs L if they are able to 
provide further information about the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and I 
have used that to help me decide this complaint. I think it may also help to explain that 
where matters are in dispute and evidence is incomplete, I need to decide what I think was 
most likely to have happened, based on everything that is available. And having considered 
everything, I dont think the Advantage Gold account was mis-sold. I will explain why.
Mr and Mrs L say that they were told they needed the Advantage Gold account to secure a 
mortgage. However, NatWest has provided Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage offer document. In this 
document, I cant see any mention of the need to have an Advantage Gold account. On the 
contrary, under section 4 of the mortgage offer document it says:
You are not required to take any other financial product from us as a requirement of 
this Offer of Loan.
And under section 9 of the mortgage offer document it says:
Insurance you must take out through National Westminster Home Loans Ltd
None
I also note, somewhat more importantly, that the mortgage offer was dated 18 September 
2009. Whereas Mr and Mrs L took out the Advantage Gold account on 4 November 2009. 
Therefore, I cant reasonably conclude that Mr and Mrs L were led to believe that they 
needed an Advantage Gold account to secure a mortgage, given that they had already 
secured a mortgage offer at a fixed interest rate  that had no conditions relating to them 
needing any other NatWest products - around two months before theyd even applied for the 
Advantage Gold account.
Mr and Mrs L have also said that they thought they needed an Advantage Gold account in 
order to obtain a preferential interest rate. Looking through the account literature from 
around the time that Mr and Mrs L took out their Advantage Gold account, I can see that the 
Advantage Gold account did provide attractive mortgage deals  although its not clear what 
exactly the deal entailed in late 2009. 
However, Mr and Mrs L had already secured a mortgage offer with NatWest before they had 
applied for the Advantage Gold account. So again I cant reasonably say that they were 
misled into thinking they had to take out an Advantage Gold account to obtain the mortgage 
product (i.e. interest rate) that they were offered, given that theyd already been offered the 
mortgage two months beforehand.
So overall, I think that Mr and Mrs L were given a fair choice in agreeing to the Advantage 
Gold account and I think that they were aware they didnt necessarily need the account if 
they wanted to obtain a mortgage. As such, I think its just as likely (if not more so) that Mr 
and Mrs L were told about the features that were included with the account and they agreed 
to the account because they were attracted to what the account offered at the time.
When selling the account, NatWest was obliged to give Mr and Mrs L important information 
about the account, so that they understood what they were agreeing to. Unfortunately, due 
to how long ago the sale took place, its not clear what exactly was discussed with Mr and 
Mrs L. However, Mr and Mrs L appear to have been aware of the cost of the account from 
the outset. And the application form says that theyd been provided with the insurance terms 
and conditions. So, it seems that Mr and Mrs L were given at least some information about 
the cost of the account and what it came with.
I accept that Mr and Mrs L may not have been given all of the information they shouldve 
been given during the sale. However, Ive not seen anything about their circumstances that 
makes me think they wouldve been put off from agreeing to it, had they been given even 
more information about the account.
Therefore, having taken everything into account, Im unable to conclude that the Advantage 
Gold account was mis-sold. 
Finally, I note that Mr and Mrs L said that they re-mortgaged with NatWest a number of 
times, but say they never got a preferential rate on any of their mortgages, despite having 
the Advantage Gold account. 
If Mr and Mrs L remain unhappy about the mortgage products that they were offered, they 
will have to raise their concerns with NatWest as a separate complaint. If Mr and Mrs L wish 
to do this, it may help them to know that, based on the information NatWest has provided our 
service about the Advantage Gold account, it appears that the attractive mortgage deals 
feature was removed as a benefit of the Advantage Gold account in January 2013.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman