DRN-3081722
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax hasnt credited £60 that she 
paid in cash to her account.
What happened
Mrs S says she visited a local Halifax branch on either 8 or 10 September 2020. She said 
she took coins  totalling £60  to pay into her account. Mrs S recalls being served by a 
female cashier, sitting in between two other cashiers. She says the cashier counted the 
coins and bagged them up and Mrs S recalls this taking a long time. Mrs S card was placed 
into the card reader and Mrs S says she input her PIN. Mrs S left the branch without a 
receipt.
In November 2020, Mrs S noticed through her online banking that the £60 hadnt been 
credited to her account. She complained to Halifax and wanted them to check CCTV footage 
to confirm what had happened to her money. Mrs S also had a £2 credit added to her 
account on 8 September 2020 which Halifax couldnt explain.
Halifax responded to Mrs S complaint in December 2020. In summary they said there was 
no record to confirm the deposit had been made. Halifax also explained that the CCTV 
footage would only confirm if Mrs S was in branch  and not any details of the individual 
transaction. Halifax also queried why it took Mrs S several months to report the missing 
transaction and explained this made it more difficult to obtain the cashiers recollection of 
events.
Mrs S disagreed. She brought the complaint to our service and also complained about the 
way Halifax dealt with her complaint. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said there were no discrepancies of the 
branch balance to the value of £60 or close to it on the days Mrs S thinks she visited branch; 
and she was satisfied that the CCTV wouldnt have confirmed if the money was paid in or 
not because the camera doesnt face the counter. Our investigator also explained the £2 
credit was a rewards bonus and automatically applied to Mrs S account due to the type of 
account she holds. Our investigator was also satisfied Halifax dealt with Mrs S complaint 
fairly and confirmed theyd tried to call her on two occasions in December 2020 before 
issuing their final response.
Mrs S remained unhappy. She wanted to know;
why Halifax didnt check the CCTV when she first visited the branch to complain,
why Halifax didnt tell Mrs S the cashiers name who served her or allow her to speak 
to the cashier when shed complained,
how she could be sure the cashier didnt steal the £60,
why the staff member moved to a different branch  Mrs S feels this is suspicious,
why the branch doesnt believe her.
Halifax responded to Mrs S points and explained;
the CCTV footage is only available for 30 days  and as it doesnt face the counter, it 
wouldnt have confirmed the details needed,
the branch manager shared his details with Mrs S as he was dealing with the 
complaint  not the cashier. And due to the time passed, it would have been unlikely 
the cashier would remember the details of this transaction,
theft is a serious allegation to make and there is insufficient evidence to show any 
money went missing, 
its not uncommon for branch staff to move around.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This is a finely balanced case and I wont be able to say what happened for certain  Ill 
need to make my findings based on what I think to have most likely happened in the 
circumstances. 
I appreciate how strong Mrs S feels about this  but based on the evidence Ive seen, I wont 
be asking Halifax to do anything differently. Ive explained further below.
Firstly, I should say that Im satisfied the £2 credit applied to Mrs S account on 8 September 
2020 was a reward bonus and therefore completely separate to any potential transaction 
which may or may not have taken place.
Halifax have explained the CCTV evidence is only available for 30 days. The transaction 
happened on either 8 or 10 September 2020 but Mrs S didnt raise it with Halifax until around 
17 November 2020. I can see why Mrs S thinks the CCTV footage would have been helpful, 
but it wouldnt have been available to Halifax at the time Mrs S raised the dispute. I also 
dont think the CCTV would have confirmed if Mrs S paid in £60 in coins. I say that because, 
the CCTV footage isnt facing the counter. So while it may have confirmed if Mrs S was in 
branch on one of the days she believes she paid in the money  it wouldnt have confirmed if 
Mrs S had the money on her  or whether or not she paid it in.
Halifax has provided evidence from its systems about what happened on the days between 
8 and 10 September 2020. From this evidence, Ive seen that the branch didnt have any 
cash discrepancies  which Id expect to see if £60 had been paid in and not credited to the 
customers account. There is also no record of Mrs S card and PIN being entered at the 
branch. At the very minimum, I would expect to see this evidence if a transaction was made. 
I appreciate Mrs S says she recalls entering her card and PIN, but the evidence Ive seen 
doesnt support that argument. While I have no reason to disbelieve Mrs S  I must base my 
opinion based on what I think more likely, and the evidence suggests the card and PIN 
werent entered.
Unfortunately, Mrs S didnt obtain a receipt, so I cant consider this as part of my findings. 
But I think its useful to comment that Halifax confirm in the branch Mrs S says she visited, 
they do provide a receipt unless the customer specifically says no to it. I recognise Halifax 
previously advised that a receipt wouldnt be given unless the customer asks for one. I cant 
fairly comment on Halifaxs process on providing receipts as our service is not the regulator. 
I recognise Mrs S wanted the opportunity to speak to the cashier, but I dont think it would 
have made an overall difference. The dispute was raised by Mrs S over two months after the 
she says she paid the money in. So I think its unlikely the cashier would have remembered 
full details of the transaction. But even so, Id still need to see evidence that the money was 
paid in  and nothing suggests that. Mrs S now suspects fraud by staff  especially due to the fact the cashier has since moved branch. But there is no evidence to support that or any 
wrong doing.
Mrs S is unhappy at the way Halifax dealt with her complaint and also feels Halifax didnt 
keep her updated. Im satisfied Halifax responded to Mrs S complaint in a timely manner 
and included relevant information on their reasons for not upholding the complaint  and Ive 
seen they tried to call Mrs S in December 2020.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs S but I dont consider the most likely explanation here on the 
evidence available is that Halifax has made a mistake. And so, I wont be asking them to do 
anything to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman