DRN-3096623
The complaint
Ms S complains about the settlement paid to her by Aviva Insurance Limited under her 
personal accident insurance claim.
What happened
Ms S is covered under her employers group personal accident scheme.
In April 2019, Ms S had an accident and injured her ankle. She underwent surgery, but 
continued to experienced problems. In 2020, Ms S submitted a claim to Aviva.
Aviva accepted aspects of Ms Ss claim. However, under the permanent partial loss benefit, 
it offered Ms S a proportionate settlement of £13,625. This was based on the opinion of its 
chief medical officer (CMO) regarding the percentage loss of use to her ankle and toe. Ms S 
didnt accept this offer, and so Aviva gave Ms S the option to be referred for an independent 
medical examination (IME) for a specialists opinion on her loss of function. Ms S took Aviva 
up on this offer.
Ms S was examined by a consultant orthopaedic surgeon (Mr M). He thought that Ms S had 
experienced a 10% loss of function in relation to her ankle. This reduced Avivas settlement 
to 10% of the full benefit amount of £31,250, which was £3,125. Unhappy with this, Ms S has 
brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought it had been 
reasonable for Aviva to offer Ms S 10% of the benefit amount, based on Mr Ms opinion.
Ms S provided some further evidence. A new investigator considered this, but didnt think it 
supported that Aviva ought to pay a higher settlement. 
Ms S therefore requested an ombudsmans opinion, and so the matter has been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether Avivas final offer of £3,125 was fair. 
Both the policy document and the summary of cover set out the injuries that are covered. 
Whilst the wording in these two documents arent exactly the same, they have essentially the 
same meaning. The following is covered:
Total loss by physical severance or total and permanent loss of use of:

Other toe - £3,750
And 
Total and permanent loss of use of:

One ankle - £31,250
The policy terms also say that in respect of permanent disablement not specified or 
permanent partial loss specified, the percentage of benefit shall be assessed in proportion to 
the degree of disability as compared with the benefits specified without reference to ability to 
follow any profession or occupation.
In November 2020, Avivas CMO carried out a desktop review of Ms Ss medical notes. I 
understand Ms S wasnt sent for an IME at the time, as there were delays due to the Covid-
19 pandemic. Avivas CMO estimated that there was 30% loss of use to Ms Ss toe, and 
40% loss of use to her ankle. This resulted in the offer of £13,625 being put forward to Ms S. 
Ms S didnt accept this offer, but didnt provide any medical evidence to support that a higher 
percentage ought to be paid. Aviva therefore offered to arrange for an IME to take place. I 
think that was fair. I see that Aviva made it clear to Ms S that its final offer could be less than 
the £13,625. Ms S was prepared to take that risk.
In March 2021, Mr M examined Ms S and read her medical notes. He said that following the 
accident, shed sustained a fracture to her ankle. She had surgery and, during the operation, 
the peroneal nerve was transected. Although Ms S had made a reasonable recovery, he 
said she continued to have pain and numbness over the lateral side of her ankle. Mr M also 
said that Ms S had numbness over the lateral aspect of her foot in the distribution of the 
peroneal nerve. However, Mr M thought a final prognosis couldnt be given until Ms S was 
reviewed, as it was thought she may need further surgery.
Ms S confirmed to Aviva that she didnt intend to have the further surgery (though I 
understand she has since done so).
Aviva then asked Mr M for his view of Ms Ss loss of use to her toe and her ankle. Mr M said 
there was no loss of use to her toe, only numbness. He estimated the percentage loss of use 
to the ankle to be about 10%. Mr M thought the stiffness and pain in Ms Ss ankle was 
permanent.
Based on Mr Ms conclusions, Aviva withdrew its offer of £13,625 and made a new offer of 
£3,125. This was based on 10% of the full benefit amount of £31,250 for loss of use to one 
ankle. 
I think greater weight ought to be placed on Mr Ms opinion rather than Avivas CMO. I say 
that because Mr M examined Ms S (whereas the CMO only carried out a desktop review) 
and was independent. I note that Avivas CMO also later accepted Mr Ms opinion. 
Im therefore satisfied that Avivas settlement offer was fair. The full benefit amount of 
£31,250 would only be payable if Ms S had suffered the total loss of use of her ankle, but 
that didnt happen. As Ms S experienced a partial loss of use, it was appropriate for Aviva to 
base its settlement on a percentage of the full benefit amount. This was estimated by Mr M 
to be 10%. Mr M didnt think Ms S had experienced loss of use to her toe, and so there 
wouldnt be any benefit payable under the total loss of use to the toe section of cover.
I can understand Ms S is likely disappointed that Avivas offer reduced after it obtained 
Mr Ms opinion. However, as Ive said, Aviva did make Ms S aware of this possibility. I see that Ms S was concerned that her nerve damage (it was thought this may have 
happened during her surgery) hadnt been taken into account by Aviva. But its apparent 
from Mr Ms report that he did take this into consideration before reaching his view that the 
loss of use to her ankle was 10%. He said 50% of the problems in Ms Ss ankle were from 
the nerve pain, and 50% from the trauma. 
Ms S has also pointed out that Mr Ms report said she had a bi-malleolar fracture, whereas in 
fact she had a trimalleolar fracture. It does appear that Mr M made an error here, however, it 
seems that his assessment on her overall loss of use was based on the resulting stiffness 
and pain in her ankle which he thought was permanent, rather than the initial type of 
fracture.
After Ms Ss complaint was referred to this service, she arranged to see another consultant 
orthopaedic surgeon (Mr C) for a second opinion. 
Mr C noted that Ms S continued to experience ankle pain, and he thought this was likely to 
remain the case. However, he thought her major cause of symptoms was from a neuroma in 
association with the lateral side of her ankle. Mr C thought there were two possible causes of 
the neuroma  the first being that the nerve end was damaged during the ankle fracture, and 
the second being that the nerve was damaged during the surgery.
Whilst Ive carefully considered Mr Cs report, he doesnt provide any information which 
suggests that Mr Ms 10% estimated loss of use wasnt accurate. Mr M concluded that Ms S 
didnt have any loss of use to her toe, and Mr Cs report doesnt offer a different opinion on 
this. Although its apparent Mr C thought Ms S had a permanent ankle injury, he didnt offer 
an opinion on the percentage of Ms Ss loss of use in that respect. Whilst I appreciate Mr C 
thought Ms Ss nerve injury couldve happened at the same time as the fracture, as Ive said, 
Mr M took into account Ms Ss nerve injury before reaching his view that the overall loss of 
use to her ankle was 10%.
I therefore dont intend to require Aviva to alter its settlement amount, based on Mr Cs 
report.
Ms S has also raised concerns about the service provided by her employers broker. I see 
that Aviva offered her £200 as a goodwill gesture as it thought the broker had been acting on 
its instructions. However, as the service wasnt directly provided by Aviva and the broker 
wasnt Avivas agent, I cant consider Ms Ss concerns about the broker in this decision. 
Ms S would need to raise any concerns directly with the broker about this, in the first 
instance. However, if she wishes to accept Avivas goodwill gesture of £200 relating to this, 
she should contact Aviva about this directly.
Ms S has also raised concerns about Aviva not providing her employer with the policy terms 
at the outset. However, as her employer is the policyholder, they ought to have provided her 
with this information  I see that Aviva correctly advised Ms S of this. Any concerns about 
the information provided by Aviva to Ms Ss employer, would need to be raised by the 
employer.
Finally, Ms S has questioned why Aviva didnt ask her treating specialist for his opinion on 
her loss of use. I would usually expect an insurer to ask a treating specialist for their opinion, 
so I dont know why Aviva didnt do so here (it may be that Ms S wasnt under the care of her 
specialist for very long). Having said that, I note Ms S didnt ask him to provide his view on 
the matter either. If Ms S wishes to obtain her specialists opinion on what her total loss of 
use was within 24 months of the accident (this timeframe being set out in the policy terms), 
she should provide this to Aviva, and Id expect Aviva to give this consideration.However, based on the evidence before me, Im satisfied that Avivas settlement was fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman