DRN-3854628
The complaint
Mr H complains that Nationwide mishandled his claim for reimbursement of the cost of a 
faulty car hed purchased with his credit card. He says it also failed to repay him costs that 
he had incurred because of the condition of the car or pay adequate compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to him.
What happened
In January 2022 Mr H purchased a used car via an online auction. He was able to view the 
car only via photographs that were provided. He paid £1,400 for the car using a credit card 
he held with Nationwide.
Mr H collected the car and says he quickly discovered that it had a serious fault. He says his 
garage advised him that the head gasket had blown, and the cost of the repair was more 
than the value of the car. Mr H also says he discovered that the engine had been spray 
painted to disguise the brown discharge caused by the fault.
Mr H requested a full reimbursement from the auction house. This was declined though they 
offered to re-sell the vehicle for Mr H. Mr H made a claim to Nationwide for the cost of the 
car. Nationwide opened a chargeback claim on his behalf with the credit cards provider 
which was Visa. The retailer defended the chargeback claim.
In March 2022 Nationwide informed Mr H that his chargeback claim had been declined by 
Visa as the car had been sold as seen and that when he went to collect it, he would have 
had an opportunity of viewing it.  Mr H challenged the decision to decline and Nationwide 
then wrote to him saying that having declined his claim under the chargeback scheme it had 
been passed to on to its Section 75 team who had, in turn, returned it advising that more 
could be done on his behalf. Nationwide offered Mr H £75 compensation for its handling of 
his claim.
Nationwide requested Mr Hs response to the challenge made by the retailer and that he 
provide proof he had asked for the car to be collected but the retailer had refused. It then 
pursued a chargeback claim for the cost of the car. 
In July 2022 Nationwide informed Mr H that the chargeback claim had been successful and 
that the cost of the car would remain credited back to his account. It said it was up to Mr H to 
now decide what he wanted to do with the car.
Mr H says the car was collected by the auction house at no cost to him. He also says the 
auction house paid him £465 for storing the car in the period between the chargeback 
decision and their collection of the car plus an additional £100 as compensation.
Mr H was unhappy at Nationwides handling of his claim. He said he had been told by 
Nationwide that the car had to be securely stored during the dispute and although he was 
able to do so on his drive this had caused him substantial distress and inconvenience. He 
said he was unable to get his motorbike out of the garage due to the positioning of the car 
and so had to incur costs using public transport. Mr H said Nationwide should pay him the 
equivalent cost of storing the car privately for a period of 148 days as this was how long it 
had taken to resolve the matter. 
Mr H said that Nationwide had always been liable for the cost of the car due to the protection 
offered to him by the distance selling regulations and the Consumer Rights Act 2015 and so 
it should have resolved the matter far quicker than it had. Mr H complained to Nationwide 
and requested compensation.
Nationwide didnt uphold his complaint. It said that Mr H had been required to keep the car 
until the matter had been resolved and although it accepted Mr H had been caused 
inconvenience it disagreed that had led to any financial detriment as the car had been 
parked on his own drive. Nationwide said it wouldnt cover parking fees.
Mr H was unhappy at the response from Nationwide and complained to this service. He said 
that he believed he was entitled to charge for storing the car because he considered it was 
the property of Nationwide once he had raised his claim for his money to be reimbursed. Mr 
H also requested that he was refunded for travel expenses as the car had blocked the door 
to his garage and hed therefore been unable to get his motorbike out to use.
Our investigator didnt recommend his complaint was upheld. He said he thought Nationwide 
had acted fairly in raising the chargeback claim and had provided a fair amount of 
compensation for the way it handled Mr Hs complaint. Our investigator said that the 
evidence Mr H had provided regarding the condition of the car had been compelling and so 
the right outcome had been reached via the chargeback claim once further information had 
been provided by Mr H.
Our investigator said he disagreed with Mr Hs view that the car belonged to Nationwide from 
the point he had made his claim and so it should compensate him for having had to store it 
on his drive until the matter had been resolved. He said chargeback claims were limited to 
the value of the merchandise and although it would have been frustrating for Mr H to have to 
store the vehicle on his property this hadnt resulted in any financial loss. He also said he 
didnt think Nationwide was liable to cover the costs of the train tickets raised by Mr H.
While our investigator acknowledged there had been a delay in the chargeback claim being 
resolved he said that Mr H had been fully reimbursed for the cost of the car. In light of that, 
he considered the additional £75 compensation offered by Nationwide was reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Mr H disagreed with the view of our investigator. He said that while he agreed the 
chargeback scheme was voluntary it was Nationwide that had opted to use this process. He 
said under legislation he had other protections as a consumer which provided him with an 
entitlement to be reimbursed and the liability for the transaction would be passed to the 
bank. What this meant, said Mr H, was that had Nationwide not chosen to use the 
chargeback scheme it would have been obliged to reimburse him under other schemes 
which were not voluntary and liability would have already lay firmly with the bank.
Mr H also disagreed that his train fares shouldnt be reimbursed as he said these were 
necessary costs incurred due to having to keep the car on his drive blocking the garage.
Mr H said the compensation of £75 was inadequate for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by taking around five months for the matter to be settled.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen that at the beginning of February 2022 Mr H completed a Disputed Credit Card 
Transaction Form in respect of the purchase of the car from the auction house stating that 
the vehicle he bought was faulty. He provided the details of the merchant, the description of 
the car that had been provided, details of the subsequent discovered faults and a copy of the 
sales invoice. He sent this form to Nationwide and the issue here for me to consider was 
whether Nationwide had then handled Mr Hs claim for reimbursement of the cost of the 
faulty vehicle fairly.
When dealing with disputes of the type raised by Mr H there are two ways in which they can 
be considered by a business, chargeback or a claim under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. 
However, Ive seen that Mr H has raised that there are other legislative protections available 
for consumers under which he says Nationwide would have been liable. Mr H says that 
liability and reimbursement isnt just via the two schemes set out above. But while I agree 
that a number of pieces of legislation provides consumers with rights to cancel contracts and 
receive reimbursements should certain conditions be met there still needs to be a process 
followed by banks or credit providers whereby such claims and disputes between parties are 
investigated and assessed. I disagree there are any schemes available that provide instant 
liability to the bank without the need for any assessment process to be in place. 
So, I think Nationwide acted fairly in following the chargeback process as it did. Ive seen 
that had this been unsuccessful, that Nationwide intended to raise a claim under section 75. 
And I disagree that in taking this action Nationwide had placed Mr H at any disadvantage. 
Nationwide is entitled to investigate the circumstances of a claim and I wouldnt expect it to 
immediately accept liability. 
As set out Nationwide decided to open a chargeback claim on receipt of Mr Hs dispute form. 
Chargeback is a process that involves the card issuer disputing payments made on the card 
through a dispute resolution scheme operated by the companies which run the card 
networks, here thats Visa. It allows customers to ask for a transaction to be reversed if 
there's a problem with the goods or services they've paid for. There's no automatic right to a 
chargeback and it isnt a guaranteed method of getting a refund.
The Card Scheme sets out the necessary conditions under which a claim can be 
processed. These are that the cardholder engaged in the transaction, the cardholder 
contacted the merchant to resolve the complaint and the merchant refused to adjust the 
price, repair the item or replace it. It also says that for disputes involving goods the 
cardholder must have either returned the item or have informed the merchant that the 
goods were available for pick-up.
If Nationwide feels that a claim won't be successful, then it doesnt have to raise a 
chargeback. So, Nationwide isnt obliged to make a chargeback if it concludes that the 
chances of success would be remote. But I would consider it good practice for a 
chargeback to be attempted where the right exists and there is a reasonable prospect 
of success.
On opening this claim Ive seen that the auction house defended it and it has a right to do so. 
Visa appears to have accepted the auction houses view that the car was sold as seen and 
declined the claim. Following this decision, Nationwide moved the matter to be considered by its section 75 team, however that team were of the view that Nationwide should do more 
in pursuing the chargeback claim. Ive seen that at this point Nationwide requested proof 
from Mr H that he had requested the car was collected by the auction house and that they 
had refused to do so. Mr H also provided reasons backed up by his own legal research as to 
why the decision to decline had been wrong. Mr H says that it was unfair he had to do this as 
Nationwide should have been aware of the law. However, it was Visa, not Nationwide that 
declined the claim as they run the scheme.
Nationwide pursued Mr Hs chargeback claim. Mr H says that he was told by Nationwide that 
he had to keep the car securely stored and not to use it while his claim was ongoing. Mr H 
says that he considered the car was the property of Nationwide following his chargeback 
claim because he was credited back the cost. But under a chargeback claim ownership of 
the goods doesnt pass to the bank/credit supplier. If a chargeback claim is successful, then 
the goods are offered back to the merchant and here Ive seen that the auction house 
collected the car in July 2022 once the chargeback was successful. And while I dont know 
what was said to Mr H about the storing of the car, I think its more likely than not that 
Nationwide was providing him with advice in respect of the vehicle. It remained Mr Hs 
responsibility until the claim was settled and he would be liable for any use or damage the 
vehicle sustained while in his possession. I dont think it was unreasonable for Nationwide to 
tell him to keep the car safe and stored.
Mr H was able to store the car on his drive and while I appreciate this would have caused 
him inconvenience, I disagree he is entitled to charge Nationwide a fee for keeping the car 
there. As set out above at that time the car was still his responsibility. 
Mr H says that by having to keep the car so long on his drive he incurred additional travel 
costs because he was unable to get his motorbike out of his garage. He has provided a 
number of invoices for train tickets that he purchased during that time. Our investigator said 
that as under a chargeback claim only the value of the goods can be reimbursed these costs 
wouldnt fall to be covered by Nationwide.
However, had Nationwide considered Mr Hs claim under section 75 then consequential 
losses can be considered. So, I think its fair for me to consider whether this part of Mr Hs 
claim would have been treated differently if Nationwide had pursued this on his behalf.
However, I think its reasonable to have expected Mr H to mitigate any additional expenses 
he faced and Im unclear why the car couldnt have been moved sufficiently to extract the 
motorbike. But even if that hadnt been possible, then I think Mr H would have paid travel 
costs whether he used a car or his motorbike for his journeys So, I dont think it can be 
sufficiently and accurately calculated as to what, if any, additional consequential financial 
losses were caused to Mr H as a result of storing the car. So, I dont think it would be fair for 
Nationwide to cover these travel costs. And I therefore dont think that the outcome under a 
section 75 claim would have been more beneficial than that under the chargeback scheme.
I appreciate Mr H has been frustrated by how long the chargeback claim took. But while I 
agree it took five months in total it was settled in full. Nationwide offered £75 for the initial 
delay and Ive seen it did successfully pursue the claim on Mr Hs behalf. Im also aware that 
it would have been unlikely that a claim under section 75 would have been resolved any 
faster since that process doesnt have a set timescale. And for the reasons given above, I 
disagree with Mr H that Nationwide had unreasonably chosen to use the chargeback 
process and it should have accepted liability far sooner without following any assessment 
process.
I therefore consider that the compensation offered by Nationwide is fair and reasonable and I 
wouldnt ask it to do more.For the reasons set out Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman