DRN-2870622
The complaint
Mr S says Healthcare Finance Limited (HFL) has unfairly declined his claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
In October 2019, Mr S borrowed £1,299 from HFL to pay for some dental procedures for his 
daughter, Ms S. (When Ms S wrote to our service, she referred to Mr S as her guarantor. 
However, its clear from the loan agreement that Mr S borrowed the money.)
Before her treatment was completed, the dental practice went into administration.
In July 2020, Mr S contacted HFL to make a claim under section 75 of the CCA.
HFL declined the claim. It said section 75 doesnt apply in this case because the specific 
relationship thats required between Mr S, the dental practice and HFL doesnt exist.
Mr S then referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt think it was unfair for HFL to decline Mr Ss claim  he didnt think 
section 75 applied either.
Mr S doesnt think this is fair  so his complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case, Im required by DISP 3.6.3R of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook to 
take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
When the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, Ive made my decision on 
the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened given the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Section 75 of the CCA protects consumers who buy goods and services on credit. It says, in 
certain circumstances, the finance provider is legally answerable for any misrepresentation 
or breach of contract by the supplier.
However, for section 75 to apply, there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement under 
section 12(b) or (c) of the CCA.
Mr S is the debtor and HFL is the creditor. However, the dental practice, which is the 
supplier, almost certainly entered into an agreement with Ms S as shes the patient  and 
only the patient can consent to and receive such treatment.
I know that Mr S will be very disappointed, but this means there isnt a debtor-creditor-
supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c)  which means section 75 doesnt 
apply.
Ms S  on behalf of Mr S  says the dental practice referred her to HFL. And she says HFL 
suggested she ask someone for help when she was unable to borrow the money herself  
which is why she thinks it should either provide the service or a refund. Unfortunately, for the 
purpose of a section 75 claim, how Mr S came to borrow the money to pay for Ms Ss 
treatment doesnt make a difference.
I can certainly appreciate Mr and Ms Ss frustration. Mr S borrowed money to help his 
daughter and she hasnt received what he paid for. Instead, Ms S says shes had to pay 
another company £1,600 to complete her treatment. However, for the reason Ive explained 
above, HFL isnt responsible or legally answerable for the suppliers breach of contract  so I 
dont think it was unfair for it to decline Mr Ss section 75 claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Christopher Reeves
Ombudsman