DRN-3388805
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with the amount of money Moneybarn No. 1 Limited trading as Moneybarn 
(Moneybarn) is asking him to pay following the termination of his agreement with them.
What happened
In March 2019, Mr K entered into a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn to acquire a 
used car first registered in 2014. The cash price of the car was around £6,728 and Mr K 
made an advance payment of approximately £400. The total amount payable was around 
£12,988 and the term of the agreement was 60 months with monthly instalments of around 
£213. 
In February 2020, Moneybarn wrote to Mr K as he started missing his monthly payments. In 
March 2020 Moneybarn sent him the first notice sum in arrears letter. This letter advised that 
his finance agreement was approximately £427 in arrears. He received two further notice of 
arrears letters in April and May 2020. In March, May, June and July 2020, Mr K made four 
payments each of around £213 towards his finance agreement. But as no other payments 
were made, and Moneybarn were unable to discuss the situation with Mr K, in September 
2020 they sent a further notice of sums in arrears letter to him. The arrears at the time were 
around £853. 
In September 2020 Moneybarn also wrote to Mr K and explained his options for ending the 
finance agreement and requesting for him to contact them. As no contact was made by Mr K 
with Moneybarn, they issued a default notice to him on 6 October 2020. The default notice 
gave Mr K until 26 October 2020 to make payment. It also explained the consequences of 
not making further payments, including the termination of the agreement in question. On 15 
October 2020 Moneybarn managed to get a hold of Mr K. During this call Mr K explained 
that he had started a new job, so would be able to make a payment in November 2020 when 
he got paid. Moneybarn explained that to stop the termination of the agreement Mr K would 
need to make the October 2020 payment. But Moneybarn agreed to place the account on 
hold for one week so that Mr K could call them and complete an income and expenditure 
assessment. But as Mr K didnt make any contact, the agreement was terminated on 12 
November 2020. 
Mr K called Moneybarn on 18 November 2020. During this call Moneybarn explained to Mr K 
what options were available to him at the time, considering the agreement has been 
terminated. 
One of the options explained to Mr K was repossession of the car. Moneybarn informed Mr K 
that they would collect the car and sell it at an auction. The proceeds of the sale would then 
come off the outstanding balance on the agreement which at the time was around £9,814. 
They also explained that Mr K could then complete an income and expenditure assessment 
to arrange a suitable repayment plan for the remainder of the amount owing. Later in 
November 2020, Mr K called Moneybarn to confirm that he would like to voluntary surrender 
the car. Within a month or so the car was sold at an auction and Moneybarn informed Mr K 
that the final balance due is £8,116.10.
Mr K is unhappy, as he said, that Moneybarn didnt make him aware that he could voluntary 
terminate the agreement. He is also unhappy because he said that it is unfair that he must 
pay full interest on the finance agreement considering that he no longer has the car. As he 
was unhappy, he raised a complaint with Moneybarn. 
In June 2021, Moneybarn responded to Mr Ks complaint. In summary they said that when 
Mr K spoke to them in January 2021, their agent advised Mr K that the agreement was an 
enforced termination so there would have been no interest rebate. They said this was 
because Mr K had breached his agreement by failing to keep up with the repayments. In this 
correspondence they also mentioned that in September 2020, Mr K was sent a list of exit 
options, and when they didnt hear from him after 15 October 2020, they issued him with a 
notice of termination. This is because he had failed to address the arrears, and he was in 
breach of his agreement. So, they concluded, that the available exit options would no longer 
have been valid.
Mr K was unhappy with Moneybarns response, so he brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator thought that it wouldnt be fair to ask Moneybarn to treat the agreement as if 
Mr K had voluntary terminated it, as Mr K was aware of his options and the agreement was 
terminated. But she did think that Moneybarn should reduce the amount owed by Mr K by 
applying an interest rebate for the £1,750, the amount of the cars sale proceeds, and she 
thought the rebate should be calculated in accordance with early settlement regulations. 
Mr K accepted the investigators outcome, but Moneybarn disagreed.  
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, the law, and, where appropriate, what would be considered to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
Mr K acquired the car under a conditional sale agreement, which is a regulated consumer
credit agreement. Our service can look at these sorts of agreements. 
In summary, Mr K has two main complaint points. The first one being that Moneybarn didnt 
make him aware that he could voluntary terminate the finance agreement; And the second 
one, that it is unfair that he must pay full interest on the finance agreement considering that 
he no longer has the car.
Regarding Mr Ks first complaint point, I cant say that I agree with Mr K that Moneybarn 
didnt make him aware that he could voluntary terminate his finance agreement. The reason 
being that in September 2020, Moneybarn sent a letter to Mr K advising him of the available 
options for ending the agreement at the time. This letter explained in detail the four options 
available to him: voluntary termination, hand back option, early settlement, and default 
termination. 
Mr K also questioned why the voluntary termination was not explained to him during certain 
telephone calls he had with Moneybarn. But it is important to explain that Mr K could only 
exercise his right to voluntary termination before his finance agreement was terminated. The 
agreement was terminated on 12 November 2020, so after this date voluntary termination was no longer an option available to Mr K. As such, I dont think Moneybarn needed to offer 
this option to Mr K after the finance agreement was terminated. And it was fair for 
Moneybarn to terminate his finance agreement as and when Mr K didnt remedy the default 
notice. 
This brings me to Mr Ks second complaint point, regarding whether it is fair and reasonable 
for Moneybarn to charge Mr K full interest on the finance agreement considering that he no 
longer has the car.
 
Moneybarn has told us that the voluntary surrender rules are not made by them, and that 
they are statutory and clearly state that there is no interest rebate available. So, they 
explained that they dont feel inclined to agree with the investigators view, as they said they 
believe that they have followed the correct procedures, and that they had given Mr K 
sufficient time to contact them with his decision on how to exit the finance agreement. And 
they have, once again, brought our attention to their final response letter, that was issued to 
Mr K in June 2021, which stipulates that there wouldve been no interest rebate as Mr K had 
breached his agreement by failing to keep up with the repayments. 
Moneybarn also quoted two sections from the finance agreement in question, which deal 
with termination. One of these sections being: 9. Effect of Us Terminating Agreement 
which, in summary, states that if Moneybarn terminates that agreement due to payments not 
being made, they will be entitled to immediate payment from Mr K of all payments and other 
sums due under this agreement up to the date of termination. It then states that the car will 
be sold, and that Moneybarn will be entitled to immediate payment from Mr K of the rest of 
the Total Amount Payable under the agreement less a rebate for early settlement, as 
required by law. So, Ive considered this, and Ive thought about how this section of the 
finance agreement specifically applies to Mr Ks circumstances. 
When Moneybarn say that the voluntary surrender rules are not made by them and that they 
are statutory, and that these clearly state that there is no interest rebate, I think, Moneybarn 
might be referring to voluntary termination and not voluntary surrender. But Mr K didnt 
voluntary terminate the finance agreement and, as I already mentioned above, I agree with 
Moneybarn that voluntary termination was clearly explained to Mr K, and he chose not to 
follow this option. And after the agreement already terminated on 12 November 2020, it is 
reasonable that this was no longer an option available to Mr K. But the question remains on 
whether it is fair and reasonable for Mr K to be responsible for full interest on the finance 
agreement, considering that he no longer has the car, and considering that the £1,750 
proceeds from the sale of the car were applied as a lump sum payment towards the finance 
agreement. 
As a starting point, I agree that it is fair and reasonable that Moneybarn are entitled to all 
payments and other sums due under the finance agreement. This includes full interest due 
up to the point of termination. But considering the specific circumstances of this complaint, I 
think it would be fair and reasonable for Moneybarn to apply an interest rebate for the 
£1,750; the amount of the sale proceeds. It is a lump sum payment that was made towards 
the finance agreement, and Mr K no longer has the car, so overall I think it is fair and 
reasonable to treat this amount as an early partial settlement. 
I accept the proceeds of the sale of the car on voluntary surrender wouldnt automatically 
entitle Mr K to an interest rebate. However, in not providing any rebate, Moneybarn would 
unfairly benefit from receiving everything due back under the credit agreement without Mr K 
taking ownership of the car at the end of the agreement (which is what would have 
happened had he made all payments due, without payment difficulty). So, considering the 
fact Mr K wont take ownership of the car, I dont think its fair and reasonable for Moneybarn 
to not treat the sale proceeds of the car as if it were a partial early settlement payment. Therefore, Moneybarn should reduce the amount Mr K owes them by applying an interest 
rebate calculated in accordance with the early settlement regulations. It should then notify Mr 
K of the amount outstanding, and if Mr K is unable to pay this in full, Moneybarn should treat 
him fairly by arranging an affordable repayment plan. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I require Moneybarn No. 1 Limited trading as Moneybarn to:
- reduce the amount Mr K owes by applying an interest rebate for the £1,750; the 
amount of the sale proceeds. This should be calculated in accordance with the early 
settlement regulations.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman