DRN-2511754
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Amigo Loans Limited (Amigo) gave him two loans in 2018. He said 
that if Amigo had completed more thorough affordability checks it wouldve seen that he 
wasnt in a position to manage the repayments.
What happened
In February 2018, Mr D applied for a guarantor loan of £3,000 repayable over 36 months. 
The monthly repayment was £146.37 and the total amount repayable was £5,269.
In July 2018, Mr D applied for additional funds, which were given by way of a top up loan of
£4,000 over 36 months. £2,763 of this loan was used to repay the remaining balance on 
the first loan. The monthly repayment was £195.16 and the total amount repayable was
£7,025.76.
In August 2019 Mr D complained to Amigo about its decision to lend. 
Amigo didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. It said, in summary, that:
- The income and expenditure assessment showed that the repayments 
were comfortably affordable and the checks it completed supported this.
- The expenditure figures provided were verified against national averages. 
The income was verified using a check provided by a credit referencing 
agency.
- Mr Ds credit file was reviewed to ensure that all expenditure on existing credit 
items was accounted for within his overall expenditure.
- Based on this and other information Mr D had provided, it was satisfied that 
reasonable and proportionate checks were completed to confirm affordability.
Mr D remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this Service. He said that he had 
been going through a tough time financially and trying to manage a gambling problem when 
he applied for the first loan. He said that Amigo hadnt asked him for actual proof of his 
income or expenditure and this had led to him getting into a further debt cycle.
An investigator here looked into things and upheld the complaint. In summary she said that:
- Mr Ds credit file showed that he had been struggling with his finances, including a 
number of account defaults, one of which related to a payday loan. This was at odds 
with the large disposable income he had declared.
- This should have prompted Amigo to carry out further checks to ascertain whether 
the lending would be affordable. This could reasonably have included requesting 
recent bank statements, to give a clearer picture of what was happening.
- Amigo wouldve seen some returned direct debits, payday loans being taken out and 
significant amounts being spent on betting/casino sites. Amigo would have realised 
that Mr D would struggle to sustainably meet the loan repayments. And also that 
access to additional funds may cause further problems, given the amount spent on 
gambling.
- Its therefore reasonable to conclude that Amigo didnt make a fair lending decision.
- In terms of the second loan, the credit report showed a 184% credit increase within 
the six month period between both loans. This shouldve prompted Amigo to carry 
out additional checks.
- Mr Ds bank statements showed a continued gambling habit and returned direct 
debits. So, the additional lending was unlikely to be affordable/sustainable for Mr D.
- Mr D should therefore only have to repay the money he borrowed and had use of. 
So, Amigo should calculate the position Mr D would be in had he only borrowed the 
capital, with no interest applied. If this meant that Mr D had paid more than the 
capital borrowed, Amigo should refund the overpayments.
- If Amigo needs to refund any payments to the guarantor, it cant make Mr D liable for 
the capital part of the refund, so that the balance is in excess of what Mr D owed when 
he made his complaint.
- Amigo should remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ds credit file, 
regarding the loans.
Amigo disagreed. In summary, it said that:
- It treated Mr D fairly and its actions didnt cause him any detriment.
- The onus must be on Mr D to demonstrate on the balance of probabilities that Amigos 
actions were not only inadequate or unfair but also directly causative of detriment to 
him.
- The investigator failed to take adequate account of the nature of the market Amigo 
operates in (and it made a number of observations about this market and the people 
Amigo typically lent to).
- It disagrees that the checks carried out were inadequate. It believes the checks were 
fully compatible and compliant with the legal and regulatory requirements of the time.
- The investigator had (without establishing that Amigos decision process was clearly 
flawed) made selective use of the facts of the case and information that was available 
to Amigo, to replace its reasonable view as lender at the time, with the investigators 
own retrospective view. Amigo doesnt believe this is a reasonable approach in 
principle.
- It believes the steps it went through to assess a loan application (which it described 
in generic terms) were proportionate. And that the sort of extensive and individually 
crafted inquiries implied in the investigators view, would be disproportionate and 
uneconomic.- Based on Mr Ds stated income and expenditure at the point of each application, he 
had a net disposable income of over £1,500 on each occasion. His disclosure of 
expenditure was full and complete in both applications.
- At the time of both applications, Mr D was on a reasonably stable financial footing. 
His credit history was satisfactory and didnt indicate an over-reliance on credit or 
significant challenges managing the credit he had in place.
- The 184% credit increase mentioned by the investigator was clearly due to the 
approval of the first loan.
- The evidence suggests both loans were affordable and it was reasonable for Amigo 
to have assessed them as such given the information provided by Mr D and the 
regulatory standards of the day.
- Our assessment appears to be based on the fact that Mr D made misleading 
statements to Amigo in relation to his financial situation when the loans were agreed. 
If the case is to be upheld, Amigo would need to reserve the right to have sight of all 
relevant evidence and consider whether it is adequately verified, if we are relying on 
it to make a binding decision. 
I issued a provisional decision setting out that I was minded to uphold the complaint. Briefly, 
this was because I didnt think that Amigo had carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks before agreeing to either of the two loans.
I also set out that I thought if Amigo had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks, it 
likely wouldnt have lent Mr D the money, on the basis that neither loan was affordable. And I 
set out what I thought Amigo should do to put things right.
I said that I would take into account any further information and arguments received by         
9 January 2021 from both parties, before reaching a final decision. 
Mr D accepted my provisional findings. Amigo didnt provide a response. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has provided any further information or arguments and so there is no reason 
for me to deviate from my provisional conclusions. 
I am therefore still upholding this complaint in relation to both loans. Ill explain why.
Mr D applied for the loans in February and July 2018, so the Consumer Credit sourcebook 
regulations apply. The following regulations are particularly relevant in this case and are 
quoted as they stood at the time:
5.2.1R
(1) Before making a regulated credit agreement the  firm must undertake an assessment of 
the creditworthiness of the  customer.
(2) A firm carrying out the assessment required in (1) must consider:(a) the potential for the commitments under the regulated credit agreement to adversely 
impact the customer's financial situation, taking into account the information of 
which the firm is aware at the time the regulated credit agreement is to be made; 
and
(b) the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the
regulated credit agreement.
(3) A creditworthiness assessment must be based on sufficient information obtained from:
(a) the customer, where appropriate; and
 (b) a credit reference agency, where necessary.
5.2.3G
The extent and scope of the creditworthiness assessment. in a given case, should be 
dependent upon and proportionate to factors which may include one or more of the 
following:
(1) The type of credit;
(2) The amount of the credit
(3) The cost of the credit;
(4) The financial position of the customer at the time of seeking the credit;
(5) The customers credit history, including any indications that the customer is   
experiencing or has experienced financial difficulties;
(6) The customers existing financial commitments including any repayments due in 
respect of other credit agreements, consumer hire agreements, regulated mortgage 
contracts, payments for rent, council tax, electricity, gas, telecommunications, water 
and other major outgoings known to the firm;
(7) Any future financial commitments of the customer;
(8) Any future changes in circumstances which could reasonably be expected to have a 
significant financial adverse impact on the customer;.
5.2.4G
(2) A firm should consider what is appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent 
on, for example, the type and amount of credit being sought and the potential risks to 
the customer. The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates to the amount of 
credit granted and the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial 
situation.
(3) A firm should consider the types and sources of information to use in its 
creditworthiness assessment.which may, depending on the circumstances, include 
some or all of the following:
(a) its record of previous dealings;
(b) evidence of income;
(c) evidence of expenditure;
(d) a credit score;
(e) a credit reference agency report; and
(f) information provided by the customer.5.2.6G
(2) The provision of the guarantee or indemnity (or both), and the assessment of the 
guarantor under CONC 5.2.5R, does not remove or reduce the obligation on the lender to 
carry out an assessment of the borrower under CONC 5.2.1R. Firms are reminded of the 
rule in CONC 5.3.4R that the assessment of the borrower must not be based primarily or
solely on the value of any security provided by the borrower.
5.3.1G
(2) The creditworthiness assessment.should include the firm taking reasonable steps to 
assess the customers ability to meet repayments under a regulated credit agreement in a 
sustainable manner without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing 
significant adverse consequences.
(4) If a firm takes income or expenditure into account in its creditworthiness assessment.:
(b) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the customers 
income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters made by the customer;
5.3.2R
A firm must establish and implement clear a procedures to make a reasonable 
creditworthiness assessment
5.3.3G
Under the procedures required by CONC 5.3.2 R a firm should take adequate steps, insofar 
as it is reasonable and practicable to do so, to ensure that information (including information 
supplied by the customer) on an application for credit relevant to a creditworthiness 
assessmentis complete and correct.
5.3.7R
A firm must not accept an application for credit under a regulated credit agreement where 
the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect that the customer has not been truthful in 
completing the application in relation to information supplied by the customer relevant to 
the creditworthiness assessment.
5.3.8R
An example of where a firm ought reasonably to suspect that the customer has not been 
truthful may be that the information supplied by the customer concerning income or 
employment status is clearly inconsistent with other available information.
So, in essence, Amigo needed to check Mr Ds creditworthiness (focused on affordability)
and the checks it carried out needed to be proportionate given the relevant factors.
Bearing this in mind, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to
have been more thorough:- the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of 
income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult 
to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
- the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit 
is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and
- the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of 
time during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Bearing in mind the rules, regulations, guidance and good industry practice, I still think that 
there are three key questions for me to think about while looking at Mr Ds complaint. 
These are:
1. Did Amigo complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr D would 
be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way?
a. If so, did it make fair lending decisions?
b. If not, would those checks have shown that Mr D wouldve been able to do so?
2. Should Amigo have realised it was increasing Mr Ds indebtedness in a way that was 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful, so shouldnt have provided either loan?
3. Did Amigo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
But before considering those questions, Ill first deal with Amigos contention that it was 
unreasonable for the investigator to have retrospectively considered whether the checks 
carried out by Amigo were proportionate and the conclusions it would have drawn had it 
(in the investigators opinion) carried out proportionate checks. I note that Amigo hasnt 
said why this was unreasonable.
I still disagree. Given the nature of the complaint raised by Mr D, it is not only 
reasonable, but necessary for us to consider those things, in order to determine whether 
Amigo did what it was required to do and, if it didnt, consider what this means.
Amigo has also said that it is for Mr D to demonstrate on the balance of probabilities that 
Amigos actions were not only inadequate or unfair but also directly causative of detriment 
to him.Again, I still disagree. Mr D has raised concerns with Amigo and Amigo has not upheld his 
complaint. In the circumstances, it is for me to determine whether Amigo did what it 
needed to do and, if it didnt, what (if anything) needs to happen to put things right.
So, Ive again thought about whether Amigo carried out proportionate checks in relation 
to Mr Ds loan application, to satisfy itself that Mr D would be able to repay the loans in a 
sustainable way.
Loan One
Did Amigo complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr D would 
be able to repay this loan in a sustainable way?
Amigo was required to carry out proportionate checks, having regard to the relevant 
factors. These checks could include verifying the stated income and expenditure, amongst 
other things. Amigo says it checked Mr Ds credit history and was satisfied with what it 
saw. It also says that it established that he had a disposable monthly income of £1,500.
Mr D was applying to borrow £3,000 over a period of 3 years. Under the terms of the loan, 
the total amount payable was over £5,000. I consider this to be a reasonably significant 
undertaking involving a high-cost credit product, and one that significantly increased       
Mr Ds indebtedness.
Amigo has said that at the time of the application, Mr D hadnt taken any new items of 
credit in the six months prior. It said that whilst Mr Ds credit file evidenced that he held 
four defaulted items of credit, each had fallen into a state of arrears some years ago. 
Amigo says that this shows Mr D was on a reasonably stable financial footing. It also says 
that in this context, the checks it carried out were both reasonable and proportionate. And 
that it was safe, appropriate and responsible to lend to Mr D. In response to the 
investigators assessment, Amigo said that only one of the four unsettled defaults was a 
current account, not two as incorrectly suggested by the investigator.
When bringing the complaint, Mr D said that he was going through a tough time
financially and trying to manage a gambling problem developed from the pressure of 
having high interest loans. He said he doesnt believe he shouldve been given the loan. 
And that, had Amigo asked for bank statements, it wouldve seen that he wasnt in a place 
to be responsible for the repayments.
I sympathise with the predicament Mr D was in, in terms of his gambling problem. But 
Amigo wasnt aware of this when it agreed to lend. In order to say that Amigo shouldve 
taken this into account before agreeing to lend, Id need to conclude that the checks it 
carried out werent proportionate and that proportionate checks would most likely have 
uncovered the problem gambling.
Under the relevant CONC rules at the time, it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely 
solely for its assessment of the customers income and expenditure, on a statement of 
those matters made by the customer. And a firm must not accept an application for credit 
where the firm knows or ought reasonably to have suspected that the applicant had not 
been truthful in completing the application. An example of this is where the information 
supplied by the applicant concerning income or employment status, is clearly inconsistent 
with other available information.
Amigo has said it validated Mr Ds income using a check provided by a credit reference 
agency. And that it verified Mr Ds expenditure statement by using ONS averages. I have some concerns with Amigos course of action, bearing in mind it has also said greater 
emphasis should be placed on the nature of the market it served. ONS data is based on 
the finances and expenditure of the average consumer. But Amigo knew, when it lent to 
Mr D, that it was providing a loan to someone who fell outside this average portfolio.
Im also mindful that Amigo hasnt provided any detail about how these checks worked in 
Mr Ds case, what the checks showed, and why it considered them to be adequate.
So, Im still not able to put any particular weight on these checks.
I remain of the view that Amigo was in receipt of information that means it ought to have 
doubted the income and expenditure information provided by Mr D. First, the credit report it 
obtained showed that Mr D had four unsettled defaults, with more than £4,000 still owed. 
This is inconsistent with Mr Ds having a declared disposable income of over £1,500. It was 
also, of itself, an indication that Mr D was still experiencing financial difficulties at the time 
of applying for the loan.
In addition to this, during one of the calls between Amigo and Mr D before the loan was 
taken out, Mr D expresses concern about the monthly repayment amount of around £300 
(presumably this being the repayment figure if the money was borrowed over one year). 
The Amigo representative then gives Mr D monthly repayment figures for a two year loan 
(£185.45), a three year loan (£146.37), a four year loan (£128.33), or a five year loan 
(£118.57). Mr D then asks what the interest would be over three years and the Amigo 
representative gives the total repayment amount. Mr D then says "its probably more 
possible (or plausible) over the three year marker.
This in particular ought to have caused Amigo to doubt the income and expenditure 
information Mr D had provided. If he had disposable income of around £1,500, why was he 
expressing concern at meeting a monthly repayment figure of around £300? At that point, I 
think it wouldve been proportionate to explore this apparent inconsistency, before 
agreeing to lend to Mr D.
Given the level of inconsistency in the information gathered and the questions arising 
from it, I still think it wouldve been proportionate and reasonable to verify both Mr Ds 
income and expenditure.
Amigo could have done this in different ways  in the investigation of complaints like 
these, this service usually asks to review relevant bank statements.
So, I need to decide whether it is more likely than not that a proportionate check would 
have told Amigo that Mr D wouldve been unable to sustainably repay the loan.
Ive seen a number of Mr Ds bank statements in the lead up to the first loan. Of course,
I accept different checks might show different things. And just because something shows 
up in the information Mr D has provided, it doesnt mean it wouldve shown up in any 
checks Amigo mightve carried out. But in the absence of anything else from Amigo 
showing what this information would have shown, I still think its perfectly fair, reasonable 
and proportionate to place considerable weight on it as an indication of what Mr Ds 
financial circumstances were likely to have been.
The statements provided by Mr D show significant gambling expenditure  around £700 in 
both October and November 2017 and nearly £3,000 in December 2017 (albeit seemingly 
with nearly £2,000 money in from a gambling company  possibly winnings). The 
statements also show a number of returned direct debits.I cannot say for sure what Amigo wouldve done upon finding this out, but given the 
amount of money being spent on gambling, I think its likely that there ought to have been 
real questions about whether it wouldve been responsible or appropriate to lend Mr D the 
money. Even if the gambling itself had not provided cause for concern, it seems that it is 
contributing to broader financial problems. For example, the returned direct debits 
themselves also suggest that Mr D was struggling to meet his existing commitments. And 
this wouldve called into question Mr Ds ability to sustainably meet the repayments.
So in summary, I still dont think the checks Amigo carried out were proportionate. To the 
extent that Amigo did check Mr Ds income and expenditure declarations, it still hasnt been 
able to provide me with any details about how the checks worked, what they revealed, and 
so what level of confidence those checks provided. And I still think that had it carried out 
proportionate checks, it likely wouldnt have lent him the money.
Should Amigo have realised it was increasing Mr Ds indebtedness in a way that was 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful, so shouldnt have provided the loan?
Because of the finding Ive made above, it still isnt necessary for me to elaborate on this. 
Other than to say that at the point of applying for the loan, Mr D had a reasonably modest 
amount of existing debt. And I dont think that in agreeing to the loan, Amigo ought to have 
considered that it was increasing his indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful.
Did Amigo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
At the point of bringing the complaint, Mr D hadnt alleged that Amigo acted unfairly or
unreasonably in some other way. And I havent seen that it did.
Loan Two
Did Amigo complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr D would 
be able to repay this loan in a sustainable way?
Under the rules in place at the time, Amigo was again required to carry out proportionate 
checks, having regard to the relevant factors. These checks could include verifying the 
stated income and expenditure, amongst other things.
Loan 2 was sought by Mr D around five months after loan 1. He was effectively seeking 
to top-up his first loan. Because of the way Amigo provides loans, he wasnt able to 
have more than one loan at a time. So he asked to borrow £4,000 over a period of three 
years. Over £2,750 of the £3,000 Mr D initially borrowed as part of loan 1 remained 
outstanding at this point. So Amigo retained this amount to settle loan 1 and Mr D 
received a little under £1,250 as the additional proceeds of loan 2. Under the terms of the 
new £4,000 loan, the total amount payable was over £7,025.76.
Amigo has said that at the time of the application, Mr Ds circumstances hadnt changed 
very much. His income was declared as being the same and his expenditure very similar.
Amigo said that Mr D had the same four historically defaulted items of credit. And that Mr D 
had taken out two new items of credit within the last six months  the first Amigo loan and a 
current account with no overdraft. Amigo says this shows there were again no debt 
problems and all of the active debt items were budgeted for within the expenditure. Amigo 
also pointed out that the 184% credit increase mentioned by the investigator was due to the 
first Amigo loan.Amigo said this showed that Mr D had remained on a reasonably stable financial footing.
The loan purpose is documented as home Improvements. This seems strange given 
that Mr D was renting. Amigo doesnt appear to have questioned this.
Mr D was looking to borrow more money only 5 months or so after taking the first loan. The 
account statement for loan one shows that Mr D managed to make his repayments on that 
loan. However, I think the fact Mr D wanted to borrow more money so quickly after the first 
loan (and bearing in mind that I have already concluded that the checks for the first loan 
werent sufficient in the circumstances) means that Amigo needed to carry out more than 
the automated income and expenditure checks it has described it did. Again, it hasnt 
provided any details of what the checks showed and what Amigo took from that to satisfy 
itself that the increased borrowing would be affordable for Mr D.
So it seems that Mr D, who declared he again had disposable income of around £1,500, 
was apparently looking to borrow an additional amount  equivalent to less than one 
months declared disposable income  and to repay it over 4 years paying considerable 
interest in the process. And I note that the credit file showed none of the unsettled defaulted 
balances had reduced since the first loan was taken out  calling into question Mr Ds ability 
to be able to repay even more borrowing.
Taking all of this into account, I still think that Amigo ought to have carried out additional 
checks to the ones it did, to make sure that Mr D could afford the loan.
Again, Amigo could have done this in different ways, but for the purposes of my 
investigation, the simplest way of checking both income and expenditure is to obtain 
recent bank statements. Mr D has provided account statements in the lead up to the 
second loan.
Mr D had told us that between starting the first loan and applying for the second loan, he 
arranged for his salary to be paid into another account, one held jointly with his sister. He 
said his sister had set the account up and was trying to help Mr D with his gambling 
addiction.
This is consistent with what Mr Ds bank statements show  that his salary was paid into his 
account in the April statement, but not in the May or June statements. For the sake of 
completeness, I asked Mr D to provide statements for the other account. He had said hes 
sent them in by post, but these havent been added to his file, possibly as a result of the 
pandemic restrictions. Our investigator asked Mr D if he could perhaps scan and e-mail 
them to us, but Mr D said that he sent us the original statements he received from the bank.
Given the reality of where we are, Im still not convinced its necessary to see them. 
Theres no suggestion that Mr Ds circumstances had materially changed from when he 
applied for the first loan. The April 2018 statement for Mr Ds sole account shows a 
number of returned direct debits. And spending of over £1,100 with a betting company. 
And his May statement shows several returned standing orders.
I again cannot say for sure what Amigo wouldve done upon finding this out, but given the 
evidence of significant gambling and the many returned direct debits and standing orders, I 
still think it unlikely it wouldve considered it responsible or appropriate to lend Mr D the 
money.So, in summary, I still dont think the checks Amigo carried out were proportionate for this 
loan also. And had it carried out proportionate checks, it likely wouldnt have lent Mr D the 
money.
Should Amigo have realised it was increasing Mr Ds indebtedness in a way that was 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful, so shouldnt have provided the loan?
Because of the finding Ive made above, it still isnt necessary for me to elaborate on this. 
Other than to say that at the point of applying for the loan, Mr D still had a reasonably 
modest amount of existing debt. And I dont think that in agreeing to the loan, Amigo ought 
to have considered that it was increasing his indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable 
or otherwise harmful.
Did Amigo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Again, at the point of bringing the complaint, Mr D hadnt alleged that Amigo acted unfairly 
or unreasonably in some other way. And I havent seen that it did.
In conclusion
In conclusion, Amigo has done something wrong and it needs to do something to put things 
right.
Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct it  as far as its 
reasonably practicable  to put the complainant in the position they would be in now if the 
mistakes it made hadnt happened.
In this case, that would mean putting Mr D in the position he would now be in if he hadnt 
been given the loans in question.
However, this isnt straightforward when the complaint is about unaffordable lending. Mr D 
was given the loans and he used the money even though a significant proportion of loan 
two was used to repay loan one. And, in these circumstances, I cant undo whats already 
been done. So, it isnt possible to put Mr D back in the position he would be in if he hadnt 
been given loans one or two in the first place.
I dont think it appropriate for Amigo to benefit from an unfair lending decision.
In some cases, such as where it was evident at the time of lending that credit was likely to 
be used in a way that caused losses as a result of a serious gambling, and where this has 
led to significant financial difficulties, it may be fair to write off an outstanding loan balance. 
Ive thought carefully about whether thats the right course of action in this case, but I 
remain of the view that it isnt appropriate in this case to write off any capital amounts. So, I 
still think a fair remedy in this case is to put Mr D in the position he would be in now, as 
though he had only borrowed the capital amounts i.e. without interest or other charges.
So, Amigo needs to:
- Calculate how much Mr D has paid in interest and charges to date (A)
It appears the loan is ongoing. If it is, then:-  The outstanding loan balance should be reduced by A and no future interest and 
charges applied to the loan. If this results in a positive balance, this amount should 
be paid to Mr D.
If however the loan capital has already been repaid, then:
- add interest of 8% simple a year on all refunded interest and charges - from the 
date the loan capital was repaid to the date of settlement.
In either case, Amigo should remove any negative information about the loans from Mr Ds
credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Amigo Loans Ltd to do what Ive 
said above under Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2021.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman