DRN-1321231
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold him a fee-paying Select 
account in June 2003.
He says he was told it was his only option to get a debit card as he was unable to have one 
on a fee-free account. He says over the years hes held the account, hes been told 
repeatedly that fee-free accounts arent available.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and she didnt think the account had been 
mis-sold. 
Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators assessment and so the complaint has been referred 
for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about mis-sold packaged bank accounts on our 
website and Ive used that to help me decide this case.
Firstly, I think it might help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is 
lacking, as is the case here, I have to decide what I think was most likely to have happened, 
based on everything that is available.
Mr B has said that he was told that he could not get a debit card on a fee-free account and 
that he had to take out a fee-paying Select account if he wanted one. Whereas Lloyds says 
that debit cards have always been available on fee-free accounts. 
Lloyds has provided evidence to indicate that Mr B held a fee-free account with it prior to him 
opening the Select account. But due to how long ago the account was closed, it no longer 
has any records for that account. However, Lloyds has been able to provide a copy of its 
customer notes, which are what was recorded by the member of staff at the time, when the 
Select account was opened. These say:
Products & Facilities offered to
Facilities offered were: Cheque Book, Electron Card. Products Offered were: Classic, Select 
Plus option 200,Cheque, Select Plus option 100, Classic Plus option 100, Classic Plus 
option 200, Select
Mr B was an existing customer of Lloyds and held a fee-free account prior to the sale of the 
Select account. So I think he was aware at the time that fee-free bank accounts were 
generally available. And the notes from the time suggest that Mr B was offered a Visa 
Electron card (which is a type of debit card) but was given the choice of opening either a 
Classic (fee-free) or a Select (fee-paying) account during the sale. 
So, when taking everything into account, I havent seen enough evidence to say its more 
likely than not that Mr B was misled into thinking he had to take out a fee-paying Select 
account, in order to get a debit card. 
Lloyds recommended the account to Mr B. This means it had to check that it was right for 
him. At the time the account cost £5 per month and provided a £50 interest free overdraft, 
with a preferential interest rate on balances overdrawn by more than that amount. It also 
provided mobile phone insurance and breakdown cover. 
Mr B says he didnt have a mobile phone at the time, so didnt have a need for the mobile 
phone insurance. But he was driving at the time, and the Select account was the cheapest 
account Lloyds offered that included breakdown cover. So I dont think Lloydss 
recommendation was unreasonable given that he had a potential need for breakdown cover. 
Mr B says he didnt have a need for breakdown cover as he says that his father was a 
mechanic. But I dont think that means he didnt have a need for breakdown cover. After all, 
his father might not have always been in a position to help him  for example if he broke 
down a long distance away from where his father lives, or if his father was unavailable to 
help him at the time. I appreciate that Mr B may not have needed all of the benefits the 
account provided. But this doesnt mean it was mis-sold, as it was sold as a package, so Mr 
B couldnt pick and choose what it came with.
As well as making sure the account was a good fit for Mr B, Lloyds also had to give him 
important information about the account. Based on what Mr B has said, it appears that he 
was told about the benefits that came with the account. And Ive not seen anything about his 
circumstances at the time that makes me think he wouldve been put off from agreeing to the 
Select account, had he been given more information about it at the time.
I also note that Mr B said that he was told to get the account to get a 
loan/overdraft/mortgage. However I cant see that he applied for any of these products 
following the sale of the account. So again, Im not persuaded by Mr Bs reasons why he 
thinks the account was mis-sold. 
Therefore, having considered everything, Im unable to say that Mr B was more likely than 
not told that he had to have the fee-paying Select account to get a debit card. And Ive not 
seen any other reason why the account mayve been mis-sold either.
In addition to the above, Mr B has also said that he was unable to downgrade his account to 
a fee-free account online until recently. And he says he was told, more than once, that fee-
free accounts were not available. 
Lloyds has confirmed that its not been possible, until recently, for its packaged account 
customers to downgrade their account online. It says that packaged account customers 
could only have done this on the phone or in branch previously. But Lloyds says that fee-free 
accounts wouldve been advertised through its online banking portal and its website. It has 
also checked and found no evidence to suggest that its staff members had incorrectly told 
Mr B that fee-free accounts were unavailable.Having considered the competing arguments, I understand that Mr B would not have been 
able to downgrade his account online, not until recently that is. But I see no reason why the 
option of a fee-free account would not have been included in the range of current accounts 
listed on Lloydss website or its online banking portal  should Mr B have looked for fee-free 
alternatives to the Select account. And I find it unlikely that Mr B was incorrectly told - 
multiple times by different members of staff - that fee-free accounts were not available, when 
they have always been available.
Therefore, taking everything into account, I think its more likely than not that Mr B was made 
aware that a fee-free account was an option available to him. Because of this Im unable to 
uphold Mr Bs complaints.
I appreciate that this will come as a disappointment to Mr B and I can see that he feels 
strongly about this matter. But I hope he understands why, given the available evidence, Im 
unable to find in his favour on this occasion.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2020.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman