DRN-3567966
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Metro Bank PLC havent been able to explain to his satisfaction how 
they were able to determine that an account name he inputted when attempting to transfer 
money was incorrect such that it prevented the transfer from taking place.
What happened
Mr P attempted to transfer money from his Metro account to an account held with a third-
party. Metro declined Mr Ps attempt on the grounds that the account name that Mr P had 
inputted wasnt correct. Mr P was able to find the correct account name, and the transfer 
then proceeded successfully. However, when Mr P asked Metro how theyd been able to 
determine that the account name hed initially inputted had been incorrect, he didnt receive 
a satisfactory explanation. So, he raised a complaint.
Metro looked at Mr Ps complaint. They explained that they hadnt been able to determine 
any errors in their systems that would have prevented a correctly inputted transfer request 
from proceeding, and so they didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. Mr P wasnt satisfied with 
Metros response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also didnt feel that Metro had 
acted unfairly towards Mr P in how theyd managed the situation, and they noted that the 
sort-code and account number that Mr P had explained hed first used were invalid, which 
they felt may have been the cause of the transfer not being successful. As such, they also 
didnt uphold the Mr Ps complaint. 
Mr P remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has provided screenshots to this service which appear to demonstrate that Metro do 
have a system in place that allows them to determine, from the sort-code and account 
number alone, whether an inputted sort-code and account number are valid together and 
correspond to an actual account. And Metro have also confirmed that they do employ an 
integrated tool which allows for inputted sort-codes and account numbers to be verified in 
such a way, and this information has been passed on by this service to Mr P.
However, Mr P continues to feel that his complaint remains unresolved, and states that he 
wants to know whether, when he first attempted the transfer, Metros systems could detect 
whether an inputted account name was invalid in regard to a correctly inputted sort-code and 
account number, as Metro explained to him had happened at that time.
Unfortunately, Mr P hasnt been able to demonstrate that he did input a correct sort-code 
and account number when attempting the transfer, and I feel that the possibility exists that 
he didnt input a valid sort-code and account number. This is because theres no record of 
the information that Mr P inputted at that time, and because the sort-code and account 
number that Mr P declared in his complaint that he had used are arent valid numbers.
Mr P believes that he made an error when typing the numbers in his complaint to Metro, and 
that he did use a valid sort-code and account number when attempting the transfer. 
However, ultimately, I feel that had the correct transfer details been inputted by Mr P when 
first attempting to make the transfer, that the transfer would have been successful.
Accordingly, I feel that the fact that the transfer wasnt successful means that its more likely 
than not that some incorrect information was inputted by Mr P  although it may have been 
the case that Mr P was incorrectly informed by Metro as to the exact reason why the transfer 
wasnt successful.
Ultimately however, I struggle to see what the impact to Mr P was here, given that he 
successfully re-attempted the transfer shortly after his initial attempt failed. And while I note 
that Mr P is unhappy with the information about their transfer information verification systems 
given to him by Metro when he asked and then complained to Metro about them, Im not 
convinced that Metro have an obligation to provide Mr P with information about their 
verification systems to the detail that Mr P would like. And I dont feel that Metro not 
providing such information to Mr P merits any form of compensation payment in this instance 
as Mr P would like  especially as Mr P appears to have incurred no financial detriment, as 
explained above.
I realise this wont be the outcome that Mr P was wanting, but it follows from the above that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Metro to take any further action. I hope that 
Mr P will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman