DRN-2402023
The complaint
Mr M complains about the review of his entitlement to an enhanced annuity by Standard Life
Assurance Limited.
What happened
Mr M complains about the annuity he felt forced to buy in 2013. He said his annuity had 
been part of a regulator review of non-advised annuity sales by Standard Life. When it did 
its review, it didnt offer him the same options as when it was first put in place. In particular, 
he believed the value wouldve been higher had it terminated on his death as his health 
meant he had a shorter life expectancy. At the time he selected a joint life as based on the 
options presented he thought this was the best value and provided a pension for his wife 
after his death.
Standard Life said Mr M complained in early 2019 about the amount of enhancement paid 
following its review. But it was explained this was due to tax. It didnt think Mr M should be 
given the option to calculate his redress as if he had taken a single life annuity. At the
time of purchase, he was given quotes on a joint and single life basis so was aware of the
cost implications of including a spouses pension and was comfortable with that. It had 
calculated redress as required by the regulator based on what he selected at the time, 
which was a joint life annuity.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in this case that considered both the issues of jurisdiction to 
consider these complaints and merits. I decided that apart from the aspects considered 
below. this service couldnt consider the complaints as they were out of time. I have issued a 
separate final decision explaining that. This decision therefore relates only to the merits of 
the aspects of the complaints that I concluded I could consider.
In my provisional decision I said that I could consider Mr Ms complaint that he should have 
the option of redress on a single or joint life basis and to consider why the payment of his 
annuity was lower than the amount he expected.
In considering a complaint I needed to decide if Standard Life made a mistake. In this case, 
Standard Life had undertaken a review of Mr Ms annuity and concluded that his health and 
lifestyle issues may have entitled him to an enhanced annuity. It then offered to put him 
back in the position he wouldve been in, had he bought an enhanced annuity.
I said that if Standard Life made a mistake I could make an award for loss if it is 
appropriate to do so. In assessing such an award my objective would be to put Mr M back 
in the position he wouldve been in but for the mistake.
I noted that Standard Life said redress should be calculated on the basis set out by the 
regulator that instigated the review which meant on the basis Mr M selected a joint life 
annuity. 
I have considered whether there are good reasons why this approach should be varied. I 
have concluded that there are good reasons to do so. I said that because the regulator 
approach calculated redress based on what he selected which was a joint life. But I said 
that the decision to take a joint life annuity rather than single life was based on information 
that wasnt correct at the time. So I felt Mr M should be given the option to have redress 
calculated by reference to a single life option. My reasons were as follows.
I had seen a transcript of the call with Mr M in 2013 when he decided to buy the annuity. It 
was clear he was in a rush and wanted to access the tax-free cash available to him. He 
listens to the options and makes an immediate decision to go ahead with one  being a 
joint life annuity paying 100% income to his spouse and with a period of guarantee. 
I noted that Mr M said he had several ill health issues, but his wife didnt, and she was 
also his junior by a number of years. He was provided with single life and joint life quotes 
with and without a guarantee period. 
Based on the transcript of the call I thought Mr M based his decision on those figures. He 
says he thought he was getting better value by taking the joint life as it would most likely be 
paid for
longer. I thought it was clear his perception of value was an important factor to him, along 
with providing his wife with the best income following his death. This was further reinforced 
by the fact he said he had no other pension provision as he relied on other business 
investments for income that are unaffected by his age. So, I thought best value and 
providing for his wife seemed to be the main motivation for selecting a joint life annuity.
I noted that the redress review has been based on what Mr M decided to take i.e. a joint 
life annuity. As Mr Ms wife didnt have any health issues and was several years his junior, 
it seemed to me that Mr Ms ill health wouldnt make much difference to the redress as his 
wifes age and good health would mean the annuity would most likely be payable for 
longer.
By comparison, I thought a single life annuity based on his health  so an enhanced 
annuity - might have been likely to produce a greater difference in annual income. And I 
thought that, had Mr M been offered quotations that reflected his health, he wouldve 
chosen a single life annuity if he felt it was better value than a joint life. For those reasons I 
thought it was appropriate that Standard Life should also calculate the redress on the 
basis of the single life quotations given at that time.
For the reasons given, I proposed to uphold the complaint in part.
I proposed to direct that Standard Life should provide Mr M with the same range of options 
on
a single and joint life basis which would have been available to him on an enhanced basis in
2013.
Mr M should be given the option to accept the current redress, or if he wished, the redress 
on the basis of one of the other options available. This was likely to mean changing the 
annuity which Mr M would receive in the future.
If Mr M chose a single life annuity, its likely that the past annuity payments would have 
been higher than those he had actually received. Mr M should be paid the difference in 
those past payments, but as previously agreed by Standard Life, it should apply interest at 
8% simple on the past difference from the date each payment wouldve been made to the date of payment to Mr M. But Mr M would also need to accept that his future annuity 
payments would cease on his death and not continue for the duration of his wifes life.
Compliant about reduction in payment
I considered Mr Ms complaint that Standard Life didnt pay him the increased amount 
quoted after the redress was added. I had seen the explanation that this is due to tax 
deducted. I was satisfied that this is a reasonable explanation and do not therefore uphold 
this aspect of Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M made several comments. I set out here in summary, only those that relate to the 
merits of his complaint considered in this final decision. He repeated past comments about 
value and said that even when Standard Life redid the calculations on the basis of a single 
life it had still taken seven years to get to this position and he still didnt think it was good 
value as he would have to live to a very old age to get value from it. It showed no remorse 
for its wrong doing. He said he felt there was age discrimination but didnt explain further or 
provide supporting evidence. 
Standard Life said the purpose of the thematic review was to put the consumer back in the 
position they wouldve been in. It had used the regulator guidance to do its calculations in 
the light of the choice that Mr M made. It said it needed to be fair to all consumers included 
in this thematic review and there was no compelling reason for it not to follow the guidance.
It was disappointed that I proposed to allow the change to single life without knowing the 
costs involved. It felt this was reinforced by Mr Ms motivation for taking a joint life annuity. 
To allow the single life option went against the regulator redress. It provided figures on a 
single life annuity with a 10 years guarantee calculated using the regulator redress 
approach. 
It said that if I continued to uphold on the proposed basis Mr M needed to understand the 
single life ended on his death with no provision for his wife and not including a guarantee 
would mean the annuity would stop immediately on his death.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I havent changed my mind for the reasons below.
I have considered what Standard Life said but for the reasons given in my provisional 
decision I dont agree. Mr M made his decision based on a comparison with a single life 
annuity that didnt reflect the enhancement for this ill health. I concluded that had he been 
given the correct information to make a comparison he wouldve taken the single life option if 
it was better value for him. He needed to see that information to decide whether he wished 
to take that option in order to be put back in the position he wouldve been in. For that 
reason I felt there was a compelling reason to deviate from the regulator redress guidance 
which compared only the option he actually took irrespective of the amount of difference 
between the single and joint life position.
I note that Standard Life have completed the calculation of the amount that a single life 
would have offered by using the redress approach. As Standard Life says, and as I said in 
my provisional decision, there are changes that will be needed if Mr M opts for the single life 
option. That would mean that payments would cease on his death with no further payment to 
his spouse. I note Mr Ms comments that it has taken seven years to get to this position. I would say that 
he is being compensated for not receiving higher income due to the absence of an enhanced 
annuity by the payment of interest on any arrears at the rate of 8% per annum simple. That 
is the rate awarded by this service.
I note his comment about age discrimination, but as I am upholding his complaint I cannot 
see that there is any reasonable evidence of age discrimination in relation to this part of his 
complaint. 
Putting things right
I uphold this complaint. The way to put things right is as I have explained in my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I direct that Standard Life Assurance Limited should:-
1. within 30 days of the date this service notifies it that Mr M has accepted this final 
decision provide Mr M with the same range of options on a single life basis which 
would have been available to him on an enhanced life basis in 2013 (such options to 
be calculated in accordance with the regulator redress guidance as if he had opted 
for a single and not joint life annuity).
2. Mr M should be given 30 days from the date such revised options are sent to him to 
notify Standard Life in writing which option he wishes to accept or whether to 
continue on the current redress paid and calculated by reference to the joint life 
option. Standard Life should within 30 days of receiving Mr Ms written decision 
about which option he wants, do the following. Either:-
a) If Mr M selects a single life option Standard Life should implement the change in 
his annuity. If there was a past loss, it should pay this to Mr M with the addition of 
8% simple interest from the date such amount should have been paid to the date 
of actual payment. Any redress and interest already paid under the regulator 
review should be deducted to calculate the net amount due.
OR
b) If Mr M does not opt to change his annuity Standard Life should ensure that the 
interest on the arrears of payment under the current offer of redress is applied at 
the rate of 8% per annum simple from the date of payment of each instalment to 
the date of payment to Mr M. Any further interest payment needed to apply that 
rate to the current redress and interest that has already been paid to Mr M 
should be applied and then paid to Mr M.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman