DRN-4265294
The complaint
Mr B complains that he needed to replace his boiler after Great Lakes Insurance SE (GLI) 
carried out work on it.   
Although Mr B was not the policy holder, he was a direct beneficiary of the group home 
emergency policy underwritten by GLI. Therefore, his complaint about the way GLI handled 
his claim is within our jurisdiction. Reference to GLI includes actions carried out by its 
agents.
What happened
In 2019, Mr B experienced problems with his hot water. At the beginning of 2020, GLI carried 
out a boiler repair, replacing two parts. The boiler functioned properly after the repair.
At the end of 2022, Mr B experienced the same problem as before. He no longer had cover 
for home emergencies, so he arranged for an independent plumber to carry out a repair. The 
plumber said a filter was missing and declared the boiler beyond economical repair (BER).
Mr B complained to GLI because its engineer was the last person to carry out repairs and to 
the same part of the boiler. He believed GLI failed to replace the filter, allowing the debris to 
build up inside the boiler and cause it to break down. Mr B wanted GLI to pay for the 
replacement boiler and offer compensation for the inconvenience he experienced over the 
festive season.
GLI said too much time had passed since the repair almost three years earlier to conclude 
that it was responsible for the subsequent fault. So, Mr B brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. He said there was insufficient evidence to 
show, on balance, that GLI had caused any problems with the boiler.
Mr B didnt agree. He provided further information which hed obtained from various websites 
to show what the filter did and why he thought GLI mustve removed it.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
There was a lot of information to consider in relation to this complaint, including call 
recordings. Although my decision is brief, Id like to reassure both parties that I considered 
everything available to me when reaching my decision.
Its clear that there are conflicting views regarding the missing filter. Mr B said no one had 
touched the boiler since GLIs engineer completed a repair in 2020, so it must be 
responsible for the missing filter. While GLI says its engineer didnt work on the filter.
The engineers job notes show that two parts were replaced, neither of which was the filter. I 
understand Mr Bs view that the proximity of the filter wouldve meant the engineer shouldve 
seen it, or even checked it for debris as the most cost-effective solution to his boiler fault. 
However, I cant reasonably say GLI caused his boiler to fail three years later based solely 
on Mr Bs research into what would logically, to him, happen during the repair visit. 
Had GLI worked on the filter in any way, Id have expected to see that reported in the notes. 
It wasn't noted, so I can only fairly conclude that that the engineer didnt do anything with the 
filter.
Ive considered the engineers report Mr B provided which states the missing filter was the 
cause of the boiler breakdown. I have no reason to doubt that. I realise it would be difficult 
for Mr B to provide evidence that no one touched his boiler between the two faults  such as 
for servicing. But Id need to see clear evidence that GLI did something wrong before I could 
fairly ask it to compensate Mr B for the subsequent boiler failure. In the absence of any 
definitive evidence, it would be unfair to conclude that GLIs engineer removed and/or failed 
to replace the filter in 2020. 
Overall, I cant reasonably say GLI caused Mr B to need a new boiler three years after it 
carried out a repair. So, I see no reason for it to contribute to the cost or to pay 
compensation for any inconvenience Mr B experienced.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman