The complaint
Mr J says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy alongside his mortgage in 1996.
What happened
Mr J applied for the mortgage in 1996. At the same time Halifax sold him a PPI policy. The 
policy cost £19.92 a month and in the event of a successful claim would have paid £400 a 
month for up to 12 months if Mr J lost his job or was off work sick.
Mr J thinks the PPI was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint, but didn't think it should be upheld.
Mr J didn't agree with the adjudicator.
The complaint has been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Js case.
I've decided the policy wasn't mis-sold. I'll explain why.
I've first considered if Mr J had a choice to take out the cover.
Mr J says he can't remember if he had the option or not to take out PPI. And because of the 
time that's passed, Halifax doesn't have copies of any paperwork that was completed when 
Mr J applied for the policy. I don't think this is unreasonable. Halifax says this mortgage was 
repaid - and the PPI was cancelled - in 2002. And I wouldn't expect Halifax to keep this 
paperwork indefinitely, once it no longer needed it.
Given Mr J's limited recollections of the sale, and the limited information about how this 
policy was sold, I'm not persuaded that Mr J didn't choose to buy the policy - even if, after all 
this time, Mr J doesn't remember doing so.
Halifax says its sales process meant it would have recommended the policy to Mr J. This 
means it had to check if the policy was right for Mr J. Based on what Mr J has said about his 
circumstances, I think it was. Mr J doesn't appear to have been affected by any of the main 
things the policy didn't cover. He told us he'd get paid by his employer for six to 12 months if 
he was off work sick - though I see he originally told Halifax he'd only be paid for three to six DRN-1068194
months. But in any case, this policy would pay his mortgage for a year if he was off work sick 
and also covered redundancy. It would have paid out in addition to his sick pay. So I think 
the policy would have been useful to Mr J at what would have been a difficult time.
I note Mr J said he could rely on friends and family to pay his mortgage if he fell on hard 
times. But while I have no doubt his friends and family would want to help, if they could, that 
wasn't guaranteed to be available when he needed it. 
It's possible the information Halifax gave Mr J about the policy wasn't clear enough - though I 
see Mr J doesn't now remember whether the terms and conditions of the PPI were explained 
to him. But for similar reasons to those I've given above, I don't think better information 
would have changed his decision to buy the policy: he wasn't affected by the main limits to 
or exclusions of the cover, and the policy appears to have been affordable for him.
I've considered Mr J's other comments. He says he didn't need the policy as he was a 
young, fit, individual and he'd only taken two days off work sick since 2006. But I think 
insurance is designed to protect against the unexpected - and for the reasons I've explained, 
if Mr J had become unemployed or been off work sick, I think the policy would have been 
useful to him. So this doesn't change my conclusion.
My final decision
I don't uphold Mr J's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2019.
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman