DRN-2896446
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc has rejected his claim, under his home building 
insurance, for damage resulting from a storm.
What happened
In February 2020 Mr C contacted AXA to make a claim for damage to his home alarm 
system. He says this was caused by an electrical surge during a storm.
Mr C says that during the storm the power went out. He says two circuit breakers had been 
tripped, which he was able to turn back on. The power came back on without further issue. 
However, later that evening Mr C discovered that his telephone line was not working, and his 
alarm system was displaying an error message. 
AXA declined Mr Cs claim for repairs to the alarm system. It acknowledged Mr Cs claim 
under storm damage. But said as the damage was caused by an electrical surge, and was 
not directly caused by the storm, it could not consider a storm damage claim. The company 
said this claim could be considered under its accidental damage cover. But confirmed this 
was not included with Mr Cs policy.  
Mr Cs alarm engineer provided a response to say the damage had been caused by the 
storm. Also, that several other properties in the area had suffered similar damage to alarm 
systems. The engineer said other insurance claims he was aware of had been accepted. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Cs complaint. She reviewed the terms of the policy, specifically 
the definitions provided for when storm damage is covered. The investigator accepted that 
storm conditions were apparent. A named storm, Ciara, occurred at the time the damage 
was reported. 
The investigator accepted that the storm conditions were the cause of the damage. She 
concluded electrical surges were common during storms and that this is what happened 
here. She also said that the accidental damage cover AXA referred to, did not specifically 
mention power surges. So, it was not clear why AXA felt the accidental damage cover was 
the only way this claim could be considered. 
The investigator upheld the complaint and recommended AXA continue to deal with the 
claim under the terms of the policy. This was in addition to it making a payment for £100 as 
compensation for the delay caused in declining the claim.      
Mr C agreed with the decision, AXA didnt and asked for an ombudsmans review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. Ill 
explain why. 
My remit is to decide whether it was fair for AXA to decline Mr Cs claim for the reason it 
gave. 
There are three questions we take into consideration when determining whether an event 
can be classed as a storm. These are:
 
 Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened? 
 Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes? 
 Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage?  
Mr C says damage was caused as a result of a storm. The policy provides cover for, loss or 
damage caused by storm, as detailed in the definition section of this document. 
The policy defines a storm as:
A period of violent weather defined as: wind speeds with gusts of at least 48 knots (55 mph, 
equivalent to storm force 10 on the internationally recognised Beaufort Scale), or torrential 
rainfall at a rate of at least 25mm per hour, snow to a depth of at least one foot (30 cms) in 
24 hours or hail of such intensity that it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass.
I have reviewed data from the weather station closest to Mr Cs house at the time of the 
damage. This confirms that storm conditions, as defined in the policy, were in effect when 
the damage occurred. Mr C has supplied local weather reports that confirm multiple lightning 
strikes occurred in his locality, in relation to storm Ciara. Furthermore, reports of storm Ciara 
were of significant media interest. This was widely reported. 
Based on this information I am satisfied that storm conditions did occur at the time the 
damage happened. This involved very high winds, rain and lightning. 
Mr Cs alarm engineer provided an email statement that said, The alarm system was 
damaged by a power surge which is consistent with 2 other systems in this area  the photo 
supplied originally and again attached show this was evidence of scorch marks. The power 
surges were due to overhead lines being damaged in the high winds during the storms 
causing the surges. 
Mr C has supplied copies of the photographs referred to by the engineer that show scorch 
marks to the casing, and around wiring associated with the alarm system. 
AXA says the damage was caused by an electrical surge and not directly by the storm. As a 
result, it says it will not accept the claim under the storm definition of the policy.
Other than the storm, I have not seen any other explanation of what caused the damage to 
the alarm system. Mr C has explained that the power went out during the storm. He was able 
to restore the power by resetting the circuit breakers. However, damage attributable to a 
power surge was caused to the alarm as well as Mr Cs telephone line. 
Electrical surges do commonly occur as a result of storms. The type of damage reported 
here must then be considered typical of that attributed to storm damage.
I acknowledge AXAs view that the electrical surge was not a direct result of the storm. 
However, I disagree. I am satisfied the damage was typical of that caused by a storm, and in 
these circumstances was the most likely cause of the damage claimed. 
There are no exclusions that AXA has relied upon, or indeed set out in the policy, to determine the claim cannot be accepted. 
For the reasons I have set out, I am upholding Mr Cs complaint. AXA should deal with the 
claim under the remaining terms and conditions of its policy. 
I agree with the investigators view that a payment is also appropriate to acknowledge the 
inconvenience caused to Mr C by the delay in this claim. AXA is of course entitled to its view. 
But I have not seen clear reasons, supported by the policy terms, to reject the claim. 
Because of the delay, a payment for £100 is appropriate. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint and AXA Insurance UK Plc must:
reconsider the claim about storm damage, in line with the remaining terms of the 
policy; and 
provide a distress and inconvenience payment for £100. AXA must pay the 
compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr C accepts my final 
decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman