The complaint
Miss A complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC dealt with her chargeback.
What happened
Miss A asked Barclays to help her get her money back from a hotel that she stayed in that 
was not as described. She says Barclays closed her chargeback without telling her and 
didn't communicate with her during the process. Miss A says she sent evidence that 
included clear photographs to Barclays that it asked for, but it tried to prevent her from 
making a claim in the first place.
Barclays accepts it made mistakes dealing with Miss A's chargeback. It says it contacted the 
merchant and sent the information to Miss A. Barclays accepts she sent further information 
to it. Barclays has offered to pay for the chargeback claim amount of £156.04 and has 
offered compensation of £50 as well as £10 for Miss A's call costs.
Miss A brought her complaint to us and in summary our investigator thought Barclays had 
made a fair and reasonable compensation offer. The investigator thought Barclays had 
raised a chargeback and had provided the information from the merchant to Miss A. But it 
wasn't responsible for how long that letter took to arrive. The investigator explained the 
chargeback process to Miss A and accepted Barclays could have handled matters in a more 
appropriate manner, but thought it was up to Barclays how it communicated with its 
customers.
Miss A doesn't accept that view and says the compensation doesn't go far enough or take 
into account the distress she was caused. She says the complaint hasn't been looked at 
appropriately or her summary of what took place and the calls she made to Barclays taken 
into account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the 
overall view that Barclays ought to have dealt far more appropriately with the chargeback, 
but has offered a fair and reasonable level of compensation. I realise Miss A will be 
disappointed with my decision and I appreciate how strongly she feels about what took 
place.
I have listened to the first call between the parties and I accept that Barclays gave Miss A 
incorrect information that it was unable to help her. I don't think it told Miss A that she could 
raise a chargeback or told her that she couldn't make a claim under the Consumer Credit Act 
as the payment was made by a debit card not a credit card. I have no reason to conclude 
DRN-1723848Barclays deliberately gave Miss A incorrect information but think on balance it's more likely 
its staff made a mistake.
I can see that a chargeback was raised and that the investigator has explained that Barclays 
isn't responsible for the outcome of a chargeback or that it sets the scheme rules. There is 
no guarantee that a consumer will receive his or her money back under the scheme. And it is 
not Barclays role to decide what has taken place or which side is at fault. We would expect a 
chargeback to be raised and there is no dispute that was done. I'm satisfied it's up to 
Barclays to decide how it communicates with its customers during the chargeback process. 
And so, I don't think it has made a mistake or acted unfairly by not providing the updates 
Miss A would have liked.
There is no question here that Barclays didn't act upon the evidence Miss A sent it, and I'm 
sure she would have been caused distress and inconvenience in those circumstances. But 
I'm satisfied that Barclays has acknowledged its mistake and has fairly offered to pay the 
cost of the chargeback amount of £156.04. I think that is a fair offer as I don't think there 
would have been any guarantee Miss A would have been successful in the chargeback if 
Barclays had processed it as it should.
I'm satisfied that Barclays ought to pay compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
Miss A was caused. I accept that she made a number of calls to Barclays and would have 
spent some time in providing the evidence of the hotel construction to it. But I'm satisfied the 
compensation offer is fair and reasonable and takes into account that Miss A hasn't suffered 
any financial loss, as Barclays has offered to repay the hotel cost.
I appreciate how strongly Miss A feels about Barclays actions. There is no need for me to 
repeat all of Miss A's complaint points. But I have read all the submissions she has made to 
us. I also don't need to answer all of them as I have dealt with the main complaint points 
Miss A has raised. I will leave it to Miss A to decide if she wishes to accept Barclays offer or 
if she wishes to take alternative action outside of this service. But I'm satisfied this brings an 
end to what we, in trying to sort out this dispute informally, can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC has made a fair and reasonable 
compensation offer. Miss A's acceptance of that offer would be in full and final settlement of 
this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman