DRN-1098202
 
Complaint
Mr E, who is represented by a third party, says Barclays Bank Plc mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mr E bought the PPI in 1998 whilst applying by post to have a new credit card. He says he 
didnt want or need the card. 
Our adjudicator who looked at this case said the complaint about the PPI being mis-
sold shouldnt be upheld. However, Mr E has already received some money back for 
the commission Barclays received from selling him the PPI.
Mr E still thinks he was mis-sold the PPI in the first place and disagrees with the adjudicator.
The complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint about the mis-sale.
I was sent a copy of his credit card upgrade application and I can see the form gave him a 
definite choice about either to have, or not to have, the PPI. Mr E ticked the box to add the 
PPI policy and he signed the application form. So I think he agreed to the policy.
I also note this was a postal application and not an advised sale. So Barclays didnt need to 
make sure the policy was suitable for him. The decision about buying the cover was for Mr 
E to make and he would have made his way through the postal form without any 
intervention from Barclays. As such, I think he would have been able to take his time to think 
about what he wanted to do and importantly, to obtain help if he didnt understand anything.
In short, I think Mr E had the ability and capacity to understand the application form 
and indeed, the opportunity to seek help if he didnt. In my view Barclays provided clear 
enough information for Mr E to make an informed choice about whether or not to go ahead 
and buy the PPI with his card. With hindsight, I can see some ways in which the postal 
application form could have been set out more clearly, but overall this doesnt change what I 
think.
This is because Ive looked at Mr Es situation with great care. I think he was eligible for 
the cover and not caught by any of the main exclusions we tend to see in these types of 
policy.Looking at the work he did, I agree that any sickness protection he had with his job 
wouldhave been reasonably good at 3 months full pay with 3 months at half pay to follow. 
But this doesnt mean the cover wasnt of value to him. The PPI he bought would have paid 
out 10% of his outstanding credit card balance for up to a year if hed needed to claim. This 
wouldve been in addition to any other means, such as savings, he had at that time. So I 
think this policy was of use.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr E but I think the evidence strongly shows he chose the 
policy himself and in his own time. He would have known it wasnt something he needed to 
have. He would have also subsequently been to able see his credit card statements were 
showing PPI being charged on them and if he hadnt ever wanted it, he would have wanted 
to know why he was being charged.
This means Im not upholding his mis-sale complaint.
Barclays has already paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr E because when the 
policy was sold, it expected to get a high level of commission and profit share (more than 
50% of the PPI premium)  it should have told him about that. Because it didnt, that was 
unfair. To put that right, Barclays has already paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr E.
But Barclays Bank Plc has already paid him for the commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman