DRN-3414981
The complaint
Ms and Mr O have complained about AXA Insurance UK Plc. They arent happy about the 
way it dealt with a claim under their home insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms and Mr O made a claim under their home insurance policy. They had a leak from their 
upstairs bathroom into the downstairs garage causing damage including to their boiler. AXA 
looked into the claim but ultimately looked to turn down the claim as it said that there wasnt 
a leak at the property. So, Ms and Mr O complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for them and upheld their complaint. Although she could 
understand why AXA had questions about the level of damage caused by the leak she 
thought the evidence overall supported the position that there clearly was a leak at the 
property. And that AXA should appoint an independent surveyor to reassess the claim and 
decide what damage was caused by the leak and settle the claim accordingly. 
As AXA didnt agree, maintaining that its engineer had identified that there wasnt any water 
damage during the time of his inspection, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to AXA, but Ill explain why.
Although I can understand AXAs position I dont think there is sufficient evidence to say 
there wasnt a leak at the property. I say this as Ms and Mr O had two professionals attend 
the property and have explained that there was a leak and the rectification work that had to 
be undertaken to identify the cause of the leak and the damage caused. Indeed, their 
neighbour has provided an account explaining that they witnessed the water pouring down 
from the ceiling above the garage and one of the attending plumbers explained the flow of 
the water at the time of the leak. So, I think it is pretty clear that there was a leak at the 
property.
The only issue seems to be the level of damage that the leak actually caused. I can 
understand why AXA has questioned whether the boiler was damaged by the leak, as it had 
been repaired and taken away before its engineer could inspect it. And the level of damage 
caused generally. But, as our investigator has suggested, an independent review of this 
seems fair in the circumstances of this case and would provide clarity around the level of 
damage the leak caused. 
It is clear there was a breakdown in communication between Ms and Mr O and AXAs 
engineer when he attended the property. And while I accept that he had questions around 
the level of damage caused by the water leak I dont think, from the evidence before me, it 
would be fair to say there wasnt a leak  so its just the level of damage that is in question.
Given all of this I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of 
this case, is for AXA to appoint an independent surveyor to consider all the available 
evidence and conclude what damage was caused by the leak. The independent surveyor 
should be agreed by Ms and Mr O and AXA should settle the claim in line with the 
independent surveyors conclusions. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance 
UK Plc to appoint an independent surveyor and finalise the claim in line with their 
conclusions. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman