DRN-4306866
The complaint
The estate of Ms G complains that IPP Financial Services LLP failed to correctly manage a 
whole of life policy.
What happened
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint and thought it should be upheld.
After reviewing everything, I came to a different conclusion to our Investigator and didnt the 
complaint should be upheld. I issued a provisional decision on 17 August 2023 in which I 
said:
The estate of Ms G has provided a lot of information about the complaint and its clear to me 
how strongly they feel about what happened. I want to assure the estate that Ive read and 
considered everything thats been provided even if I dont mention it in detail. Ive 
summarised some of what happened which reflects the informal nature of our service.
Where the information about what happened is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as 
some of it is here, Ive come to a decision based on the balance of probabilities about what I 
think is most likely to have happened.
Having carefully considered everything Im not persuaded IPP need to do anything to put 
things right.
A lot of information has been received and Ill address what I think are the most important 
issues. 
Fee agreement 
To start Ive looked at the Financial Planning Fee Agreement signed by Ms G to see what 
services were being offered for the fee being paid. Ive seen agreements from 2017 and 
2018 which say the fee and service is In connection with the Investment I have arranged for 
you . 
So it seems that the agreement only covered investments sold by IPP, and its agreed by all 
parties that the policy was sold by a different business. IPP have said that because of this 
they werent responsible for looking after the policy. 
Ive also seen a slightly different agreement from 2019 which isnt as specific about only 
looking at investments sold by IPP. But as this was later than the agreements which are 
specific Im happy they hold more weight about the role of IPP. 
So Im not persuaded IPP agreed to look after or manage investments that werent sold by 
them. 
2018 review
Ive looked at notes from a review in 2018 which was conducted with Ms Gs daughter on her 
behalf. 
These say that IPP werent aware of any whole of life plan with the product provider and they 
were given the details by Ms Gs daughter including the sum assured at that time. 
IPP asked for authority to approach the product provider for details.  And an action point for 
Ms Gs daughter was to send the policy number so IPP can check its details 
The notes go on to say that once the policy details had been received, along with a letter of 
authority, IPP would get information about the policy. 
So at that time IPP had no information on file about the policy.
Contact notes from 2021
Contact notes from June 2021 when IPP were told about the passing of Ms G say they 
cannot see anything on file relating to a policy with that product provider.  
So I cant say what happened after the 2018 review, but it seems that the information about 
the policy wasnt received.
Letters from the product provider
The product provider say they wrote to IPP several times over the years about the policy. 
However IPP say they never received any of the letters.
I understand that the product provider didnt hold a current address for Ms G for many years 
so she didnt receive any letters. I cant hold IPP responsible for whatever happened with the 
product provider.
IPP say the product provider wrote to the trustees, so they shouldve been aware of the 2018 
review and reduction in sum assured. I havent seen evidence that the product provider 
wrote to the trustees at a correct address, however I think it most likely they did write to the 
address they held on file. And by doing so fulfilled their obligations. 
Ive also kept in mind this isnt a complaint about the product provider, and its also not 
possible to ask Ms G for her version of events.
Commission
IPP say they never received any commission for the policy over the years. And they also say 
the product provider has said that commission was being paid to the business where Ms G 
received the initial advice.
They also say that had they been made of aware of the review in 2018 they wouldve made 
Ms G aware of the changes. One reason for this is because an option under the review was 
to substantially increase the monthly premiums and this wouldve meant a correspondingly 
large increase in any commission for IPP. 
I think had IPP had details of the policy, and had they received the review letter, that action 
wouldve been taken. 
Valuation summaries
Ive seen several valuation summaries over the years sent to Ms G. This policy doesnt 
appear on any of those summaries as they only seem to show investments sold by IPP.Level of increase 
The review of the policy by the product provider in 2018 showed there would need to be a 
substantial increase in premiums in order to maintain the sum assured. 
Premiums would have needed to increase from £92.47 per month to £346.75 which is an 
increase of around 375%.
If I was upholding this complaint I would need to be persuaded that Ms G wouldve paid the 
increase had IPP, or the product provider, made her aware. However I cant say thats the 
case. 
That doesnt mean she might not have paid the extra premiums, but without the benefit of 
hindsight from the estate, I cant fairly agree that wouldve happened.
Also I think its important to say that the reason Ms G didnt know directly about the review 
was because of issues with the product provider that I cant hold IPP responsible for. 
Set up of the policy 
The policy wasnt sold by IPP but Ms G and the trustees wouldve been provided with 
documents explaining how it worked. This would more than likely have been by both the 
business who sold the policy and the product provider. 
Part of the information wouldve been that the policy was reviewable and that its possible 
there would be an increase in premiums as Ms G got older. So even if Ms G and the trustees 
didnt receive subsequent letters from the product provider I think they wouldve been made 
aware that reviews were possible.
2004
It seems that something happened between IPP and the product provider in 2004 which was 
around a year after the policy was taken out.
Due to the passage of time and lack of documentation I cant say exactly what happened but 
my understanding is that IPP made contact about the policy.  
From what I do know it seems that IPP didnt have any agency agreement with the product 
provider at that time. So it wasnt able to give any details about the policy. 
Whatever happened at that time, the product provider didnt give any information, and nor 
did they pay IPP any commission. 
And I think its important to reiterate that IPP didnt agree to look after any investments they 
didnt sell; and they didnt sell this policy. So it seems they tried to help in some way but 
werent able to at that time.
I also havent seen any evidence that Ms G questioned the absence of the policy from the 
reviews or valuation statements. 
Connection between IPP and the business who sold the policy
The estate says an adviser at IPP also worked for the business who sold the policy to Ms G.
That might be the case, but I havent seen any persuasive evidence this had an impact on 
the policy and nor on the problem that happened.Summary
Having carefully considered everything Im satisfied IPP acted fairly and reasonably and 
dont need to take any further action.
Im not persuaded IPP are responsible for what happened with the reduction in the sum 
assured of the policy. 
I asked both parties to provide me with any further submissions before I issued my final 
decision. 
The estate replied saying they were unhappy with the provisional decision providing more 
information and comments about why they thought IPP were responsible.
IPP replied maintaining their stance that they werent responsible for looking after the policy 
and therefore werent liable to pay any shortfall. 
The complaint has now been passed back to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When replying the estate said there were several factual inaccuracies in either the evidence 
used in my provisional decision, or in how I had interpreted that evidence. 
I think its important to say that where there isnt a full record of what happened, or there is 
conflicting information such there is here, I need to come to a decision on the balance of 
probabilities about what I think is most likely to have happened. 
Both parties have provided information and commentary to back up their stance on the 
complaint. And Ive read and considered everything that has been provided. But I must come 
to my own independent decision about the complaint. That means that I will have a different 
opinion on some of the evidence than the parties involved.
All parties agree that IPP knew about the policy, its whether they should be held responsible 
for the administration of the policy that is the crux of the complaint. 
As I said in my provisional decision the fee agreement shows that IPP will only be 
responsible for investments arranged by them. I know the adviser who sold the policy when 
working at a different business was the same one Ms G was dealing with at IPP, but that 
doesnt mean IPP become responsible. 
The estate says the notes of the 2018 meeting are misleading and contain inaccuracies, and 
Ive considered what they have said. But I must also consider that the notes are a 
contemporaneous record about what happened. 
The notes from 2018 say IPP had no record of the policy; and yet all parties agree that 
something happened in 2004. Bearing in mind the passage of time between 2004 and 2018 I 
dont find it unlikely that, for whatever reason, the records werent complete. 
IPP say they never received any letters about the policy from the product provider. And had 
they done so I think it most likely there wouldve been a record, but it seems that there was 
no record, at least in 2018.  IPP communicated with the product provider in 2004 and notes from 2010 show that contact 
was going to be made. So, again, theres no doubt that IPP were aware of the policy.
Looking at everything Im not persuaded IPP were actively managing the policy. Just 
because they were aware of it doesnt mean they were responsible. It seems IPP werent 
receiving any commission for the policy, and yet the product provider say they sent multiple 
letters to IPP, which they say werent received. Had the letters been received I wouldve 
expected to see a record somewhere, for example in the notes of 2018 review. 
As I previously commented on, when the policy review took place there was the possibility of 
a very large premium increase. This wouldve meant an increase in commission for the 
adviser at IPP. So if the letter was received, and if IPP was the servicing agent, I think it 
most likely the review letter wouldve been passed along to Ms G. 
The estate say that Ms G wouldve increased the premiums had she known about the review 
and looking at what has been said I agree thats most likely. Ms G didnt know about the 
review directly as the product provider didnt hold the correct address. As this isnt a 
complaint about the product provider, I cant comment here on how that came about. 
In their submissions the estate said that Ms G maintained full capacity without any cognitive 
compromise and was in charge of all of her financial affairs until her passing. And that IPP 
werent at liberty to disclose any information regarding her situation. So whilst the estate has 
provided a lot of commentary about what they think shouldve happened, it was only Ms G 
who was involved in the conversations. 
Its very clear to me that the reduction in sum assured has caused a lot of upset for the 
estate, which I do not underestimate. And Ive paid careful consideration to all of the 
submissions. 
Based on the balance of probabilities about what I think is most likely to have happened; I 
dont think IPP were responsible for monitoring the policy. And nor am I sufficiently 
persuaded that IPP shouldve monitored the policy in any informal fashion.
Having carefully considered everything that happened, Im satisfied that IPP acted fairly and 
reasonably so dont need to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms G 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 October 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman