DRN-4019959
The complaint
Mr V complains that Target Servicing Limited delayed the redemption of his help to buy 
shared equity loan, which meant he had to pay more to repay the loan. 
What happened
Mr V bought his property with the assistance of a help to buy loan. Help to buy loans are a 
government scheme to support home ownership, where a borrower borrows an additional 
sum alongside their main mortgage to fund the purchase of the property. Help to buy loans 
are shared equity loans  which means the borrower borrows a percentage of the propertys 
value, and must pay back the same percentage based on the value at redemption.
Help to buy loans are unregulated, and are lent by a government body  Homes England  
which is not a regulated firm. However, the lender has appointed a regulated firm, Target, to 
administer the loans on its behalf. Target is a regulated firm carrying out a regulated activity, 
so is responsible for answering this complaint.
Mr V decided to redeem his help to buy loan and contacted Target. On 21 May 2021, Target 
referred Mr V to its redemption information pack, and following this Mr V instructed a 
surveyor to value the property. The valuation was carried out on 17 June. Mr V paid the 
administration fee on 23 June and sent the valuation to Target.
On 30 June 2021, Target told Mr V that it couldnt progress his loan redemption because the 
valuation said the property had fallen in value since Mr V purchased it, so the valuation 
would need to be sent for review.
Mr V was unhappy about this, and complained. He said that a neighbour with a flat in the 
same block also had a help to buy loan and had been able to redeem with no problems. So 
Mr V didnt understand why there was an issue with his redemption.
At the end of July 2021, Target asked the valuer for further information, because the 
property valuation was based on comparable sales that were almost a year old. The valuer 
replied that there were no more recent comparable sales.
At the end of August 2021, Target told Mr V that the valuer would need to explain why the 
property had fallen in value. And it said Mr V would need to provide an EWS1 form before 
the valuation could be considered. An EWS1 form is a document produced by a qualified fire 
safety professional reporting on the state of a propertys external wall system, and is often 
produced where there are concerns that a building might have, for example, combustible 
cladding on its walls.
Mr V said that there was no EWS1 form for his property  one wasnt necessary, because 
the block his flat was in was only four storeys high and did not have any cladding on its 
external walls.
In October 2021 Mr V provided a further valuation, and this time the valuation was accepted. 
Mr V redeemed his mortgage in November 2021.
Mr V complained about delays in progressing his redemption. He said that hed had to pay a 
higher amount to redeem because the second valuation was higher than the first. He also 
said that because of the delay, he ended up having to pay more on his main mortgage 
because he couldnt take a new interest rate in the meantime. And he said that the delay 
also meant that he couldnt purchase a buy to let property  which he wanted to fund by 
raising money by re-mortgaging this property.
Target said that the first valuation said there was a concern with the property and a need for 
an EWS1, so it was reasonable to ask to see the EWS1 before agreeing the valuation. It 
also said that the valuation wasnt clear about what defects there might be with the property, 
or the impact that might have on the value. It also said that because the property was 
potentially affected by cladding, Mr V should have agreed the valuer with Target before 
going ahead.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
As a regulated entity, in administering the loan on behalf of the lender Target is 
carrying out the regulated activities of debt administration and debt collection.
Under the regulated activities, Target is performing the lenders duties, and 
exercising the lenders rights, under the terms of the credit agreement, as well as 
collecting payments the lender is entitled to. In my view this means that Target must 
do what the lender is required to do, and only take steps the lender is entitled to take, 
while acting on the lenders behalf. And as a regulated firm it has wider obligations to 
act fairly.
Although the lender is Homes England, it has appointed Target to act on its behalf as 
 using the description in the loan agreement  its nominated agent. Mr V was told 
to deal with Target at all times and Target was presented as being responsible for the 
management and administration of their loan agreement.
Im satisfied that these are matters I can take into account in deciding whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. In my view, as the appointed administrator and 
as the regulated entity carrying out regulated activities in its own right, Target is the 
appropriate firm to respond to this complaint. As a regulated entity carrying out a 
regulated activity, it has an obligation to act fairly and reasonably in performing the 
lenders duties.
Under the loan terms and conditions, Mr V is entitled to redeem the loan at any time, 
either by selling the property or by repaying in some other way (such as from 
savings, or by taking further borrowing on his main mortgage). The amount required 
to redeem the loan is the same proportion of the propertys value as originally 
borrowed  20% in this case  as determined by an independent valuation. Where 
the property is being sold, the redemption figure will be based on the higher of the 
valuation or the sale price; otherwise, on the valuation.
According to the terms and conditions, a redemption request should be made to 
Target as the nominated agent. A valuation is then arranged by the appointment of a 
qualified surveyor by agreement between the parties. That valuation is binding in 
setting the redemption figure, and the loan should be repaid within three months 
(extendable to four on application) of the valuation.
Target produces a customer information pack for redemption requests. Although it hasnt given us a copy of the pack provided to Mr V, Ive seen it in other cases and 
Im aware of its content. It confirms that redemption applications are to be made to 
Target. It sets out the contractual process Ive described above. And it says that 
where a borrower wants to redeem, they should instruct a surveyor to value the 
property, but says that where there are novel issues eg external cladding, we 
reserve the right, in accordance with the terms of the equity loan, to agree the RICS 
valuer you intend to use, with you, before you instruct them.
Therefore, a valuation is required to determine the market value of the property, and 
in turn the redemption figure. The valuation of a properly appointed valuer is binding. 
A valuer should be appointed by agreement between the parties. But in practice, 
Target tells borrowers to instruct a valuer of their choice  which, in my view, means 
that the appointed valuer is appointed by agreement.
When Mr V rang Target in May 2021 to enquire about redemption, it pointed him to 
the information pack on its website. Target hasnt give us the recording of this call, 
but theres nothing in its notes to suggest that it told Mr V that he needed to get 
agreement to a valuer in advance. I have listened to the call recording of 23 June 
2021, in which Mr V asks to be reminded of the process, and there is no mention in 
that call that Target wishes to agree a valuer in advance  Mr V was simply told he 
needed to obtain a valuation. Although this is after the first valuer reported, its 
nevertheless supporting evidence that this was Targets approach at the time.
The information pack does say that Target reserves the right to agree a valuer in 
advance where there may be cladding affecting the property. But this adds nothing to 
the contractual position which says a valuer is to be agreed between the parties. And 
while it may have reserved that right, it did not exercise it in this case. In my view, by 
referring Mr V to the information pack and telling him to instruct a valuer of his 
choice, Target agreed to Mr Vs choice  and therefore that valuer was the agreed 
valuer whose valuation was binding. If Target wanted to agree a specific valuer, or 
restrict Mr Vs choice, it should have made that clear in advance.
I dont think it makes any difference that both valuers suggested that there may be 
cladding issues with the property. Nothing in the contract gives Target, acting fairly 
on the lenders behalf, the right to refuse to accept an agreed valuation merely 
because there may be cladding on the property. If the presence of cladding meant 
that Target wanted to agree a specific valuer in advance, it should have done so in 
advance. It could have made enquiries before telling Mr V to go ahead and instruct a 
valuer, but it didnt do so.
I dont therefore agree with Target that simply because there was potentially cladding 
on the property, it was reasonable to review the valuation or delay redemption of 
the loan.
Target also said that it needed to review the valuation because it said that the 
property was worth less than the original purchase price. But again, theres nothing in 
the contract that allows a valuation to be queried, reviewed or rejected because the 
property value has reduced rather than increased. Once an agreed valuer has set the 
market value, redemption should follow. Its for the valuer to determine the market 
price, not Target.
However, I do think that there is force in the other argument that Target makes  that 
the first valuation Mr V obtained, in June 2021, was not clear and didnt set a 
definitive valuation. Ive looked carefully at this valuation. Although the valuer gives a value of £220,000, 
in the commentary he says that there are concerns with the external wall system, that 
an EWS1 should be obtained and reviewed and that costs associated with 
remediation works could affect the value of the property. The valuer says that the 
valuation has been withheld as a result.
I think it was reasonable for Target to be concerned about this. While the valuer did 
give a value, he appears to have qualified it and said that there were concerns, which 
he had not resolved, which could affect the valuation. An EWS1 was needed but 
hadnt been seen, and its contents might affect the value given. Further enquiries 
were needed to resolve this.
Getting a valuation ahead of a redemption is not just a technicality. Because this is a 
shared equity loan, the valuation determines the amount to be repaid  it sets the 
amount Target is entitled to collect on behalf of the lender. And while its fair and 
reasonable that Mr V doesnt pay more than the property is worth, its also fair and 
reasonable that Target collects a redemption amount based on a clear and accurate 
valuation. Any inaccuracies or uncertainties in the valuation can therefore have 
significant consequences.
Ive said that the loan terms and conditions say that once a valuer is appointed by 
agreement and sets the market value, thats binding on both parties and should be 
used to set the loan redemption. However, having carefully considered the first 
valuation in this case, I think it was sufficiently unclear that it was fair and reasonable 
for Target to be concerned about whether it had in fact set a definite market value for 
determining the redemption figure.
In those circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable that Target didnt 
immediately accept the valuation. It was fair that it wanted further clarity before doing 
so  so that Mr Vs redemption could be based on a fair and final valuation of the 
property.
By October 2021 the valuation issue still hadnt been resolved. Target hadnt been 
clear with Mr V that the specific problems Ive set out above existed. While it did ask 
the valuer for further information, it did so in a piecemeal fashion and didnt ask for 
specific clarification of the commentary Ive referred to above.
This could have been resolved more quickly and more clearly. I dont think it needed 
to take several months to seek clarification, and I dont think it was done in a clear 
and helpful way likely to resolve the problems.
In the end, Mr V instructed a new valuation from a different valuer, which reported in 
October 2021. Target accepted this valuation  of £240,000  and used it to set a 
redemption figure. The loan was paid back in November 2021.
The first valuation was for £220,000, the second for £240,000. This means that, 
using the second valuation, Mr V was charged a redemption figure £4,000 higher 
than it would have been based on the first valuation.
I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to say Target ought to have accepted the 
first valuation, though, for the reasons Ive given above. And therefore it follows that it 
wasnt unfair that it didnt set the redemption figure using that valuation.
The second valuation gave a firm value, and the associated commentary explained 
how it had taken into account the potential cladding issues. Im therefore satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for Target to use this valuation, rather than the first 
one, to redeem the loan.
I also think its unlikely that the property increased in value by 10% in four months. 
Valuing a property is not an exact science, and theres a margin of error. Given what 
Ive said about the commentary in the first valuation, I think its likely that the 
difference between the two valuations is due to a difference of opinion and approach 
between the two valuers, rather than an increase in value because of the delay. If 
thats right, and the second valuation represents an accurate valuation, then while Mr 
V has paid more to redeem, thats because his property is worth more. So the £4,000 
difference doesnt necessarily represent a financial loss in any case.
For all those reasons, I dont think Target needs to refund the £4,000 difference in 
the redemption figures.
However, I do think Target should compensate Mr V for the poor service and 
communication, and the delay, in resolving this issue. I think £300 is fair in all the 
circumstances.
Finally, Mr V has said that he had to pay higher mortgage costs because of the 
delay. But Im not persuaded of that. From the evidence hes given us, his mortgage 
payments didnt increase until February 2022, so I think there was still time between 
the redemption in November 2021 and February 2022 for him to re-mortgage. And I 
dont think I can fairly say that Target ought to compensate him for the loss of a buy 
to let property either. Mr V has given us evidence that he was viewing potential 
properties. But he hadnt found one, or had an offer accepted. And even if he had, 
theres no guarantee a sale would have gone through  and no evidence of what 
losses, if any, resulted from it not happening. Im not persuaded theres enough for 
me to say that Mr V suffered any direct financial loss here, or if he did that its 
possible to quantify it. I dont therefore intend to make an award for that.
The responses to my provisional decision
Target had no further comment to make. Mr V wasnt happy with my provisional decision. He 
said:
He was disappointed and angered by my conclusions. He believes that Target is at 
fault, and its failings have caused financial loss and substantial emotional upset to 
him and his family.
The first valuation was done in June 2021 and should have been binding and used to 
produce a redemption figure. Even if it wasnt happy with the valuation, Target should 
have responded more quickly. Its failure to do so delayed the redemption and meant 
Mr V kept the loan for longer than he needed to, paying more interest. Mr V had the 
money to redeem his loan and its not fair that it took so long for him to be able to do 
so.
Mr V had spent many hours on the phone trying to get answers from Target over 
several months. As he could only speak to Target during working hours, he had to 
work extra hours in the evenings and at weekends to make up the time. He doesnt 
think £300 is fair compensation for the impact of this.
A neighbour had a valuation from the same firm that produced the first valuation, and 
which included the same wording. Yet Target accepted that valuation and allowed 
the neighbour to redeem their loan. Mr V believes hes been discriminated against because Target wouldnt accept his valuation.
At the time of the first valuation, the UK housing market was shut down by 
coronavirus lockdowns. After they were lifted, the market substantially increased. So 
in those circumstances its plausible that Mr Vs property value did increase by 10% 
over a few months. If Target had acted promptly, Mr V could have arranged a second 
valuation more quickly and settled the loan based on a lower redemption figure. 
The sum total of everything that has gone wrong has not only caused Mr V £4,000 in 
financial loss, it has caused considerable emotional distress to Mr V and his family 
for which he should be properly compensated.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry Mr V wasnt happy with my provisional decision. Ive very carefully considered what 
he has to say, and reflected on my conclusions. But, having done so, Im afraid I havent 
changed my mind.
Im afraid Im not persuaded that Mr Vs property valuation increased by 10% in four months. 
Its not the case that the property market was shut down because of lockdowns in 2021; the 
housing market was suspended in March 2020, but that was lifted in May 2020. Mr Vs right 
that after this there was a general increase in property prices  due to factors such as 
supressed demand, the stamp duty holiday, and so on. But this general increase didnt play 
out in all sectors or all locations  and was not the equivalent of 30% annual inflation, 
particularly for properties with potential cladding issues. 
For those reasons, I still think its likely that the difference between the two valuations was 
because of the variation resulting from a process reliant on professional opinion rather than 
an exact precisely knowable figure. The courts have said that a margin of error in a property 
valuation is to be expected. And I also bear in mind that the first valuation was qualified and 
not definitive. I dont think theres persuasive evidence that Mr Vs property increased in 
value between the two valuations; rather, I think that Mr Vs property value was actually 
somewhere around the figures both surveyors provided. And that given the issues with the 
first valuation, it was reasonable for Target to proceed to redemption based on the second 
valuation. 
Im not aware of what happened in the other case Mr V mentions, and I havent seen the 
valuation produced for that case. I cant comment on that case  but it is for me to determine 
whether Target acted fairly and reasonably in respect of Mr Vs case. And for the reasons 
Ive already explained, I think it was fair that Target didnt accept the first valuation and 
instead relied on the second valuation. Ive seen no evidence that this resulted from 
discrimination against Mr V; Im satisfied it was because of reasonable concerns about the 
content of the first valuation.
Putting things right
I do agree that having to deal with Target over this period was difficult, time-consuming and 
frustrating. Target could have communicated better with Mr V  it was unable to give him 
meaningful updates when he did contact it, for example. But taking a step back and looking 
at things overall, I dont think in this case the delay was clearly excessive. A valuation is valid 
for three months, extendable to four, and redemption can take place at any time within that 
window. Mr Vs first valuation was obtained in June and the loan was redeemed in November, five months later, just outside the maximum permitted window for a redemption 
under the terms and conditions. I dont think it would be fair to ask Target to refund interest 
Mr V paid in this period  even if nothing had gone wrong with the first valuation, it might still 
have taken a few months for the loan to be redeemed during which time interest would be 
payable.
Ive also taken into account what Mr V has said about the impact on him of having to deal 
with Target over this period. I accept that was difficult and frustrating and had an impact on 
him  and that in turn affected other matters, such as his work and time with his family. 
Some of that time would have needed to have been spent anyway, though Target made it 
more protracted and frustrating than it needed to be. Im satisfied that £300 is fair 
compensation in all the circumstances.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Target 
Servicing Limited to pay Mr V £300 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman