DRN-3168436
The complaint
Miss H complains that she cant get online access to her current account with TSB Bank plc 
(TSB).
What happened
Miss H has complained about the issues she has had logging on to her TSB current account 
over a long period of time. She says she has had to spend a lot of time and money sorting 
this out, including two unwanted trips to the bank. 
Our investigator looked into what happened. He said he could see that Miss H had cancelled 
and re-registered her online access to the account around ten times - mainly in 2020 and 
2021. However he didnt think that TSB was responsible for the issues Miss H had 
experienced at these times. Looking at the evidence provided by TSB our investigator 
thought Miss H had made mistakes when providing her user ID, password and memorable 
information.
However, our investigator did think TSB was responsible for the issues Miss H had 
experienced on 28 June 2021. He said the problems she experienced then were likely to 
have been as a result of an update TSB had carried out the weekend before. He thought 
Miss H had been inconvenienced by this. He could see that she had phoned TSB and that 
the phone call had last a long time. He said that TSB had offered her £52 in compensation 
for this, and he thought that was a fair and reasonable amount given the amount of time she 
was affected by what happened.
Miss H accepted this. However, she said that in practical terms, she is still having problems 
logging into her account online. She asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think TSB needs to do anything more to resolve this complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Its clear that Miss H has been having problems logging into her account for some time. 
However, it seems that she has accepted that TSB is only responsible for one of those 
problems - in June 2021. She has accepted the £52 compensation TSB has offered her in 
connection with this. For completeness I will say here that I also think that amount is a fair 
and reasonable amount to compensate Miss H for this mistake given the nature of the 
mistake and the time she was affected by it. 
Miss H has told us that she doesnt want to change her bank, but she does want online 
access to her account. Although she has tried to re-register for online access on a number of 
occasions, she still cant log on to her account.
 
I appreciate how frustrating this is for Miss H and can see that when she asked for an 
ombudsman to review her complaint she asked us to investigate the problem further. 
Were an informal dispute resolution service, so our role is to ensure that TSB has 
considered Miss Hs complaint properly, and to help put matters right where TSB has made 
a mistake. I can see that TSB has looked into the matter as we would expect it to, and I can 
see that it has offered to compensate Miss H for the problems she experienced in June 
2021.
Its not clear why Miss H is continuing to experience problems logging into her account. 
However, having considered all the available evidence Im not persuaded that TSB is 
responsible for those issues. It wouldnt be fair for me to hold TSB responsible for Miss Hs 
problems logging on unless I can see it has made a mistake. So although I appreciate that 
Miss H is likely to be disappointed by my final decision, it follows that it wouldnt be fair and 
reasonable for me to require TSB to do more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that TSB Bank plc doesnt need to do 
anything more to resolve this complaint. It should pay Miss H the £52 it has offered to 
resolve this complaint if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman