DRN-3044181
The complaint
 Mr K has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) changes to its overdraft pricing 
structure caused him financial difficulty, and that it continued charging him excessive 
amounts for his overdraft when he was in financial difficulty.
What happened
 Mr K complained to BoS after it said it was about to change its overdraft pricing structure. 
He said the extra cost would make his overdraft more difficult to repay and that the charges 
BoS went on to apply contributed to his financial difficulties. BoS didnt uphold the complaint. 
And as Mr K was dissatisfied he referred the complaint to our service.
Mr Ks complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that BoS ought to 
have realised that Mr K was experiencing financial difficulty by June 2017 and so shouldnt 
have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. BoS didnt 
respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 BoS will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that BoS acted unfairly 
when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after it renewed Mr Ks 
overdraft in June 2017. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Mr K was in no position 
to sustainably repay what he owed within a reasonable period of time. 
I say this because by June 2017 Mr K had been hardcore borrowing for quite some time. In 
other words he hadnt seen or maintained a credit balance for an extended period of time. 
Mr K also had a very large overdraft limit of £25,000, and by June 2017 he was often near to 
this limit, he was also receiving only limited income at this stage. BoSs own literature 
suggests that overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency borrowing not prolonged day-to-day 
expenditure. So I think that Mr Ks overdraft usage should have prompted BoS to have 
realised that Mr K wasnt using his overdraft as intended. I think BoS should also have been 
aware by this time that Mr Ks income was unlikely to be able to make any impact on 
reducing his overdraft. So I think BoS shouldnt have continued offering the overdraft on the 
same terms. As BoS didnt react to Mr Ks overdraft usage and instead continued charging in 
the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
Mr K ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on his overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties he already had in trying to clear it. So I think that BoS didnt treat 
Mr K fairly and he lost out because of what BoS did wrong. And this means that it should put 
things right.
Fair compensation  what BoS needs to do to put things right for Mr K
 Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ks complaint for BoS to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Ks current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from June 2017 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made BoS should contact Mr K to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Ks credit 
file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process of 
taking corrective action on the overdraft in June 2017.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr K along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then BoS 
should remove any adverse information from Mr Ks credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires BoS to take off tax from this interest. BoS must give Mr 
K a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ks complaint. Bank of Scotland plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman