DRN-1855275
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that Fairmead Insurance Limited changed its mind after originally 
accepting her claim under her home insurance policy for storm damage to her boundary 
wall.
What happened
Part of Mrs Bs boundary wall collapsed in high winds. She made a claim to Fairmead under 
her policy.
Fairmead sent a surveyor to inspect the damage. Based on the surveyors report, Fairmead 
accepted that the damage had been caused by a storm. It offered Mrs B a cash settlement 
of £1,071 to enable her to arrange a repair.
Mrs B asked Fairmead if instead it could carry out the repair using its own contractors. 
Fairmead agreed to do this.
When Fairmeads contractor arrived to assess the repair job, he concluded that the surveyor 
had been wrong. He said the wall was defective in its design and it was this, and not the 
storm, which had caused it to fall down. On this basis, Fairmead withdrew its offer to rebuild 
the wall and said it was declining the claim.
Mrs B complained to Fairmead. She thought it was unfair for it to change its mind having 
originally accepted the claim.
Fairmead maintained that its eventual decision to decline the claim was correct. However, it 
acknowledged that Mrs B would have been disappointed by the fact that it had originally 
indicated acceptance of the claim and so offered her £100 compensation for this.
Mrs B was unhappy at Fairmeads response. She said that she had since replaced the wall 
with a wooden fence at a cost of £450. However, she noted that if she had accepted the 
cash settlement, Fairmead would have paid the £1,071 and been none the wiser about the 
defects in the wall. She considered it should stick by its original offer to pay this amount. She 
referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. In her opinion, 
Fairmead had acted fairly. 
Mrs B didnt accept the investigators findings. She said she would have accepted the cash 
settlement if shed understood there was a chance the acceptance of the claim might by 
overturned when the contractor visited her property. She continued to argue that Fairmead 
should be bound by its original cash settlement offer even if its acceptance of the claim had 
been in error.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fairmead originally accepted the claim on the basis of its surveyors report. However, Mrs B 
chose not to settle the claim at that point. Then, when the contractor visited Mrs Bs property, 
he noted that the damaged wall had no middle strengthening pillar and no footings. He 
furthermore noted roots coming out of the ground near the end pillar which he considered 
would further have affected its stability. Based on this, Fairmead reconsidered its decision to 
accept the claim. It concluded that the wall was defective in its design and it was this, rather 
than the storm, which caused it to fall down. It therefore declined the claim.
I consider that the contractor has raised legitimate concerns about the wall. And I consider it 
was reasonable for Fairmead to say that the problems described by the contractor are 
probably what caused the wall to fall down. The high winds appear to have simply 
highlighted these defects. The policy specifically excludes cover for damage caused by 
defective design or poor workmanship.
Mrs B doesnt appear to dispute that it was the defective design, rather than the storm, which 
caused the wall to fall down. Her argument is that because Fairmead originally accepted the 
claim, it should be bound by that decision. However, I disagree. Fairmead appears to have 
made a mistake by initially saying the claim was valid but that doesnt mean it isnt allowed to 
correct that mistake. In this case, if Mrs B had accepted the cash settlement, the mistake 
may not have been discovered which would have been fortunate for Mrs B. But she instead 
asked Fairmead to carry out the repair which led to the defects in the wall being noted. And 
once it became apparent that the claim was invalid, I consider it was fair for Fairmead to 
reverse its decision.
Mrs B wasnt prejudiced by Fairmeads mistake except insofar as she had her expectations 
falsely raised. This was for a period of less than three weeks, which was the time between 
Fairmead making its cash settlement offer and its confirmation that it was declining the 
claim. Fairmead has offered £100 compensation for the disappointment caused to Mrs B by 
its error and Im satisfied this is fair.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020. 
David Poley
Ombudsman