DRN-3430352
The complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC has continued to charge him the full monthly fee for 
his packaged bank account during the Covid-19 pandemic.
What happened
Mr H holds an account with Lloyds which attracts a monthly fee. In return, it offers a range of 
benefits over and above what a fee-free account offers. This includes (but is not limited to): 
car breakdown cover and worldwide travel insurance.
Mr H says Lloyds should not have charged him for the account in the last two years as he 
hasnt been able to use some of the benefits due to the Covid-19 pandemic. In particular, he 
points out that the travel restrictions implemented during this time meant he was unable to 
travel. He also says he couldve acquired the breakdown cover through his car insurance 
provider. Mr H complained to Lloyds about this and requested a refund of the account fees 
he paid for the last two years.
Lloyds responded to Mr Hs complaint. In doing so, it acknowledged that its initial response 
to his complaint was not satisfactory and therefore credited him with £75 to reflect this 
service.
But it didnt offer a refund of the account fee. It said it was Mr Hs choice to have continued 
paying for the account and it was for him to decide if the account still met his needs. 
Unhappy with Lloyds response, Mr H referred the complaint to us. One of our adjudicators 
looked into it but concluded that Lloyds hadnt acted unfairly. So, she didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mr H didnt accept this outcome and he asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusions as the adjudicator. I know Mr H 
will be disappointed with my decision, so Ill explain why. 
Firstly, Mr H mayve felt (quite understandably) that continuing to pay the monthly fee for his 
account during the pandemic was poor value for money. And I appreciate that he didnt want 
to pay for benefits he was unable to use. But his account does not operate like a typical 
insurance policy does. Rather than offering to provide cover for 12 months, it provides cover 
(and some non-insurance benefits) on a monthly rolling basis. Therefore, because Mr H was 
not tied into keeping the account, he was free to cancel it as soon as he felt it was no longer 
good value for money.
So, I think it was for him to contact Lloyds and ask to have his account moved back to a fee-
free account or any other available account that was more suited to him at the time. But I 
havent seen anything that suggests that he made such a request in which he asked for his 
account to be changed earlier than when it was changed. It was not Lloyds responsibility to 
do this for him.
Overall, while I appreciate Mr Hs disappointment at paying for service he could not use this 
was ultimately his choice and therefore I cant reasonably ask Lloyds to refund his account 
fees.
I note that Lloyds has paid Mr H £75 compensation in recognition of the service he received 
during the complaint process. I think that is fair in the circumstances.
I note Mr H strongly believes that he should have his account fees refunded but we are an 
informal dispute resolution service which is independent and impartial. For me to ask Lloyds 
to refund his account fees, I would need to be satisfied that it actually did something wrong. 
Essentially all Lloyds did was offer a bundle of benefits with a monthly fee that operated on a 
monthly rolling basis, which would only cease when either the account holder asked for it to 
be removed, or if Lloyds decided to remove it from its range of accounts. Therefore it was up 
to Mr H to decide whether he wanted to continue to pay for these benefits. And I think it 
would be unfair to hold Lloyds responsible because, for whatever reason, Mr H chose to 
keep paying for the account. 
I should add at this point that this decision represents the last stage in this services process 
but he may be able to take his complaint elsewhere such as court if he wishes to do so.
 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman