DRN-3119122
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy Tesco Personal Finance PLC t/a Tesco Bank wont refund a payment 
made on her credit card to a supplier online.
What happened
In October 2020, Mrs S son bought a mobile phone from an online supplier, who Ill refer to 
as Q, for £409.99. This payment was made using Mrs S Tesco Bank credit card. 
Mrs S said her son attempted to cancel this purchase when the mobile phone didnt arrive 
after ten days. Mrs S says her son received an email confirming the refund, however, shes 
never received the money. 
Mrs S contacted Tesco Bank to see if they could help her get the money back. Tesco Bank 
looked into Mrs S concerns, but they didnt think they could help. They thought there wasnt 
a valid claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) as they said the 
necessary debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement wasnt in place. Tesco Bank also 
considered whether Mrs S would have been able to get her money back under the 
chargeback rules. However, Tesco Bank said Mrs S was out of time to raise a chargeback 
claim  the latest she couldve raised a claim was 7 February 2021, but the first time shed 
contacted Tesco Bank to raise her concerns was 4 March 2021. So, they werent able to 
help Mrs S.
Mrs S said she spent about four hours talking to Tesco Bank staff about her Section 75 
claim, but that they werent very helpful. Tesco Bank told us theyd already dealt with this 
complaint point under a separate reference and they identified Mrs S didnt receive the level 
of service theyd have expected. So, Tesco Bank gave Mrs S £100 compensation on 14 April 
2021. 
Our Investigator looked into Mrs S concerns. In relation to a Section 75 claim, our 
Investigator felt Tesco Bank had handled Mrs S claim fairly as she said there wasnt the 
necessary debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement in place for a valid Section 75 claim. In 
relation to making a chargeback claim, our Investigator agreed with Tesco Bank that Mrs S 
was out of time for a claim to be made. Our Investigator also felt the £100 offered by Tesco 
Bank for the customer service Mrs S received was fair and reasonable. So, she didnt ask 
Tesco Bank to do anything more.
Mrs S disagreed. In summary, she said shed heard of other people in a similar situation who 
had money refunded from their credit card company. And also, the reason she didnt raise a 
chargeback claim in time was because she hadnt heard of it and only thought she could 
raise a Section 75 claim. So, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S told us she knows of other people who have been in similar situations to hers and they 
have been able to get their money back from their credit card provider. I appreciate Mrs S 
frustrations, but Im only able to look into the specific circumstances of her complaint.
Mrs S accepts she gave her son her credit card to use in order to make this transaction and 
she hasnt disputed not knowing the amount her son was paying for the mobile phone. 
Taking everything into account Im satisfied the transaction was properly authorised by Mrs 
S and correctly applied to Mrs S credit card account by Tesco Bank.
Chargeback
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mrs S 
does here, Tesco Bank (as the card issuer) can attempt a chargeback. Generally, we say its 
fair for a card issuer to attempt a chargeback - or to challenge a payment - if theres a 
reasonable prospect of success, for example where goods arent received, or it appears that 
the payment wasnt properly authorised by the cardholder. 
I dont think Tesco Bank could have challenged the payment on the basis Mrs S didnt 
properly authorise the transaction, given the conclusion that Ive already set out above. 
Under the scheme rules relevant to Mrs S dispute, she had 120 days from either the 
transaction date or when Mrs S or her son became aware there was a problem, to submit a 
chargeback claim. Tesco Bank have said they didnt think a chargeback claim was likely to 
succeed because Mrs S raised her concerns with them on 4 March 2021  which was 
outside of 120 days.
Having looked at the order invoice, I can see it says the mobile phone was to be dispatched 
within 7 to 10 working days from 10 October 2020  which was the transaction date. Mrs S 
says her son became concerned after ten days when the phone hadnt been delivered and 
tried to cancel the transaction at that point. However, Mrs S first contacted Tesco Bank on 4 
March 2021. This falls outside of the 120 days from the date of the transaction and also from 
when Mrs S and her son became aware there was a problem ten days after making the 
purchase. So, I dont think Tesco Bank acted unfairly by not raising a chargeback claim.
I understand Mrs S has said she hadnt heard of a chargeback claim and didnt know she 
could raise one. However, if Mrs S contacted Tesco Bank for their help sooner, I wouldve 
expected Tesco Bank to discuss Mrs S options with her in how she could attempt to get her 
money back. So, I dont think it would have been necessary for Mrs S to know what a 
chargeback claim was nor to specify that she wanted Tesco Bank to attempt a chargeback 
claim in order to get her money back.
Section 75
Ive next gone on to consider whether Tesco Bank handled Mrs S Section 75 claim fairly. 
In certain circumstances, Mrs S has an equal right to claim against Tesco Bank as she does 
against the supplier (Q) if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier if certain conditions are met.
 
My role isnt to decide Tesco Banks liability under Section 75. Instead, as statute requires 
me to, I need to decide whats fair and reasonable, taking into account any relevant law, 
such as the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). For a valid claim under Section 75 there must 
be a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement in place. This often looks like: 
A debtor (who makes repayments to the creditor for the borrowing for the 
purchase)A creditor (who has to send the borrowed amount direct to the supplier) 
A supplier (who has to provide what was purchased to the debtor)
This means the person who paid for the goods (Mrs S) should have a contractual 
relationship with the company who supplied the goods (Q) as well as with the credit provider 
(Tesco Bank).
Tesco Bank say the necessary debtor-creditor-supplier relationship doesnt exist in this case. 
They say this was because the credit card used to make the payment was Mrs S but the 
mobile phone order invoice was between Q and Mrs S son. 
Having looked at the available evidence, I can see the payment for the mobile phone was 
made using Mrs S Tesco Bank credit card and her bank statement shows £409.99 was 
debited from her account. However, the invoice order for the mobile phone was addressed to 
Mrs S son. Mrs S confirmed the mobile phone was to be used by her son and that he was 
giving his old phone to her to use. Based on this, I think its reasonable to believe Mrs S had 
no benefit nor use of the mobile phone that her son bought from Q. 
Overall, while the payment for the mobile phone was made using Mrs S credit card, Im 
satisfied there was no contract between Mrs S and Q. And she didnt have the requisite 
relationship with Q.
 
As I do not think there is a valid debtor-creditor-supplier relationship in these circumstances, 
I do not think Tesco Bank have acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining Mrs S Section 75 
claim.
Customer service
I appreciate Tesco Bank have said they already dealt with Mrs S customer service concerns 
and paid her £100 compensation. For completeness, I wont be asking Tesco Bank to pay 
Mrs S any more compensation. While I appreciate Mrs S would have been caused 
inconvenience and concern, I think the £100 Tesco Bank have offered Mrs S is fair in the 
circumstances.
I understand Mrs S feels strongly about whats happened here and I appreciate my decision 
will likely come as a disappointment to her. But having carefully thought about everything, I 
wont be asking Tesco Bank to do anything more.
My final decision
For reasons explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2022.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman