DRN-2970016
Complaint
Mr A says that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) unfairly changed the overdraft 
charging structure on his account. Hes also unhappy at Halifax decision to default his 
overdraft.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr As concerns. She didnt think that Halifax had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr A unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr A disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr As 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts Halifax charged Mr A over the years were fair and reasonable, or 
proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a 
bank charges for services is a commercial decision. This includes whether the amount it 
increased the rate by was fair and it isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at Halifaxs charging structure per se, it wont have acted 
fairly and reasonably towards Mr A if it applied these interest, fees and charges to his 
account unfairly. So Ive considered whether Halifax applied these changes to Mr As 
account in a way that was fair and reasonable. 
It isnt in dispute that Mr A got in contact with Halifax, in November 2017, when the new 
charging structure was introduced. Mr A made Halifax aware hed find to paying the 
increased charges difficult. And once a lender is told that a borrower is experiencing, or is 
likely to experience, financial difficulty we would expect it to exercise forbearance and due 
consideration, in line with its regulatory obligations. Ultimately, wed expect a lender to listen 
to a borrower, get an understanding of their circumstances and the assess the most 
appropriate way to move forward. 
As a result of its conversations with Mr A, Halifax completed an income an expenditure 
assessment with Mr A and it was determined that he was only able to repay £20 a month. 
Halifax agreed to temporarily freeze the interest on the account and agreed to accept 
payments of £20 a month. 
When the three-month period was about to end, Mr A got in touch to ask whether the 
arrangement could be extended. A second temporary three-month plan was agreed and    
Mr A would continue to pay £20 a month. And although Mr A hadnt kept to the terms of the 
second repayment plan a third and final one, on similar terms, was agreed in July 2018.
At the end of the third repayment plan, it was clear that Mr As difficulties repaying the 
overdraft werent temporary. And Halifax decided to begin corrective action in relation to the 
overdraft and withdrew it in July 2019. I do sympathise with what Mr A has told us. I fully 
appreciate hes gone through a difficult time and understand why hes unhappy with adverse 
information being recorded on his credit file and worried about the impact this will have on 
him.
 
I know that Mr A has said he was misled by Halifax during this process. But by July 2019, it 
was clear that the temporary measures taken clearly hadnt improved his situation and I 
dont think it would have been fair, reasonable or proportionate to continue ignoring Mr As 
obvious and apparent difficulty, or the fact that the overdraft had become demonstrably 
unsustainable for him, indefinitely. So by this stage, I would have expected Halifax to have 
taken corrective action in the way that it did.
After all while withdrawing a facility and recording a default or other adverse information, 
might be viewed negatively by other lenders, it does offer the borrower certain protections in 
relation to the overdraft debt. And asking Halifax to reinstate the overdraft here, or remove 
the default, when it seems unlikely Mr A will be able to repay this debt in line with the initial 
arrangements, would arguably be counterproductive and not in Mr As interests or that of any 
future lender.
Bearing in mind the above, Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for Halifax to begin 
the process of taking corrective action in relation to Mr As overdraft when it did and issue a 
formal demand notice, offering Mr A the opportunity bring his account up-to-date before it 
would take any action. As this is the case and Mr A didnt or wasnt able to take steps to 
comply with the formal demand for payment, Im satisfied that Halifax was entitled to 
withdraw Mr As overdraft. 
So overall and having considered everything, I have not been persuaded to uphold Mr As 
complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr A. But I hope that hell 
understand the reasons for my decision and at least feel that his concerns have been 
listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman