DRN-1843781
The complaint
Mr W complains that MI Money Limited (trading as Totally Money) made changes to its 
website which left him unable to log into his account.
What happened
Mr W has an online account with Totally Money which he uses to check his credit report. He 
has always been able to log into his account from his home computer. However, in 
November 2019, he was unable to do so. Every time he attempted to log in, he was given an 
error message and he contacted Totally Money about this.
Totally Money contacted its website development team to try and find a solution. Mr W 
explained he was able to log on to his account using his work computer but not his home 
computer. This led Totally Money to believe it may have been an issue with Mr Ws device, 
rather than a website issue. It asked Mr W to download a different browser to test if he could 
log in, and if that failed, it asked him to send a screenshot for further investigation.
Mr W refused to download a different browser as it had worked previously. And he didnt 
want to send a screenshot. He made a complaint. Our investigator didnt uphold this 
complaint. He explained that Totally Money hadnt had any other reports relating to this issue 
which supported the possibility that it was Mr Ws device that was causing the issue. He also 
explained that the steps Totally Money asked Mr W to take to try to resolve the issue were 
reasonable. So he didnt think Totally Money had made an error. Our investigator felt there 
were other ways Mr W couldve obtained a credit report if he needed one during that time 
either from a free service available or through accessing his Totally Money account on 
another device.
Mr W disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand it must have been frustrating for Mr W to not be able to log into his account, 
on his home computer, when hes been able to do so up until November 2019. And I can see 
why he believes this has been caused by Totally Money. But I dont think theres enough 
evidence here to say that is the case.
Mr W has said that he could access his account on a different computer. So, I can see why 
Totally Money believe this may be a local issue  essentially an issue with Mr Ws device. I 
can see Totally Money spoke to its technical department to try and work out what the issue 
could be. And it gave Mr W a variety of possible solutions to the issue. Totally Money then 
asked Mr W to try another browser. But he refused to do this. At this point, I cant see what 
else Totally Money could have done to help  especially as it couldnt replicate the issue, 
and it wasnt a wider issue that its other customers had reported.Had Mr W tried the other solutions Totally Money suggested he may have found what the 
problem was  such as security settings from his internet provider, or browser issues. But as 
he refused to try an additional browser or send in a screenshot of the error, I dont think 
Totally Money could do anything further here. It has said it would be willing to continue to 
help Mr W if he attempts the other solutions. I think this is reasonable.
I understand Mr W has felt some distress at not being able to log into his account from 
home. And I do understand why he may not want to access such information in his place of 
work. But I dont think it was unreasonable for Totally Money to suggest he try a different 
browser. And from the information Ive seen I think its unlikely the issue Mr W has had is 
because of something Totally Money has done wrong. If this was the case, Id expect it to 
have affected other users and Totally Money has confirmed that it hasnt.
There are a number of websites offering free credit reports if Mr W is still having problems 
accessing his account from home.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman