DRN-3455140
The complaint
Mr B complains that MBNA Limited (MBNA) misled him over his payment holidays.
What happened
Mr B had two credit cards from MBNA. In April 2020, one had a limit of £5,000 (card A) and 
the other a limit of £4,000 (card B). 
In March 2020, MBNA approved a money transfer on card A of £4,650 at an interest rate of 
zero until March 2021 and this amount was drawn onto the card. No interest was charged 
from April 2020 to March 2021. The statement dated April 2021 showed interest charged of 
£58.96. In August 2020, MBNA had agreed to a three-month payment holiday; in November 
2020, MBNA approved an extension to the payment holiday for a further three months, to 
February 2021.
On card B, between August 2019 and November 2021, Mr B had an interest-free money 
transfer offer and paid no interest until December 2021  when interest of £4.07 was 
charged. MBNA had agreed a payment holiday in August 2020 for three months. This was 
extended in November 2020 for a further three months to February 2021.
Mr B complained. He said he was told that the interest free periods would be extended by six 
months because of the payment holidays. He was upset to find out that the accounts would 
revert to the rate of 27.9% p.a. at the end of the payment holidays.
MBNA said the offer on card A would expire on 11 March 2021. This was regardless of the 
payment holiday arrangement  the money transfer offers expire as normal. 
Mr B brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said MBNA acted fairly. MBNAs letters 
about the payment holidays said that when the holidays ended, the accounts would go back 
to their original terms and conditions. She could also see that MBNAs letters about the 
money transfers were clear  they said the 0% interest would finish in March 2021 and 
November 2021. She listened to the recording of Mr Bs call with MBNA in November 2020 
and was satisfied that MBNA were clear about when interest on the accounts would resume.
Mr B didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen the correspondence between Mr B and our investigator. So, let me say  we are an 
informal dispute resolution service which seeks to come to fair decisions where there is a 
complaint from a consumer about a financial business. We do this based on the facts of the 
case as we see them, having taken evidence from both parties. We dont take sides. 
In April 2020, The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) announced guidance to lenders in 
response to the effects on customers of the COVID-19 pandemic. All lenders, including 
MBNA, had to put in place payment holidays on many credit agreements, including credit 
cards  to help customers who were affected. Customers could ask for a total of two 
payment holidays each of three months  whereby payments could be suspended. Missed 
payments would not be reported to credit reference agencies, although interest would still be 
debited to the accounts. This support was provided by firms up to the end of October 2020. 
In September 2020, the FCA announced that the support scheme would change from the 
end of October 2020. From then, firms could continue to support customers in difficulty  but 
it was down to their discretion and customers circumstances. And  reporting to credit 
reference agencies was reintroduced for people that had already had the maximum six 
months of payment holiday.
So  I have looked at Mr Bs complaint in the context of the FCAs rules. Its important to say 
that payments and interest are two different things.
Mr B was given two payment holidays on both cards, both for three months  in August 2020 
and then in November 2020. That was because he was struggling financially as a result of 
the Covid-19 pandemic. I can see that MBNA wrote to him when they were set up. The 
letters said You wont need to make your minimum payments during this 
time..Transaction fees and interest that apply are still charged during the payment holiday 
too, so this means your balance goes up. If you use your card, your balance will also go up. 
This means it could take you longer to pay back your balance, and youll pay more interest 
overall. MBNA sent Mr B letters towards the end of each payment holiday which said 
Transaction fees and interest that apply are charged during the payment holiday too So 
 the letters said that payments were suspended during the holidays, but interest was still to 
be charged. 
The letters assumed that Mr B was being charged interest in the normal way  but he wasnt. 
That was because he had started a 0% money transfer deal on card A for £4,650 in March 
2020 (until March 2021). And on card B, he also had a money transfer offer - he was 
charged no interest from August 2019 to November 2021 (the period may have been longer 
as I havent seen the statements before August 2019). So  he wasnt paying any interest 
anyway on both cards (on the amount of the money transfer) for that time  and during the 
period that the payment holidays were running.
I looked at the statements for both cards. Mr B wasnt charged any interest on card A 
between April 2020 and March 2021. So  the 0% money transfer operated as it shouldve 
done. And he didnt make any payments to card A between September 2020 and March 
2021. So  the payment holiday operated as it shouldve done.
Mr B wasnt charged any interest on card B between (at least) August 2019 and November 
2021. So  the 0% money transfer operated as it shouldve done. And he didnt make any 
payments to card B between September 2020 and February 2021. So  the payment holiday 
operated as it shouldve done.
So  Mr Bs complaint comes down to what he was told by MBNA about the payment 
holidays. MBNAs letters sent to Mr B when the payment holidays were set up say Well 
write to you again to let you know when your payment holiday is coming to an end. Once it 
ends, your terms and conditions will go back to what they were before And  normal 
terms and conditions include the charging of interest (although Mr B wasnt paying any 
interest because of the money transfer offers).I listened to the call between Mr B and MBNA which took place on 2 November 2020. I 
wanted to see if MBNA told Mr B there would be an extension to the interest free period he 
had for the money transfers. On the call, Mr B asked for a three-month extension to the 
payment holidays which were due to expire on 5 November 2020. The MBNA call handler, 
referring to card A, said Youll still be charged interest during your payment holiday If the 
current one youre on is interest free then youre not suddenly going to be charged 
interest.Youre on an interest free until 11 March 2021. If you clear the balance in full by 
11 March 2021 then obviously you wouldnt see any interest on the balance. So, for me, this 
was clear  Mr B was told that the payment holiday scheme was that interest was to be 
charged during it; but as he was already on an interest free deal that wouldnt happen. But  
interest would start again on 11 March 2021  when the interest free period ended. I did not 
hear anything that suggested to Mr B that the interest free period would be extended for any 
reason.
And so  its clear to me that the payment holidays and the interest free periods for the 
money transfers ran separately, and Mr B wasnt told that the interest free periods would be 
extended  for either card. In summary, Mr B had two payment holidays on the cards from 
August/September 2020 to March 2021 and in line with that, made no payments to the 
accounts. He also didnt pay any interest on the accounts between April 2020 and March 
2021 (Card A) and between (at least) August 2019 and November 2021 (Card B). And there 
wasnt any commitment from MBNA to extend the interest free period because of the 
payment holidays.
I appreciate that Mr B feels strongly about his complaint and will therefore be disappointed 
by my decision, but Im not going to ask MBNA to do anything here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman