DRN-3851788
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Admiral insurance (Gibraltar) Limited have declined cover for her claim 
under her household emergency policy for repairing a gas leak. 
What happened
Mrs F holds a home emergency policy with Admiral. 
In April 2022 Mrs F had a gas leak in her property. She reported it the National Gas 
Emergency Service, who came out and capped the gas pipe at the meter. They advised her 
that the gas leak was in her kitchen. 
Mrs F then rang Admiral to report this and they arranged an engineer who came out the next 
day. The engineer confirmed that the gas leak was in the kitchen and down the side of a 
narrow cupboard. He told Mrs F that he would e mail Admiral and they would ring her the 
next day. 
No call was received, and Mrs F called Admiral several times, and eventually spoke to an 
adviser who told her that the job that needed to be done wasnt covered and she would need 
to go through her buildings and contents insurance.  
Mrs F employed a private contractor to re-pipe the gas leak and test it, at a cost of £240. 
She thought this should be covered by Admiral and so she complained.  
Admiral issued a final response in June 2022. This said that when the engineer visited, the 
pipe had already been capped by Cadent and that the engineer had recommended a 
replacement pipe, which wasnt covered under the policy as there was no trace and access 
cover.  
Mrs F wasnt happy with this and brought her complaint to us. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mrs Fs complaint and she thought that Admiral 
should pay for the repair as it was covered under the policy.    
Admiral didnt reply to our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I have upheld Mrs Fs complaint, and I will explain why.  
The terms and conditions of the policy say that internal gas pipes are covered for: 
A leak from the gas supply pipe in your home, between the meter and the gas appliance. 
We will repair or replace the section of pipe as long as the National Gas Emergency Service 
have isolated the leak and the source of the leak has been found.
Before Mrs F called Admiral, she rang the National Gas Emergency Service who came and 
isolated the leak and identified it was in the kitchen. The Gas Safety Warning notice provided 
by them shows that the leak was traced to internal pipework. Meter capped @ outlet 
pending repair. 
So, it seems to me that Mrs F had complied with this term of the policy and was eligible for 
repair or replacement of the pipe.  
The engineer who attended reported that the National Gas Emergency Service had capped 
the supply at the meter. They said in their report Gas leak is in the kitchen down side of a 
narrow kitchen unit inaccessible unless cupboards dismantled. A whole new gas carcass is 
strongly recommended, internal gas pipe comes up through solid concrete beneath floor 
level. 2 x space heaters in the property are fed off gas. As a new gas carcass is 
recommended, and due to the fact that the gas comes up through the concrete floor please 
refer the PH to B&C as this is something our engineers would not be able to deal with. 
However, Mrs F wasnt told this by the engineer. 
The following day Mrs F called Admiral and eventually spoke to an adviser. I have listened to 
this call. The adviser tells her that job that needs to be done isnt covered under the policy 
and she needs to go through the buildings and contents insurance. She agrees to transfer 
Mrs F, but the call then ends and there is nothing in Admirals notes that records what she 
was told by buildings and contents. However, Mrs F has told us that Admiral told her that she 
would need to sort it out herself.  
I dont think this is right. I think that Admirals engineer should have replaced the section of 
pipe down the side of the cupboard that was causing the leak as that is what the policy says 
it covers. 
So, Ive then thought about whether it is fair to ask Admiral to cover the cost of the invoice 
that Mrs F then incurred in getting the repair done herself.  
In the policy exclusions, it says they will not cover Costs for repairs, parts or services, 
unless you or a person calling our 24 hour claims helpline on your behalf told us about the 
repairs, parts or services needed, and we approved a contractor in advance.
Im satisfied that Admiral were aware that Mrs F was going to use a private contractor for the 
repair as it was on their instruction that she did so. Although they hadnt approved the 
contractor, this was because they thought they wouldnt be covering the cost of it, but as Im 
satisfied that they should have undertaken the reair in the first place, I think its fair for 
Admiral to meet the cost of the repair.  
   
In their final response, Admiral have also raised that they are unable to provide cover as 
trace and access isnt covered under the policy, along with permanent repairs. However, Mrs 
F hasnt asked for trace and access as the location of the leak has already been established, 
and the repair that is being requested is not a permanent repair, but the replacement of the 
piece of damaged pipe to reinstate the gas supply in accordance with the cover outlined in 
the policy. 
So, in view of the above I think that claim should be covered. The policy allows temporary 
repair up to the value of £500 and this claim is well within this limit. Putting things right
I think that Admiral should reimburse Mrs F £240 for the cost of the emergency repair to her 
gas pipe. 
They should also pay 8% statutory interest on that sum from the date it was paid to the date 
of settlement. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs Fs complaint, and direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited to put things right as above 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman