DRN-4196129
The complaint
Miss S, through her representative, complains that Valour Finance Limited, trading as 
Savvy.co.uk, lent to her irresponsibly. 
What happened
Valour has no records due to the passage of time as the loan was approved in 2015 and the 
complaint was made in 2022. One of my colleagues determined it to be within our 
jurisdiction. So, the investigation could start but theres very little information from either 
party and none from Valour. 
Miss S representative has put in its letter of complaint to Valour dated 9 June 2022, a copy 
of which has been sent to us, that Miss S took one loan in October 2015. 
Using what information we had from Miss S representative plus 80 pages of her copy bank 
account statements then our adjudicator reviewed those and could see that Miss S had two 
sets of money credit her bank account from Valour  so it looked like two loans. 
Loan 1 for £200. This was taken on 1 July 2015. I am unable determine the length of 
this loan, but I can see from Miss S statements she paid around £66.00 in July 2015, 
August 2015 and September 2015
Loan 2 was taken on 22 October 2015. The amount that came into Miss S account 
was £336.52. She made 12 monthly payments of £59.32.
Our adjudicator included this information in the view he sent to both parties. His view was 
that he could not determine what it was that Valour had done before approving the loan, but 
he did think that as a minimum it would have asked Miss S what her monthly income after 
tax was. He could see from the bank accounts that Miss S was regularly receiving £1,200 a 
month. 
And our adjudicator thought that the number of loans Miss S took - only two - the amounts 
they were for and the period she was borrowing meant her loan history, on its own, was 
unlikely to have shown Valour Miss S mightve been experiencing underlying financial 
difficulty.
So, he did not uphold Miss S complaint and her representative disagreed. It sent no more 
information as to why it disagreed. It did not dispute the factual loan list our adjudicator had 
created from what hed discovered in the bank account statements even though that 
contradicted its own submissions when sending the complaint  it had said one loan only.  
So, Miss Ss representative appears to have accepted that there were two loans in 2015. We 
have not heard from Miss S directly. So, I have proceeded on this footing.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website.
Valour had to assess the lending to check if Miss S could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Valours checks couldve taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Miss S 
income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Valour should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss S. These factors include:
Miss S having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss S having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period 
of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing 
had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss S coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss S. But a pattern would not have 
developed here as Miss S took two loans only. 
Valour was required to establish whether Miss S could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss S was able to repay her 
loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Ss complaint. Ive decided not to uphold her 
complaint and I explain here. 
The information provided by Miss S representative was brief and it appears different to that 
which our own adjudicator established  two loans not one. Miss S representative had put in 
its letter of complaint to Valour dated 9 June 2022, a copy of which has been sent to us, that 
Miss S took one loan. It had an opening balance  which does not necessarily mean the 
capital sum borrowed -  of £572 on 22 October 2015. I add that its quite inappropriate in my 
view that the fundamental elements of a complaint for a consumer have had to be 
established by our own adjudicator looking through 80 pages of bank statements. Especially 
when Miss S was represented. In that complaint letter last June 2022, Miss S representative had used her credit file to 
determine when that loan was closed  28 October 2016. It had submitted details of other 
loans she had at the time to demonstrate to Valour that the complaint should be upheld 
because she had multiple loans at the time. But as all those other loans in its complaint letter 
post-dated October 2015 they are irrelevant for the purposes of establishing an irresponsible 
lending complaint. The relevant date was the date the loan was approved which, looks to 
have been in October 2015. So, I have ignored those submissions as they add nothing. 
In fairness to Valour theres so little information that I am not going to be able to establish 
what Valour asked Miss S in 2015, what information she had told it, what checks it carried 
out and so its difficult to assess whether Valour had carried out proportionate checks. The 
corollary to that is Im not able to establish whether Valour strayed from its regulatory 
obligation and so had not done what it ought to have done. 
I agree with our adjudicator  and I have used Miss S bank account statements for no other 
reason than to establish when the loans were taken and what her salary was, and it seemed 
that Miss S was earning about £1,200 each month. Its likely Valour would have asked her for 
that and its likely that is what Miss S told Valour. 
But for the first two loan applications for a new customer, for relatively low value loans, Id 
doubt that Valour would have had any need to ask for or review Miss S bank account 
statements. There was no requirement in 2015 - or now  for credit searches to have been 
carried out. So, I assume they were not. In the circumstances its likely that the loans would 
have appeared affordable. And that is a basis not to uphold the complaint. 
But I add that cannot fully assess the complaint and Ive had to balance the information 
Miss S has sent to us, together with knowledge of the real difficulty Valour has had, in that 
its not been able to defend the complaint. For these reasons and the likelihood of the loans 
looking to have been affordable in 2015 when Miss S applied for them - then in fairness to 
both parties I have decided to not uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman