DRN-3068318
The complaint
Miss M complains that Allianz Insurance Plc increased her pet insurance premiums.
What happened 
Miss M took lifetime pet insurance with Allianz in 2017. The parties generally accept it wasnt 
made clear enough during the sale that the cost of the policy would increase over time.
The policy renewed in 2018 and 2019, each time at an increased premium. In 2019, Miss M 
complained about the rising cost of her policy. Allianz said that the risk of claims increases 
with a pets age, and that the cost of claims increases each year because of rising vet costs 
and advances in veterinary science. The complaint wasnt referred to our service and Miss M 
decided to continue with the policy unchanged. 
In 2020, Miss Ms premium increased again, more severely than at the previous renewals. 
She raised another complaint, and says she was told her premiums shouldnt increase more 
than 10% each year (her premiums had increased by more than that). She therefore thought 
her premium increase should be limited to 10% and enquired about increasing her excess to 
bring the premiums down further.
Allianz said the increase had been correctly calculated. It said it hadnt been able to listen to 
a recording of the call in which Miss M said she was told premiums shouldnt increase by 
more than 10%. It said it didnt currently allow policyholders to amend their excesses, but 
highlighted that Miss M could downgrade her cover to reduce her premium. 
I issued a provisional decision on 23 September 2021. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Is the premium increase correct? 
The terms of Miss Ms policy allow for Allianz to change the premium at each renewal date. 
Ive looked at how Miss Ms premium for 2020 was calculated. Im satisfied it was based on 
the correct information, and that any customer in the same circumstances would have been 
charged the same premium. Im not able to share that information with Miss M because its 
commercially sensitive, but I can assure her Ive considered it carefully. 
Miss M feels the premium increase is unfair because of her pets age and claims history. 
But its for Allianz to decide what to charge for the risk its taking on. As its explained, the 
risk of claims increases the older a pet gets, and the cost of claims increases each year with 
rising vet fees and advances in veterinary science. This is why the cost of lifetime cover 
increases over time. But its important policyholders are led to expect that from the outset.
Did the rising cost of the policy cause Miss M distress?
Its generally accepted that, during the sale, Miss Ms attention wasnt drawn to the fact that 
the cost of the policy would increase over time. So, she wasnt prepared for that to happen. 
But I think Miss M had become aware of this once shed complained in 2019. 
By then, her premiums had increased twice (in 2018 and 2019). The renewal invites from 
those years had both included policy summaries which set out that the premium would 
increase over the lifetime of the policy. They said:
How your premium can change  your pets age, increasing veterinary costs and 
advancements in veterinary medicine can all affect the premium you pay. These 
mean your premium will increase over the lifetime of your policy. However, {Allianz} 
will not increase your premium as a direct result of any claim you make.
And Allianz had also explained in its response to Miss Ms complaint that her premium would 
increase each year:
The main reason for increases in premium is the age and breed of a pet. As pets get 
older, they are more likely to develop an illness or be injured and the premium 
reflects this. Premiums will also increase each year due to advances in a range of 
diagnostic, medical and surgical procedures, which means that veterinary fees will 
inevitably rise.
As such, it was at that point that Miss M would have come to the realisation that the cost of 
her policy was going to increase over time, and that she may, at some point, have to search 
for alternative cover if it ever became unaffordable. That was the loss of expectation caused 
by Allianz not having given her sufficient information about that during the sale. 
Importantly, Allianz set out in its response to Miss Ms 2019 complaint that she had six 
months in which to refer it to our service if she remained unhappy. Miss M didnt do that. 
This means that, under this reference, I can only consider whats taken place since then 
(the premium increase in 2020). I cant retrospectively award compensation for the loss of 
expectation Miss M suffered in 2018 and 2019, because she didnt refer her complaint about 
those premium increases to us in time. 
I recognise it would have been disappointing to Miss M that her premium increased again in 
2020, but only in the sense that any increase in premium will be disappointing. As Ive said, 
by then, Allianz had taken steps to correct the lack of information it provided during the sale. 
So, Miss M ought to have known that, if she continued with the policy, her premium would 
increase each year and she might eventually have to shop around for alternative cover. 
In response to the new complaint, Allianz said Miss M could reduce her level of cover for a 
cheaper premium or cancel cover back to the renewal date if the cost was unacceptable. But 
as far as Im aware, the policy has again continued unchanged. Overall, Im not minded to 
award compensation in relation to the premium increase in 2020. 
Was Miss M told that her premium should only have increased by 10%?
I note that Miss M had already received her renewal invite by this point, so was aware of the 
extent to which her own premium had increased. But it seems plausible to me that the agent 
offered a general reassurance that, in their experience, premiums dont tend to increase by 
more than 10%. Thats roughly how much Miss Ms premiums increased at the two previous 
renewals. But I appreciate this would have been unhelpful considering Miss Ms premium 
had increased by more than 10% on this particular occasion.Its clear though that when Miss M asked the agent to confirm her understanding of what 
theyd said, which was that her premium should only have increased by 10%, they werent 
prepared to do that and maintained that the increase was correct. It doesnt appear Miss M 
was left with an impression that a mistake had been made and she should therefore await 
confirmation that her premium would be reduced. And Allianz later followed up in writing to 
confirm that theres no percentage cap on premium increases.
I agree that it was short sighted for the agent to have made such a reassurance, but I dont 
think this in itself warrants compensation given that, by the sounds of it, they tried to correct 
any misunderstanding theyd caused during the call.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss M responded reiterating her points that she was advised her premium would only rise 
by 10%, and that she was passed from pillar to post when she insisted Allianz honour that. 
She asked that I listen to a recording of the call. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Due to IT issues, Allianz hasnt been able to provide a recording of the call for me to listen 
to. But Im prepared to accept that the agent Miss M spoke to made some kind of reference 
to premiums increasing by 10%. In the moment, that likely would have caused Miss M some 
confusion and frustration, given her premium had increased by between 16% and 17%. 
But by the time this call took place, Miss M was already aware how much her premiums had 
increased by (even if she hadnt calculated it as a percentage). So, it wasnt the case that 
the agent led Miss M to expect that her premium would only increase by a certain amount, 
only for Miss M to later discover it had increased by more than that (causing a further loss of 
expectation). And she didnt rely on this information to her detriment in any way.
I think its reasonably clear from Miss Ms testimony that the agent realised they misspoke. 
And when pressed by Miss M to confirm her premium should only have increased by 10%, 
they explained that wasnt the case. After trying to listen to the call, Allianz later confirmed 
this in writing. Clearly, Allianzs explanation of why the premium had increased would have 
been more consistent if the agent hadnt referred to that particular percentage. But overall, 
Im not persuaded this warrants a monetary award of compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept or reject my decision 
before 25 October 2021.
 
Mike Walker
Ombudsman