DRN-2840522
The complaint
Mr O is a sole trader. He complains that Santander UK Plc unfairly declined his application 
for a Bounce Back Loan.
What happened
Mr O applied to Santander for a Bounce Back Loan. He held a personal current account with 
the bank and used those details to apply. He made a total of five applications for the loan, 
but each was declined.
Santander says that it declined Mr Os request for a Bounce Back Loan as his account with 
the bank wasnt his main business account  so it had been unable to establish that he met 
the Loan Schemes eligibility criteria.
Mr O doesnt think Santander had assessed his application fairly, as he thought he met all 
the criteria  including using his Santander account for business purposes. So he asked us 
to look into things. 
One of our investigators reviewed the matter but didnt think Santander had done anything 
wrong. In summary, she said that Santander had considered Mr Os applications in line with 
its policy of verifying personal customers eligibility through the business activity on their 
account. And she thought it had reasonable for the bank to consider that Mr Os Santander 
account wasnt his main business account, as his regular work payments had stopped in 
July 2019  when Mr O had started using an account held elsewhere instead, to which 
HMRC grant payments had also been credited.
Mr O didnt accept our investigators view. He still thought he met all the criteria for a Bounce 
Back Loan, so he asked that an ombudsman review the matter and it was passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the way the Bounce Back Loan Scheme operated, lenders had some discretion as to 
how they accepted applications  including from their existing customers. While it wasnt a 
requirement of the Scheme that applicants had, or entered into, a business relationship with 
a lender, it was up to each lender to decide whether or not it was willing to lend to those 
without one. 
Santander didnt require applicants to enter into a business relationship  there was no 
requirement to hold a business account. But it did restrict the basis on which it was willing to 
lend to existing customers who didnt have one. 
Santander says it only accepted applications from existing personal customers using their 
personal account for business purposes, because it could use the account information to 
verify that the applicant satisfied the various eligibility requirements under the Scheme rules. 
For example, that they were trading at the relevant date, or turning over the requisite amount 
to obtain the loan requested. The bank didnt accept applications from personal customers 
who werent running their business through the personal account, as it couldnt validate this 
information. And I think this was reasonable. The bank was required to carry out a number of 
checks under the Scheme before lending, including Know Your Customer, fraud and anti-
money laundering checks. This was a reasonable measure to take in order to meet its 
requirements under the Scheme rules  including the need to assess applications quickly. 
Mr O wasnt an existing business customer  he only held a personal account with 
Santander. So Santander needed to be able to validate information about his business from 
the activity on his personal account. The bank ultimately declined his application because it 
couldnt. This decision was in line with its policy, and  having looked at the information on 
which it was based  I think it was reasonable. I say this because:
Under the Loan Scheme rules, applications were assessed on an applicants 
turnover the 2019calendar year. While statements show that Mr O received some 
business-related payments into his Santander account, these stopped in July 2019. 
As Mr O acknowledges, he held an account with another provider  and statements 
for that account show that it was used to receive his business-related payments 
during the second half of 2019. 
Although Mr O had clearly used his Santander account for business purposes in the 
past, the fact hed not done so since July 2019 meant that it wasnt his main business 
account when he came to apply for the loan. Even though he subsequently reverted 
back to using the account for business purposes, the bank was still unable to validate 
his eligibility for the Bounce Back Loan as hed not been using it throughout 2019.
While Mr O may well have met the core eligibility criteria under the Bounce Back 
Loan Scheme rules, the bank still needed to be able to validate this. For the reasons 
explained above, Santander wouldve been unable to validate Mr Os turnover figure, 
which was a key aspect of an applicants eligibility for a Bounce Back Loan. 
So I dont think Santander did anything wrong in declining Mr Os Bounce Back Loan 
application.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman