DRN-3316226
The complaint
Mrs J complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC:
- told her that she wouldnt have to pay any interest on her interest-only mortgage after 
the end of its term, but it did then charge interest;
- refused to extend the term of her interest-only mortgage.
What happened
Mrs J had an interest-only mortgage which she and her late husband had taken out in April 
2009. It was for £340,000 plus £995 fees, on a property then valued at £1,200,000. The 
mortgage term was due to end on 16 April 2020. 
In June 2019, Mrs J went to a branch to ask for an extension to the mortgage, saying she 
planned to sell the property. She said the mortgage adviser told her she couldnt have an 
extension because it would soon reach the end of the term, but she would have a year 
without having to pay any interest.
A week later, Mrs J rang Barclays, because she wasnt happy with the branchs refusal to 
extend the mortgage. She told the adviser that her house was on the market, but the branch 
had categorically refused her request for a two year extension. The phone adviser told her 
that when the mortgage ended in April 2020, shed be in breach of contract but if the house 
was on the market, Barclays could give her another year to sell it, usually with quarterly 
reviews. He told her to get in touch nearer the time, and they agreed shed do so in March 
2020.
By March 2020, the covid pandemic had started and Mrs J had some difficulties getting 
through to Barclays. When she did get through in late March, Barclays adviser said that 
theyd explained to Mrs J that term extensions could only be considered on an interest-only 
mortgage if the customer was willing to change to a repayment basis. Mrs J wasnt willing to 
do that. And the figures she provided on the phone showed that the mortgage didnt fit 
affordability. The adviser said theyd suggested that Mrs J should contact Barclays specialist 
interest-only team, and provided her with her contact details if she wanted to come back to 
her.
Mrs J spoke to the maturities team in April, where they told her what shed need to do to 
agree a years payment plan while she sold her mortgaged property, or a rental property 
which she owned.  The adviser said that they could have looked at extending the mortgage 
the previous year, and Mrs J was unhappy about that. But Barclays said that based on Mrs 
Js income, it would have failed affordability. 
 
Mrs J complained to Barclays, saying shed been misinformed, and had had poor customer 
service. Barclays said that while it couldnt tell what Mrs J had been told in the branch in 
2019, the phone call recordings of her conversations with head office all showed that the 
advisers had correctly told her that when the mortgage matured, shed be in breach of 
contract if she didnt pay it off, but Barclays would give her a further year with quarterly 
reviews if her property was on the market. Barclays accepted that the June 2019 phone 
adviser could have given her a bit more detail, and offered her £200 compensation for this. 
Barclays also addressed the issue of whether Mrs J could have had a term extension if shed 
applied for it in 2019  and it said that both advisers involved had said that based on Mrs Js 
income, it would have failed on affordability.
Mrs J wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. She said that if Barclays had given her 
the right information in 2019, she could have had a term extension at that point, or could 
have sold a rental property which had been empty in 2019.
The investigator didnt think that Mrs J had been misinformed about what would happen after 
her mortgage term ended. He listened to the calls and said there had been no discussion 
about the interest rate or what would happen to her repayments after the end of the term. 
The calls had been about forbearance provided the property was on the market. So the 
investigator didnt think Barclays need take any further action on that.
The investigator also looked at what Barclays had said about extending the term  that this 
wouldnt have been possible because Mrs J would have failed affordability. But he couldnt 
see any evidence that an affordability assessment had been completed. So the investigators 
view was that Barclays should get in touch with Mrs J to carry out a full application and 
assessment of her term extension request. And if this application and assessment was 
successful, Barclays should apply the new interest rate from the end of her mortgage term in 
April 2020, with the account restructured to reflect this.
Mrs J accepted the investigators view, though she said the branch advisor had categorically 
told her there wouldnt be any interest to pay.
Barclays didnt accept the investigators view. It said that the 2019 branch appointment had 
been booked for two hours, so the experienced mortgage adviser would have carried out 
one of two affordability assessments. Barclays said it was likely that this would have been 
fact finding which would result with a decision in principle screen on the computer. It was 
also possible that it might have been a shorter affordability assessment, using the 
affordability assessment tool. 
Barclays also said that it had checked with the March 2020 phone adviser, who said theyd 
explained to Mrs J that for a term extension on an interest-only mortgage, the customer 
would need to change from interest-only to capital and repayment. Mrs J hadnt been willing 
to do that. 
The investigator didnt change his view, and said he hadnt seen that sufficient checks had 
been carried out to show that Mrs J hadnt met Barclays affordability criteria. Nor was there 
evidence that Barclays had considered what was in Mrs Js best interests. This wouldnt 
mean she had to meet the criteria for new interest-only borrowers, but just show shed be 
able to continue making payments for the term extension period.
A Barclays mortgage adviser then spoke to Mrs J. By then, the property had been sold, and 
completion took place in December 2020. Mrs J told Barclays that her issue now was that 
shed been charged interest since the mortgage ended in April 2020. She hadnt been 
paying this because she thought interest would be frozen  which meant the balance had 
risen, meaning there was more to be paid to Barclays when the sale had completed.
Barclays didnt agree with the investigator. It pointed out that it was under no obligation to 
offer a term extension unless it was in a customers best interests, which didnt apply here. 
Mrs J had asked for more time to sell, and Barclays had correctly told her that shed have a 
year for the sale to go through. It asked for an ombudsmans decision.My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. Before doing so, I considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I first clarified the issues for me to consider. I explained that these 
were slightly different from Mrs Js complaint which she originally brought to us, because her 
property was sold in December 2020, so she was no longer seeking a term extension as an 
outcome. The issues for me to consider were:
- whether the mortgage should have been free of all interest when its term ended in 
April 2020, as Mrs J said she was told; and
- whether Barclays failed to carry out an application and affordability assessment of 
Mrs Js term extension request. And if it did fail to do this, whether this meant shed 
have had a cheaper deal and should therefore have a refund of any higher interest 
she paid between April 2020 and the sale of her property in December 2020.
I considered these two points separately.
Whether the mortgage should have been free of all interest when its term ended in April 
2020
Mrs J maintained that the branch told her in June 2019 that she wouldnt have to pay any 
interest on her mortgage after the term ended in April 2020. As this was a meeting in person 
at a branch, and I wasnt there, I cant tell for certain what happened. When evidence is 
incomplete, I take my decision on what I think is most likely to have happened. I considered 
it was unlikely that any Barclays employee would have told Mrs J that there wouldnt be any 
interest at all to pay. Its not plausible that a bank would stop charging a customer all 
interest, especially when after the end of the mortgage term Mrs J was technically in breach 
of contract by not paying off the balance she owed. 
What we did have as definite evidence was the call recording from when Mrs J rang 
Barclays a week after the branch appointment, because she wasnt happy with the branchs 
refusal of her request for a term extension. I listened to this call. It specifically discussed 
what would happen at the end of the term. The phone adviser didnt say that the mortgage 
would become free of all interest at the end of the term. There was no mention of any 
change to the interest rate at the end of the term. And if the branch had indeed told Mrs J 
that the mortgage would become free of all interest, Id expect her to have checked that with 
the phone adviser  because it was just so unlikely. The terms and conditions of Mrs Js 
mortgage didnt say that at the end of an interest-only mortgage, interest would stop being 
charged. 
So I considered it wasnt likely that the branch told Mrs J that she wouldnt need to pay any 
interest after the end of the mortgage term. And she wasnt told that on the phone call, and 
nor did the terms and conditions say that. Whilst the balance remained outstanding, interest 
was charged on that balance. Although the original term had ended, Barclays had not been 
repaid, and so I thought it was reasonable that interest remained chargeable. So I didnt 
uphold this part of Mrs Js complaint. 
Whether Barclays failed to carry out a full application and assessment of Mrs Js term 
request I looked in detail at what happened. First, I looked at the electronic record of the booking for 
Mrs Js appointment at the branch. The notes record that on 10 June 2019 the call centre 
booking employee took outline details of Mrs Js various incomes, the property value and 
mortgage, and the request which it said was for a five year extension. The notes record that 
the booking employee told Mrs J she wasnt trained to take a decision and that instead she 
booked an appointment at the branch for 13 June. 
That booking was for a two hour appointment from 1pm to 3pm, and the appointment is 
labelled Mortgage / mortgage application.  The name of the mortgage adviser is given, 
which is a different name from that of the booking employee.
So the appointment on 13 June was made for a meeting with a qualified mortgage adviser, 
for two hours, to discuss Mrs Js request for a term extension. Mrs J said that she took with 
her the documents which the booking employee had told her shed need to provide. Barclays 
has said that the adviser had around eight years experience. 
Barclays also provided information about its processes. It said that the employee who met 
Mrs J on 13 June is currently on long-term sickness absence, so it couldnt ask the individual 
for their recollection. But it said that it was most likely, especially as the appointment was 
made for two hours, that the adviser would have carried out a full fact finding assessment. 
When a mortgage is unaffordable, that would have come up on the Decision in Principle 
screen. In these circumstances, the system wouldnt let an adviser proceed to try to put 
through a full mortgage application. 
Barclays also said that its mortgage advisers had the capability to complete a quick review of 
affordability based on the customers information, using an affordability calculator. As the 
employee wasnt available, it couldnt say which of these affordability assessments had been 
carried out for Mrs J.
In my provisional decision I said it was unfortunate there were no notes of this meeting. But 
computer tools dont always provide permanent evidence of all times theyre used, and I 
accepted Barclays evidence that a full application  which would have been more likely to 
have left a trace - couldnt have been done if affordability failed using one of the tools.  
Taking into account all the evidence, including the advisers experience; the fact Mrs J was 
asked to and did take documentary evidence with her; and the length of the appointment 
booking, I considered it was likely that the branch mortgage adviser did carry out an 
affordability assessment in June 2019.
Moving on to when Mrs J contacted Barclays again in March 2020, I accepted the evidence 
of the adviser to whom Mrs J spoke. The account was detailed, saying that the adviser 
explained the process around term extensions on an interest-only mortgage, including the 
fact that they were only permitted if the customer was willing to change to a repayment 
basis, which Mrs J wasnt. The adviser also said that the figures Mrs J provided on the 
phone didnt fit affordability. This adviser then referred Mrs J on to the specialist end of term 
team.
I noted that the interest only team adviser to whom Mrs J spoke in April 2020 told her that 
she could have applied for an extension the previous year. I didnt have a call recording or 
notes for that call, which was unfortunate. It seemed strange that this was said, when it 
wasnt disputed that Mrs J did ask for an extension in June 2019. But as Barclays confirmed 
to Mrs J in its final response letter, both the March 2020 and April 2020 advisers said that 
based on Mrs Js income, it couldnt have proceeded on grounds of affordability. 
So I accepted that Barclays assessed affordability for Mrs J in June 2019, and it was 
considered again in discussions in March and April 2020. It was affordability which was the reason why an extension wasnt granted. Lenders are able to extend the term of an interest 
only mortgage without switching the mortgage to repayment if that extension is in the 
borrowers best interests. So I thought about whether Barclays should have extended Mrs 
Js term on that basis, but considering the circumstances, I didnt think it should. Mrs J was 
trying to sell her house, and hadnt told Barclays of any other reasons why an extension 
would have helped her beyond giving her more time to sell. Barclays had already told her 
theyd be willing to allow more time for the property to sell providing it was on the market. 
And considering all the circumstances, I thought that was reasonable. 
This meant that I didnt consider that there were grounds to require Barclays to pay Mrs J the 
difference between what she paid on the standard variable rate from April 2020 onwards, 
and any other interest rate which might have been available. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs J replied that she was shocked to see how her complaint had been twisted to favour 
Barclays. She said that the facts were fairly correct but had been reported in a distorted 
fashion.
Mrs J set out her personal circumstances. She also explained that one of her rental 
properties had been due for a change of tenant in 2019, so she could have either sold that to 
pay off the mortgage, or extend the term. It was this which had led her to make the 
appointment with the mortgage adviser.
Mrs J said she hadnt been aware that the appointment had been for two hours, but it hadnt 
lasted more than 45 minutes. She said the conversation was that she shouldnt sell the 
rental property, and the mortgage couldnt be extended as it was coming to an end and 
Barclays would give Mrs J a year to sell it. Mrs J said shed asked about interest and the 
adviser had said it stops on the maturity of the mortgage. Barclays could not charge me 
interest as there was no mortgage agreement in place. There was no mention that it would 
revert to SVR [standard variable rate].
Mrs J also said that most of the conversation had been that the adviser was interested in 
getting into the property market and he was using her experience to advise him. She said 
there was certainly no affordability assessment done at the meeting. The reason shed 
phoned Barclays the following week had been to confirm what hed said was correct, as she 
thought it strange the bank wouldnt charge interest.
Mrs J also explained that she hadnt missed a mortgage payment, and if Barclays had 
asked, shed have said that she had several rental properties, two pensions, and salary. She 
said that if Barclays mortgage adviser had given her the correct information, shed have 
been saved thousands of pounds by not having to pay the high interest rate between the 
mortgage maturity date in April 2020 and the date of the sale in December 2020.
Barclays didnt respond to the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mrs Js further comments. Ive also listened again to the call recording from 
when Mrs J rang Barclays, a week after her meeting with the phone adviser. I note that Mrs 
J has said that she rang to confirm what the adviser had said was correct as she thought it strange that a bank wouldnt charge interest on a loan. But on the phone recording, theres 
no mention of the interest  and Mrs J didnt ask the phone adviser about whether or not it 
was correct that no interest would be charged.  
Mrs J also told us that shes been involved in the property market for 25 years. So I think its 
unlikely that shed have believed it was likely that a lender would stop charging interest  but 
wouldnt then have queried this when she rang Barclays a week after the appointment.
As I said in my provisional decision, I wasnt present at the meeting in person at the branch 
in June 2019, so I cant tell for certain what happened. But when evidence is incomplete, I 
take my decision on what I think is most likely to have happened. And here, taking into 
account all the circumstances of the case, I consider its more likely than not that Barclays 
didnt promise Mrs J that her mortgage would be interest-free after the term ended in April 
2020. The subsequent phone calls also didnt give Mrs J grounds for thinking that she 
wouldnt have to pay interest.
Id also clarify Mrs Js comment that after the end of the term, she couldnt be charged 
interest because there was no mortgage agreement in place. But just because a mortgage 
term comes to an end, it doesnt mean the legal mortgage agreement, under which the 
borrowers agree to repay the loan no longer exists. The terms of that agreement still apply, 
including the requirement to repay principal, interest and any other charges which apply. All 
thats changed when the term ends, is that a borrower who hasnt repaid the loan is 
technically in breach of the contract. 
So, having reconsidered all the evidence, including Mrs Js response to the provisional 
decision, my decision about this complaint is unchanged.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman