DRN-1955360
The complaint
Mr F complains Studio Retail Limited (Studio) hasnt returned a payment he made when it 
was rejected by Studios payment systems.
What happened
Mr F made a payment of £10.21 towards his Studio account balance in July 2019 using his 
credit card. Studios payment system indicated three times that payment had failed and Mr F 
says Studio told him nothing had been charged to his credit card. Despite that, a payment 
was taken from his credit card, but it didnt appear on his Studio account statement. Mr F 
contacted Studio about this and it asked for proof the payment hadnt been returned to his 
credit card account. Studio felt Mr Fs credit card statement showed it had returned the 
payment the same month. 
Mr F didn't agree and complained to Studio. It responded in August 2019 and said the 
payment wasnt processed to his account and that Mr Fs credit card statement showed it 
had been credited back. It also said its missing payments team had told Mr F the payment 
attempt failed three times. Studio didnt feel it had done anything wrong.
Mr F complained to us. Our investigator looked into the complaint and felt the evidence 
showed Mr F had made the payment to Studio. So, he recommended Studio reduce Mr Fs 
account balance by £10.21. He also recommended Studio remove any adverse markers on 
Mr Fs credit file as a result of the disputed payment and adjust any associated charges or 
interest. The investigator also felt Studio should pay Mr F £50 compensation for the 
inconvenience hed suffered as a result. 
Studio didnt accept the investigators assessment. It gave us a screen shot showing three 
failed payment attempts and said it was possible a later credit card statement showed the 
payment had been returned. So, Studio didnt feel Mr F had shown it had received the 
payment. Our investigator asked for more information  including from Mr Fs credit card 
provider. That evidence confirmed the payment left Mr Fs credit card account and hadnt 
been refunded since. Our investigator again said he was satisfied Mr F had made the 
payment to Studio and it hadnt been refunded. So, he again recommended Studio should 
credit Mr Fs account with the £10.21 disputed payment and pay Mr F £50 compensation. 
The investigator also confirmed that Studio should adjust any charges and interest to reflect 
the payment. And if that results in a refund it should add 8% simple interest to that refund.
Studio didnt think the evidence our investigator referred to showed the payment had been 
made as indicated - regardless of what the credit card provider said. It said it needed the 
number of the account the payment was made to, as it couldnt locate the payment. 
Our investigator asked the credit card company for the account details, but it wasnt able to 
provide them. Studio felt the issue stemmed from a processing error by the credit card 
company. It rejected the investigators assessment and particularly the basis upon which 
hed recommended compensation be paid, as it felt Mr F could have provided more evidence 
sooner to enable it to look into the missing payment.
As Studio didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Studio initially indicated that after three failed payment attempts it returned the payment to 
Mr Fs credit card. Whereas Mr F and his credit card provider say the payment left his credit 
card account and wasnt returned  and they feel his credit card statement supports this. 
But in later responses to our service, Studio questioned whether Mr Fs credit card company 
made the payment to the wrong account, which it said might account for the fact it cant 
locate it. So, Studio clearly felt the error stemmed from the credit card companys handling of 
things.
Ive thought about whether Studios response seemed reasonable. And on balance, Im not 
persuaded it was. 
I say that because Studio seemed to suggest that an entry on Mr Fs credit card statement 
which shows as follows: 9 July 2019 www.Studio.co.uk +£10.21 meant it refunded the 
payment to Mr Fs account. I dont agree. I say that because Mr Fs credit card statements 
show anything that will increase the amount Mr F owes to the credit card company with a 
plus sign (+). That includes all purchases, fees and interest. So the fact that the above entry 
begins with a + shows that amount was paid from Mr Fs account to Studio. Had it been the 
other way round, and Studio had returned the sum to Mr Fs account then the entry would 
have shown a minus sign (-) in front of it. So, the credit card statement shows that £10.21 
came out of Mr Fs credit card account and was paid to Studio. It follows that I dont think 
Studios interpretation of the credit card statement was the right one. 
Also Studio appears to have altered its position by saying Mr F hadnt provided enough 
evidence to show it received the payment  even though it initially appeared to accept it had  
and had returned it to the credit card company. But I dont think its fair to say Mr F hadnt 
provided enough evidence. Mr Fs shown a payment intended for Studio left his account. 
And Im also satisfied from the credit card companys response and the later statements Ive 
seen that it wasnt refunded to that account. So, its difficult to see what other evidence Mr F 
could provide, especially given that Studio argued it had refunded Mr Fs credit card. 
It wouldn't be possible for it to refund a payment it hadn't received. 
Overall, Im satisfied the payment was made to Studio and it hasnt been refunded to Mr F. 
So, Ive set out below what it needs to do to put things right.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint. I direct Studio Retail Limited to:
Credit Mr Fs account with £10.21 and rework the interest on the account as though 
the payment were made in July 2019. If taking the action Ive directed results in a 
refund, it should pay Mr F accordingly and add simple interest to that sum at a rate of 
8% a year from the date the payment left Mr Fs credit card account to the date it 
refunds him1.
Pay Mr F £50 compensation in recognition of the frustration and inconvenience 
caused by this matter.
1 If Studio pays interest and considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it 
should tell Mr F how much its taken off. It should also give Mr F a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman