DRN-1986331
The complaint
Mr H complains about poor service provided by Creative Benefit Wealth Management 
Limited. He wants more fees refunded than the business has offered. 
What happened
In 2014 Mr H engaged Creative Benefit Wealth Management Limited (Creative) to provide 
him with financial advice in respect of his retirement planning. His retirement savings were 
held in a number of plans with different providers. The Creative advisor J recommended 
Mr H switch his savings to a new plan with provider A. Mr H remained a client of Creative 
for four years, but his advisor changed several times, so he had no consistent point of 
contact. An investment of £70,000 with provider P recommended at the 2017 review took 
longer than expected as the advisor left the business. And advisor As recommendation in 
2018 to amalgamate Mr Hs group personal pension (GPP) didnt take place. 
In 2019 Mr H made a formal complaint to Creative. He said he felt hed received shoddy 
service in view of the fees he paid. He was unhappy that:
hed had four advisors in that time (J, G, A, B), which meant he had no reliable point 
of contact and had been unable to form a relationship with any of them;
Months went past with no contact, and queries and service requests werent 
responded to in a timely fashion;
Hed missed out on investment returns as the suitability letter for the £70,000 
investment was issued in May 2017, but the transaction didnt complete until August 
2017, as advisor G had left Creative. 
The 2018 recommendation by advisor A to consolidate his GPP didnt happen;
In February 2019 Mr H was passed to advisor B at which point he decided to make 
other arrangements and left Creative. 
Creative considered Mr H had received an acceptable level of service until advisor A
took over when G left, but admitted the service provided by advisors A and B could have 
been better. It accepted advisor A had delayed the transfer in 2018 which still hadnt 
happened when Mr H left Creative. And when Mr H was passed to advisor B after A left, he 
wasnt provided with the information about his pension hed requested and had to ask for it 
again. So it partly upheld the complaint, apologised and offered compensation totalling 
£1,962.53 being a refund of fees from August 2018 to April 2019 when Mr H left Creative, 
plus £250 for the inconvenience. 
Mr H didnt think this was sufficient given Creative had received around £16,000 in ongoing 
advice fees from his SIPP for services he felt it hadnt provided. He thought Creative should 
refund all his fees plus pay an additional sum towards the fee hed have to pay his new 
advisor. Creative didnt agree so Mr H complained to this service. One of our investigators 
looked into the complaint and could see why Mr H was disappointed with the service hed 
received. But overall they thought Creatives offer of compensation was fair and in line with 
what theyd recommend. 
Mr H still felt the compensation was inadequate for the poor service hed received over an 
extensive period. He felt the problems began earlier than the period Creative was prepared 
to refund the fees for, so thought he should get back 22 months of fees which he calculated 
as £8,008. He wanted a proper breakdown of what the fees were for and thought it should 
address its staff turnover. The investigator explained hed been charged in line with the 
agreement, and this service couldnt punish businesses for the errors they make or force 
them to do things differently. As agreement couldnt be reached Mr H asked an ombudsman 
to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. 
Let me explain why.
I understand Mr H feels hes paid too much for the level of service hes received from 
Creative. Its not the role of this service to decide whether the fees are fair or represent good 
value for money. Neither can we interfere in the way a business is run or require Creative to 
do something about its staffing. Instead Ive considered the service Creative led Mr H to 
expect and the fees he agreed to pay when he became its client. 
Ive looked at Creatives letter to Mr H dated 5 September 2014 following the initial meeting 
on 6 May 2014 and what is described as the Discretionary Fund Manager beauty parade on 
26 June. Its signed off by advisor J and enclosed Creatives recommendations in respect 
of Mr Hs group personal and stakeholder pension plans with three providers. It mentions 
two enclosures  the terms of business for advice provided by Creative Benefit Solutions 
Limited for GPP members and the services and costs for individual clients provided by 
Creative Benefit Wealth Management Limited for all other wealth management services. 
The letter goes on ..you agreed we will be remunerated by an initial advice cost of 
2.04% or £14,062 based on a total transfer value of £689,306. In addition to this we will also 
receive an annual advice fee of 0.5% payable quarterly or £3,447 per annum based on the 
same transfer valueThe next annual review is scheduled for September 2015. 
I asked Creative for copies of the two enclosures which are the Key Facts documents for 
services for GPP members and personal clients. Each document sets out clearly, as the 
regulator requires, the services Creative provides (and what it doesnt) and the fees clients 
will be charged, with some examples of how these work in practice. After the initial meeting 
at Creatives cost, theres a pension and investments advice charge which is based on a 
percentage of the new investment subject to a minimum charge of £1,500. The charges are 
set out in clear table format showing a sliding scale of 2.5% for investments up to £249,000 
decreasing in percentage terms to 1.0% for investments of over £1,000,000. There are 
separate scales for advice on insurance and annuities which arent relevant to Mr H. 
And then theres an ongoing advice charge which the document says will depend on 
the type of service you choose and are typically between 0.50% and 1% of the fund or the 
amount invested. This is subject to a minimum cost of £1,000 for a telephone based review 
and £1,500 for a face to face review. 
And in the Ongoing services section of the Client agreement it reads ..we will not give 
you any further advice or carry out a review of your investments unless you specifically 
request us to do so. It also states that Creative requires instructions in writing (or if initially 
given verbally to be confirmed in writing) to avoid possible disputes. 
As far as I can see theres no commitment the client will be given a named advisor or that 
the advisor they initially dealt with will be theirs throughout. Neither does it set out any commitment about timeliness to respond to queries or how long different transactions will 
take. 
Creative has provided documents which show Mr H did have annual reviews  in 2015 with 
advisor J, 2016 and 2017 with advisor G, and 2018 with advisor A (which also included a 
paragraph on annual fees totalling £4,367.57). And a letter from Creatives managing 
director to Mr H in August 2016 offered an annual review and included a further copy of its 
terms of business and fees. 
So while I understand Mr H would have liked to only deal with one named advisor throughout 
and have some certainty about how long it should take for his instructions to be actioned, 
such arrangements werent part of his agreement with Creative. I think Mr H knew from the 
outset what the ongoing charges would be and that theyd be based on the size of his 
investment. He feels its unfair for Creative to charge the full fee if they didnt have enough 
staff to deliver a decent level of service. But the fees are clearly based on his investment 
value not the capacity of Creative to deliver the service Mr H wanted, and Creative did 
provide annual reviews every year up to 2018. I appreciate Mr H thinks the fees are too high, 
but Ive seen nothing to suggest hes not been charged in line with the agreement. 
Mr H thinks Creative should refund him £8,008 being 22 months of charges back to June 
2017 when advisor A took over, plus a further sum to cover any fees charged by his new 
advisor. But I dont think this would be fair. When a business makes a mistake we aim as far 
as possible to put the consumer in the position theyd be if the failing hadnt happened, 
which would still mean Mr H being liable for Creatives fees.  Mr H has the right to take his 
business elsewhere, but I dont think Creative should be asked to pay his new advisors fees, 
as doing so would put him in a better position than if Creative hadnt provided poor service. 
So I dont uphold this complaint in the sense that Creatives offer of £1,962.53, being £250 
plus a refund of £1,712.53 for ongoing advice fees from August 2018 is fair in the 
circumstances. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint in the sense the offer made by Creative Benefit Wealth 
Management Limited is fair. I leave it to Mr H to accept this offer if he now wishes to. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman