DRN-4149252
The complaint
Miss E has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited cancelled her motor insurance policy. 
She wants it to agree that the cancellation was an error and that she neednt disclose it to 
future insurers. Miss E is represented in this matter by her father, Mr E.
 
What happened
Miss E took out a motor insurance policy with Aviva through an online price comparison site. 
In the application, Miss E stated that she had one years No Claims Discount (NCD). As part 
of the policy validation, Aviva asked Miss E to upload proof of her NCD. Miss E uploaded her 
policy document from the previous year. 
Aviva said this wasnt evidence of her NCD, so it cancelled her policy and refunded her 
premium except for a charge for cancellation and her time on cover. Miss E was unhappy 
that new cover was too expensive when she disclosed that she had been refused insurance. 
Miss E brought her complaint to us, and our Investigator thought it shouldnt be upheld. She 
thought Aviva was entitled to cancel the policy as Miss E had made a qualifying 
misrepresentation. And she thought this was careless. But she also thought Aviva was 
entitled to cancel the policy as Miss E hadnt provided the requested proof of her NCD within 
its timescales. 
So she thought it was fair and reasonable for Aviva to refund the premiums, less the 
charges. Aviva had said that Miss E neednt disclose the cancellation. But the Investigator 
thought Miss E would need to disclose or explain this to future insurers if she was asked to 
do so. 
Mr E doesnt agree with the Investigator and has asked for an Ombudsmans decision. Mr E 
said the one years NCD was implied and so Miss E hadnt meant to mislead Aviva. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that theres been some confusion about Miss Es previous policy and her driving 
licence, which Mr E has helpfully clarified. Miss E obtained a provisional driving licence in 
2019 and her full licence in April 2022. Her previous policy expired in November 2022 and 
Miss E then applied for a policy with Aviva. I cant see whether or not Miss E accrued a 
years NCD on her previous policy.  
Aviva eventually cancelled Miss Es policy because she hadnt provided the required proof of 
her NCD despite its frequent chasers. Im satisfied that the relevant law in this case is not 
The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This is 
because Aviva didnt rely upon it to cancel Miss Es policy, but on her not complying with her 
policys terms and conditions. 
So Ive not considered Miss Es complaint in light of CIDRA. Our approach in cases like this 
is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
and fairly and reasonably.
Miss E is a young driver and inexperienced in applying for motor insurance. So Ive taken 
this into account when considering her complaint. Ive looked at the question she was asked 
about NCD when she completed the application. She was asked:
How many years of no claims discount do you have? 
And a help box provided information about how to find this out and what to do if you were 
starting from scratch. It said the NCD years would be stated on her renewal invitation from 
her previous insurer. I think this was a clear question asked by Aviva through the 
comparison site Miss E used.
Miss E chose one year, and shes explained that this was because shed had her previous 
policy for a year without making any claims. And she thought this implied that she had one 
years NCD. But this wasnt in keeping with the guidance given on the application. 
Miss E said she didnt want to answer 0 because she thought that would imply that she had 
made a claim. But I can see that the application asked a separate question about claims. 
And so I dont think this was a sufficient reason for Miss E to state 1 year. 
Miss E paid her deposit and Aviva then sent her policy documents to the email address she 
had provided. This eventually turned out not to a be a current email address. But I can see 
that Aviva sent frequent chasers and reminders to Miss E using different communication 
methods. So Miss E was made aware that Aviva required proof of her NCD to validate her 
policy. 
I can see that Aviva provided very clear instructions about what constituted valid proof of 
NCD entitlement and how to upload it. And Miss E did upload her previous policy 
documents. But one years NCD entitlement wasnt stated on the policy documents she had 
from her previous insurer. It stated that she had zero years at the start of the policy. And Im 
not satisfied that it was enough for Miss E to think it would be implied because she had said 
she hadnt made any claims. 
Aviva then responded to Miss E saying that this document wasnt sufficient as it didnt state 
the number of NCD years at the end of the policy. Aviva told her what to do next. She could 
upload the correct NCD proof, or she could change her NCD entitlement to zero. It also 
explained that it would cancel the policy if she didnt act to correct the error. Aviva provided a 
telephone number Miss E could call if she needed help.  
Mr E has explained that Miss E didnt respond to this email or to Avivas other 
communications as she could see her policy document had uploaded to her online account. 
That was unfortunate as Miss E could then have resolved the matter. 
Aviva then cancelled Miss Es policy because she didnt provide the requested proof of her 
NCD. I can see that it sent her many chasers using a variety of communication methods to 
upload her proof of NCD to her account. And Im satisfied that Aviva acted within the policys 
terms and conditions when it cancelled her policy after giving notice.  
Aviva refunded Miss Es premiums except for a charge for her time on cover and the 
cancellation. Miss E had recalled her last payment so I think an amount may still be 
outstanding and its for Miss E to repay this. I dont require Aviva to do anything further. 
Aviva also said it didnt record the cancellation and Miss E neednt disclose this to future 
insurers because it hadnt avoided the policy. But I dont agree as Aviva did cancel the policy 
and Miss E has a responsibility to make a full disclosure if a future insurer asks her if she 
has had a policy cancelled. Miss E may then be able to explain her particular circumstances 
to the new insurer.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman