DRN-4386389
The complaint
Mrs Ps complaint is about a claim she made on her U K Insurance Limited (UKI) rent 
guarantee insurance policy, which UKI declined.
Mrs P says UKI treated her unfairly and should accept her claim.
All references to UKI include their claims handlers.
What happened
Mrs P made a claim on her UKI rent guarantee insurance policy for reimbursement of 
outstanding rents that were owed to her by her tenant. UKI considered the claim and 
declined it. They said that Mrs P reported her claim for reimbursement of rent more than 90 
days after the arrears began.
Specifically, DAS said Mrs P reported her claim at the end of March 2023 but the arrears 
due to her started to accrue in April 2022. DAS said that if the arrears had been cleared 
within the reporting period, they may well have considered Mrs Ps claim but given they 
didnt and continued to accrue thereafter, her claim falls outside the policy terms.
Mrs P feels this is unfair. She says she didnt think it was fair to claim against the policy with 
a view to starting eviction proceedings in May 2022 because the tenants only fell short of 
their rent by £225, which amounted to about one third of the monthly amount payable. 
Because of this, she took no action until February 2023 when the tenants stopped paying 
rent entirely and she could no longer make contact with them. She says she claimed against 
the policy at that time because she needed to start eviction proceedings. Mrs P has also 
pointed out that she didnt need to recover rent from the tenants back in May 2022- she 
could have taken this from their deposit instead. Because of this she feels that UKI should 
honour her claim.
Our investigator considered Mrs Ps complaint and determined that it shouldnt be upheld. 
She said that Mrs Ps claim is excluded by the policy terms and if UKI were to accept the 
claim at this stage, they would suffer prejudice. Mrs P doesnt agree so the matter has been 
passed to me to determine 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point is the policy terms. They say UKI will not pay:
a claim for Rent Arrears reported to (their claims handlers) more than 90 days after the date 
You should have known about the Insured Incident.
In this case the insured incident is the date Mrs Ps tenants fell into arrears of rent. I 
appreciate that in May 2022, those areas were not significant, such that Mrs P didnt think 
she had a need to claim on the policy, but the reporting obligations in this type of policy are 
clear- even if the arrears werent so considerable. By reporting the claim at the time, Mrs P 
would have preserved her position, particularly if the arrears then increased- as they did over 
time. In the absence of that, her claim is excluded because it was reported more than 90 
days after the arrears fell due. In this case, theres nothing to suggest those arrears were 
cleared before the further arrears shes also claiming for fell due. If they had been, DAS 
might have determined this to be a fresh claim, but as things stand, the arrears were 
outstanding for around 10 or 11 months before she notified UKI of her claim.  
I know Mrs P doesnt think its fair for UKI to turn down her claim in reliance of the exclusion 
theyve quoted, so Ive also thought about whether it would be fair and reasonable for UKI to 
accept the claim. Ive considered the submissions UKI has made about the pricing of its 
policies and how claims made within the usual reporting period contribute to that. Accepting 
a claim outside the policy parameters isnt something theyve taken into account when doing 
so. I appreciate what they say about this, and I understand the wider implications of their 
accepting this claim. In this case I think the immediate prejudice to them is the fact that they 
werent able to mitigate their loss as a consequence of being notified of the claim at the right 
time. Had Mrs P have notified them when those arrears fell due, UKI wouldve had the 
opportunity to take action on her behalf to mitigate further sums falling due, which they would 
ultimately need to reimburse her for. Because she notified them so late, UKI have now lost 
this opportunity. As such I dont think its reasonable for them to now reimburse her for the 
sums shes claiming.
I understand UKI has accepted the claim for eviction and rent recovery however and 
appointed a firm of Solicitors to act for Mrs P in respect of that claim. Its possible that Mrs P 
will be successful in recovering the sums shes owed through that means. So, whilst my 
decision will be disappointing to her, she may still be successful in recouping her losses.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint against U K Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman