DRN-3316081
The complaint
Mr S complains New Leaf Distribution Limited (New Leaf) gave him poor service in relation 
to a pension transfer. And he is also unhappy that New Leaf withdrew from the pension 
transfer advice market during the process. He says a combination of these delays put his 
home at risk and caused him and his wife distress.
What happened
Mr S had two Occupational Pension Scheme plans (OPS) that he was interested in 
transferring. He was considering the best way to pay off his mortgage and began 
discussions with New Leaf in 2018 with this in mind. Mr S had been in discussions with his 
previous adviser about an enhanced annuity, however he was referred to New Leaf as 
they were in a more convenient location.
Mr S had already completed a Heart attack, angina and other heart conditions 
questionnaire in May 2018 with the previous adviser, before being passed onto New Leaf. 
On the form Mr S had written:
Another health questionnaire was completed in November 2018 with New Leaf. This time 
Mr S noted that he had been prescribed Furosemide in the Heart Failure section. Mr S 
also added that he experienced blackouts and breathlessness. GPs letters from 2016 and 
2017 noted that Mr S was suffering with atrial fibrillation, memory loss and balance issues.
Between November 2018 and April 2019 New Leaf say they were obtaining new cash 
equivalent transfers (CETVs) for Mr Ss pensions and preparing the advice for the transfer. 
The annuity provider selected, said that in November 2018 they queried the Heart Failure 
and Angina diagnosis dates with New Leaf and asked that this information be confirmed 
before applications were submitted.
New Leaf produced illustrations in April 2019 for a regular income for a total of £10,479 per 
year with the provider in question and drafted a suitability report on this basis. The income 
illustrations were produced on the assumption that Mr S would receive an enhanced 
income on the basis that he was suffering from heart failure.
I understand further enquiries were made by the annuity provider after Mr Ss application 
was submitted, with the eventual outcome being heart failure was taken off the quotation and 
this reduced the quote by around 12%.
Separately to this, in June 2019, New Leaf decided to withdraw from giving advice about 
transferring defined benefit pensions and Mr S had to appoint a new financial adviser.
Mr S complained about New Leafs advice and service. He expressed disappointment and 
surprise that New Leaf had withdrawn from the defined pension market. This had left him 
in a difficult position, with his home under threat. New Leaf didnt uphold the complaint. 
They stated that Mr S had given inaccurate information on the health questionnaires 
which wasnt New Leafs fault. New Leaf also stated that they had withdrawn from the 
advice market due to commercial reasons, which they were entitled to do.
Mr S has told us that he didnt go ahead with the enhanced annuity option after speaking to 
the new adviser and instead went into a flexible drawdown plan.
Our investigator looked into matters and concluded that the complaint should be upheld in 
part. He said as Mr S didnt have heart failure it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to award 
redress as if he did.
But he felt that New Leaf couldve acted on the information it was given by the annuity 
provider sooner. The investigator said New Leaf ought to have known there was some doubt 
about the potential of receiving the annuity quoted due to the issue with the diagnosis. But 
hed taken into account the fact that the uncertainty arose from Mr S. And even if New Leaf 
had acted quicker, Mr S would still have had to spend time getting this clarified with his 
doctors.
The investigator also said the main part of the delay was caused when New Leaf decided to 
leave the market. He didnt feel New Leaf could be held responsible here as it was entitled to 
do so and its reasons were understandable. In conclusion he said New Leaf should pay Mr S 
£250 for the trouble and upset caused by its delay in letting Mr S know of the issue with the 
enhanced annuity quote.
Mr Ss representative disagreed with this. She said New Leafs decision to withdraw from the 
advice process put Mr Ss house at risk and caused him a lot of stress and worry. She 
understood that firms could decide what business they chose to take on  but withdrawing 
advice that far along in the process was unethical and unfair. And New Leaf knew that there 
was a time and financial pressure for Mr S with his home at risk.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and for broadly 
similar reasons.
Mr S accepts that the enhanced annuity with a diagnosis of heart failure cannot fairly be 
awarded to him (or any loss paid on this basis), as he wasnt entitled to this. But Ive 
considered whether any potential avoidable delays caused by New Leaf should be 
compensated.Ive listened to a call between the annuity provider and Mr Ss representative and its clear 
that the potential heart failure diagnosis caused a lot of confusion. The adviser couldve 
contacted Mr S earlier to let him know that the diagnosis needed to be confirmed when it 
was raised by the provider. But Mr S still had to have further appointments with his 
cardiologist to get more details about his condition  and its difficult to say how much of a 
delay the non-disclosure of the providers queries  actually caused. And it was Mr S that 
unwittingly caused this confusion. I have to take into account that the adviser isnt a medical 
professional and so was reliant on the information given by Mr S. Even at the time of the 
conversation between Mr Ss representative and the annuity provider, its still wasnt 100% 
certain whether Mr S had heart failure and/or the extent of his related conditions. Whilst the 
adviser potentially couldve questioned the diagnosis immediately, as Mr S did put a 
question mark on the form, it also couldve been read as the question mark related to the 
date of diagnosis. And if he thought the only question was the date of diagnosis, he wouldnt 
have known that this could cause such significant problems later on in the process.
In any event regardless of the delays involved, Mr S didnt qualify for the enhanced rate due 
to heart failure  so he didnt lose out financially due to this. The impact it had was a 
potential delay in Mr S receiving funds (and the stress this caused), and a loss of 
expectation. Im not persuaded that New Leaf can be held responsible for the loss of 
expectation. The medical issues were complicated and whilst the adviser couldve told Mr S 
the rate could go down if the diagnosis wasnt confirmed  I cant be sure the adviser 
wouldve thought the diagnosis was in question. Or whether hed have known that there 
would be a large drop in the quote if it was.
Mr S eventually didnt go ahead with an enhanced annuity either. After meeting with a new 
adviser Mr S chose to take flexible drawdown, which he sees as a more suitable option for 
him.
Its possible that had the adviser communicated earlier with Mr S about the potential issues, 
Mr S wouldve transferred and taken his benefits before New Leaf withdrew from the market. 
But then Mr S would have an enhanced annuity that he subsequently didnt want. There are 
a lot of unknowns and its difficult to say what wouldve happened, how much of a delay was 
actually caused, and to quantify the impact any delay had on Mr S.
I dont doubt this process caused Mr S considerable stress and worry. He required the 
money to pay off his mortgage and if this didnt happen his and his wifes home was at risk. 
This wouldve been a worrying time for him. But I can only award compensation that relates 
to an error attributable to the business. It definitely didnt help matters that towards the end 
of the process the adviser had to tell Mr S that he could no longer proceed as New Leaf 
were leaving the market. Whilst this was very poor timing for Mr S, New Leaf has explained 
that it took this decision due to concerns about its insurance. Transferring Defined Benefit 
schemes such as Mr Ss, carries risk with potential exposure to costly claims and even 
regulator action if it is deemed to have done wrong. So whilst untimely, New Leaf was 
entitled to make this decision  and in doing so it meant that it wouldnt receive any payment 
from Mr S for its work. So I dont think it acted unfairly here.
As Ive said its difficult to say with any certainty, how much of a delay New Leaf are 
responsible for. And even then if this delay wouldve actually made any difference as New 
Leaf wouldve withdrawn from the market in any event. And Mr S chose a different path 
afterwards as well. Therefore, its also hard to ascertain how much of the distress felt by Mr 
S was due to anything New Leaf did wrong.
All things considered, pension transfers can be complex matters that take time and can be 
stressful regardless of how good a job the adviser does. The additional stress factors here were due to the importance of this transfer to Mr Ss finances and quality of life. But its hard 
to attribute anything New Leaf did wrong to this.  But New Leaf couldve done more to keep 
Mr S informed of the progress and status of his enhanced annuity application and so I do 
think an award should be made. However, I think the impact of its failure to do so, is quite 
limited in the circumstances. So I think the £250 recommended by the investigator as 
compensation for its delay in relaying information to Mr S is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against New Leaf Distribution Limited in part and award £250 to Mr S 
for the reasons explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman