DRN-4210321
The complaint
Miss S has complained through a representative that Western Circle Ltd trading as Cashfloat 
(Cashfloat) didnt carry out sufficient affordability checks before it granted loans to her.  
What happened
A summary of Miss Ss borrowing can be found below. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
monthly 
instalmentslargest 
repayment per 
loan
1 £500.00 26/05/2020 24/07/2020 3 £245.58
Gap in lending 
2 £400.00 13/12/2021 21/12/2021 4 £172.80
Gap in lending 
3 £700.00 12/06/2022 03/08/2022 6 £218.25
Cashfloat wrote to Miss Ss representative with a final response letter and explained why it 
didnt consider an error had been made by providing these loans. Cashfloat did offer, as a 
gesture of goodwill, £50 in full and final settlement of the complaint. Unhappy with this 
response, Miss S referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator, and she didnt uphold it. In summary, this 
was because there were gaps between each loan. She also thought that Cashfloat had 
carried out proportionate checks - which showed the loans to be affordable. 
Miss Ss representative didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. They say Cashfloat 
ought to have done additional checks before each loan was approved. Had it done so, the 
representative says that Cashfloat wouldve seen other payday loans and that Miss S was 
taking cash advances. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to resolve. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Cashfloat had to assess the lending to check if Miss S could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Cashfloats checks could have taken into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Miss Ss income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Cashfloat should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss S. These factors include:
Miss S having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss S having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss S coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss S. The adjudicator didnt think this 
applied to Miss Ss complaint and I would agree as there were 3 loans in 3 lending chains.
Cashfloat was required to establish whether Miss S could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss S was able to 
repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Ss complaint. 
There are significant breaks in lending before loans 2 and 3 were granted. These breaks, in 
my view, are significant enough for Cashfloat to have treated Miss Ss second and third loan 
applications as if she was a new customer. This does have implications for the proportionate 
nature of the checks, because this means the second and third loan effectively become the 
first loan in a new chain. Ive kept this in mind when thinking about Miss Ss overall lending 
history. 
Before these loans were approved, Cashfloat took details of Miss Ss income and 
expenditure. Cashfloat recorded that Miss S worked full time and received a monthly salary 
of £2,300 when loan 1 was granted, £3,000 for loan 2 and £2,600 when loan 3 was 
advanced.  
For loans 1 and 3 Miss S declared additional income, which Cashfloat says could include 
benefits, bonuses or any other sources of income. But Cashfloat says this additional; 
income wasnt used in its calculations when determining Miss Ss affordability. But Cashfloat 
says it wouldve been mindful that Miss S had additional source(s) of income.
Cashfloat says Miss Ss declared income was cross referenced with a third-party salary tool, 
and the results were positive, indicating a high degree of accuracy. In addition, for loan 2, 
Cashfloat also obtained a copy of Miss Ss payslip  the decision to obtain a copy of her 
payslip was reasonable. 
Cashfloat also made enquiries about Miss Ss living costs, which she declared to be £992 
per month for loan 1, £300 for loan 2 and £1,262 for loan 2. 
Its worth saying here that Cashfloat says that it assessed Miss Ss monthly expenditure 
using what it calls trigger values  taken from a well-known debt charity and these values 
take account of an applicants job, location, homeowner status to name a few factors. Having used these trigger values, it estimated Miss Ss monthly outgoings were at a 
maximum likely to be £2,025. Even using the larger monthly outgoings along, there was just 
about sufficient disposable income for Miss S to be able to afford the repayments for the 
loans. 
It doesnt appear that Cashfloat carried out a credit search before these loans were 
approved. This means, that, as Miss S had not included the cash advance repayments in her 
expenditure, Cashfloat wasnt aware of these advances that Miss S may have taken in the 
months before each loan. But there was no regulatory requirement to complete a credit 
search. So, the fact no credit search was likely conducted isnt a reason to solely uphold the 
complaint.
Ive also thought about the overall lending pattern, such as the amounts that were borrowed 
and the breaks in lending, wouldnt in my view, have caused Cashfloat to think that further 
checks were necessary. I also dont think the lending pattern ought to have led Cashfloat to 
conclude that the loans were unsustainable. 
Based on the checks that Cashfloat did do, Im satisfied these were proportionate to the 
circumstances of each loan. So, I dont think it had yet reached the point where Cashfloat 
needed to have verified the information beyond what it did. I say this because Miss Ss 
borrowing history  including the amounts borrowed, the gaps between loans, the way 
Miss S repaid his loans, as well as what Cashfloat discovered through its checks - wouldnt, 
in my view have led it to be believe that it needed to go further, such as reviewing copy bank 
statements. In my view, to have reviewed the bank statements wouldve been 
disproportionate in the circumstances. 
Taking account of the lending relationship  Miss S was only granted 3 loans in three lending 
chains; proportionate checks were carried out and there also wasnt anything to suggest that 
Miss S was having either current financial difficulties or to indicate the loan repayments 
would be unsustainable for her. 
Taking everything into account, I do no not uphold Miss Ss complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, I am not upholding Miss Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman