DRN-3335245
The complaint
Mr A complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard dealt with his 
application to increase his credit limit.
What happened
Mr A says he opened a Barclaycard credit card account in August 2021. He says he was told 
the credit limit could be increased if he provided evidence of income. Mr A says he provided 
Barclaycard with all of the requested evidence, but it wouldnt accept it and later unfairly 
closed his account. He would like compensation for the loss of his earnings, an apology and 
for the account to be re-opened.
Barclaycard says it accepts it wasnt as clear as it ought to have been when Mr A first 
contacted it and has apologised as well as paying £25 compensation. It says it then wrote to 
Mr A and explained what information it needed but Mr A didnt provide the information and 
so closed the account. Barclaycard says initially Mr A only provided one bank account 
statement and provided tax information that was out of date. It says it told Mr A that he could 
e-mail it the information rather than upload it and provided clear information on how to obtain 
a required tax document.
Mr A brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator accepted that Barclaycard could have been clearer in its initial information 
request but thought the compensation was appropriate. The investigator thought Barclaycard 
then explained exactly what information it needed but Mr A didnt provide it by the deadline 
and so it was entitled to close the account.
Mr A doesnt accept that view and says he provided the correct documents in the correct 
format.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
Credit card providers must carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any credit card 
account application to ensure an account is affordable. Those checks are mandatory and 
part of a lenders regulatory duty. So, I dont think Barclaycard acted unfairly by asking Mr A 
for his bank statements and for his tax return information so that it could assess the 
affordability of the account. I make clear to Mr A that I think its up to Barclaycard to decide 
what information it requires in order to comply with its regulatory duty.
There is no question or dispute here that initially Barclaycard was not as clear as it ought to 
have been when making the information request. I can see that Barclaycard has fairly 
apologised for that mistake and paid what I think is a fair and reasonable compensation 
amount of £25. I dont think that lack of clarity is the main part of the complaint and didnt 
result in Mr A suffering any financial loss.
I have looked carefully at Barclaycards letter of 9 September 2021 which I think is the key 
document in this complaint. Im satisfied that Barclaycard explained exactly what was 
needed in a clear format. It told Mr A it needed his account statements not one as he had 
previously submitted and a tax form SA302 or a tax calculation in a required format. Having 
looked at that letter Im satisfied that it told Mr A what he needed to provide. I can also see 
that on 7 October 2021 Barclaycard told Mr A again what he needed to provide and also 
gave him detailed advice on how to obtain the exact form it needed. It follows that I think 
Barclaycard tried to help Mr A obtain the required documents. And that it fairly agreed that 
Mr A could e-mail it the documents if there were problems uploading them.
I appreciate Mr A did provide various documents and did provide his bank account 
statements. But Im satisfied that Mr A did not provide the required tax return information in 
the required format and/or didnt provide the SA302 form by the deadline for doing so. In 
those circumstances Im satisfied that Barclaycard in line with agreed account terms and 
conditions was entitled to close Mr As account.
Overall, I accept at the start of complaint that Barclaycard could have explained what it 
needed clearer that it did. But Im satisfied that from early September 2021 Barclaycard 
made clear what it needed to progress Mr As application and provided him with a step by 
step guide to obtain that information. I find the information was not provided in the correct 
format and so Barclaycard did not make a mistake or act unfairly by closing Mr As account. 
It follows that I cant fairly order Barclaycard to re-open this account or pay Mr A the 
compensation he would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman