DRN-3325762
The complaint
Ms Is complaint is about ongoing issues with how Fairmead Insurance Limited have dealt 
with a claim made under a buildings insurance policy.
All references to Fairmead include its appointed agents.
What happened
Im aware that my summary of events will be in far less detail than that provided by the
parties concerned. But Id like to reassure everyone that Ive carefully considered everything
that has been provided. Ill set out the events which I find relevant to my decision below.
Ms I made a claim to Fairmead for subsidence damage to her property around 2014. After
some time, Ms I raised a complaint about the way her claim had been handled and the
delays she said Fairmead has caused. She was also unhappy her policy had been
cancelled.
Our service adjudicated the complaint in 2016. The complaint was upheld, and Ms I was
awarded £500 compensation for the distress caused by the policy cancellation. Her policy
was reinstated, and Fairmead agreed to amend its records to show Ms I had raised one
subsidence claim only. Fairmead also agreed to consider further associated costs Ms I may
have incurred during the claim.
Following our services adjudication, Ms I raised further complaints points about Fairmeads
handling of the claim. She didnt say whether she accepted our adjudicators findings in
relation to the first complaint.
Fairmead provided a final response to Ms I in March 2017. It addressed Ms Is concerns with
aspects of the claim, including issues with the damp specialist appointments. Fairmead
asked for evidence of the costs Ms I had incurred and awarded £100 compensation for the
distress and inconvenience it had caused for some further delays in the claim. It advised
Ms I that she needed to refer any complaint to our service within six months of the date of
the letter.
Around February 2018, Fairmead wrote to Ms I and made an offer to cash settle the claim. It
also addressed the areas of damage in Ms Is property and explained what it was liable for.
Ms I says the cash settlement was rejected by her son  who at the time was dealing with
the claim on her behalf. Fairmead has said there is no evidence of the offer being rejected.
Instead, Fairmead says it chased Ms I to see how she wished to proceed with the claim but
received no response. Following a period of some months and further chasers, Fairmead
closed the claim around December 2018.
Around August 2020 Ms I raised a further complaint to Fairmead. In summary she said:
She was unhappy with the terms of the cash settlement made in 2018.
The property needed urgent repairs and was uninhabitable.
That Fairmead needed to take further action against the water board for the damp
related issues.
Fairmead appointed a loss adjuster to visit Ms Is property to inspect the damage and
provide a report to respond to her concerns. Fairmead then provided its final response in
November 2021.
Fairmead maintained its position that the cash settlement offered in 2018 was correct based
on the evidence it had reviewed. It said that the claims related damage did not render the
property uninhabitable. And it said that the damp issues werent claims related, so it was
unable to assist with this matter.
Fairmead concluded that there was significant damage being claimed for that predated
Ms Is policy. And it said that the appropriate repairs remained outstanding which in turn had
caused the existing damage to deteriorate. So, it said it would be unable to consider this
under the terms of Ms Is policy.
Ms I disagreed with Fairmeads response and referred the complaint to our service. In
summary she said:
Fairmead hadnt done anything in regard to the 2016 adjudication by our service. And
her policy had now been cancelled for a second time.
The cash settlement offered wouldnt be sufficient to fix the external cause of the
subsidence, so there was little point in rectifying the internal damage until this had
been fixed.
The property had been rendered uninhabitable following assessments by the local
fire brigade and housing standards officer
The cause of subsidence was linked to an escape of water, which should be the
insurers responsibility to investigate.
She had attempted some repairs such as that to the front door but that due to the
ongoing movement this was no longer possible.
The overall effect of this claim on her physical and mental health had been stressful
and traumatic.
The complaint was referred to me and on 21 January 2022 I set in my provisional decision 
what I thought Fairmead needed to do to put things right. Ive repeated an extract below:
This claim has spanned many years and has clearly been stressful for Ms I based on the
detail in her submissions. I understand how keen she is for a resolution to the matter.
So, Ive first looked at whether our service can consider the aspects of Ms Is complaint to
which Fairmead responded in March 2017.Fairmeads March 2017 final response
The rules applying to this service state that, unless the business agrees, I cant consider a
complaint referred to us more than six months after the date it sends the consumer its final
response letter, telling them they can refer their complaint to us. This is set out in Dispute
Resolution (DISP) rule 2.8.2R(1), which can be found online in the Financial Conduct
Authoritys handbook. Or we can provide a copy on request.
Ive seen a copy of Fairmeads final response letter, which is dated 9 March 2017. And I can
see it clearly states Ms I needs to refer the complaint to our service within six months of the
letter. Ive checked our records and the evidence provided by Ms I and Im satisfied that Ms I
first contacted us about her intention to complain in August 2020. This means it wasnt
referred to us within the six-month time limit.
Ive considered whether Ms I was delayed in referring the complaint to us as a result of
exceptional circumstances. Ms I says she was unwell during this period so her son took over
dealing with the claim. And I can see that around October 2017 he contacted Fairmead to
advise he was dealing with the claim on her behalf.
I have no reason to doubt Ms Is testimony here  its clear from the evidence shes provided
that she was unwell. And Ive thought carefully about what shes said, but on balance, I dont
think she was prevented from bringing the complaint to us in time.
So Im sorry to disappoint Ms I, but I intend to find that I am unable to consider the aspects
of her complaint to which Fairmead responded prior to March 2017 because this part of the
complaint was referred too late.
However, to be clear, I do intend to consider the events that Ms I has raised from
10 March 2017 (the day after Fairmeads previous final response) to 27 November 2021
(the date of Fairmeads recent final response) in order to arrive at a relevant and fair
answer.
Ill next go on to consider Ms Is concerns about Fairmeads lack of action since our services
previous adjudication, and her policy cancellation. Ill then consider Ms Is unhappiness with
Fairmeads cash settlement offer and look at whether Fairmead is liable for any further
damage that Ms I says it is responsible for. Finally, Ill consider if there were any avoidable
delays in the period set out above and if so whether this merits any compensation for the
distress and inconvenience Ms I says Fairmead has caused.
Claim developments since our services adjudication in 2016
Ms I says our services adjudication recommended Fairmead reinstate her insurance and fix
the property, but that nothings happened since. Ive read a copy of the 2016 adjudication
and I agree that Fairmead were told to reinstate the policy, which it did. But the remaining
recommendations were linked to moving the claim forward and reimbursing Ms I for costs
incurred. Ive included some brief extracts here for reference:
Looking at the report provided by the damp specialist, I can see that whilst this details the
damp present, no opinion is given on what caused this. In this case, I think it reasonable that
L&G [Fairmead] should be given the opportunity to determine the cause of the damp issues
and assess its liability in this respect, before drawing up an updated scope of repairs.I dont know exactly what repairs L&G intends to carry out. So I cant make any assessment
in this respect...While I appreciate damage or distortion caused by a lack of lateral restraints
isnt something which would be covered by this policy, I would expect L&G to consider all
subsidence damage, taking into account the ABI subsidence agreement, as well as our
established approach, when drawing up a new scope.
Therefore, I cannot see any evidence that our service directed Fairmead to repair the
property at this time. And further, Ms I didnt respond to our service within the timeframe
provided at the time to say whether she agreed with the adjudicators findings. So, the
complaint was closed and Fairmead ultimately werent bound by the findings.
However, I can see Fairmead contacted our service after the adjudication and accepted the
findings in principle. And through its actions I am persuaded it was attempting to move the
claim forward; it arranged further reports and site visits until a scope of works could be
drawn up in February 2018.
So, Im satisfied from the evidence provided that Fairmead made reasonable attempts to
move the claim forward following our services 2016 adjudication, and I dont intend to
uphold this part of the complaint.
Policy cancellation
The policy documents provided show the policy is jointly insured in the names of Ms I and
her mortgage lender. The documents also show the policy was taken out by the lender to
protect its interest in the property (i.e. the outstanding mortgage balance) in the absence of
Ms I providing evidence of any other buildings insurance cover.
Fairmead has provided evidence to show this policy was part of a larger book of policies
taken out by the lender. And it has also provided evidence the relationship with the lender
came to an end around 2018, when the Buildings Only policies (which included Ms Is)
closed for new business, and the policies lapsed in August 2019.
As this decision concerns the actions of Fairmead, I cannot comment on the lenders
decision to move this book of policies to a different insurer. Ms I would need to take this up
with the lender directly. But Im satisfied Fairmead wasnt responsible for the decision to
cancel the policy, so I dont intend to require it to do anything further here.
Fairmead have continued to deal with the claim for the time Ms I was on cover with them.
I think this is reasonable in the circumstances.
Cash settlement
I understand Ms Is concerns about the overall damage to the property, and why she feels
Fairmeads cash settlement wont be sufficient to fix all of the damage. But in order to uphold
this complaint, Id need to see firm evidence Fairmeads scope of works was unfairly
calculated against the terms set out in the policy and its overall liability on the claim.
Ive considered all of the expert reports provided by both parties to get an understanding of
the original condition of the property, and to see if Fairmeads scope was fair and
reasonable.Fairmeads loss adjuster wrote to Ms I around January 2018 to set out the limit of its liability
under the policy. In summary it said:
The distortion and some of the crack damage was historic and could be linked to a
claim for the same property which was declined in 2003. As such some of the
recommended repairs, such as rebuilding part of the structure and installing of
lateral restraint ties appeared outstanding from that time and wouldnt form part of
the current works.
There was a penetrating damp issue in the property, which a damp specialist had
confirmed wasnt linked to the drain issue at the front left corner of the property. So
the policy wouldnt cover for any damp related treatment or damage remedial works.
That it would notify the water company of the issue of settlement in the side alleyway
and ask them to investigate as it was most likely linked to recent drain repairs.
As such, the scope of works would comprise of robust structural crack repairs and
redecoration works to cover the movement and damage which had occurred since
the policy started.
Having carefully considered everything, I am persuaded there is a degree of historic damage
present which wouldnt be fair to require Fairmead to cover. Ill explain why below.
Fairmead has provided evidence to show the movement happened as far back as 2003. And
the report from the time states This movement would appear to have occurred over many
years and to have largely stabilised at the present time. In addition, there is evidence a
surveyor was instructed by Ms I around 2007 who recommended repairs which werent
done. So, I am persuaded Fairmead can fairly turn down any damage relating to this
movement due to the historic nature and lack of mitigation by Ms I.
Having read the damp specialist reports provided from 2016 and the more comprehensive
report from 2017, I am persuaded the issues of damp identified dont fall under an insurable
event of Ms Is policy. I say this because the 2017 report states, The moisture profile was
typical of rising dampness, penetrating dampness and interstitial condensation. Ive not
seen any firm evidence to dispute the damp issue is persistent due to identified defects in
the report. So, I dont intend to require Fairmead to contribute to the cost of these repairs
either.
Ive considered Ms Is comments about the cause of the subsidence being linked to an
escape of water. I can see Fairmead notified the water company of a localised settlement
issue, but the reports Ive read instead link the subsidence to historic ground movement
based on the soil composition and lack of lateral restraint to the wall. So, I cant agree that
the escape of water from a local drain was the main cause of all the movement, and I dont
think Fairmead needs to investigate this further.
Ive next considered the scope of works Fairmead has provided. I can see the scope covers
the identified crack repairs and redecoration costs for the affected rooms and is linked to the
movement measured since Ms I raised the claim. Overall, I am satisfied the scope fairly sets
out the damage Fairmead is responsible for under the policy terms.
Given the evident complications of completing an effective and lasting repair in light of the
historic movement and damp problems, Im satisfied Fairmeads decision to cash settle the
claim is reasonable in the circumstances and an option available to it under the terms of the
policy.Additional damage
Ms I says there is additional damage which has now rendered the property uninhabitable,
and I was sorry to read of her situation here. And I understand she has attempted some
repairs to the property. But in order to uphold this point in Ms Is favour, I would need to see
some firm evidence that Fairmeads actions directly contributed to the further damage and
deterioration of the property.
Following Ms Is complaint, Fairmead reengaged with the claim and sent a surveyor to the
property to inspect the damage. The surveyor concluded that Further subsidence to the
gable and some of the internal walls, and lateral movement to the gable has occurred over
the last three yearsIn respect of the separate issue of damp ingress, the damage to the
fabric is extensive and appears to have deteriorated further.
Ive taken into account Ms Is comment that her son rejected the cash settlement but Ive not
seen any evidence of this  the last correspondence Ive seen indicated her son was
pursuing legal advice on whether to accept the cash settlement or not. Im satisfied
Fairmead made reasonable attempts to chase the matter with Ms I and only closed the claim
following an extended period of no response.
Ive not seen any evidence of Ms I rejecting the cash settlement directly until the matter was
raised with Fairmead in 2020. So, I dont find the delay or associated damage here was as a
direct result of Fairmeads actions.
Therefore, I find it reasonable for Fairmead to make the original cash settlement payment as
set out in the 2018 scope of works. I think it reasonably calculated its liability at this time and
has carried out extensive investigations to determine the cause and scope of damage at the
property.
I dont intend to make an additional interest award in this case for the time Ms I was without
the funds as I dont find Fairmead responsible for the additional damage or delays being
complained about.
Conclusion
I appreciate Ms I will most likely be very disappointed that I am not upholding the majority of
her complaint. But having carefully considered the evidence provided, I am not persuaded
that Fairmead is liable for all of the repairs she claims. And I am not persuaded it is
responsible for any unavoidable delays in the claim for the period Ive considered.
Whilst I dont doubt the claim and overall experience has caused Ms I a great deal of upset,
again I cannot fairly attribute this to Fairmeads actions for the period Ive considered. So, I
dont intend to make any further award for compensation here.
How I propose Fairmead should put things right
To put things right for Ms I, Fairmead should:
-Pay the cash settlement of £7,002.17 subject to the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy (such as an excess).Developments
Fairmead responded to my provisional decision and confirmed it didnt have anything else to 
add. Ms I also responded to my provisional decision and said she didnt have any further 
evidence to submit.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any new evidence or arguments Ive reached the same conclusions I 
reached in my provisional decision, for the same reasons.
I therefore uphold Ms Is complaint in part.
Putting things right
To put things right for Ms I, Fairmead should:
Pay the cash settlement of £7,002.17 subject to the remaining terms and conditions
of the policy (such as an excess).
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint is upheld in part. Fairmead Insurance Limited must 
put things right by doing what Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman