DRN-1505814
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them 
payment protection insurance (PPI) with their mortgage.
What happened 
Mr and Mrs W took out a mortgage with PPI in 1999.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold their complaint. Mr and Mrs W didnt agree with this view. They 
have a number of concerns. But, in summary, they mainly complain that they werent given 
the choice to decline PPI, it was never made clear to them that it was optional and they 
didnt need the policy.  
What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain why and deal with all the 
main complaint issues that affect the outcome.
Mr and Mrs W took out the mortgage in joint names and they both had PPI. So Ive looked at 
both their circumstances when the policy was taken out.  
I think that Halifax probably did make them aware that PPI was optional and they chose to 
have it. Its completely understandable they mightve forgotten this after so long. But Ill 
explain why I say this. 
Theres a section on Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage application headed Accident, Sickness and 
Unemployment Insurance where it says: We recommend that you consider our Mortgage 
Repayments Insurance Scheme. I dont think this wording wouldve suggested their 
mortgage wouldnt have been available without PPI. 
Mr and Mrs W have both signed this part of the form in the box where it says: Yes, I would 
like to take advantage of Mortgage Repayments Insurance. 
As well as this, Mr and Mrs W also completed a separate PPI application form which they 
had to sign to get the policy. This included an option to increase the amount of benefit 
payable. Mr and Mrs W opted to include this extra benefit on top of buying cover to protect 
their mortgage monthly repayments. 
Ive taken into account what Mr and Mrs W say about the way the PPI was sold to them. But 
what they say isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold their complaint. I must look 
at all the available information and decide what I think is most likely. On balance, I find the mortgage paperwork shows that PPI was presented as optional on the 
forms they signed and makes it clear that it was up to Mr and Mrs W to say if they wanted to 
take it out with their mortgage. And the policy was added to their account when 
Mr and Mrs W indicated they wanted PPI.
Halifax recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs W and it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable. 
Mr and Mrs W were both eligible for the policy. And as they were both earning and 
contributing to the mortgage, sharing the policy benefit between them seems reasonable to 
me. 
Although Mr and Mrs W both had good work benefits, the policy wouldve covered their 
mortgage monthly repayments in the event of disability for up to 24 months per claim. That 
was longer than they could've relied on getting sick pay from their employer  and the policy 
would've paid out on top of sick pay from work, providing a useful benefit at a difficult time  
especially if they mightve faced extra costs as a result of disability or sickness. 
The policy also offered Mr and Mrs W protection in the event either (or both) of them became 
unexpectedly unemployed  it couldve paid out for up to 24 months in those circumstances. 
And they couldve made repeated claims on the policy giving them long term protection for 
their mortgage.  
Ive taken into account that Mr and Mrs W had some savings. But I dont know if they 
wouldve always had savings they could rely on if theyd needed to make a claim. 
Having PPI meant they could keep their savings intact to provide financial security for the 
future. I think that mightve been an important consideration for Mr and Mrs W at the time as 
they chose to keep some savings in place when they took out their mortgage. 
Their mortgage was a major financial commitment repayable over a significant number of 
years. Looking at Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances at the time, I think the PPI was a suitable 
recommendation for them and I think the policy couldve been useful to them. 
Mr and Mrs W werent affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover. So, I dont 
think it likely that having better information about the policys exclusions and limitations 
wouldve affected their decision to take it out.
There was some costs information on the application form Mr and Mrs W filled in when they 
signed up for PPI. They chose to buy extra cover to pay household bills as well as the 
mortgage. So it looks like they were happy to pay for the level of benefit they wanted and it 
doesnt look like keeping costs down was a priority.
Overall its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Mr and Mrs W still wouldve decided to buy the policy if theyd been better informed as 
the policy gave them useful protection in their particular situation. I dont think better 
information wouldve put them off buying PPI as it provided worthwhile benefits they wouldnt 
otherwise have had. 
Ive taken into account everything that Mr and Mrs W have told us. Overall, I havent seen 
enough to make me think that Mr and Mrs W lost out as a result of anything that Halifax did 
wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 May 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman