DRN-1581382
 
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold in 1998 with a 
store card. 
AXA France IARD (AXA), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for this sale. So to keep 
things simple in my decision Ill just say AXA when Im referring to the PPI seller or to AXA. 
Ms B says AXA mis-sold her the PPI.
background
The policy cost was £1 per £100 Ms B owed on her store card. The policy would have paid 
15% of the outstanding balance on the card each month if Ms B couldnt work because she 
had an accident, was unwell or lost her job. The policy also provided life cover as well as 
price and purchase protection.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. AXA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Bs case. 
I am upholding Ms Bs complaint. Ill explain the reasons why Ive reached this conclusion.
The store card was applied for on 31 January 1998 and the PPI had been declined at that 
time. The PPI was taken out in a telemarketing call on 7 July 1998. AXA told us that no 
advice was given and the policy wasnt recommended to Ms B. So, it didnt have to check 
that the policy was right for Ms B. But it did need to give her clear enough information to 
enable her to decide for herself if this cover was right for her.
Its maybe understandable that AXA hasnt been able to provide a copy of the telephone call 
in which the PPI was sold, considering that the sale took place so many years ago. And I 
have not seen any sales scripts that the representatives were supposed to follow at that 
time. Not that we could be certain any such scripts would have been faithfully adhered to in 
any particular call. So, I dont know what was said to Ms B, or what was supposed to have 
been said to Ms B. 
So, I havent any evidence to show that Ms B was given clear information about the cost of 
the policy, in real terms. Its possible AXA may have explained the amount she would pay for 
each pound she spent on the card, but I dont know if it explained that interest would be 
charged on those premiums if there was an outstanding balance or that she would need to keep paying the premiums during a claim. So I dont think it is likely Ms B would have been 
made aware of the true cost of the policy in real terms.
I think this would have mattered to Ms B as she has told us that she would have received 
sick pay for between six and twelve months if she was too ill to work. And Ms B also told us 
that she had savings that equated to six to twelve months of her pay. I am aware that the 
benefit of the policy was relatively high. But so was the cost. And given what Ms B has told 
us about her circumstances, I dont think that Ms B would have thought the policy was value 
for money if she had fully understood the costs.
AXA doesnt question the size of Ms Bs sick pay arrangements, but did question the scope 
and nature of Ms Bs savings. But AXA has presented no evidence that calls the savings into 
question. And these are the same details that Ms B shared with AXA when she brought her 
complaint to them initially. And Ive seen no evidence of any searching enquiry into the 
nature of these holdings at the time that AXA investigated the case before issuing its final 
response to Ms B. Ms B has been consistent in her testimony, in that she gave the same 
testimony to us as she had given to AXA on this matter. So, in thinking about this matter I 
have also thought about how long ago the sale was (over 21 years ago), and the difficulty 
that Ms B would most likely have faced in providing evidence in support of her testimony. So, 
considering all of this, in my opinion, I have seen insufficient evidence to undermine the 
accuracy of the testimony supplied to both AXA and us by Ms B. 
So, overall, based on what Ive seen and been told, I dont think AXA gave clear enough 
information to Ms B to enable her to decide if the policy was right for her. And, if it had, I 
dont think she would have taken the policy out as I dont think she would have considered it 
value for money. So I think Ms B has lost out as a result of what AXA did wrong.
putting things right
AXA should put Ms B in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A. AXA should find out how much Ms B would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on                
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-                  
sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Ms B owed when she closed                
her account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Ms B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got            
for the claim from the amount it owes her. 
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Ms B would have owed 
when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% a year. 
C. If  when AXA works out what Ms B would have owed each month without PPI  Ms B 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Ms B paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Ms B would have 
owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
D. AXA should tell Ms B what its done to work out A, B and C. HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give Ms 
B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Ms Bs complaint against AXA France IARD and 
require them to pay Ms B compensation as set out above.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman