DRN-3947006
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy at the amount of overdraft charges and fees applied to his account. He 
thinks TSB Bank plc (TSB) failed to provide financial assistance when he told it he was 
struggling to pay off his overdraft. 
What happened
Mr M had an account with TSB with a £500 overdraft facility. Mr M called TSB in March to 
query the charges on his account. During the call the TSB advisor explained there had been 
a change to its charging structure - it had stopped the monthly fee for its overdraft and 
introduced a daily interest charge. The advisor explained that as Mr M was at the top of his 
overdraft limit for most the month it worked out the charges cost him more than previously. 
Mr M informed the adviser that he was a student and that the charges were a lot of money 
for a student. Mr M was advised to clear the overdraft or bring it down to reduce the charges.
Following this TSB wrote to Mr M on 3 April letting him know he had exceeded his overdraft 
limit and asked him to settle the balance or contact it if he was experiencing financial 
difficulty. As the balance wasnt settled TSB wrote again on 26 April and informed him about 
the effect this could have on his credit file and provided a number to call to discuss 
repayment options. Again, having no response TSB stopped charging interest on 7 June and 
removed the overdraft facility the following day and confirmed this in writing. 
Following this Mr M contacted TSB and explained his financial situation and raised a 
complaint about the lack of support it had offered him. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ms concerns and reached the conclusion TSB hadnt 
done anything wrong or treated Mr M unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Mr M disagreed, so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, to be clear my decision only covers Mr Ms complaint point regarding the overdraft 
charges applied to his account and assistance TSB provided him. Any other complaint points 
outside of this will need to be raised with TSB first so it is given the opportunity to investigate 
and provide Mr M with a final answer.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Mr M has referred to the proportionality of the charges applied to his account. But before I go 
any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the various 
amounts TSB charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in 
comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at TSBs various 
charging structures per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr M if it 
applied any interest, fees and charges to Mr Ms account in circumstances where it was 
aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mr M was experiencing financial 
difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where TSB didnt treat Mr M fairly and 
reasonably before Mr M got in touch with it. I dont think that TSB did treat Mr M unfairly or 
unreasonably here though. I say this because having looked at Mr Ms statements for the 
period from 2016 to 2022, I can see little, if anything, to suggest that TSB ought to have 
realised Mr M might have been experiencing financial difficulties prior to it being notified of 
this. 
Mr Ms statements show that up until August 2021 while Mr M did use his overdraft, he was 
able to regularly see a healthy credit balance when credits came in. So I dont think there 
were signs which ought to have alerted TSB to any potential financial difficulty before Mr M 
raised it. And in these circumstances and where charges have been applied correctly in line 
with the terms and conditions of the account, I dont think that it was unreasonable for TSB 
to proceed with adding the interest, fees and charges that it did in light of how Mr Ms 
account was being used.
I can see that from August 2021 Mr M started using his account differently. Mr Ms 
statements show that he spent up to his overdraft limit and then as soon as a credit came 
into his account, he would transfer the same amount back out again and that Mr M wasnt 
really using the account from this point on. I can also see up until March 2022 Mr M would 
credit enough into the account to cover the overdraft interest applied to his account. 
It was at this point Mr M got in touch with TSB about the charges. Ive listened to the phone 
call between the TSB adviser and Mr M  the contents of which are outlined above. And 
although Mr M did mention he was a full-time student, he never said he was in financial 
difficulty, nor did he ask for help or a repayment plan. 
Potentially, the adviser could have been more proactive and asked if he wanted a repayment 
plan or asked if he needed assistance. But I dont think this really wouldve made a 
difference because within a month TSB started writing to Mr M regarding the status of his 
account, advising what he needed to do and asking him to contact it if he was in financial 
difficulty. And by June it stopped charging interest and removed the overdraft facility. All of 
this is in-line with what Id expect and recommend it do so I cant say TSB did anything 
wrong as it took action when it became apparent Mr M was struggling to manage his 
overdraft with it.
So overall, I dont think that TSB treated Mr M unfairly or unreasonably and this means that 
Im not upholding this complaint.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman