DRN-2556811
The complaint
Miss Hs complaint is that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt take the actions it should have when she 
disputed a payment she had made using her Lloyds Bank credit card.
What happened
Miss H paid £125 for a service on her car in November 2019. She says that the servicing 
garage charged her extra for the oil which shouldve been included in the cost of the service 
and that after collecting her car the engine management light came on. The servicing garage 
undertook diagnostics and said the issue was a fuel surge and said Miss H should continue 
driving and report the issue if it happened again. Miss H says the car didnt drive as it should 
 juddering, idling and losing power  and when she raised this with the servicing garage it 
said it would repair it, but this would be at Miss Hs cost. Miss H said she took the car to 
other mechanics for repair, but the issues werent resolved. She then took the car to a main 
dealer and was told the fuel vent valve wasnt connected properly. She says she was told 
this wouldnt happen on its own.
Miss H raised a chargeback with Lloyds Bank. She then raised a claim under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act (1974) (section 75) for consequential losses. She says she wasnt 
supported in her claim and that Lloyds Bank didnt provide the service it should have.
Lloyds Bank says that Miss H raised a transaction dispute about the payment she made in 
November 2019. It says the merchant didnt defend the chargeback and a credit was placed 
on Miss hs account. It says Miss H also raised a claim under section 75 for consequential 
losses and after a review this claim was declined as it says there was not enough evidence 
to show the issues with Miss Hs car were due to the service carried out by the merchant.
Lloyds Bank says that a payment of £60 was made to cover £30 of call costs and £30 for the 
inconvenience caused. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said that Lloyds Bank had done what we 
would expect it regarding the chargeback. She didnt think that Lloyds Bank had acted 
unreasonably by saying the evidence provided wasnt enough to show that the faults 
experienced by the car after the service were caused by the merchant 
Miss H didnt accept our investigators view. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss H took her car for a service and paid for this using her Lloyds Bank credit card. She 
wasnt happy with the service and raised a chargeback for the payment she had made to the 
servicing garage (the merchant). When this happens, we would expect Lloyds Bank to take 
the appropriate action regarding the chargeback. In this case a temporary credit was applied 
to Miss Hs account and then, as the merchant didnt defend the case, this credit became 
permanent. Based on the information provided I find that Lloyds Bank did what we would 
expect in response to Miss Hs chargeback request.
Miss H then raised a section 75 claim for consequential losses. She said she experienced 
several issues after the car was returned and she had to pay for other garages to carry out 
work. She said that after taking the car to the main dealer she was told the fuel vent valve 
hadnt been correctly connected. I can understand how frustrating the issues with the car 
must have been for Miss H. However, having looked through the list of costs, I do not find 
that Lloyds Bank was unreasonable saying there wasnt enough evidence to support these 
being caused by the service carried out by the merchant. I have considered the 
correspondence regarding the pipe and while this does comment that the pipe wouldnt 
easily separate from the mounting I do not find that this was enough to say that Lloyds Bank 
should have upheld Miss Hs claim. 
Miss H also raised concerns about the service she had received through his process. Lloyds 
Bank accepted that there were issues with calls being dropped and Miss H needing to call 
back. It paid her £60 because of this - £30 to cover the call costs and £30 for the 
inconvenience. I find this was a reasonable response to the issues raised.
Overall, I do not find I can say that Lloyds Bank did anything wrong in the actions taken in 
response to Miss Hs chargeback and section 75 claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman