DRN-1719423
 
The complaint
Mr L and Ms S are unhappy about Santander UK Plcs policy on switching part of their 
mortgage from capital repayment to interest-only. 
What happened
Mr L and Ms S have a mortgage account with Santander which is in two parts, both on a 
capital repayment basis. The first part of the mortgage (about £160,000) will end on 5 July 
2037. The second part of the mortgage (about £350,000) is due to reach its end on 
5 February 2029.
Mr L and Ms S now want to convert their mortgage (or part of it) to interest-only. Santander 
has explained that if any part of the loan is switched to interest-only, in accordance with the 
banks policy, the term of the loan will change to end on the oldest applicants 70th birthday. 
Mr L, who is the oldest applicant, says he has no plans to retire and has potential alternate 
sources of capital and/or income which Santander should take into consideration.
Santander said that, although exceptions can be made to this policy, Mr L and Ms Ss 
circumstances do not fall within the parameters where an exception could be made.
Mr L and Ms S complained to Santander, but the bank wasnt prepared to change its 
position. Mr L and Ms S brought their complaint to us. Initially an investigator though the 
complaint should be upheld. He asked Santander to reconsider Mr L and Ms Ss application 
without applying any age policy, and that the bank should pay them compensation of £200.
Santander provided further information and another investigator looked at the complaint. 
After doing so, he didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He looked at the proposals 
from Mr L and Ms S to repay the capital at the end of the term, but found they were in part 
speculative, and that Mr Ls pension would provide less than 50% of the capital balance. In 
the circumstances, he didnt think Santanders decision to decline the request to convert the 
mortgage to interest-only was unfair.
Mr L and Ms S asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. In summary they say that 
they have a credible repayment strategy and have reiterated that they do not think 
Santanders application of its policy to their situation is fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive taken careful note of everything the 
parties have said, and Ive referred to the relevant regulations which apply in relation to the 
variation of a regulated mortgage contract.
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail tan 
has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
Santander has not refused to convert all or part of the mortgage to interest-only. But it has 
said that if it agrees to this, it would be on the basis that the mortgage term would end when 
Mr L, the older of the two borrowers, reaches the age of 70. To be clear, I dont have any 
power to substitute my own decision for Santanders. What I have to decide is whether I 
think Santander is acting fairly and reasonably in applying its policy all the circumstances of 
this case.
I will begin by explaining that its up to Santander to set its own lending policy, and to decide 
to who lend to, how much, and on what terms. The bank is allowed to put in place a policy in 
relation to interest-only mortgages which reflects its regulatory obligations, as well as its 
attitude to risk. Mortgage regulations require Santander to assess affordability, but do not 
allow it to take account of the equity in the property when calculating this.
Where a complaint is about the exercise by a lender of its commercial judgment my role is to 
decide whether that judgement has been exercised fairly and reasonably; it isnt to substitute 
my own judgement for that of Santander. In other words, I have to decide if Santander took 
into account all relevant factors and gave proper consideration to them before reaching its 
decision. It is only if I thought no lender could reasonably have made the decisions 
Santander made in this case that there would be any basis for intervention on my part.
In this case, Santander will not lend on an interest-only basis beyond the oldest applicants 
70th birthday. For a repayment mortgage, Santanders policy is that the upper age limit is 
currently 75. The Financial Ombudsman Service has no power to set lending policy for 
Santander. The banks lending policy does not appear to be at odds with what it is required 
to do by the regulator in relation to its obligations to lend responsibly.
Mr L and Ms S say that Santander has discriminated against Mr L because of his age. The 
Equality Act 2010 deals with prohibitions on discrimination. In 2012 the provisions on age 
discrimination were brought into force. but an exception was made for financial services 
providers, which are  allowed to use age as a factor in deciding whether to offer services, 
based on an credible assessment of risk. When assessing mortgage applications, lenders 
will carry out a risk assessment. But, because of the nature of the product, this is usually 
based on a customers individual financial position rather than broader data about their age 
group.
There is no doubt that Mr L and Ms Ss request does not fit Santanders policy. Given this, 
Santander was entitled to explain that, if it put any part of the mortgage onto interest-only 
(subject to there being a satisfactory repayment vehicle in place), the end date of the 
mortgage would change. I dont think Santander has acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
explaining how its policy would affect Mr L and Ms Ss request.
Mr L and Ms S asked Santander to make an exception in their case. Ive looked at what they 
told Santander about this. Mr L and Ms S have said that they want to downsize when their oldest child goes to university. By switching to interest-only they want increase their 
disposable income to use at the present time and sell the property later on. 
Santander considered this information and reviewed its decision. Having done so, Santander 
was satisfied that there was no basis on which it was able to vary its policy. The 
circumstances outlined by Mr L and Ms S and the restrictions on what Santander is allowed 
to accept as a repayment vehicle did not fall within the parameters that would allow an 
exception to be made.
Ive reviewed everything Mr L and Ms S have said about their circumstances. I acknowledge 
Mr L says he has no plans to retire and has also explained that he has a potential 
inheritance at some future date, as well as anticipated (although not guaranteed) income 
through two start-up businesses. Mr L has also explained that he has a future pension.
Santander has said it will consider a request to convert the mortgage to interest-only if the 
term is varied to end on Mr Ls 70th birthday, and subject to there being a suitable and 
credible repayment vehicle in place. Its up to Mr L and Ms S to decide if they want to make 
a further request to Santander to convert all or part of their mortgage to interest-only. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr L and Ms S were hoping for. But after taking into 
account everything they and Santander have told us, Im not persuaded Santander has 
treated them unfairly or unreasonably.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 July 2020.
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman