DRN-4013385
The complaint
Mr G complains about investment advice Hargreaves Lansdown Advisory Services Limited 
(HL) gave him in 2018. In particular, he complains that the Woodford Equity Income Fund 
(WEIF) was recommended to him and he has now lost a considerable sum of money. 
What happened
Mr G was an existing client of HL. In May 2018 he met with an adviser and agreed to receive 
limited advice, restricted to a review of the collective funds which he held in his HL 
accounts. Mr G answered questions as part of a fact find. This revealed that:
He had recently retired and was receiving income from savings and investments of 
around £40,000. 
He had around £392,400 in cash deposits, £190,000 in National Savings (NS&I), 
over £407,000 in stocks and shares ISAs as well as another £28,772 in other equity 
investments. He held around £1,800,000 in Unit Trusts, Investments Trusts or 
OEICs, and another £70,000 in investment or with profit bonds. His pension was 
worth around £1,088,579 and he was drawing down income from it. 
His objectives were to invest for income and growth.
He had the knowledge, experience and time to actively monitor his investments, but 
wanted a professional review of his accounts from time to time. He was therefore 
looking for HL to review the collective funds he held in his account and remove those 
funds which werent performing and recommend funds that were approved by HL. 
In order to provide Mr G with a suitable recommendation, HL also needed to identify how 
much risk he was willing to take. Mr G explained that he didnt hold any professional 
investment qualifications, but he was a chartered accountant. He explained that he followed 
investment markets and read HLs publications as well as its email alerts and other research 
provided by it. Mr G regarded his knowledge of investment matters as above average and 
given his background in investing over a number of years, he regarded himself as an 
experienced investor. 
Based on his discussions with the adviser, Mr Gs desired portfolio mix saw him invested in 
equities primarily, with around a third in cash or fixed interest. In discussing Mr Gs approach 
to volatility and drops in value, Mr G explained that he wouldnt panic in the event of his 
portfolio losing 38%. 
He explained that he intended to remain invested throughout his retirement, and was 
intending on retaining a significant sum on deposit. This would allow him to absorb any 
losses more easily as he would not need to access his portfolio when markets were low. On 
discussing the various options available, Mr G agreed that his and his advisers approach to 
investment risk for his portfolio was the right strategy and he was comfortable with the risks 
involved. 
As a result, Mr G and his adviser agreed to restructure his portfolio by fine tuning non-
performing funds and otherwise adding HL approved funds. To that end, the adviser 
recommended:
Mr G sell four collective investments primarily invested in equities. The suitability 
report gave individual rationales for each disposal. 
Reinvest the proceeds in:
oWEIF  around £215,114; a fund focused on blending larger high-yielding 
companies with higher-risk smaller, more innovative businesses. The smaller 
businesses, which include those not yet listed on the stock market (unquoted 
companies) are included to provide long term growth potential, while the 
larger companies provide the majority of the funds income. HL said that 
there were no guarantees and it viewed this as a higher-risk UK equity 
income fund. 
oColumbia Threadneedle Investments UK Equity Income - £186,664; this 
investment focused on high quality, larger companies that demonstrated an 
ability to pay consistent dividends and from the backbone of the portfolio. 
The funds strategy was supplemented by out of favour businesses with 
higher yields, or those capable of strong growth and rising dividends.  
oInvesco Perpetual Corporate Bond - £50,815; this was an investment grade 
corporate bond fund, which provided higher risk fixed interest securities to Mr 
Gs portfolio. 
oNewton Real Return - £16,342. 
oOdey Opus - £3,569; an adventurous fund with a long-term investment 
horizon. 
The effect of the recommendations above also reduced the ongoing annual costs 
Mr G was paying on these investments, from 0.9% to 0.77%. 
Mr G accepted these recommendations, but shortly afterwards suggested some 
amendments. In particular, Mr G opted to reduce his investment in the WEIF to £140,000, 
and this was in part due to the fact that he instructed HL not to sell some of the investments 
it had recommended he sell because of significant capital gains tax liabilities. 
Shortly after the suspension of the WEIF in June 2019, Mr G complained about the advice 
he had received. HL looked into his concerns but thought it had recommended suitable 
investments and didnt uphold his complaint. Mr G remained unhappy and referred his 
complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into his complaint but didnt think HL had done anything 
wrong. In summary, the investigator reviewed the advisers recommendations, reasons for 
investing and Mr Gs overall circumstances. 
He concluded that it was fair and reasonable for HL to have recommended the investments 
that it did, and they were in line with Mr Gs objectives and attitude to risk. The investigator 
also explained that it wouldnt be fair to look at the WEIF in isolation just because of the fact 
that it had been suspended and lost the most money. He said the WEIF was recommended 
as part of a broader strategy that included Mr Gs existing portfolio, and the investigator 
thought that the WEIF was in line with that. Mr G didnt agree. In short, he said that he couldnt see any consideration of HLs behaviour 
in relation to the increased risk which the WEIF represented as a result of the level of 
unquoted stock it held. Mr G said that HL were clearly aware of this issue but still 
recommended the investment to him, without making this additional risk clear to him. He said 
that it was clear HL had a number of meetings with Woodford in 2017 and 2018 about his 
management of the fund, and he said that the advice he received did not set out any of 
these concerns  in particular about the WEIFs exposure to unquoted investments. Mr G 
said that the advice he received shouldve set out these concerns. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In looking at Mr Gs complaint, Id like to thank him for the detail of his submissions. I can 
understand why he has raised his complaint, and that the suspension of the WEIF and the 
consequential financial loss have generated significant concerns in relation to the advice he 
received from HL in 2018. 
However, I dont have much to add to the investigators assessment of his complaint. As the 
investigator has pointed out, HL gave Mr G advice on a number of issues  including 
disposal of certain investments, and recommending the purchases of others. It made these 
recommendations with a view to Mr Gs broader financial circumstances and his existing 
investments  and Im satisfied that the WEIF wasnt recommended in isolation. It clearly 
formed part of a broader strategy which HL was advising Mr G on. This means that when 
looking at HLs recommendation to invest in the WEIF, it wouldnt be fair to assess it purely 
on the basis of how risky the WEIF was, without an understanding of what else Mr G had in 
his portfolio. And it certainly wouldnt be fair to be critical of HLs recommendation to invest in 
the WEIF purely on the basis that it was later suspended and liquidated  neither of those 
events had anything to do with HL. 
In terms of the broader advice which Mr G received, Im satisfied it was fair and reasonable 
for HL to have concluded that its recommendations were suitable for him. The 
contemporaneous evidence shows that Mr G had specifically asked HL to advise him on 
those funds which had not been performing well, and that is what HL did. It recommended a 
series of disposals based on the relative performance of those funds, as well as their 
charges or structure. And it recommended investments which HL considered would cost less 
and provided better prospects for future performance. As an experience investor, Mr G knew 
of course that performance could not be guaranteed and that whilst HL was clearly aiming to 
recommend investments which would perform well, there was a risk (in some cases a high 
risk) that there might be volatility in the value of Mr Gs holdings. 
In relation specifically to the WEIF, there was nothing inherently unsuitable with the fund 
itself, despite the fact that 2018 had clearly been a negative year in terms of performance.
 
Overall this was a UK equity fund which it told investors would focus on 70% listed 
companies, with a view to the remainder being in unlisted or overseas equities, as well as 
derivatives. 
The recommendation letter itself told Mr G that this was a fund that would invest in higher-
risk smaller and more innovative businesses  including those not yet listed on the stock market (unquoted companies). It also explained HLs view that this was a higher-risk UK 
equity income fund. In my view it is quite clear from this that the WEIF would invest in 
unquoted stock, and that it carried a higher risk of capital loss than other UK equity funds in 
the same sector. So I dont agree that HL didnt set out the risk clearly to Mr G about this 
particular investment. In my view, Mr G understood that the WEIF was being recommended 
as a high risk but potentially very profitable investment. Given his background and his many 
years investing, Mr G understood this meant the potential to lose money. 
And in looking at the Mr Gs broader circumstances, without the benefit of hindsight, Im 
satisfied that even if it had been recommended in isolation, it was fair and reasonable for HL 
to have considered it a suitable investment for Mr G. It was clearly the type of investment Mr 
G was after, with an objective for long term capital growth and it was in line with the amount 
of risk Mr G was willing to take.
Im aware that Mr G has mentioned meetings that HL had with Woodford before he invested, 
and evidence it had given to committees about the WEIF. None of that evidence, in my view, 
changes what Ive said about HLs recommendation. Theres no dispute that the WEIF had 
unquoted investments within its holdings, and for the reasons Ive given above, Im satisfied 
that this was made clear to Mr G at the time of the recommendation. Its clearly the case that 
in 2018 neither HL nor Mr G anticipated the WEIF being suspended or liquidated in the short 
term  and it is unfortunately that event which caused Mr Gs loss, not HLs decision that this 
investment was suitable for him. 
For all these reasons, Im satisfied HL treated Mr G fairly and need not do anything to put 
things right. I appreciate this decision will come as a disappointment to Mr G but I hope he 
can understand the reasons for reaching it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman