DRN-4077559
The complaint
Mr H complains about a fall in value of his investments with Scottish Equitable Plc  (trading 
as Aegon) (Aegon) just prior to his retirement.
What happened
Mr H said his pension investments had fallen in value by around £250,000. He felt that 
Aegon was responsible for this as it was the investment manager of the fund he was 
invested in. He paid them to manage his funds professionally and competently but it had 
failed to do so. He thought they should make up the fall in value of his fund. He said Aegon 
knew his age and were aware that he wanted to retire in early 2023. He was totally reliant on 
them to safeguard his pension. He also said he never intended to buy an annuity. He said 
that even after he complained Aegon allowed the fund to continue to deteriorate. He was not 
a pension expert. If Aegon had settled his claim he said he would have put it into cash. He 
felt that if he had changed funds it would have prejudiced his claim and he was paying them 
to manage his funds so why would he need to pay someone else.
Aegon said the poor performance of the retirement fund was due to the economic climate 
and was not its responsibility. It said Mr H had invested in an annuity targeted fund which 
used a lifestyle approach to move his investment over time to preserve the size of annuity 
that he would be able to buy at retirement. Once he reached his selected retirement date he 
would have moved into the retirement fund which invested 75% in long gilts and 25% in 
cash. Mr H reached his selected retirement date in early 2021 but he then asked to change it 
to early 2023 and decided to stay in the retirement fund. It provided a link to information it 
had put on its website about the fund in March 2022. The purpose of long gilts was to 
preserve the value of an annuity that could be bought by preventing dramatic fluctuations, 
not to achieve increase in value. However there are times when this will not happen. The 
recent economic climate was an example of this. When it provided values it explained it was 
not guaranteed. It had not mismanaged the fund. If, Mr H was unhappy he could have 
changed funds.
The investigator said she didnt think Aegon had acted unfairly. She said that because in 
2013 Mr Hs group personal pension plan was set up with a lifestyle investment strategy. 
The terms and conditions said that in the final six years before his retirement date his money 
would gradually move to lower risk investments. By his retirement date 75% would be in long 
gilts and 25% in cash. In early 2021 Mr H asked Aegon to delay his retirement date by 
another year until early 2022. It warned him this could mean his investments were not the 
most appropriate at his selected retirement date. They explained that he needed to contact 
them to make changes to his funds. 
The investigator said there was nothing to show that Mr H had replied to them about this 
issue. This meant Mr Hs money remained within the retirement fund. Aegon were not giving 
financial advice about Mr Hs plan. They were unable to switch investments without his 
instructions. They had explained this and said he could  move his investments to a number 
of alternative funds and invited him to get in touch with a financial advisor. Mr H confirmed 
he hadn't contacted a financial adviser.
The investigator didn't think Aegon had acted unfairly as they were unable to move his 
investments without Mr Hs instructions. She was satisfied this was in line with the terms and 
conditions of his pension. They were unable to offer him advice about what he should do. 
They appropriately and clearly explained what options he had and who he could get advice 
from. It seemed they had correctly, followed the lifestyle investment strategy, but there were 
no guarantees that his investment wouldn't fluctuate in value.
Mr H didnt agree. He said Aegon had acted incompetently and negligently. They sat back 
and watched his fund fall in value for 18 months and took no action. The investigator 
seemed to think their role was entirely administrative with no responsibility for the funds they 
select. He felt Aegon should be held accountable for its negligence. The fall in value of his 
funds meant that he was not able to retire until he had recovered the lost money.
The investigator didnt change her mind. She said Aegons role was administrative in nature. 
It was responsible for ensuring his wishes were acted on and information was correct. The 
fund he was invested in was the same one he selected on his application form in 2013. 
Mr H still didnt agree. He said he invested in the retirement fund as it had been 
recommended by Aegon as low risk. On 1 June 2020 the fund value was around £770,000, 
in June 2022 it was around £655,000 and by April 2023 it was around £592,200. Since June 
2022 he had paid in an additional around £93,000 but the fund value and associated 
pension dropped despite assurance to the contrary from Aegon. He thought Aegon owed 
him a duty of care and it could not simply say it had no responsibility for the monitoring of the 
performance of the fund and reacting to the market.  He said he wrote to Aegon with his 
concerns in March 2022, April 2022 and September 2022. He said he relied on the 
competence and professionalism of the fund manager. He felt it should have reviewed its 
investments following market volatility and not ignored it. He could not find any fund that had 
performed worse than this one.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems clear that when Mr H started his pension in 2013 he decided to invest in a Lifestyle 
Fund. I say that because the policy schedule dated 8 July 2013, for Mr Hs pension plan, 
shows a start date of June 2013 and a pension date of early 2021. The investment selected 
was 100% into the Universal Lifestyle Col. The notes say that you can change the 
investment fund(s) at any time in the future (as described in your policy booklet). So from 
the start Mr H could change his investment into another fund or funds should he wish to do 
so. 
 Its clear to me that the decision as to which fund and whether to change it was with Mr H 
and not Aegon.
Mr H argues that it was Aegon that decided when to switch the funds into the retirement fund 
and when to switch part of the fund to cash This was clear in the Lifestyle Fund fact sheet 
from 2013 and he had no involvement in the process. He said the reason for the move was 
because the Lifestyle Fund was average risk and the retirement fund below average risk and 
the cash fund minimal risk. I agree that the changes off investment within the Lifestyle Fund 
were done by Aegon according to his age and retirement date as those were the terms on 
which the fund was set up. But as his application form made clear the Lifestyle Fund is just 
one investment choice and Mr H could change his investment at any time. So it is clear to 
me that Mr H could change funds when he wished. I note also that when Mr H deferred his retirement date Aegon warned him that his lifestyle 
investment might no longer be suitable due to the change in retirement date. That is 
because the date Mr Hs money would become invested in the underlying gilt and cash fund 
was tied to his retirement date and the desire to buy an annuity around that point in time.
 I say that because I have seen the following
1. An email to Mr H from April 2021 in response to his request to change his retirement 
age. It asked him to complete the attached form. It also said :-
If you choose not to match these dates, it could result in the mix of your investments 
not being the most appropriate at your selected retirement date.
2. A letter to Mr H from May 2021 headed Change of retirement date. It said the 
following
Unfortunately we cannot update your plan until you tell us whether to match your 
new selected retirement date to the date that your Lifestyle Fund is targeting or you 
can choose not to match these dates. If you choose not to match these dates, it 
could result in the mix of your investments not being the most appropriate at your 
selected retirement date. 
Where to find out more
We have a range of tools on our website which are designed to help you get ready 
for retirement. You can also access free impartial information from the government.

If you're not sure about what to do we recommend you speak to a financial adviser. 
If you don't currently have an adviser, you can find one at unbiased.co.uk
3. A copy of the form called New Retirement Date and lifestyle instruction which is 
completed to change the selected retirement fund or the date the Lifestyle Fund is 
targeting to match your existing retirement date. It says the following 
Youre invested in a Lifestyle Fund which is designed to automatically change your 
mix of investments as you approach retirement.
Please remember, even if youre invested in such a fund you should still review your 
investments on a regular basis, particularly if your financial needs or personal 
circumstances change. Please tick only one of the following options:
I want the date my fund is targeting to match my new selected retirement date.
Or
I dont want the date my fund is targeting to match my new selected retirement date.
If you dont complete this section, the date your Lifestyle Fund is targeting wont 
match your new selected retirement date. If the selected retirement date and the year 
your fund is targeting are different, this could result in the mix of your investments not 
being the most appropriate at your selected retirement date. Thats why its important 
you tell us if you want your fund to match the new retirement date as well then switch 
you into the appropriate version of your current Lifestyle Fund.You can find more information on Lifestyle Funds at 
4. A letter from Aegon to Mr H from March 2022. This confirmed he was invested in the 
Retirement Fund. It warned that the value would move in line with the underlying 
investment. It said it was not responsible for the economic climate. It supplied a link 
to details of its full fund range.
5.A letter from June 2021 confirming that his retirement date has been changed as he 
requested. It then notes You're invested in a Lifestyle Fund which is designed to 
automatically change your mix of investments as you approach retirement.
As instructed, well continue to use your previous retirement date of XXXX  for your 
Lifestyle Fund.
From the above correspondence I think Mr H was provided with plenty of warning about the 
mismatch between his new deferred retirement and his investments and encouraged to take 
advice and make a decision about investment. He was invited to match his Lifestyle Fund to 
his new retirement date or look at other funds and take advice.
So I think Aegon has acted in a fair and reasonable manner in that respect. I say that 
because it is clear that the choice of investment was Mr Hs. I also think Aegon provided 
plenty of information and were clear that Mr H needed to make a decision following the 
deferral of his retirement date. From the evidence presented to me I cannot see that Aegon 
acted unfairly in relation to the change in retirement date and the need to consider changing 
investments in the light of this.
Investment management
Mr H however suggests that his fund was recommended by Aegon as low risk and that the 
value fell despite assurances to the contrary. I have not seen any evidence that Aegon 
recommended the fund nor that it gave assurances. I asked Mr H for any evidence he had 
regarding this but he didnt provide anything.
Mr H is of the view that Aegon should have managed his investment in the light of market 
volatility. He said that it was unconscionable that a below average risk investment targeted 
at retirement can be allowed to lose in excess of half of its value in 3 years. He felt that given 
the collapse in the gilt market Aegon had a duty to act professionally and switch the 
investment. He also said it had failed to meet its objective in any of the 5 years recorded on 
the fact sheet.
But I dont agree with Mr H for the reasons set out below. In particular that the fund was not 
targeted at retirement generally but retirement where the intention is to buy an annuity.
I have considered the information for the relevant funds to consider whether Mr H might 
have drawn a conclusion from the information provided that the fund was low risk.
I have set out below the fund objective for the various funds that make up The Lifestyle 
Fund.
The fact sheet for the Lifestyle Fund said the following
"Fund objective
This fund uses a two-stage investment process called lifestyling. In the early years (the 
growth stage) it invests wholly in the Universal Balanced Collection (UBC).The UBC invests in a mix of different funds, from different fund managers, offering a mix of 
active and passive fund management, which means it doesnt rely on the performance of 
one manager or management style alone. Six years before the start of your target retirement 
year (the lifestyle stage), well progressively start switching your investment into our Long 
Gilt and (in the final year) Cash fund, with the aim of giving you more certainty about the 
level of annuity youll be able to buy when you retire and to cater for your maximum tax-free 
cash entitlement, currently 25% of your pension pot. We review our Lifestyle Funds from 
time to time and may change how they work if we believe this to be in the best interests of 
investors"
The Pension Fund Factsheet for the period ending 28 June 2013 said the following 
about the Lifestyle Stage of investment. 
Lifestyle stage: The lifestyle stage starts six years before the start of your target retirement 
year and recognises that your priorities may change as retirement approaches. It assumes 
youll buy an annuity, to provide yourself with an income for life (or a specified number of 
years), when you retire. Well progressively start switching your investment into our Long Gilt 
fund, with the aim of giving you more certainty about the level of annuity youll be able to buy 
when you retire.
Well also move some of your pension pot into our Cash fund in the final year of your 
investment to cater for your tax-free cash entitlement. You can choose how much of your 
cash entitlement you want to take, but our process assumes youll take the maximum which, 
based on current legislation, is 25% of your pension pot.
The Retirement fund fact sheet for the period to 28 June 2013
Fund description
This fund is designed for investors who intend to buy an annuity when they retire. If you are 
in a Lifestyle Fund* and are within one year of your selected retirement date (SRD), you will 
automatically be switched into this fund. This fund aims to help preserve the size of pension 
you can buy through an annuity. It does this by investing 75% of the fund in long-dated UK 
government bonds (gilts) through our Long Gilt fund.
Long-dated gilts are used in Lifestyle Funds because they have an inverse relationship with 
annuity rates. This means that if annuity rates go down just before you retire, the value of a 
fund invested in long gilts is likely to go up. This means the amount of pension you can buy 
is less likely to change in value dramatically, even if annuity rates fall. The opposite is also 
true. You should be aware that this relationship isnt perfect and there may be a delay 
between changes in the value of long gilts and annuity providers changing their rates.
The remaining 25% of the fund is invested in our Cash fund, which makes provision for you 
to take the maximum tax-free cash sum youre entitled to when you retire, based on current 
legislation.
You should be aware that, if you dont move your investment on your SRD, you will remain in 
this fund until you tell us what you want to do with your pension.
This fund may not be suitable for long-term investment because the traditionally low yielding 
nature of these assets means the value of your pension pot may be eroded by inflation.
The Long Gild fund fact sheet said the following:-This fund aims to perform broadly in line with the FTSE UK Gilts Over 15 Years Index, net of 
fees, by investing primarily in UK government bonds (gilts) with maturity dates of 15 years 
and longer.
The Key information document also said 
About fund performance
Investors should always consider performance in relation to the objective of the fund and 
over periods of at least five years. If a fund has risen in value, it doesnt mean it is meeting 
its objective  especially if the fund is aiming to outperform a particular benchmark or meet a 
risk target. The same applies if the fund has fallen in value.
The fund risk rate is said to be Below-average risk.
Below average risk funds will generally see some change in day-to-day value, both up and 
down, and these changes will typically be larger than those of a cash deposit. They may hold 
a broad range of investment types, including equities (shares), but a significant proportion 
may also be invested in investments that aim to provide a reliable source of income (like 
government and corporate bonds) and, with that, greater stability than would typically be 
available from equities. They try to provide better long-term growth prospects than a cash 
deposit, but are lower risk than funds investing largely in equities.
Risks specific to this fund
There is no guarantee the fund will meet its objective. The value of an investment can fall as 
well as rise and investors could get back less than they originally invested. All funds carry a 
level of risk and the information below outlines the key risks for this fund.
Cash Fund
The cash fund objective said
The fund aims to outperform the SONIA Overnight Rate, before charges, by investing in 
short-term, sterling denominated money market instruments such as bank deposits, 
certificates of deposit and short-term bonds. Instruments held in the portfolio will have a 
weighted average maturity of no more than 60 days.
The risk rating for the fund is said to be minimal risk. The information document commented 
further that 
Minimal risk funds will typically have underlying investments that wed expect to experience 
little change in value from day-to-day. The fund price movements will generally go up but 
could also go down, particularly in a low interest rate or inflationary environment. Theyre 
particularly suited to short-term investment where stability is the main aim. Over the longer 
term, theyre unlikely to deliver high levels of return and returns may not keep pace with 
inflation.
Risks specific to this fund
There is no guarantee the fund will meet its objective. The value of an investment can fall as 
well as rise and investors could get back less than they originally invested. All funds carry a 
level of risk and the information below outlines the key risks for this fund.
Based on the above I think it is clear that the Lifestyle Fund and Retirement Fund that money is moved into as retirement approaches,  had objectives aimed at preserving the size 
of pension achieved through the purchase of an annuity ( I have underlined relevant parts 
above). Given Mr H has been clear that he never intended to purchase an annuity at 
retirement he might reasonably have questioned whether his investment choice was 
appropriate for him. I think the fund information set out above and the information provided 
to Mr H when he deferred his retirement were very clear about this. I have pointed this out to 
Mr H but he said he felt the fund was low risk and should have been managed as such. 
I have also considered the information about the underlying Long Gilt Fund and Cash Fund 
that are used within the Retirement Fund. These are described as having a minimal risk and 
below average risk. I can see that Mr H might have formed the impression this meant they 
were low risk but that is not what they actually say. And low risk has little meaning without 
understanding the risk you are seeking to manage. Risk is relative and has to be interpreted 
in the light of the overall fund objective. I think the objectives of the funds are clear and also 
contain warnings. 
It is clear that the Gilt Fund is aiming to follow a benchmark not to preserve absolute value. It 
says 
This fund aims to perform broadly in line with the FTSE UK Gilts Over 15 Years Index, net of 
fees, by investing primarily in UK government bonds (gilts) with maturity dates of 15 years 
and longer.
The fact sheet also explains the relationship between gilt values and annuity rates ( I have 
underlined the relevant part) and also gave warnings about performance. So I dont think 
they suggested that the fund was generally low risk or aimed at any retirement, instead I 
think the aim for those wishing to buy an annuity is clearly set out.
I have shared these fact sheets and comments with Mr H. He argues that:-
1. Aegon as fund manager should not have allowed the fund to fall in value and should 
have actively responded to the market situation. But  I dont agree, the fund objective 
was to perform broadly in line with the index it listed over 15 years. The fund fact 
sheet I have seen covered the period up to March 2023 and therefore covered the 
time period Mr H refers to. This shows falls in overall value over various time periods 
but also shows that it was performing broadly in line with its benchmark which has 
also fallen in value. 
So I dont have evidence that Aegon has failed to manage the fund in accordance 
with its objective even though that has resulted in it falling in value. Further as Aegon 
said the purpose of tracking that index was to ensure the fund moved broadly in line 
with the cost of buying an annuity not to preserve the absolute value of the fund nor 
to beat or exactly match the index.
2. Aegon had muddied the waters by alleging that any loss in the absolute value of the 
fund was offset by an increase in the value of the annuity that can be bought but 
didnt provide evidence to support this. He wanted Aegon to be put to proof on this. 
He said his 2022 statement showed a yearly pension (after taking maximum tax-free 
cash) of around £28,000. He therefore argued that as his cash lump sum would be 
lower his pension should be higher to offset this. 
But I dont think that is correct. The amount of his tax-free lump sum is matched by 
investing 25% of the fund in the cash fund. The 75% of the fund used to purchase an 
annuity is invested in the gilt fund. Further I have not asked Aegon for evidence as 
Mr H has been clear that he never intended to buy an annuity. It seems to me that  Mr Hs disappointment is rooted in the fact the fund he left his money in didnt meet 
his retirement objectives which were not to buy an annuity. But that isnt Aegons 
fault and Mr H chose not to take financial advice nor any advice ,despite it being 
suggested by Aegon.
3. Aegon failed to take any steps to mitigate the position even after he contacted them. 
But I dont agree based on the evidence presented it seems that the gilt fund has 
been managed in accordance with its objective. 
4. With respect to the cash fund he said Aegons fund is again massively 
underperforming based on its own arguments with regards to the Gilt market. 
Interest rates are high and yet Aegon was obtaining 1.4% against the 4% Bank of 
England base rate at the time. With inflation in excess of 10% he said he was losing 
9% a year on his fund. He could get a fixed rate of 4.5% in any bank. He felt Aegon 
was also again failing to even achieve its objective in any of the 5 years recorded in 
its fact sheet.
But I dont agree. The cash fund fact sheet is clear about the risks associated with 
this fund. Mr H opted to leave his money in this fund for the two years when he 
deferred his retirement and I understand it still remains invested in this way. The 
fund clearly warns Over the longer term, theyre unlikely to deliver high levels of 
return and returns may not keep pace with inflation. It is clear to me Mr H 
understands this because he has highlighted the difference between inflation and 
the return on cash.  This risk was also highlighted in the fund information sheet.
In conclusion I think Aegon has acted in a fair and reasonable manner and I wont be 
upholding this complaint.
Further I would say that as Mr H was clearly aware and unhappy about performance he 
could have taken steps to change his funds at any time, but didnt. It is clear Aegon cannot 
change investments without Mr Hs instructions (other than to make changes in accordance 
with the lifestyle plan). It does not seem that the fund met Mr Hs objective which seems to 
have been to preserve total value not to track the cost of purchasing an annuity. But that isnt 
Aegons fault.
Further had I decided Aegon had done something wrong I would have had to consider Mr 
Hs duty to mitigate his loss. In my view that would have meant that he took steps to take 
financial advice and change his funds to ones that were more suitable to meet his objectives.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman