DRN-3835815
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Virgin) declined 
his loan application and he is unhappy with the service he received when he queried this 
matter. He says the member of staff that he spoke to was rude to him.
What happened
Mr M applied for a loan with Virgin which was declined. When he queried this matter he says 
that the member of staff he spoke to was rude to him and this in turn caused a great amount 
of stress
Mr M complained to Virgin about this matter. Virgin in response credited Mr M with £100 
compensation.
Mr M referred his complaint to this service, and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator said that Virgin were entitled to use their commercial judgement to decide who 
to lend to and they were satisfied that Virgin followed its process in declining the loan. The 
investigator said that they had listened to all the calls and he believed that the £100 that Mr 
M has already been paid is sufficient and in line with what he wouldve recommended.
Mr M didnt accept the investigators view, so his complaint has been passed to me to make 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, as we have explained, Virgin is entitled to use its own commercial judgement in 
deciding whether, and on what terms, it decides to lend to consumers. That said, we need to 
be satisfied that Virgin followed its own processes. 
From what I have been provided with it seems as if Virgin did follow its processes correctly 
and that Mr M did not meet its criteria for the loan application to be approved. So I dont think 
that Virgin did anything wrong in relation to this matter.
In relation to the customer service that Mr M received, I have listened to the available calls. 
Mr M says he was abused during these calls and it was insinuated that he did not have 
enough money. I have listened to all the calls and I agree that the member of staff could 
maybe have explained things in clearer manner, and the call could have been handled 
better. That said I would not say that the member of staff was abusive or was rude to Mr M.
Having considered all of the available information, I accept that Mr M wouldve been upset 
by the service he received, especially given what he has explained about his medical 
situation and therefore I have considered whether the compensation that Mr M has already 
been paid is sufficient. Overall, having considered the impact of the matter on Mr M, and the 
overall service offered, I agree that £100 compensation is a fair way to put things right.
 
Virgin has already paid Mr M this compensation. So, it follows that I dont direct it to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined, Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money doesnt need to 
do anything further to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman