DRN-3796596
The complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund the money he lost to what 
he now thinks was a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
In line with the Payment Service Regulations 2017, the starting position is that Mr B 
is liable for the payments hes disputing because he authorised them. Santander is 
expected to process authorised payment instructions without undue delay. 
The relevant regulations and industry guidance do also make it clear that banks have 
a duty to protect consumers from the risk of financial harm, including fraud and 
scams. But the obligation to warn customers of the risk of such financial harm will 
only reasonably have been engaged if there were sufficient grounds for suspecting 
the payee was a fraudster; meaning that Santander could have delayed the 
payments while concerns about the payee were discussed with Mr B. 
In the initial submissions to us, Mr B (via his professional representative) said the 
merchant he paid directly, T, were operating a scam. T were regulated by the 
Cyprus Securities and Exchange Commission (CySec). They had passporting rights 
to operate under that authorisation in the UK. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
were Ts host regulator and T appeared on the FCA register. 
It would be unusual for a scammer to comply with all the various requirements of 
becoming regulated. It also means Mr B has the option to pursue a complaint against 
T directly  and may be able to pursue this through the Cypriot Financial 
Ombudsman if no resolution is reached.
This makes it less likely T were operating a scam at the time. In which case, there 
wouldnt have been a duty on Santander to have intervened with these payments.   
It does appear that another merchant (O) may have been involved/ advising Mr B 
about his investments. And the FCA did go on to issue a warning, several months 
after Mr Bs payments to T, that it believed O were providing financial services in the 
UK without its authorisation. 
Such a warning doesnt confirm that O were operating a scam. But it does raise valid 
concerns about O  as most legitimate companies tend to comply with regulatory 
requirements.
However, from the records provided, it also appears that Mr Bs funds remain on Ts 
platform. So its unclear if, and how, the funds were lost to O. As mentioned above, 
there may still be recourse available against T. 
I appreciate it could be the case that O and T were operating together. But given that 
T were properly regulated, and that there werent any warnings about O at the time of 
these payments, Im not persuaded its fair to conclude that T were operating a scam 
at the relevant time. 
And when processing the payments, the information Santander received showed the 
funds were going to a merchant with proper FCA authority. And so, regardless of Os 
actions, Im not persuaded its fair to conclude Santander ought to have intervened. 
That is particularly the case in light of Mr Bs account activity. In the run up to the 
scam, he had made a number of payments of a similar  or higher  level than the 
amount paid to T, making those payments appear less suspicious. 
Im conscious Mr B has suggested that Santander may have intervened with the last 
payment he made to T  although Santanders records dont capture this and we 
dont have that much detail from Mr B about what Santander may have asked.
I appreciate Mr Bs point that his interaction with O did bear some hallmarks of a 
scam. However, when thinking about what its reasonable to expect from Santander, 
I do think the fact the payments were going directly to an FCA-registered company 
would have added at least the appearance of legitimacy to the transactions. 
Im also mindful that the FCA warning about O wasnt published at the time of these 
payments. And so it would have been less obvious to Santander that they might be 
operating illicitly. 
Im therefore not persuaded its reasonable to conclude that, even if these funds were 
lost to a scam, Santander is at fault for not realising that at the time  and for not 
preventing Mr Bs loss.
As the payments were made by debit card, I have also considered whether there was 
a missed opportunity to recover the funds through the chargeback scheme. But 
under Mastercards rules, there are very limited options for claiming in relation to 
investment payments.
Such a claim would only be considered in relation to the transaction entered into with 
T, not O  who it seems Mr B is predominantly unhappy with. And Mastercard has 
confirmed that, if the funds are credited to the trading account, there are no 
chargeback rights in relation to how those funds are used (including where the 
customer is unable to withdraw those funds). 
As such, given my understanding of Mr Bs dispute, Im not persuaded a claim 
against T would have succeeded. So I consider it reasonable that Santander didnt 
attempt one.  
I appreciate this will be disappointing to Mr B. But overall, Im not persuaded its fair to hold 
Santander liable for his loss.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman