DRN-2166677
The complaint
L complains Allianz Insurance Plc unfairly avoided its fleet motor insurance policy and 
refused to pay its claims.
What happened
In 2019 L took out an Allianz fleet motor policy. It was arranged by a broker. In January 2020 
some of Ls vehicles were stolen. It claimed on the policy. 
But Allianz didnt pay out. Instead it avoided the policy (treating it like it had never existed). It 
said L had breached its duty, when taking out the cover, to provide it with a fair presentation 
of risk. Allianz said that during the application process it had been confirmed L wasnt the 
subject of any County Court Judgements (CCJ). But Allianz had since discovered it was. It 
said if the correct information had been provided it wouldnt have offered any cover to L. 
L complained to Allianz. It said it didnt deliberately withhold any information. It felt Allianz 
should have checked its credit history before the policy began. But Allianz didnt change its 
decision. 
Our investigator said Allianzs decision to avoid the policy and refuse the claims was fair. L 
didnt accept that. So the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
This decision only considers the actions of the insurer, Allianz. Ls complaint about the 
broker is being considered separately. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
That means considering if Allianzs decision to avoid the policy and refuse any claims was 
fair and reasonable  and in line with the relevant legislation  in particular Ive considered 
the Insurance Act 2015 (the Act). Having done so, I think it was. So Im not making Allianz 
reinstate the policy, pay any claims or do anything differently.
When L took out the policy it had a duty  under the Act  to make a fair presentation of the 
risk. So this means it was Ls responsibility to ensure Allianz had all the information it 
needed to accurately assess the risk it was being asked to cover. The broker was acting as 
an agent for L. It provided information to Allianz when arranging the cover. Allianz says the 
duty was breached. 
Allianz says the insurance was arranged, by the broker, through its online portal. It says the 
broker was asked to confirm a range of statements about the proposer, L. These included it 
not being the subject of a CCJ. Allianz says it was confirmed  as if it hadnt been, cover 
would have been automatically declined. 
Allianz hasnt provided a screenshot of the portal. But its provided Ls policy Statement of 
Fact. This states that cover is provided on the basis of a range of statements - including the 
proposer not being the subject of a CCJ. So I think Allianz probably did ask for confirmation 
that L wasnt the subject of a CCJ.  
Its accepted L was, at the time, the subject of at least one CCJ. And it seems the broker did 
confirm, incorrectly, that it wasnt. So Im satisfied Allianz made it known it was interested in 
Ls CCJs - and that it was given incorrect information about them. 
L says it wasnt aware of the CCJ. It says it didnt receive any court letters or dates. It says it 
would have dealt with any debt before a CCJ was issued. It says theres a chance letters 
were sent to an old address in a different local authority area. So it feels that as it didnt 
know about the CCJ, it didnt breach the duty to provide a fair presentation of the risk. 
But L was required to disclose not only material circumstances that it did know  but also 
that it ought to know. The relevant legislation says Londonquays ought to know what should 
reasonably have been revealed by a reasonable search of information available to it.  
According to Companies House, Ls had the same registered address for the 12 months 
prior to the CCJ being issued. It was also at the same address about six months later when 
the policy was taken out. That makes me think it probably was sent and did receive some 
correspondence for the various stages of debt recovery, court proceedings and judgement. 
Even if I accepted L wasnt aware of the CCJ itself, Id still feel it ought to have known about 
it. It would have been revealed by a reasonable search of information available to L  
starting with the debt recovery correspondence referred to above. So its reasonable for 
Allianz to say there was a breach of the duty to provide it with a fair presentation of the risk. 
But for Allianz to take any action, like avoiding the policy, the Act requires it to show the 
breach was a qualifying one. Essentially it needs to show that if the correct information 
about CCJs was provided it would have done something differently - for example not offered 
cover or only done so on different terms.
Allianz has provided part of its underwriting criteria. Having seen that Im satisfied it wouldnt 
have offered cover at all had it been told of the CCJ. So its shown there was a qualifying 
breach. And because Allianz wouldnt have offered cover the Act allows it to avoid the policy 
and refuse all claims. So its decision to do that so was fair and reasonable. 
If Allianz could show the breach was deliberate or reckless the Act would allow it to retain 
the premium paid for the cover. But it hasnt done that  it says it refunded them. So I dont 
need to consider if the breach was deliberate or reckless.
L says Allianz should have carried out credit checks before the policy was agreed. It says if it 
had the CCJs would have come to light earlier. But L, and its agent, had the duty to give a 
fair presentation of the risk. And I feel its reasonable for an insurer to consider the 
information its been provided with to be accurate. So I wouldnt expect Allianz to check 
everything it was told by L or its agent.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, Im not upholding Ls complaint against Allianz Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman