DRN-3777278
The complaint
Mr A complains that Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) irresponsibly gave him a credit card 
account that he couldnt afford.
What happened
On 20 February 2019, Mr A applied for and was given a credit card account with Vanquis. Mr 
A was given an initial credit limit of £500. This credit limit was never increased. 
In 2022, Mr A complained to Vanquis to say that the account shouldnt have been opened 
for him because it wasnt affordable and that Vanquis ought to have made a better effort to 
understand his financial circumstances before increasing his credit.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr A didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Vanquis will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mr As complaint is that Vanquis made credit available that was unaffordable. Vanquis has 
explained that it carried out a credit check using a credit agency to determine the amount 
of credit it was able to offer. Mr A told Vanquis that he earned a good salary. And he told 
Vanquis he was living at home with his parents and had only a small outgoing for housing 
costs. Vanquis calculated an average monthly expenditure and considered Mr A had 
sufficient disposable income to justify the modest credit it agreed to. 
The initial credit limit was modest and the monthly cost of a minimum payment was also 
very modest. So, based on the information Vanquis had at the time of the lending 
decision, I dont think it needed to conduct more searching checks for them to be 
proportionate. For these reasons, I dont think Vanquis acted unfairly when approving the 
finance application.
Vanquis had some regard for negative items on Mr As credit report, which may explain the 
modest credit limit. But Mr A has told us his finances were in a poorer shape than Vanquis 
credit check showed. And the evidence Mr A has supplied suggests that to be true. But, 
having considered all the submissions made in this case, I have seen insufficient evidence 
that better information would have put Vanquis off providing such a very modest credit on a 
credit card. 
So, I think the checks Vanquis did in this case were proportionate. And, having considered 
all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any extra evidence from Mr A 
to the contrary, Im not persuaded that what Vanquis could see of Mr As management of 
other credit ought to have prompted it to have acted differently than it did. 
I know that Mr A will be disappointed with my decision. But I want Mr A to know that I have 
considered all the submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found 
sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman