DRN-3170520
The complaint
Ms B complains that her account was defaulted by Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard (Barclaycard).
What happened
Ms B had a Barclaycard. In September 2018, she had a bad road accident and was unable 
to work  she was self-employed. In January 2019, the balance was £13,893 and the limit 
£14,000. Barclaycard agreed a number of payment holds between March 2019 and 
November 2019 which meant zero interest and fees, and no repayments.  In September 
2019, the balance was £14,068 with a limit of £14,000. On 30 January 2020, Barclaycard 
defaulted Ms Bs account and then passed the debt to a debt collection agency. 
Ms B complained. She said the default was unfair. Shed been a good customer of 
Barclaycard for more than 12 years and had always maintained a good account. The 
accident was traumatic and she was left without income through no fault of her own. She 
said shed kept in touch with Barclaycard throughout so they knew of her circumstances. 
Barclaycard had asked for an income and expenditure statement  which she said shed 
sent to them but they claimed not to have received it  to default her account was therefore 
unfair. She was a single mother who now couldnt get any credit because of the default on 
her credit file.
Barclaycard said they were sorry to hear of Ms Bs circumstances but wouldnt remove the 
default from Ms Bs credit file as it had been applied correctly. As a result of her accident, 
her account fell into arrears and this led to the default. They said theyd agreed several 
arrangements whereby no interest or fees had been charged, and issued letters and 
statements showing the position on her account. In January 2020 theyd spoken to Ms B and 
she agreed to complete an income and expenditure form but this hadnt been done. And so, 
they closed her account and registered the default.
Ms B bought her complaint to us. Our investigator said Barclaycard acted fairly. Theyd 
agreed a number of payment plans whereby interest and fees hadnt been charged, and 
payments were suspended. But his meant that Ms Bs account was six months in arrears by 
December 2019  when they wrote to her to say that they needed to see an income & 
expenditure schedule to understand her situation.  He said Ms B spoke to Barclaycard on 14 
January 2020 and agreed to provide that, but Barclaycard didnt receive it and so applied the 
default on 30 January 2020. Barclaycard had sent a default notice to Ms B before applying 
the default and shed had several conversations with Barclaycard before then  so had the 
opportunity to send the income and expenditure form in. 
Ms B didnt agree. She said again that shed sent the income and expenditure form to 
Barclaycard. And  she said that in her situation, Barclaycard shouldve been more 
understanding.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms B suffered a traumatic road accident in September 2018  which meant she couldnt 
work for many months  and so she found herself in financial difficulty. She was a single 
mother  and I understand and appreciate how difficult a time this was for her. I want to 
assure her that Ive reviewed and considered everything shes told us. My role is to look at 
her complaint and form a balanced view of it, taking evidence from both herself and 
Barclaycard. We are an independent dispute resolution service  and we dont take sides. 
Ms B was left with a reduced income after her accident and so was in financial difficulty. In 
those circumstances, businesses have an obligation to treat customers in financial difficulty 
sympathetically and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) says that businesses like 
Barclaycard should treat customers in difficulties with forbearance and due consideration. 
For example, a business might suspend or waive interest, accept lower payments, or defer 
them, and allow customers more time to repay their debt. And so  Ive looked at Ms Bs 
complaint in the light of this guidance.
There is a second piece of guidance which is also relevant here. The guidance for dealing 
with defaults is laid down by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). This says when a 
consumer is at least three months behind with their payments then a default may be 
registered. And it would expect a default to be registered by the time the consumer is six 
months behind with their payments. It is the business responsibility to put an entry on the 
credit file. This cannot be taken off unless it is an error. 
I can see that Ms B told Barclaycard she was in difficulty  and Barclaycard then agreed to a 
number of 30-day holds whereby no interest or fees were charged. And payments werent 
needed either. These were agreed for eight of the months between March 2019 and 
November 2019. Each time, the terms of these were set out in letters sent to Ms B. These 
also said that credit reference agencies would be advised that Ms B was making less than 
the monthly minimum payments, and that credit reference agencies (CRAs) would be 
advised of this. So  in line with Barclaycards obligations, I think that they acted fairly and 
reasonably in supporting Ms B during that period of time. 
But  what this meant was that arrears were building up  as Ms B hadnt made any 
payments for eight months. And so  I can see that Barclaycard wanted to know more about 
Ms Bs situation to see if they could help her after that time. And quite reasonably, I dont 
think we could expect a business to continue to provide interest- free support, without any 
payments being made without more information. And so, Ive gone on to consider whether 
Barclaycard were clear in asking for that, and importantly - whether Ms B sent the 
information to Barclaycard as she says she did.
In September 2019, Barclaycard called Ms B. Ive listened to the call. This call, and 
subsequent ones, were with Barclaycards specialist support team. I found the call handlers 
to be empathetic. Ms B said she was about to start work again. The call handler placed a 
further 30-day hold on the account  and said that after that time, theyd want to see an 
income and expenditure analysis to see how much Ms B could afford to pay. The call 
handler read out the terms of the further 30-day hold, including that late payments would be 
advised to CRAs and that arrears were building up. She said she would send out the form  
and Barclaycards notes say that was done. Barclaycard then sent a letter to Ms B on the 
same day and it said Thank you for your recent contact regarding your Barclaycard account. 
To enable us to assist you, please complete the form overleaf to help you to work out your 
finances. Once completed, please contact us by telephone by 20 September 2019, so we 
can talk through your income and expenditure to ensure we agree the best possible payment 
solution for your circumstances. Alternatively, you can complete an electronic version of the 
income and expenditure form by visiting www.mymoneysteps.org. Once completed simply download the Financial Statement Form and email it to us at 
Payment.Solutions@barclaycard.co.uk. I couldnt see in Barclaycards records that the form 
was sent in, nor was there a call from Ms B between then and 20 September 2019. 
I listened to the call dated 9 October 2019  from Barclaycard. But Ms B asked that they call 
back the next day. Theres then a note in Barclaycards records that Ms B spoke to them on 
15 October 2019 to say she was considering paying off the card by taking a loan through a 
broker  but this wasnt mentioned in any further contacts. Barclaycard called again on 15 
November 2019 and Ms B said she would call on Monday. And then on 25 November 
2019, Barclaycard called again and again Ms B said she would call tomorrow morning. 
Theres nothing in Barclaycards records that says that Ms B did in fact call as she said she 
would. 
What happened then was  because there hadnt been any more contact  Barclaycard sent 
a default notice on 12 December 2019. This said This is a formal notice that gives you 28 
days to catch up on your missed payments or call us to agree a way forward. Were not 
expecting you to make any payments, but you need to know that once the default is 
registered, it will appear on your credit file for six years and may make it harder for you to get 
credit during this time. In the meantime, Barclaycard placed another 30-day hold on Ms Bs 
account. I couldnt see any contact from Ms B from then until 14 January 2020  when she 
called Barclaycard.
Ive listened to the call on 14 January 2020. On it, the call handler said Ms B was then more 
than six months in arrears and noted shed paid no interest for that time. The call handler 
placed another 14-day hold on the account  - but said they needed to see the income and 
expenditure form  by Monday. Barclaycard gave Ms B the phone number to call to go 
through the form. The call handler said that the form must be completed, as the default 
would be registered by the end of the month. Ms B said, I would have done this last 
month. The call handler read out the terms of the hold  and said that a default was 
pending because of the notice of default already sent to Ms B. She said that the default may 
be registered and the account may be transferred to a debt collection agency. Ms B said she 
would complete the form by Monday. I couldnt see in Barclaycards records that a form 
was received, or that Ms B contacted Barclaycard again  until 4 February 2020.
We asked Ms B for evidence that the form was competed or sent in. She showed us a blank 
copy of an income and expenditure form. But she didnt show us, for example, a copy of a 
competed form, or an email to show shed sent it in. She told us she had posted it  but 
Barclaycard say theyve no record of having received it. And theres nothing in Barclaycards 
notes to say they did either. And to be fair, Barclaycards letter (and the call on 14 January 
2020) does say that the form should be submitted online, emailed or completed on the 
phone. 
And so  I cant say that I found sufficient evidence to say that Ms B sent in the income and 
expenditure form, either by post, or completed it online or on the phone. And so, in those 
circumstances, Barclaycard were entitled to default her account in the way they set out in 
several calls and letters. Ms B was more than six months in arrears with her payments - and 
so in line with the ICOs guidance, Barclaycard placed a default on her credit file.
Ms B said to us that she believed that some of Barclaycards letters were sent her old 
address. We asked Barclaycard about this. And they showed us that the address they had 
on file was Ms Bs address (as she advised to us in her complaint) and it hadnt been 
changed during the time of Ms Bs relationship with them. And -  I could see that the letters 
were sent to that address.
I understand that Ms B feels she hasnt been treated fairly and will therefore be disappointed by my decision. But on the balance of evidence and in the circumstances of Ms Bs 
complaint, Im not going to ask Barclaycard to do anything here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman