DRN-2686858
The complaint
Mr B complains, via a representative, on behalf of his business, B, that Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company Limited (LV) did not deal with its claim fairly following a fire at its 
business premises. Mr B says B has suffered a further loss of over £48,000.
What happened
B suffered a fire at its premises in June 2015 and a claim was made for its losses. LV 
instructed a loss adjuster to assess the claim. A payment was agreed for the claim including 
for business interruption cover and Mr B signed a disclaimer about making any further claim 
about Bs losses. The present complaint concerns LVs decline of Bs further claim for loss 
through business interruption over the 24 months after the fire.
 
Mr B said LVs loss adjuster required him to accept a sum in full and final settlement of the 
claim, notwithstanding the unknown extent of the business interruption at that time. He said 
he felt pressurised to agree as he needed to rebuild his business and pay his staff. Mr B 
thought that any ongoing loss for the 24-month period after the incident would be dealt with 
at a later date.
Mr B thinks that the way Bs claim was handled, with only a small interim payment until hed 
signed a disclaimer, was tantamount to sharp practice. He said he didnt understand the 
effect of the disclaimer and believed it was possible for him to have the full amount of his 
business interruption claim calculated once he had the trading figures from Bs accountant. 
Mr B feels hes been misled and badly treated by LV in a settlement calculated to allow LV to 
pay the minimum rather than the full amount payable to B under the terms of the policy.
LV said B was forced to close and then re-build its business for only about five months 
because of the fire. LV thought it was responsible for business interruption of ten weeks of 
Bs closure and included a further three-month recovery period on a reducing basis. It said 
the business interruption was calculated at over £22,000, the repairs cost £9,750 and other 
elements brought the claim to almost £40,000. LV said the final amount was provided by Bs 
accountant and then agreed between the parties in full and final settlement of all claims. 
LV said Mr B acknowledged he had caused further delay to re-opening B. Mr B said this was 
due to the state of the premises next door and beyond his control.
LV rejected the further claim and said the agreement was made in full and final settlement. It 
also said that Bs losses following re-opening were minimal at first and increased over time, 
converse to its suggestion that it struggled to regain previous customers when it re-opened. 
It said this may be due to a new and direct competitor to B that had opened for business 
within five miles of Bs premises.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said LV put its offer to B and 
its accountant and the amount was then agreed by all parties in full and final settlement of 
the claim. He said he could understand why Mr B feels it wasnt possible to know losses over 
a two-year period, but his policy didnt cover this period, only business interruption during the 
period of actual damage. He said he would expect LV to cover business interruption losses 
whilst the works have been ongoing and that was what LV had done. 
Bs representative disagreed and requested an ombudsman review the complaint. He said 
the investigator had greatly overstated the amount of Bs claim. And he didnt understand 
why hed said: expect LV to cover any losses due to business interruption whilst the works 
have been ongoing. Bs representative said he hadnt clarified what works he was referring 
to and in any event, the cover isn't limited to losses incurred when the business is closed 
due to remedial works. 
Bs representative said its implicit within the cover provided, given the two-year indemnity 
period, that this anticipates losses may continue once the business has reopened. And this 
was admitted by the loss adjuster in his email of the 30 March 2016 when he set out the 
basis upon which the offer for business interruption was being made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Bs claim for loss of material damage, contents and stock have been 
resolved and the complaint relates to losses for business interruption after the repairs were 
completed. I can see that Mr B accepted a payment of about £22,000 for his business 
interruption and now seeks payment of an additional claim of around £48,000. 
LVs representatives said the second claim appears to have arisen for a period up to April 
2017 with a different approach to calculation from the earlier (paid) period. It also states that 
the initial payment was agreed with Mr B and was based on the trading figures provided by 
Bs accountant and Mr B signed a mandate accepting this in full and final settlement of the 
claim.
An agreement to receive a payment in full and final settlement of a claim is likely to have 
implications for legal action that seeks payment for a further claim. Notwithstanding this Ive 
considered the agreement reached on Bs original claim in terms of whether it was fair and 
reasonable to have been made at that time. In doing so Ive considered if it was reasonable 
for Mr B to have thought he was only agreeing losses incurred to the date of the agreement. 
Bs representative said it wasnt possible for its losses to be known when the claim was paid 
by LV and Mr B gave agreement to settle his claim for losses incurred to that date. Bs 
representative said the extended period of business interruption, from March 2016 to April 
2017 was due to the time it took to recover the level of custom B enjoyed before the fire. 
Bs subsequent claim for business interruption losses is under the same head of claim that 
formed the bulk of the previous settlement. Although I can understand that Mr B was under 
pressure to finance his business during a tough period, I think it was clear that he was being 
asked to agree the payment in resolution of his entire claim and he signed a disclaimer to 
that effect. I can see that he received an interim payment from LV before this, and I think this 
shows that LV werent operating sharp practice in pressuring Mr B into an unfavourable 
agreement. I think Mr B would have known that he could withhold his agreement if he 
thought his business interruption losses werent known at that time.
Bs representatives say the formula for calculating loss under the policy means the amount
payable wouldnt have been properly calculable until the full extent of the complainant's 
losses over the two-year period were known. I think its possible, and desirable for losses to 
be calculated and compensated as soon as possible to support a business. LVs loss adjuster reached the view that these were known and calculable. Mr B took advice from Bs 
accountant and, as I have said, does not appear to have been pressurised into signing the 
settlement agreement. 
I have looked closely at the policy concerning business interruption, the amount payable in 
respect of a reduction in Turnover shall be the sum produced by applying the Rate of Gross 
Profit to the amount by which the Turnover shall fall short of the Standard Turnover during 
the Indemnity Period as a result of the Damage. 
So far as the indemnity period is concerned, this is defined within the policy as a maximum 
of 24 months, starting from the occurrence of the damage. My understanding is that the 
indemnity period lasts only so far (within the 24 months) as there are losses resulting from 
and consequential upon the fire. I dont think this is just while the repair works are carried 
out. 
LVs loss adjuster accepted that there would be some disruption to business following Bs 
reopening and losses were calculated beyond completion of the repairs. I can see from what 
Bs representative has said that it has taken them some time to return the business to 
normal trading. Its the policyholders responsibility to prove their claim and so I have looked 
at the evidence put forward about B concerning its losses sustained in the second period.
Bs representative said that the nature of the complainant's business meant that following 
the fire it took a while to rebuild as a number of customers had gone elsewhere whilst it was 
closed. He said these customers did not all immediately return once B reopened. Against 
this LVs representatives have said that Bs losses following re-opening were minimal at first 
and then increased over time. They have said that a significant competitor opened in Bs 
vicinity at this time and this would have affected its trading.
I think the belated decline in Bs trading indicates there were other factors involved with Bs 
difficulties, such as the new competition. There are many reasons why business turnover 
may fluctuate or decline and as the distance from an insured event increases, these are less 
likely to be directly attributable to the insured event. I dont think Bs representatives have 
made a sufficient link between its fluctuating turnover and the fire on its premises almost two 
years before. 
conclusion
It appears that Bs accountant submitted the claim figures to LV, and its loss adjuster 
deducted savings B would have made whilst closed. From what Ive seen losses were 
calculated in accordance with the policy. I dont think the calculations of the settlement were 
misrepresented nor do I think that the basis on which payment was made was uncertain or 
unfair. Consequently, I havent seen any reason to decide that Mr Bs agreement to receive 
the payment of his claim in full and final settlement shouldnt apply. 
I havent seen enough information that would cause me to find there are additional losses 
linked to Bs claim that havent already been compensated. However, if Bs representatives, 
including the accountants, provide detailed evidence of Bs losses that can be linked to its 
claim, then I would recommend LV carefully consider this information. At present, I dont 
think it would be fair for me to require LV to pay for further business interruption losses on 
this policy. 
I sympathise with Mr B for the time it took B to return its business to normal, but I think thats 
been accounted for in the settlement he agreed, and I think that LV has treated B fairly in its 
handling of the claim.My final decision
For the reasons I have given above the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B on behalf of 
B to accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman