DRN-1542354
The complaint 
Mr A says that he a car he bought with the assistance of finance on his credit card with 
Santander UK Plc isnt of satisfactory quality. Mr A says there is damage to the paintwork 
and evidence that the car may have been in an accident and poorly repaired. Mr A says 
there is also a discrepancy with the mileage. He wants Santander to pay for the cost of 
repairs.
What happened
Mr A bought a used BMW in January 2018.The car cost £12,700 and Mr A paid for part of it 
using his Santander credit card. At the time of purchase the car had covered 63,752 miles 
and was around six years old.
A short time after Mr A had the car, he contacted the dealership to say that he had noticed a 
mileage discrepancy and an HPI check had showed the car had outstanding finance.  In May 
2019 Mr A complained to Santander that the paintwork on the car was deteriorating and it 
was likely that the car had been poorly repaired following an accident. Mr A asked Santander 
to pay for the cost of the repairs.
Santander didnt uphold the complaint because of the length of time Mr A had taken to bring 
his complaint to them and so it couldnt say that the damage was present at the time he 
bought the car. Mr A wasnt happy with this and so he brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt recommend that it should be upheld. 
He agreed with Santander that he couldnt be sure that the damage to the paintwork was 
there at the point of sale. He thought that the mileage discrepancy was a rounding up error 
and wasnt material to Mr As decision to buy the car.
Mr A didnt agree with the investigator and so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr A, but I agree with the investigator and Santander for similar 
reasons. Ive read and considered all the information provided but Ill concentrate my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific aspect, its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome. 
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
have to base my decision on what I think is more likely to be the case.
Mr A part paid for his car with credit from Santander. The relevant law says that the car 
should be of satisfactory quality when it is supplied. If it isnt, then Santander as the provider 
of credit is jointly responsible with the dealership to put right any faults.
Looking at the pictures of the faults with the paintwork I would have expected those to have 
been obvious to Mr A when he inspected the car before he bought it or relatively soon 
afterwards. I can see that Mr A raised the issue with the mileage and the outstanding finance 
with the dealership a few weeks later but the paintwork isnt mentioned in this email.
Santander has said that it has no records of Mr A contacting it about the paintwork issue 
before his complaint in May 2019. Although it may not have records of calls it would have 
records if Mr As account was accessed and so it says it is satisfied no calls were made. I 
appreciate what Mr A says about this issue but I would have expected him to put it in writing 
to the dealership and Santander much sooner than he did if the paintwork issues were there 
or developing at the point of sale.
Based on the evidence I have seen, I cant say that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at 
the point of sale.
I understand that Mr A says that the estimate for repairs suggests that the car was involved 
in an accident. But I cant be satisfied that this was known to the dealership when it supplied 
Mr A the car or that it would have been reasonable for them to have known if the issues with 
the paintwork were not evident at that time. I think it is more likely that the paintwork has 
deteriorated over time and can be attributed to wear and tear. 
I can see that Mr A raised the issue of the mileage discrepancy with the dealership soon 
after he got the car. On 17 April 2015 the mileage was recorded as 40,000 and on 22 May 
2015 it was recorded as 39,867 a difference of 133 miles. I agree with the investigator that 
this is more likely to be as a rounding up of the mileage rather than a deliberate reduction in 
mileage. The dealership didnt sell the car to Mr A until nearly three years later and by that 
time the mileage was 63,752. I dont think that this issue is significant or affected the quality 
of the car supplied to Mr A. 
Based on what Ive seen I dont think it is fair or reasonable to  ask Santander to do any 
more in relation to this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 
28 October 2020.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman