DRN-3880747
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limiteds (RSAs) 
handling and settlement of a claim they made for damage to their home caused by an 
escape of water.
What happened
The details and background of this complaint are well known to all parties, so I will not repeat 
them again in full detail here. But to briefly summarise, Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with 
RSAs handling of their claim. They say RSA caused unreasonable delays and put financial 
pressure on them by expecting them to fund their alternative accommodation and associated 
costs up front, before requesting reimbursement, and that RSA didnt offer sufficient help 
with sourcing longer term alternative accommodation. 
Mr and Mrs B are also unhappy with the settlement paid by RSA as it is based on the 
discounted costs available to RSA rather than the amount it would cost them to complete the 
works. They say RSA was unable to provide a suitably qualified contractor, so its 
unreasonable for the settlement to be based on RSA rates in these circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs B are also unhappy that RSA spent time arguing over minor elements of the 
scope of works and that it hasnt covered damage to their kitchen worktop or their electrical 
installation. Theyre also unhappy with the amount theyve been reimbursed for electricity 
usage at their property during drying works.
RSA says it offered use of its contractor which was refused by Mr and Mrs B. Based on this 
it says its offer of settlement, based on its contractors rates, is in line with the policy terms. 
RSA says some of the electrical work hasnt been damaged by the escape of water, so it 
wants to send its own electrician to inspect the damage before it can decide which elements 
should and shouldnt be covered. RSA says the worktop wasnt damage by the escape of 
water, but it would consider covering it if it became damaged during the strip-out or repair 
works.
RSA says it offered to pay Mr and Mrs Bs alternative accommodation directly, but they didnt 
return the payment mandate. RSA has paid a settlement for the additional electricity usage 
but says it will reconsider the amount should Mr and Mrs B provide additional electricity bills 
for consideration. RSA says the claim broadly progressed well, but it accepts there were 
delays in instructing advanced drying. It has offered £100 compensation for the impact of 
these delays.
One of our investigators was assigned to this complaint. He felt it was one that our service 
should partially uphold. In his final assessment of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint, he said RSAs 
position on the settlement cost, alternative accommodation and associated costs, electrical 
works and worktop was fair. But he said RSA did cause some delays, and that it could have 
offered Mr and Mrs B more help with sourcing alternative accommodation. Based on this he 
recommended RSA should increase its compensation offer to £300. RSA agreed with this 
recommendation.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with our investigators opinion. So, because no agreement could 
be reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I was minded to reach a different outcome to that reached by our investigator. So, I issued a 
provisional decision setting out my thoughts, and offering the parties the chance to respond 
before I reached a final decision. Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There has been extensive background to this complaint as the claim and complaint 
have been ongoing for several years. Its not my intention to comment on every event 
or dispute thats arisen during that time. Instead, Ill focus only on the issues which 
remain in dispute, and which I believe are key to delivering a fair and reasonable 
outcome to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to the parties, rather it 
reflects the informal nature of our service, and my role within it.
Im also only considering issues that took place from the start of the claim to the point 
of RSAs final response to Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Im aware that there have been 
further disagreements since that response was issued. If these remain unresolved, 
Mr and Mrs B can raise a separate complaint with RSA, which could be referred to 
our service if they remain dissatisfied with RSAs response.
There have been various parties involved in the claim and complaint, acting as 
representatives of either Mr and Mrs B or RSA. For ease of reference, Ill only refer to 
Mr and Mrs B or RSA in this decision, even when referring to evidence or arguments 
put forward by their respective representatives.
Based on everything Ive seen so far, Im minded to reach a different conclusion to 
our investigator. Ill explain my reasons below, addressing each issue separately.
The claim settlement
Mr and Mrs Bs policy explains RSAs preferred supplier network and what this 
means for a cash settlement on page 12:
We take pride in the claims service we offer to our customers. Our 
philosophy is to repair or replace the lost or damaged property where we 
consider it appropriate and we have developed a network of contractors, 
repairers and product suppliers dedicated to providing claim solutions.
Where we can offer repair or replacement through our preferred supplier but 
we agree to pay a cash settlement, then payment will normally not exceed the 
amount we would have paid our preferred supplier.
In this case, Mr and Mrs B say RSAs initial appointed contractor wasnt able to carry 
out the works, so an alternative was suggested. But they say the alternative 
contractor had only been incorporated for a short time, so they couldnt verify their 
expertise or quality of work. Theyve also argued that a contractor should have at 
least two years trading history before being appointed to an insurer network.I can see that RSA were forced to change their suggested contractor, and I can see 
that the proposed contractor was only incorporated in October 2020 as Mr and Mrs B 
suggest. But Ive not seen any evidence to persuade me that they werent suitably 
qualified to carry out the repairs. 
Ive considered Mr and Mrs Bs concerns about the suitability of the contractor to be 
part of RSAs network. But they havent highlighted any particular law, rules or 
regulations they feel have been breached by RSA in appointing this contractor. So, 
based on the information currently available, Im minded to decide that RSA made a 
reasonable offer to complete the works. However, Im prepared to reconsider this 
position should Mr and Mrs B be able to highlight a breach of rules and/or evidence 
that the contractor wasnt suitably qualified.
But as things currently stand, I think RSA made a suitable offer to carry out the 
works. And as Mr and Mrs B refused their contractor, I think its fair and reasonable 
that the cash settlement RSA paid was limited to what it would have cost its 
contractor to carry out the work. So, Im not currently intending to make any award 
with respect to the settlement amount paid.
Alternative accommodation and associated costs
RSA initially placed Mr and Mrs B in alternative accommodation in a hotel. They later 
also covered Mr and Mrs Bs sons hotel stay too. 
Between the initial drying and the commencement of advanced drying Mr and Mrs B 
returned to their property for around two weeks. During this time all parties were 
finding it difficult to source a suitable longer-term property for them to stay in while 
the claim was investigated and settled. RSA conceded that the lack of suitable 
available properties in the area wasnt Mr and Mrs Bs fault, so it authorised up to 
£1,400 per month toward a property, but Mr and Mrs B eventually found somewhere 
they were happy with for £900 per month.
I agree with our investigator that RSA could have done more to support Mr and Mrs B 
with sourcing a property, as it does appear to have pretty much been left to them to 
sort out for themselves. Some additional support would clearly have limited the 
inconvenience they experienced. I also note RSA has accepted that some of the 
early alternative accommodation payments werent reimbursed as quickly as they 
should have been. Ive taken these points into account when deciding on a fair and 
reasonable level of compensation  which Ill cover later.
Ive seen that RSA offered to arrange to pay the landlord directly. It sent 
Mr and Mrs B a payment mandate, which they didnt return. Based on this, I cant 
reasonably conclude that RSA acted unfairly in requiring Mr and Mrs B to pay for the 
accommodation and request reimbursement, subject to evidence of the payments 
being made. Ive also seen evidence that Mr and Mrs B were paying council tax at both properties. 
But I note that RSA advised them that they could apply to their local authority for an 
exemption for their main property which might have prevented this. And in any event, 
I can see that RSA has reimbursed the council tax payments Mr and Mrs B made for 
their alternative accommodation. I think this was fair.
Drying and electricity usage
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with the amount RSA has paid them to cover the 
additional electricity costs they incurred as a result of the drying equipment being 
used in their home.
RSA has paid around £330 for the additional electricity usage. But it has offered to 
reconsider the amount it paid subject to Mr and Mrs B providing further evidence of 
their losses, such as electricity bills covering the period and evidence of their per unit 
cost.
Mr and Mrs B have questioned why it falls to them to provide additional evidence and 
why RSA cant get more accurate information about the electricity usage from its 
drying specialist.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Bs frustration with being asked to provide evidence. But 
home insurance claims will be inconvenient and frustrating by their very nature. So, 
while obtaining and supplying evidence is inconvenient, I dont think that means RSA 
has done anything wrong as its ultimately for the policyholder to prove their losses. 
Mr and Mrs Bs policy document explains their responsibility to evidence their claim 
on page 11:
Claims terms and conditions require you to provide us with any reasonable 
assistance and evidence that we require concerning the cause and value of 
any claim.
I havent seen any persuasive supporting evidence that the amount RSA has 
currently paid was insufficient to cover the electricity costs as a result of the drying. 
So, in these circumstances, I think RSAs offer to consider additional evidence, 
should Mr and Mrs B provide it, is fair and reasonable.
The worktop
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that RSA has refused to cover the cost of their kitchen 
worktop.
RSA says the worktop wasnt damaged by the escape of water. It says it wouldnt 
include an amount in the cash settlement for the hypothetical risk that the worktop 
could become damaged during the repairs. Rather, it says it would consider damage 
to the worktop as and when it actually happened.
I dont think RSAs position above is unfair or unreasonable. It makes sense that it 
wouldnt pay a cash settlement for damage that hadnt happened. But, having 
considered the available evidence, I dont think thats what has happened in this 
case. I say this because Mr and Mrs B have provided several photos to show that their 
kitchen worktop was damaged during the stripping out of their kitchen. So, as the 
worktop was actually damaged, I think it was unfair for RSA to exclude that cost from 
its settlement.
It follows that Im intending to direct RSA to cover the damaged worktop. If 
Mr and Mrs B have already paid to replace the damaged worktop, then I consider it 
would be fair for RSA to meet the costs they have actually incurred, rather than the 
amount it would have cost its contractor to replace the worktop. RSA should also add 
8% simple interest from the date Mr and Mrs B were out of pocket to the date they 
are reimbursed, to compensate them for being deprived of the use of that money for 
other purposes.
The electrical installation
Mr and Mrs B provided an electrical condition report to RSA which highlighted 
several issues with the electrical installation. 
RSA considered this, but it felt most of the issues were unlikely to have been caused 
by the escape of water. So, it said it wanted to appoint its own electrician to 
investigate the issues and advise which, if any, could have been caused by the 
escape of water (or subsequent works)  and so be covered under the policy.
Ive seen an email from RSA in August 2021 confirming that it accepted it had 
caused a four to five-week delay in appointing an electrician. RSA said that to 
recognise the impact this had, it was prepared to consider a quote for repairs from 
Mr and Mrs B without carrying out any additional investigation. 
Mr and Mrs B have provided a quote from an electrician for around £1,800. But RSA 
has since reverted to its initial position that it wants to appoint an electrician to 
inspect the issues before deciding which elements are covered. 
I havent seen any explanation or rationale from RSA explaining why it changed its 
decision to consider the quote without an investigation. 
Ive considered whether it would be fair to hold RSA to the offer it made. But even if I 
did, RSA only offered to consider the quote, not to cover it. So, I dont think this 
would necessarily benefit Mr and Mrs B. I also think RSA wanting to appoint an 
expert to assess the issues, in the context of policy coverage, is reasonable. I say 
this because I agree that it appears unlikely that all the issues on the electrical 
condition report would be linked to the escape of water or subsequent required 
repairs.
However, I think RSAs withdrawal of their offer without explanation would have been 
distressing for Mr and Mrs B. And I also note the offer was made in order to 
compensate them for a four to five-week delay. So, withdrawal of the offer means 
Mr and Mrs B havent been appropriately compensated for this delay. Ive considered 
the impact of both these issues when deciding on a fair and reasonable level of 
compensation  which Ill cover in the below section.
Delays and compensation
Ive carefully considered the timelines provided by both sides alongside their 
arguments around claim delays. RSA has accepted that it caused a delay when approving advanced drying and when 
seeking to appoint an electrician. Ive also seen that there was around a month delay 
between the initial contractor confirming it couldnt carry out repairs and the offer of 
the alternative contractor. But aside from these, I cant see any periods of 
unreasonable, avoidable delay which can be solely attributed to RSA. Ive considered 
the impact of these delays when deciding a fair and reasonable amount of 
compensation overall  which Ill set out below.
In addition to the delays above, I think RSA has caused Mr and Mrs B distress and 
inconvenience, over and above that which would normally be expected as part of a 
claim of this nature. I noted examples of this in previous sections, such as delays in 
reimbursing some of the alternative accommodation costs, failing to provide 
adequate assistance in locating alternative accommodation and withdrawing its offer 
around the electrical installation without adequate explanation.
Taking into account the delays and poor service which I think RSA is solely 
responsible for, I dont consider the current offer of £300 compensation is sufficient. 
Instead, Im currently minded to conclude that RSA should increase this to £500 in 
order to fairly compensate Mr and Mrs B for the impact of its errors.
RSA responded to say it accepted my provisional decision in principle. But it wanted 
evidence that the worktop had been damaged, which was duly provided. Following this, RSA 
provided evidence that the worktop had been included in the scope of works used to 
calculate the cash settlement. It also provided a costed scope of works (in confidence) to 
show that the value it paid for the worktop was based on one of the quotes supplied by 
Mr and Mrs B.
Mr and Mrs B provided a detailed response to my provisional decision. In summary, they 
said:
It isnt so much that theyre unhappy with the cash settlement amount, rather they 
have never been provided with a costed scope of works and so they cannot verify 
that the amount paid was fair. They would like me to direct RSA to share a costed 
scope of works and to set out a specific amount for the cash settlement in my final 
decision.
They have received a total payment of £1,239.98 toward the council tax for the 
alternative accommodation. They believe an amount of £440.44 remains outstanding.
They have replaced the worktop with one which could be considered as betterment. 
So, they provided calculations they believe would amount to a reasonable settlement 
for this item  which they say is £2,180.35.
They have provided over 43 months of energy bills. They dont understand what else 
they could provide to enable RSA to better calculate the additional energy usage. 
Theyve also highlighted that two of their ceilings (and the associated insulation) were 
removed for several months which would have further increased their energy costs.
They say they provided a detailed electrical invoice to RSA and made clear which 
items were caused by the escape of water. They say the final cost of electrical repairs was £2,887.90 inc VAT and the 
reinstatement part of that (which they are seeking reimbursement for) was £1,434 inc 
VAT. But they say its unclear whether this amount was included in their settlement or 
not.
They accepted my proposed compensation of £500 but welcomed any increase I 
may feel to be warranted following their additional comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also carefully considered all the responses to my provisional decision. Having done so, 
my provisional conclusions have changed somewhat.  But Ive already communicated these 
changes to the parties and allowed them the opportunity to comment further. So, Im 
proceeding with my final decision. 
The claim settlement
My decision on the basis of calculating the settlement remains unchanged. That is, that its 
fair for RSA to base the settlement on its network contractors costs, because it made a 
reasonable offer for its contractor to carry out the works.
Mr and Mrs B would like me to direct RSA to share a costed scope of works and/or more 
detailed breakdown of the settlement with them.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs B would like to see a costed scope of works. However, the 
preferential rates available to insurers from their network contractors is commercially 
sensitive information. So, I wouldnt consider it reasonable to direct RSA to share this 
information.
That said, RSA has shared this information with our service, in confidence, to assist with our 
review of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. RSA has also provided a high-level breakdown of the 
payments it has made on Mr and Mrs Bs claim. This shows that despite an agreement being 
reached between RSA and Mr and Mrs Bs loss assessor for reinstatement costs of £28,028, 
RSA has paid a total of £35,000.
Ive reviewed the costed scope of works alongside the quotes provided by Mr and Mrs B. 
Having done so, I can confirm to Mr and Mrs B that the cash settlement paid by RSA is 
sufficient to cover the full cost of the agreed scope of works for reinstatement in addition to 
the quotes supplied, or amounts claimed, by Mr and Mrs B for: 
the kitchen units, appliances and worktop
the kitchen, diner/extension flooring 
the loft bedroom and bedroom carpets 
the desk and cupboard. 
However, this amount does not include the works required to the electrical installation, which 
Ill cover separately below.Taking everything into account, Ill not be directing RSA to increase the amount paid in 
settlement of the reinstatement element of Mr and Mrs Bs claim as Im satisfied the amount 
paid was sufficient.
Alternative accommodation and council tax
RSA has confirmed that it has paid £10,526.60 for alternative accommodation and £1,239.98 
for council tax at the alternative accommodation. 
Mr and Mrs B accept that RSA has fully reimbursed them for the cost of the alternative 
accommodation. But they say they incurred a further £440.44 in council tax which has yet to 
be reimbursed. Theyve based this on council tax bills for the periods 5 November 2020 to 
31 March 2021 (£673.20) and 1 April 2021 to 3 November 2021 (£1,007.22) which together 
total £1,680.42. 
The period covered between the two bills is the correct period of time that Mr and Mrs B are 
due to be reimbursed for. So, based on this, RSA should pay Mr and Mrs B £440.44 to 
reimburse them the council tax costs they incurred and havent yet been reimbursed. 
RSA must also add 8% interest to the amount due from the date Mr and Mrs B were out of 
pocket, to the date it reimburses them.
Drying costs and energy usage
The figure RSA paid toward the drying costs is based on information provided by its drying 
specialist. This information was based on meter readings taken and calculated using a 
standard, estimated cost per unit. RSA advised Mr and Mrs B it would reconsider this 
amount if they could provide further evidence of their usage, such as electricity statements 
showing their cost per unit.
Mr and Mrs B have said they have already supplied RSA with 43 months worth of electricity 
bills. But having spoken to RSA, it says these bills are not on its file. 
RSA has agreed to reconsider the amount paid if Mr and Mrs B can provide/resubmit these 
electricity bills. I think this is a fair way forward. Should a further dispute arise around the 
amount eventually offered, it will need to be dealt with as a separate complaint. If such a 
complaint arises, and Mr and Mrs B remain unhappy following RSAs final response, theyll 
be able to refer that complaint to our service  subject to our normal rules.
Mr and Mrs B have also queried whether the money they paid for electricity and oil at the 
alternative accommodation has been included in the settlement paid to them.
Our service wouldnt expect RSA to cover the energy usage at both the insured address and 
alternative accommodation address, because Mr and Mrs B would always have had to pay 
for one set of usage, even if no claim had occurred. I can see that RSA explained this to Mr and Mrs Bs loss assessor in October 2021. RSA 
explained it would expect Mr and Mrs B to cover the energy usage in the alternative 
accommodation, and it would cover the costs at the insured address, subject to evidence of 
the costs incurred and standing charges.
So, once Mr and Mrs B have submitted/resubmitted the energy bills, RSA should have 
sufficient evidence to consider and settle this element of Mr and Mrs Bs claim. And again, 
any potential dispute which might arise, following this, would need to be dealt with as a new 
complaint.
The worktop
As mentioned above, RSA has now provided evidence which persuades me that the worktop 
was included in the cash settlement. It has also provided a costed scope of works (in 
confidence) which further supports that this is the case.
Based on this evidence, Im satisfied that the worktop has already been covered and so 
there is nothing further for RSA to pay for this part of Mr and Mrs Bs claim.
The electrical installation
In my provisional decision I said it was fair for RSA to want to inspect the installation before 
agreeing any settlement.
Mr and Mrs B have since confirmed theyve already had the work completed, and at a higher 
cost than they were originally quoted due to the time which elapsed between the initial quote 
and the works being completed. Theyve supplied our service with invoices for the work and 
the materials used along with commentary around which elements they feel should be 
included in the claim settlement, and which were separate.
Ive discussed this point with RSA and it has agreed to consider the invoices provided by 
Mr and Mrs B, and to reach a settlement for this element of the claim, in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy.
As no inspection can now take place, I consider that RSAs new offer is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances.
Should Mr and Mrs B remain unhappy with the offer of settlement RSA makes, theyll be 
able to raise a new complaint, which could be referred to our service, subject to our normal 
rules, if they remain unhappy following RSAs final response.
Compensation
As neither side made further, specific, representations about the compensation I proposed in 
my provisional decision, I remain of the view that it is sufficient to compensate Mr and Mrs B 
for the impact of RSAs errors in this case.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs 
complaint in part. 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited must:
Reconsider the amount paid for drying costs and energy usage at the insured 
address, subject to Mr and Mrs B providing/resubmitting the energy bills theyve 
referred to.
Consider the invoices provided by Mr and Mrs B for the works to their electrical 
installation and settle this element of the claim in line with the terms and conditions of 
the policy.
Reimburse Mr and Mrs B £440.44 for council tax at the alternative accommodation 
address. To this amount add 8% simple interest* from the date Mr and Mrs B were 
out of pocket to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr and Mrs B £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has 
caused them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
*If Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs B how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs B a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so 
they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman