DRN-2252661
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Unum Ltd declined a claim she made on her employers group income 
protection policy. 
What happened
Mrs H worked in aviation. Her role centred around flying planes, and she had management 
and supervisory responsibilities too. Through her employer, Mrs H had access to an income 
protection policy which was designed to pay a proportion of her income in the event that 
illness or injury prevented her from working. 
After becoming absent from work in 2019, Mrs H submitted an income protection claim. She 
said that anxiety, emotional instability and difficulty concentrating were preventing her from 
working. But Unum said the available medical evidence suggested that Mrs Hs health 
issues were caused by and secondary to her, now late, husbands ill health. They said Mrs H 
was experiencing personal stress rather than a mental illness because of that, and declined 
her claim.
Mrs H complained and said she had been diagnosed with a mental illness. But Unum 
maintained their position, so Mrs H referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked at what had happened. He said Unum hadnt declined the claim fairly 
because the medical evidence showed that Mrs H had been diagnosed with a mental illness 
and wasnt considered fit for work. So he recommended Unum paid and backdated Mrs Hs 
claim, together with 8% simple interest.
Mrs H agreed with our investigators recommendation, but Unum didnt. So as no agreement 
was reached the matter was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is clear from reviewing this complaint that Mrs H has been through a difficult time and has 
experienced a very sad loss  I extend my deepest sympathies to her.
In line with the relevant industry rules and guidelines, Unum are required to handle claims 
both promptly and fairly, and they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
When making her claim for income protection, Mrs H needed to demonstrate that she met 
the group policys definition of incapacity. That definition was:
A member is incapacitated if we are satisfied that they are:
Unable, by reason of their illness or injury, to perform the material and substantial 
duties of the insured occupation, and are
Not performing any occupation
If the member is required by the terms governing the employment relationship to hold a 
licence or certificate which is issued only when the member meets required medical 
standards, we must also be satisfied that they are unable, by reason of their illness or injury, 
to perform the material and substantial duties of any gainful occupation with any employer 
for which they are reasonably fitted by reason of training, education or experience.
Having considered all of the available evidence in this complaint, I dont think it was 
reasonable of Unum to conclude that Mrs H hadnt demonstrated the above. Ill explain why: 
Mrs H was signed off work by her GP. I am aware that a number of the sick notes 
refer to her health/symptoms as secondary to her late husbands ongoing illness, and 
I accept that sick notes in themselves arent necessarily enough to demonstrate 
incapacity. However, I think the sick notes demonstrate that Mrs H was struggling to 
cope with her emotions and levels of anxiety, and that her GP didnt consider her well 
enough to perform her role.
Mrs Hs role required her to have a licence and medical certificate, but in 
December 2019 a doctor working within an aviation setting confirmed that Mrs H was 
no longer fit to exercise the privileges of her licence. The same doctor also confirmed 
that Mrs Hs medical certificate was being suspended because of her health too. So I 
think this further demonstrates that Mrs H wasnt considered medically fit enough to 
perform her role. 
In April and June 2020, Mrs H saw a consultant psychiatrist who diagnosed her as 
suffering from a mental illness  adjustment disorder with main presentations of 
anxiety. The consultant advised that Mrs Hs anxiety was severe, noted shed 
previously undergone psychological support and, in relation to her mental state, said 
that Mrs H was upset, unable to concentrate and not well enough to fly. So I dont 
agree that Mrs H wasnt experiencing a mental illness. 
Mrs Hs consultant also concluded that she wasnt fit to work and said her emotional 
outbursts, attitude, tearfulness, fluctuating emotions and high levels of anxiety are 
incompatible with safe flying. I acknowledge that Mrs H was continuing to care for 
her late husband at the time of her claim. But I dont think itd be fair of me to 
conclude that because she was able to provide that care, it would automatically 
follow that she wasnt incapacitated in line with the above term. 
In June 2020 Mrs Hs GP provided further commentary surrounding her inability to 
work. The GP also noted that Mrs H had previously engaged with psychological 
therapy. So I dont agree that Mrs H hadnt engaged in any treatment, and I note the 
GP further explained that the Covid-19 pandemic had made further therapy more 
challenging in recent months.
Mrs H wasnt prescribed any medication. However, given the nature of her 
occupation and the need for her to provide care for her late husband, I think Mrs H 
provided a reasonable explanation as to why she didnt feel medication was suitable 
for her particular circumstances. Furthermore, I also note that both Mrs Hs GP and 
her consultant psychiatrist explained why medication wasnt considered suitable for 
her circumstances. So I dont think a lack of medication is enough to evidence a lack 
of incapacitation.Given the nature of Mrs Hs role and the available medical evidence in this complaint, 
I think it is reasonable to conclude that her ability to perform the material and 
substantial duties of her occupation was impacted by suffering from an adjustment 
disorder with severe anxiety; experiencing fluctuating emotions and outbursts; being 
upset and unable to concentrate; and, having both her licence and medical certificate 
removed.
On balance I think the available evidence in this complaint shows that Mrs H was 
diagnosed with a mental illness. I also think it shows that her illness prevented her 
from being able to work. So I dont think it was fair or reasonable of Unum to have 
declined her claim, and for the reasons given above I think it should have accepted it.
Putting things right
 For the reasons I have given, Unum needs to put things right for Mrs H by paying:
The outstanding policy benefit to the policyholder, from the date the deferred period 
ended to date. Unum Ltd should add 8% simple interest to the settlement figure*.
Mrs H should note that the benefit will be paid to her employer and not to her directly, 
because it is they who are the policyholder.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Unum Ltd. They should put things 
right in the way I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
*If Unum Ltd considerd that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest it should tell Mrs H how much its taken off. It should also give her a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman