DRN-3598251
The complaint
A partnership (W), complain that Brunel Professions Limited sold them run-off cover 
that was of no value, and failed to disclose the commission it received for arranging 
premium finance. W are represented by Mr W, who was the main partner at the time 
(alongside a salaried partner) and who has told us that he paid for the run-off cove. 
W ceased and were succeeded by a Limited Liability Partnership (LLP) in 2014. 
The LLP are a separate legal entity, so any complaint about their own insurance 
arrangements would need to be considered separately. If Mr W wished to bring such 
a complaint, hed need to provide evidence that he has authority to act on the LLPs 
behalf in the matter (given hes not been a partner since 2016). 
As such, where I refer to W, I mean the partnership only. Ive only commented on 
the LLPs insurance arrangements when considering whether W could have 
benefitted from them.
What happened
W took out a professional indemnity insurance policy through Brunel that ran from 
late 2012 to late 2014. In late 2013 and early 2014, W were in the process of 
converting to an LLP and were in contact with Brunel about their insurance needs.
Ws regulator sets minimum insurance standards that must be complied with, even 
after cessation. Ws policy provided run-off cover (for an additional premium) in the 
event of a cessation unless there was a successor practice, in which case W had to 
elect how they wanted to continue to be insured. In this case, the LLP were Ws 
successor practice.
W could therefore either choose to be insured under run-off cover with their own 
insurer (Insurer A), again for an additional premium, or to be insured as a prior 
practice under an insurance policy in the LLPs name. Under the regulators rules, if 
W failed to elect run-off cover and / or failed to pay any premium due before their 
cessation, then the insurer of the successor practice (the LLP) would be required to 
cover any claims made about Ws work.
W say that, in July 2014, they ceased to operate and all ongoing business was 
transferred to the LLP. Conversely, Brunel says it understood that there would be a 
gradual transition of work from W to the LLP, and that, at first, theyd operate 
alongside each other.
Brunel initially arranged for Ws policy with Insurer A to continue. The LLP were 
added to the policy, and the sum insured was increased to facilitate this (for an 
additional premium). Ws status on the policy didnt change.
When it came to the end of the policy period, Insurer A told Brunel it wouldnt be 
offering renewal terms. Brunel spoke to some other insurers it had relationships with 
to see if they would provide the LLP with a policy (under which W could be insured 
as a prior practice). It says no-one in its network was prepared to offer this.
It says this was probably due to a number of factors. Some of these factors related to 
the LLP, but, there was an outstanding claim relating to Ws work, and some issues 
had been found with the work of one of Ws former partners which were likely to lead 
to further claims. The type of work theyd engaged in, and the low number of 
principals theyd had, were also viewed as risk factors by the insurance industry.
Brunel then asked Insurer A if it would be prepared to offer run-off cover for W, and 
later asked it to reconsider its decision not to offer renewal terms. Insurer A said it 
was willing to provide run-off cover on receipt of the appropriate premium (300% of 
the annual premium). It later asked for more information about W (presumably with 
the intention of reviewing its decision not to offer renewal terms) but by that point 
other arrangements had been made.
A few days before the existing policy was due to lapse, another insurer (Insurer B) 
offered to cover the LLP. The quotation said this cover would exclude claims 
emanating from work undertaken at {W} which is to be covered under {Insurer A} 
run-off. A new claim was made about W in the final days before the existing policy 
lapsed. W agreed to pay for run-off cover (using premium finance arranged by 
Brunel) and a separate policy was incepted for the LLP as per the above quotation to 
ensure continuous cover.
A few years later, Insurer A was declared bankrupt. Subsequently, some claims were 
made about Ws work which Insurer B accepted. The LLPs complaint handling body 
also reached the conclusion that, as Ws successor practice, they could be held 
liable for claims about W.
This led W to conclude that theyd been sold run-off cover they didnt need, and that 
theyd been covered under the LLPs policy all along. They highlighted that, in any 
event, theyd need to have elected and paid for run-off cover before their cessation. 
Given they ceased in July 2014, and didnt elect or pay for run-off cover until some 
months later, the LLPs insurer would always have been required to cover claims 
about their work.
They said that any premiums for the run-off cover should be reimbursed by Brunel, 
with interest. They felt Brunel had pursued the option that guaranteed the most 
commission, and complained that it didnt disclose what commission it had made 
from arranging the premium finance for the run-off cover. Ws original policy and run 
off cover had also been underwritten by a foreign insurer, and they felt the risks 
involved with this hadnt been made clear.
Brunel said no-one had been willing to offer the LLP a policy under which W could be 
insured as a prior practice. It had only been able to source a policy for the LLP 
because Insurer A agreed to provide W with run-off cover (which ringfenced their ongoing liabilities for a period of six years). It said this was proved by the wording of 
the quotation from Insurer B.
Once Insurer A was declared bankrupt (and the run-off cover ceased to exist), 
Insurer B (as the insurer of Ws successor practice) had no option but to accept 
claims about Ws work. It said it wasnt required to disclose the commission it earned 
for arranging premium finance.
Our investigator felt this was fair, but W didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman to decide. On 11 May 2022, my colleague issued a provisional decision 
which Ill set out below:
Provisional Decision
Advised or non-advised?
Brunel has maintained that it didnt give W any advice. The Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) says that the characteristics of an advised sale include:
explaining why the particular product or provider would meet the customers
demands and needs;
giving a recommendation tailored to the customers needs.
I think its reasonably clear here that W approached Brunel because it needed to find 
insurance arrangements that would facilitate a transition of business to their 
successor practice. And Im satisfied that Brunel gave explanations as to why 
electing run-off cover would (or was the only way to) meet that need.
So, I think there probably was advice given here, which meant that Brunel was 
under an obligation to ensure that any arrangements it recommended were suitable 
for W, based on an assessment of their demands and needs (and to inform W of any 
demands and needs that werent met).
The sale of a policy underwritten abroad
W complain that they werent made aware of the risks involved with taking out a 
policy underwritten abroad. I dont think there was anything inherently wrong with 
Brunel arranging a policy for W that was underwritten by an insurer based abroad, so 
long as any implications of this were made sufficiently clear.
I can see that the quotation form set out, on page 4, that Insurer A was registered 
abroad, but permitted to conduct business in the United Kingdom under passporting 
rules. It said Brunel couldnt guarantee the solvency of Insurer A, or its reinsurer, but 
that the reinsurer had been rated A  (Excellent) by a credit rating agency, and that 
Insurer A had informed Brunel that it was covered under the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme.
It would appear that, after Insurer A became bankrupt, W werent able to claim under 
the Financial Services Compensation Scheme because, according to the liquidator, the policy became void (due to Insurer As liquidation) prior to the claim being 
notified. So, it seems that the issue wasnt that Insurer A was based abroad, or not 
covered by the scheme, but rather that there was no policy of insurance in existence 
to form the basis of compensation.
The policy terms gave details of the relevant complaint handling body, which is 
based in Insurer As home state. Id really have expected Brunel to have highlighted 
to W that, in the event of an unresolved complaint, they would be referred to that 
body (and not the Financial Ombudsman Service). But I havent seen anything so far 
to support that this, in itself, would have resulted in W deciding not to go ahead with 
the policy in 2012.
Im also not aware of any information that would have been available to Brunel in 
2012 (or 2014) that would have meant it could reasonably have foreseen that Insurer 
A would be declared bankrupt in 2018. It seems that its collapse was precipitated by 
the failure of one of its reinsurers, which suffered a significant deterioration in its 
operating performance in 2017.
When did W cease?
It appears that Brunels understanding in September 2014 was that the partnership 
hadnt yet ceased but would need to in order to elect run-off cover.
In its recent submissions, its said that, in its experience, succession and cessation 
dont usually happen simultaneously. An immediate transfer of business from one 
entity of this type to another involves varying any ongoing contracts, which is an 
administrative burden. Instead, one entity will generally work through their existing 
contracts while the other takes on any new ones. In short, it seems as though there 
was an element of assumption on Brunels part about how the succession would 
take place.
Thats at odds with what W have told us, which is that they ceased operating in July 
2014, at which point all contracts were transferred to the LLP. In the 
contemporaneous emails, W told Brunel its intention was to continue trading until the 
conversion date (which was delayed a few times) and that services would be 
provided through the LLP from the following day. This would suggest a more instant 
transfer of business from one entity to the other.
To date, Mr W has only provided his recollections that all Ws clients were advised of 
the conversion and that notices of change were sent to the relevant parties (including 
creditors). I havent seen any evidence of this beyond Mr Ws testimony. Equally 
though, Brunel hasnt produced any evidence to justify its assumptions at the time, 
which were seemingly at odds with the manner in which W had explained that the 
succession would take place, either.
Having said all of this, for the reasons Ive expanded upon below, Im not persuaded 
I actually need to reach a finding on when W are more likely to have ceased. Even if 
I accept that they ceased in July 2014, I dont think it would change the outcome of 
their complaint.What would have happened differently if W had made an election before July 2014?
If the cessation date was in fact in July 2014, and everything had gone as it should, 
then, prior to the conversion date, Brunel would either have:
a) arranged for W to elect and pay for run-off cover; or
b) found an insurer willing to cover W as a prior practice under a policy 
belonging to the LLP.
In scenario a), the cost of the run-off cover would have been calculated in the same 
way (300% of the annual premium). The policy says that:
The Insurer will not pay a return premium to the Insured Firm where there are 
any paid or outstanding Circumstances or Claims notified to the Insurer under 
this Policy at the time of cancellation.
As W had notified a claim in February 2014, it seems unlikely any return premium 
would have been payable.
Whilst W might have been able to feel more confident that the run-off cover (prior to 
Insurer As bankruptcy) was effective and compliant with their regulators rules, 
theyd otherwise be in broadly the same position they find themselves in now.
When thinking about scenario b), put simply, I cant see that anyone, in Brunels 
network at least, was willing to provide a policy under which W could be insured as a 
prior practice.
Brunels testimony is that, in September / October 2014, it contacted everyone within 
its network who might be able to offer such a policy. This only appears to have been 
four firms, but Brunel has given reasons why this network was limited which seem 
inherently plausible (including the number of principals W had, their recent claims 
history and the type of work they had been engaged in).
These circumstances were broadly the same in July 2014 and September / October 
2014 (the recent claim having been notified to the insurer in February 2014). So, I 
dont interpret that the outcome of Brunels search would have been materially 
different if it had taken place in July 2014 (when W say they ceased), as opposed to 
September / October 2014.
Looking through the audit trail, all four firms initially declined to offer terms, or didnt 
respond at all. It was only when Brunel went back to them to confirm that W would 
elect and pay for run-off cover that a quotation for the LLP was forthcoming.
As Ive alluded to, the quotation the LLP eventually accepted specified that it was 
produced on the basis that claims emanating from Work undertaken at {W} would 
be covered under run-off cover with Insurer A. A different insurer also put forward a 
quotation, but only after Brunel clarified that W would be electing run-off cover. Prior 
to that, the insurer had said they were not interested in this one at all.So, if Brunel had pursued scenario b) in July 2014 and been unsuccessful, it would 
inevitably have had to refer back to scenario a), otherwise Ws proposed conversion 
to an LLP would have fallen through (because the LLP wouldnt have been able to 
find suitable insurance).
In fact, even if W had abandoned the conversion, the responses from Brunels 
network, including Insurer As disinclination to offer renewal terms, and the fact that 
no other insurer was willing to cover the LLP unless W were insured under run-off 
cover, suggest its unlikely they could have sourced ongoing insurance once their 
existing policy ended. So, theyd likely have been forced to cease operating and pay 
for run-off cover with Insurer A anyway.
W could have looked outside of Brunels network for an insurer willing to cover them 
as a prior practice under a policy belonging to the LLP, but to date, I havent been 
presented with anything that leads me to conclude that, despite the issues 
highlighted by Brunel, which are borne out in the lack of interest it received from its 
network, W could have sourced a policy of that nature elsewhere (either on their own 
or with the help of another broker).
Brunel could have arranged for the LLP to be added to Ws existing policy for the 
remaining policy term, which is what happened in practice. But Insurer A then 
declined to renew the policy, citing Ws claims history. So, if I accept that W had by 
then lost the chance to elect and pay for run-off cover, then theyd again have had to 
look for an insurer willing to cover them as a prior practice on a policy belonging to 
the LLP (likely with the same outcome).
W may have been able to buy themselves some more time. There was provision for 
the existing policy (under which both W and the LLP were insured) to be extended 
for 30 days, then another 60 days, although each period would have cost 130% of 
the annual premium.
If no insurer willing to provide such a policy had been found (including after the 
extension periods, if utilised), then W would have needed the LLP themselves to 
cease, triggering their own run-off cover. Because W hadnt elected and paid for run 
off cover before they ceased, Insurer A would presumably then have been required 
to cover any claims about Ws work under the LLPs run-off cover.
In short, based on what Ive seen so far, Im not satisfied that an insurer could have 
been found in July 2014 (or subsequently) that would have been prepared to cover 
W as a prior practice on a policy belonging to the LLP. I think W therefore always 
would have had to elect and pay for run-off cover in order to complete the conversion 
in a manner that would have enabled the practice to continue to operate (in whatever 
form).
Run-off cover  was it effective and would Insurer B have always been required to 
pay claims about Ws work?
It doesnt look like the issue of the cessation date came up in the correspondence 
between Brunel and Insurer A about the run-off cover. Insurer A was certainly willing 
to provide the run-off cover at the time, and issued an endorsement to that effect. Because it no longer exists, it isnt possible to ask what its understanding of the 
situation was, so, inevitably, its hard to know what might have happened in the 
event that a claim had been made.
Theres a possibility that, on receipt of a claim, Insurer A would have discovered that 
the partnership had (allegedly) ceased before electing and paying for run-off cover. It 
might have argued that the run-off cover was therefore ineffective (in which case it 
might have refunded any premiums paid), and that Insurer B would be required to 
cover claims about Ws work.
I note W feel they have been covered under the LLPs policy all along. But, its 
important to remember that it was only because W had run-off cover (ostensibly at 
least) that Insurer B was willing to insure the LLP in the first place.
So, in the above scenario, Insurer B may in turn have argued that it hadnt been 
given a fair presentation of the risk it was taking on (because it had been led to 
understand that claims emanating from work undertaken by W would be covered 
under run-off cover). It may have sought to rely on this to refuse cover for claims 
about Ws work as well.
In practice though, neither Insurer A nor Ws regulator raised any issues with the 
validity of Ws run-off cover prior to Insurer As bankruptcy in 2018 (as far as Im 
aware), so none of these are risks that were ever actually realised.
Run-off cover only lasts for six years, so Insurer B would have understood that it 
might become liable for claims about W at some future date. When Insurer A 
became bankrupt before those six years had elapsed, and the liquidator said this 
made the run-off cover void, Insurer B seemingly accepted that it was therefore 
required to cover claims about Ws work from that point forward.
This doesnt demonstrate that it would have been prepared to accept claims made 
prior to Insurer As bankruptcy, or that it would have been willing to insure the LLP 
back in 2014 if it hadnt been for its understanding that W had valid run-off cover with 
Insurer A.
Should Brunel refund the cost of Ws run-off cover?
Based on what Ive seen so far, I think the only way for W to have achieved their 
goal of converting from a partnership to an LLP in 2014, in a manner that would have 
allowed the practice to continue to operate beyond October 2014, was to elect and 
pay for run-off cover. So, the arrangements Brunel put in place met their demands 
and needs in this respect.
Whilst its possible this election was made too late, and that Insurer A (and Insurer B) 
may have refused claims on that basis, that isnt a risk that was ever realised. Had 
Brunel said that it was too late to elect and pay for run-off cover in September / 
October 2014 instead, W would already have ceased and their successor practice 
would likely have had to cease too in order to trigger run-off cover (under which 
claims about W could be submitted).I dont think it would be fair for W to benefit from having had the run-off cover 
(ostensibly at least), including being able to complete their conversion to an LLP 
(which was thus able to continue to operate and generate income), only for Brunel to 
refund the cost at a later date. I dont think this would fairly reflect the detriment W 
were actually caused.
Were W overcharged in 2014?
It appears that when the cost of the run-off cover (300% of the annual premium) was 
calculated, this included the additional premium that was charged when the LLP 
were added to the policy. As the run-off cover only applied to W (and the LLP 
continued to operate with separate insurance), theres an argument that this wasnt 
correct.
However, it was ultimately Insurer A that charged these premiums, and Brunel 
simply collected them on Insurer As behalf. So, I dont think it would be fair to direct 
Brunel to reimburse a premium that was (potentially) charged in error by a separate 
firm.
Furthermore, ahead of the conversion, Brunel collected additional premiums, which 
were calculated pro-rata based on the remaining policy term, to enable the LLP to be 
added to Ws policy. However, the conversion date was then postponed, and it 
doesnt appear that any of the additional premium was returned to reflect that the 
LLP wouldnt be on the policy for as long as was originally expected.
But, given these premiums were charged for the LLPs cover, I think the LLP would 
need to bring this complaint point. Again, it was ultimately Insurer A that charged 
these premiums, and Brunel simply collected them on Insurer As behalf. So, Im not 
persuaded Brunel would be the correct respondent to this complaint point in any 
event.
Undisclosed commission
Ive set out above why I dont think the arrangements Brunel put in place in 2014 left 
W in a worse position than they otherwise might have been in (once all of the 
relevant facts and circumstances are taken into account).
W complain that Brunel should have disclosed the commission they received from 
putting these arrangements in place, including arranging for the run-off cover to be 
paid for with premium finance.
ICOBS 4.4 sets out the rule on commission disclosure for commercial customers. It 
says:
(1) An insurance intermediary must, on a commercial customers request, 
promptly disclose the commission that it and any associate receives in 
connection with a policy. (2) Disclosure must be in cash terms (estimated, if necessary) and in writing or 
another durable medium. To the extent this is not possible, the firm must give 
the basis for calculation. 
I note that the disclosure documents Brunel sent to W (in both 2012 and 2014) said:
You are entitled at any time to request information regarding any commission 
which we may have received as a result of placing your insurance business.
So, in the absence of a request from W, Im satisfied Brunel wasnt under an 
obligation to disclose the commission it received in relation to the arrangements it 
put in place for W.
However, W have since made such a request (in November 2020). I dont know 
whether Brunel has by this stage disclosed the commission to W, but it would be 
preferable that it does so now (if it hasnt already) to resolve this concern for them.
For the reasons given above, I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
Responses to the provisional decision
Both parties provided further submissions. 
W said the following:
They werent shown evidence in September / October 2014 of Brunels 
discussions with other insurers or told to seek quotes from other brokers. 
They dont agree no-one was prepared to insure them as a prior practice on a 
policy belonging to the LLP. The LLP had no issues finding insurance the 
following year.
Brunel withheld information from them and left everything to the last minute to 
ensure they had no option but to buy expensive run-off cover.
Its a matter of fact that, by September / October 2014, it was too late for W to 
take run-off cover (as they maintain they had already ceased without electing 
run-off cover in July 2014). Any recommendation or advice from Brunel to do 
so was unsuitable. Had W been correctly advised they would either have 
sought an alternative policy, sold the practice, merged the practice or closed it 
down.
It wouldve been prudent for Brunel to disclose the commission and it wasnt 
fair or reasonable for it not to have done so in the circumstances.
Brunel said the following:
It didnt accept that it had given advice or a made a recommendation.
Ws regulator defines cessation (in the context of indemnity insurance) as meaning:
where the insured firms practice ceases during the period of 
insurance or after the period of insurance in circumstances where the 
insured firm has not obtained insurance complying with the {minimum 
terms and conditions} and incepting on and with effect from the day 
immediately following the expiry of the policy period.
It interpreted from this that the run-off election just needed to be made within 
the term of the (then) current period of insurance, which is what took place. It 
felt the insurers readiness to provide the run-off cover, without enquiring 
about the cessation date, supported that view. It said run-off only became a 
priority at the point that Insurer A declined to offer renewal terms. It 
highlighted that W didnt (at the time) object to the run-off cover on the basis 
that theyd already ceased.
It supplied information regarding the commission it received for arranging 
premium finance to W in February 2021.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as my ombudsman colleague and 
for broadly the same reasons. I dont intend to repeat points already set out in the 
provisional decision, but I will explain my reasoning for my decision below. 
W is required by its regulator to have insurance cover in place. When W ceased, it 
had to either have run off cover or be insured as a prior practice under the LLPs 
insurance policy. 
From the information Ive seen, Im persuaded that both options were explored by 
Brunel. But for reasons already explained, an insurer couldnt be found who were 
prepared to take on the LLP with W as a prior practice. This is further evidenced by 
Insurer Bs policy condition excluding all works undertaken by W. 
Because of this, it seems W was limited to seeking run off cover. And whilst Mr W 
believes this was provided too late and would never have covered a claim, Ive seen 
no evidence to suggest this wouldve been the case. 
Im persuaded W benefited from the run off cover in place. I say this because it had 
the reassurance that it was covered for claims made after its cessation. And it was 
able to complete its conversion to an LLP. As neither Insurer A nor Ws regulators 
raised any concerns or objections throughout the life of the policy, Im satisfied that 
on the balance of probability, the policy was valid and wouldve covered a claim had 
it arisen. 
Im mindful that even if Insurer A had refused a claim due to the dates on which the 
policy incepted, Mr W wouldve had the option to pursue a complaint with this 
service. And we wouldve looked into whether it was fair and reasonable to decline a claim on a technically when a premium had been charged. Whilst I cant say what 
the outcome of that complaint wouldve been, its unlikely Mr W wouldve been left 
without the policy premium and the claim unpaid.
I appreciate that after Insurer A declared bankruptcy, Insurer B covered claims that 
arose against W in contradiction to the policy condition saying they wouldnt. But this 
appears to be out of an obligation under the regulators rules. The policy didnt cover 
these claims, and a premium hadnt been charged for them. 
Mr W believes this means run off cover wasnt required. And it does appear that had 
it not been arranged, Insurer B wouldve had to pick up any claims against W as a 
matter of obligation. 
But this doesnt mean run off cover wasnt needed or that it was incorrect for Brunel 
to arrange it. It wouldve been highly unethical and against Brunels professional 
codes of conduct to advise W to go against its regulators rules in not arranging run 
off cover when no insurer had been willing to provide cover to W as a prior practice. 
And had this been the case, theres a strong possibly that Insurer B wouldve voided 
LLPs policy for misrepresentation as cover was only provided on the basis that W 
was insured elsewhere. 
Its for these reasons that Im satisfied Brunel acted correctly when arranging run off 
cover. And Im not persuaded the policy had no value.
In terms of Ws argument that Brunel should have disclosed the commission it 
received, it highlighted to W in the disclosure documents that they were entitled to 
request details of this at any time. W didnt make such a request until November 
2020, when it asked for details of the commission Brunel received for arranging 
premium finance. 
Industry rules (ICOBS 4.4.1) require Brunel to promptly disclose any commission 
that it (and any associate) receives in connection with a policy on a customers 
request. I understand that Brunel has since provided those details to W and I remain 
of the view that this was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman