DRN-3268943
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) unreasonably charged 
them an early repayment charge (ERC) when they repaid their mortgage a day early.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L had a mortgage with Halifax. It was on a fixed rate which, if repaid before 
31 January 2021, would incur an ERC.
In December 2020, Mr L contacted Halifax to discuss how to redeem his mortgage. He was 
told to call back in early January 2021 to obtain a final redemption figure. When Mr L called 
back, he says he was given unclear and conflicting information. Mr and Mrs L wanted to pay 
the mortgage off on 1 February 2021 when the fixed rate ended. During this call, Mr L was 
told that a transfer from another bank may take three to five working days to credit the 
account.
Mr L transferred the funds to repay the mortgage balance on 28 January 2021. However, 
this was credited to Halifax on 29 January 2021 which meant Mr and Mrs L were charged an 
ERC. They received a letter the following week telling them that their redemption was short 
by the amount of the ERC.
Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs L complained to Halifax. Halifax said it had received the 
redemption funds before the ERC period had ended so it was entitled to charge it. It 
confirmed it hadnt done anything wrong, but agreed to cancel the ERC as a gesture of good 
will. Mr and Mrs L didnt accept this and referred the complaint to our service. They said they 
believed they should receive compensation for the time spent handling their complaint and 
wanted to ensure other customers werent affected in the way they were. 
Two of our investigators have considered this complaint. Neither thought Halifax had acted 
incorrectly so they didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs L didnt accept 
this. They said that the ERC wasnt reflective of the loss that Halifax may have incurred by 
them paying off their mortgage a day early. And they maintained they should be 
compensated for the time spent complaining to Halifax.
Mr and Mrs L asked for the complaint to be reconsidered. So, its been passed to me to 
review and make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs L have made a number of points in response to both our investigators opinions. 
Ive thought about everything theyve said. If I dont address a specific point, its not because 
I havent thought about it. But the informal nature of our service means that I can focus on 
what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. And thats what Ive done here. I hope 
Mr and Mrs L realise I mean no disrespect by this. 
I can see that Mr and Mrs L took careful steps to make sure they paid the right amount on 
the right day. However, with transactions such as this, its not always that simple  things 
can go wrong and dont always go to plan. I can see that they were advised that any 
payment they made may take three to five working days. However, this can vary depending 
on the bank the money is being sent from and the method of transfer being used. If 
Mr and Mrs L wanted to make sure the money arrived on a specific day, I think they 
shouldve discussed this with the bank sending the funds to check how long this could take, 
not the bank receiving the money. I dont think Halifax gave Mr and Mrs L incorrect 
information in this regard  they didnt guarantee how long it would or wouldnt take.
Its unfortunate that the funds were received a day too soon and initially incurred an ERC. 
When a mortgage is offered, the ERC is set out within the mortgage offer as it was in this 
case. And its typically expressed as a percentage of the amount repaid. It will usually apply 
for a certain period, in this case, until the fixed rate period ended. Whether the mortgage is 
repaid a year, a month or a day early, the ERC remains the same. 
Mr and Mrs L say that the ERC wasnt reflective of the loss that Halifax wouldve incurred. 
However, I dont think its necessary for me to make a finding on this point here. I say this 
because Halifax has cancelled the ERC and Mr and Mrs L havent had to pay it. Ive thought 
about their point that Halifax only received the money one day early and it was unfair that the 
ERC was initially applied. I suspect its likely that this was an automated transaction and 
letter which was sent to them without any human input. And in any event, as Ive already 
said, the ERC has since been cancelled. 
Our role is to put right a financial loss. And Mr and Mrs L havent lost out financially as a 
result of this since the ERC has been cancelled. We can make awards of compensation 
when a customer has suffered distress and inconvenience as a result of a mistake made by 
a business. I can see this has clearly frustrated Mr and Mrs L. And theyve had to spend 
some time speaking to Halifax to resolve the matter. However, I cant see that Halifax has 
made a mistake here. 
As Ive explained above, I think Mr and Mrs L couldve taken further steps by contacting the 
sending bank in order to check timescales for transfers, and I dont think Halifax gave 
Mr and Mrs L mis-leading information. The funds were received too early, and I accept 
Mr and Mrs L did have to make some calls because of this. But I think it was fair and 
reasonable for Halifax to cancel the ERC and Im not going to tell Halifax to pay any 
compensation. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman