DRN-4330980
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited unreasonably delayed in 
dealing with his claim under his motor policy and then unfairly declined to pay his claim. 
Further he wasnt given a hire car and had to pay £2,000 in taxi fares taking his child for 
medical treatment. 
He also complained that his car was returned from the salvage yard with further damage.
What happened
Mr C claimed his car was damaged whilst going through a car wash and supplied an 
estimate to Skyfire stating his differentials needed repairing. 
Skyfires engineers inspected the car and found the damage to be caused by normal wear 
and tear which is a problem with the make and model of Mr Cs car. It also obtained 
evidence from the car wash company who explained that Mr C had driven his car in the 
carwash which he shouldnt have done which caused the issues. 
So Skyfire refused to pay Mr Cs claim. However, it acknowledged its service to Mr C was 
overly delayed in inspecting his car, so it paid Mr C £250 compensation. It also said he 
reported the claim too late in order to receive the hire car so that was unavailable to him.
Mr C remained dissatisfied and brought his complaint to us. The investigator thought Skyfire 
hadnt done anything wrong as regards the claims decision. But he didnt think Skyfire had 
shown that the car didnt sustain further damage whilst in the salvage yard so he thought 
Skyfire should repair this further damage and increase its payment of compensation to a 
total of £450.
Mr C didnt agree so his complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint along the same lines as that of the investigator. 
On the basis of what the car wash company said about how the car wash operated and 
faults showing on its system I consider its more than unlikely Mr Cs car was damaged by 
the car wash itself. 
Further the engineering evidence is clear that the failed differentials was more likely to be 
caused by mechanical wear and tear. They report that there were metal filings in the oil 
which indicates this is a long-standing issue. They alluded to this being a known issue with 
the make and model of Mr Cs car. 
Therefore, I dont consider Skyfire did anything wrong in not processing Mr Cs claim for the 
total loss of his car, given no insured event happened. 
However, from the photos Mr C produced there does seem to be some further damage, 
which Mr C believes was caused in the salvage yard where his car was being kept whilst his 
claim was being progressed. It has since been returned to him. Skyfire indicated it would 
continue to investigate this whilst waiting for my decision. I do consider the damage appears 
to be in keeping with how cars are moved about whilst in a salvage yard. Therefore, I 
consider its reasonable to expect Skyfire to repair this damage or pay Mr C the costs of 
repairing this damage. 
 
There were issues with the hire car which resulted from Mr C actually reporting the claim too 
late to receive a hire car. On this basis and given his claim wasnt valid, I dont consider 
Skyfire needs to pay Mr Cs taxi costs.
 
There is no dispute that that Skyfire did delay in dealing with Mr Cs claim. It acknowledged 
this and paid Mr C £250 compensation which I consider is reasonable and in line with what I 
would have awarded had it not done so. But given the additional damage issues and the 
delay in dealing with that aspect, I think its reasonable and fair to pay Mr C further 
compensation. I agree with the investigators thoughts on this and consider Skyfire should 
pay a further £200 compensation to Mr C. This claim has been unreasonably protracted and 
difficult for Mr C, so I consider an overall award of £450 compensation to be fair in these 
circumstances. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that Im upholding this complaint. 
I now require Skyfire Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
Repair the damage caused in the salvage yard or pay Mr C the costs of repairing it 
himself. 
Pay Mr C a total of £450 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman