DRN-1999362
Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2001 with a 
credit card. Miss P says Barclays Bank UK Plc, (Barclays) mis-sold her the PPI. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Barclays has given us a copy of Miss Ps credit card application form. In it there was 
separate section for PPI. A tick has been placed next to the statement Yes I do require 
Payment Protection insurance. There is nothing on the form indicating she had to take the 
PPI. Miss P has signed the form to confirm the selections made and I wouldve expected her 
to have looked over the form before signing to agree to take the credit card and PPI. 
Weve seen a number of cases from around the time Miss P bought her PPI, and Barclays 
usually made it clear that the PPI was optional and asked its customers to agree to it before 
adding it to their accounts, as part of its usual process. 
Overall, I think Barclays made it clear that Miss P didnt have to take out the PPI and that 
she chose to take it out. 
Barclays says it recommended the PPI, while Miss P says it didnt. If Barclays did 
recommend the PPI, this wouldve placed a greater responsibility on it as it holds it to a 
higher standard. And as this was sold in branch, I think Barclays is likely to be right and it did 
recommend the PPI. So, Ive looked at the complaint on that basis. This means Barclays had 
to check that the PPI was right for Miss P. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at 
the time, I think it was. Ill explain why.
Miss P was eligible for the PPI and it doesnt look like she wouldve been affected by any of 
the main things it didnt cover. She also seems to have had a need for the cover. Miss P 
says her employer provided her with six months full followed by six months half sick pay. 
She also had death in service benefit through her employer. 
But this policy wouldve paid out on top of any employee benefits her employer provided 
such as the sick pay. It couldve also have paid out for up to 12 months if Miss P couldnt 
work because illness, injury or unemployment. I think she wouldve found that useful 
especially for the period after her full sick pay ended. Death in service benefit does not 
provide the same type of cover as PPI. 
Miss Ps representative has recently added that Miss Ps husband could also have helped 
her if she needed it. While I have no doubt that he may have wanted to help her, his ability to 
help would depend on his own circumstances - which could change so I dont think that help 
could be guaranteed. 
Overall, I think having a policy pay out in difficult times for up to 12 months would still have 
been useful for her. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Miss P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. Miss P says she wasnt given information about what the policy cost or the 
exclusions in the policy for example. But I think that, even if shed been given clearer 
information about the PPI at the time of sale, shed still have bought it. I say this because, as 
Ive said above, theres nothing in the policy that wouldve affected Miss P in such a way that 
she wouldnt have wanted it. And the application form did say a premium would be charged 
so Miss P knew shed be paying something for it and she still wanted the PPI. So, I dont 
think better information wouldve stopped her buying it. 
With all this in mind, I dont think the policy was mis-sold. Which means Barclays doesnt 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss P.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss P because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss P about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Miss P, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss P.
But Barclays Bank UK Plc does have to pay back to Miss P any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already sent Miss P a 
cheque for this amount, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman