DRN-3713751
The complaint
Mrs R complains that East Kilbride Credit Union Limited was irresponsible in its lending to 
her.
What happened
Mrs R was provided with a £4,600 loan by East Kilbride Credit Union in November 2018. 
She was required to make 53 fortnightly repayments of £100 followed by a final repayment 
of around £22. She says that at the time of the loan she was struggling financially and 
getting deeper into debt. She says she was given the loan even though her income was only 
around £700 a month and that a credit check wasnt carried out before the loan was 
provided. 
East Kilbride Credit Union said that at the time the loan was provided it didnt routinely 
undertake credit checks. It said its assessment was based on a face to face meeting in 
which Mrs Rs income and expenditure was scrutinised. It said it checked Mrs Rs payslip 
and bank statements and these showed no other major creditors. It noted that Mrs R had 
made a series of deposits with the credit union between April and November 2018 and had a 
balance of £1,160. It said Mrs R had no record of bankruptcy or entering a trust deed or 
individual voluntary arrangement and her loan application met its criteria. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. He thought the checks carried out were 
reasonable and didnt suggest the loan repayments were unaffordable.
Mrs R didnt agree with our adjudicators view. She didnt think certain benefits should have 
been taken into account and said her wages were £700 a month and her rent £650 a month. 
She said she had two county court judgements and a credit check would have shown her 
situation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before providing Mrs R with the loan, East Kilbride Credit Union needed to make sure that it 
was affordable for Mrs R. Our general approach to complaints about unaffordable or 
irresponsible lending  including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice  is set 
out on our website.
The rules dont set out any specific checks which must be completed to assess 
creditworthiness. But while it is down to the firm to decide what specific checks it wishes to 
carry out, these should be reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit 
being provided, the length of the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments, the 
total cost of the credit, and what it knew about Mrs R at the point of application. 
East Kilbride Credit Union has explained the checks it undertook before lending to Mrs R. 
These included a face to face meeting and evidence being gathered of Mrs Rs income and 
expenses. While a credit search wasnt undertaken at the time of the loan, checks had been 
carried out to ensure Mrs R wasnt bankrupt or in a trust deed or individual voluntary 
arrangement. I have considered the checks that were undertaken, noting the history Mrs R 
had with East Kilbride Credit Union at the time of the loan application and the size and 
duration of the repayments. Having done so I think the checks were proportionate. A credit 
check wasnt required to be undertaken and while I appreciate that this would have shown 
the county court judgments, as I think the checks carried out by East Kilbride Credit Union 
were reasonable, I have considered the information it received and whether, based on this, it 
was reasonable that it considered the loan to Mrs R was affordable.
As part of Mrs Rs application an income and expenditure assessment took place. This 
showed Mrs Rs monthly income to be a combination of wages and benefit payments. These 
totalled around £2,260. Mrs R provided evidence of her wages and the benefit payments 
were recorded in the bank statements she provided. I note Mrs Rs comment about the 
benefit payments being taken into account as part of her income but in this case these were 
payments which she could use towards her living expenses and so I find it reasonable her 
income figure included both her earned income and her benefits. 
I have looked at Mrs Rs bank statements from the time and these generally support the 
information included in her expenditure form although as our adjudicator noted there was a 
payment of £100 at end October 2018 towards a credit commitment that wasnt listed in the 
form. Including this and noting the overdraft position alongside the expenses Mrs R had 
already set out I dont think meant the lending appeared unaffordable. I have also 
considered that the bank statements showed Mrs R to be overdrawn and there were some 
instances of returned direct debits. However, on balance, I do not find there was enough in 
the statements to say that the loan shouldnt have been provided.
Overall, while I am sorry to hear of the issues Mrs R has experienced, in this case I think the 
checks carried out were proportionate and as these suggested the loan was affordable I do 
not find I can uphold this complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman