DRN-3103395
The complaint
Mr S complains Sainsburys Bank Plc lent to him irresponsibly when it approved a personal 
loan.
He brings this complaint with the assistance of his daughter but for ease of reading I shall 
refer to Mr S. 
What happened
In July 2018 Mr S contacted Sainsburys Bank by telephone to apply for a loan. He already 
had an existing customer relationship with it, holding a joint loan with his wife from 2015. 
Sadly, their son died, and he needed to borrow money to pay for the funeral.
A loan of £8,000 was approved for Mr S in his sole name to be repaid over 60 months at 
£157.96 per month. £2,499 of the loan was used to repay the existing lending and a further 
£5,500 was paid into his bank account for the intended purpose. 
Unfortunately, Mr S suffered another personal tragedy when his wife died. He contacted 
Sainsburys Bank in January 2021, explaining hed struggle to make the repayments as his 
wifes pension and benefits had stopped. He asked if it could do something to help.  
Sainsburys Bank went through an income and expenditure assessment with Mr S and 
calculated that after all his outgoings he would have £46 left. It said it could set up a 
repayment plan of £45 per month but that to do this, it would have to default the loan. Mr S 
didnt want a negative marker on his credit file. He said that as a tenant hed find it difficult to 
get another tenancy. He asked if Sainsburys Bank could make the loan affordable by 
extending the term. But it said it couldnt because he didnt meet its criteria.
Mr S complained Sainsburys Bank shouldnt have granted him the loan. He didnt believe he 
was in the right mind when he applied for it and he didnt think it had carried out 
proportionate checks to find out if he could afford the loan - he couldnt recall being asked for 
any information. He said the payments had been a struggle and hed only been able to make 
these with the help of family.
Sainsburys Bank responded to the complaint. It said that it had considered the information 
Mr S had provided during the application for the loan, undertaken a credit search and 
considered its lending criteria. And having done so, it didnt think it had lent irresponsibly. 
Also, the loan had been for legitimate purposes.
 
Sainsburys Bank went onto say it had passed Mr Ss loan to its specialist team given his 
vulnerability and it had put collections activity on hold to give him some space. It arranged to 
cancel his direct debit for the loan but said it couldnt extend the loan term because there 
wasnt enough disposable income for the arrangement to work. Overall, Sainsburys didnt 
think it had treated Mr S unfairly. 
Mr S didnt agree so he referred his complaint to us. In April 2021, Sainsburys Bank 
defaulted the loan and set up a payment arrangement for £31.18 per month, starting in June 
2021. 
One of our investigators considered what had happened. He agreed that Sainsburys Bank 
had not carried out appropriate checks before approving the loan. Had it done so, he thought 
it was unlikely the loan would have been approved. He noted that while Mr S
had declared he had an income of £17,500 a year, this wasnt correct. On further review he 
couldnt see Sainsburys Bank had asked Mr S for any information to check the accuracy of 
these details or requested details of his other expenditure apart from his monthly rent. He 
also concluded Sainsburys Bank had significantly underestimated Mr Ss expenditure using 
ONS data.  To resolve the matter, the investigator thought that any loan payments that had 
been made should be deducted from the capital amount of the loan and all interest and 
charges should be removed. He also recommended it remove any adverse information 
about the loan with the credit reference agencies. Sainsburys Bank didnt agree with the 
investigators view. 
It reiterated it had relied on the information Mr S had given it about his income and rent, 
looked at his payment history on his previous loan and relied on ONS data to estimate his 
other expenditure. Having done this, it didnt consider it was reasonable or proportionate to 
request anything else to assess the loans affordability.  It felt the investigator had viewed the 
case with the benefit of hindsight taking account of information hed obtained now, which 
wasnt the right approach. It added that the details Mr S had provided and the credit bureau 
checks suggested there would be no issue with the payments being made and that the loan 
had been repaid for over two years with no issue, until his wife had died. 
Mr S accepted the investigators assessment though pointed out it would still take him twelve 
years to repay the outstanding balance after his loan was reworked to reflect any redress. 
Our investigator did not change his mind, so the case has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to approve the loan, Sainsburys Bank needed to make proportionate 
checks to determine whether the borrowing was affordable and sustainable for Mr S to 
repay. Theres no prescribed list of checks a lender should make. But the kind of things I 
expect lenders to consider include - but are not limited to, the type and amount of credit, the 
borrower's income and credit history, the amount and frequency of repayments, as well as 
the consumer's personal circumstances.
Mr S was entering into a significant financial commitment. He was looking to borrow enough 
money to repay his existing loan on which he and his wife had originally borrowed £6,000 
and there was around £2,500 still left to repay. He also wanted to borrow new funds. He told 
Sainsburys bank that he had a sole annual income of £17,500. The information Mr S had 
provided in relation to his income wasnt accurate  it was more reflective of household 
income rather than his own. But I dont think the income figure itself wouldve been a reason 
for Sainsburys Bank to question things. 
I do understand Sainsburys Banks position in that the credit bureau checks didnt highlight 
any concerns about Mr Ss ability to manage credit nor did the payment history on the 
existing loan. But where I disagree with it is on whether it should have looked into things 
further based on what other information it had available before it approved the loan. I have looked at the affordability and indebtedness information Sainsburys Bank has 
provided. This is the assessment it did at the time of the loan application. After working out 
the net monthly income, accounting for the rent and ONS data figures about Mr Ss other 
household expenditure and payments towards other existing debt, this left Mr S with a 
monthly disposable income of £249.16. This is the figure Sainsburys Bank worked out. Its 
important to note that this figure didnt include Mr Ss monthly loan repayment at this point. 
Based on the loan of £8,000, Mr Ss new monthly commitment was going to be £157.95. 
This is noted in the call during the loan application. So, this would have left him with £91.21 
for any other expenditure that may arise, including any emergencies.  When taking this 
information into consideration with the ONS data, which wasnt Mr S actual expenditure but 
modelled data, I think a prudent lender would have wanted to undertake some additional 
checks to satisfy itself that the loan repayments would be comfortably affordable and 
sustainable over the term. Because the disposable income figure was tight. 
Sainsburys Bank needed to bear in mind what if anything changed over the five-year term. 
And in this specific case I think this legitimately opened the question, would the new monthly 
repayments have a significant adverse impact on Mr S?   
One of the things, Sainsburys Bank could have done to make some additional enquiries 
would have been to ask to see Mr S current account statements for the months leading up to 
the loan, so that it could take a closer look at his financial situation. Had it done so, the true 
position with the income would likely have come to light and it would have seen that while Mr 
S was managing to pay the loan payments on his existing loan (which were lower than those 
proposed for the new loan), based on actual expenditure there was generally more money 
going out each month than was coming in. And the expenditure was a lot higher than the 
ONS data figures. I think if in possession of this information Sainsburys Bank wouldve 
realised there was a risk Mr S wouldnt be able to sustainably repay his loan over the term 
and this would cause him to suffer adverse financial consequences. 
Thinking about all of this, in conclusion I dont think Sainsburys Bank carried out 
proportionate checks in this individual case based on what it knew and I dont believe the 
lending decision was fair. It follows Sainsburys Bank will need to take steps to put things 
right for Mr S. I will comment on this further below. 
Ive thought carefully about the fact that it might take Mr S a number of years to repay the 
capital on his loan. Ive considered whether Sainsburys Bank should write off what will be 
left. But I havent seen a compelling reason for me to require it to do this now.
In addition to this, once Mr S contacted Sainsburys Bank about his difficulties, I think it 
treated him fairly and in line with good industry practice. It carried out a detailed income and 
expenditure assessment and came to a payment arrangement.  It also placed his account 
with its specialist team and suspended interest so that the debt wouldnt grow. So, Im not 
going to ask it to do anything further on this aspect. But it will need to do something to 
resolve the complaint. 
For the reasons given Sainsburys Bank needs to rework the loan account as set out below. 
While I note Mr S repaid his previous loan with some of the funds from the new loan, Im not 
going to ask Sainsburys Bank to consider that as I think that can be accounted for in 
reflecting the impact the new lending has had on him. 
Finally, I will remind Sainsburys Bank of its ongoing obligation to treat Mr S positively and 
fairly in response to any financial difficulties.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Sainsburys Bank Plc to do the 
following:
- Rework Mr Ss loan of £8,000 so that all charges and interest are refunded to it. 
- If Mr S has already paid more than £8,000, Sainsburys should refund the
overpayment to him together with interest at 8% simple (calculated from the date of 
the overpayment to the date the complaint settles).
- Remove any negative information about this loan from Mr Ss credit file, including the 
default.
- Retain Mr Ss loan account with the specialist team whilst there is a balance 
outstanding.
- Keep the payment arrangement under periodic review to ensure Mr S can continue to 
afford it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Sarita Taylor
Ombudsman