DRN-4391811
Complaint
Mrs A has complained about a loan Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) 
provided to her. 
She says the loan was unaffordable as she was in a cycle of borrowing and therefore the 
loan should never have been provided to her.
Background
Everyday Loans provided Mrs A with a loan for £6,000.00 in May 2022. This loan was due to 
be repaid in 60 monthly instalments of just under £280. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mrs A and Everyday Loans had told us. And she 
thought that Everyday Loans hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mrs A unfairly. So she 
didnt recommend that Mrs As complaint be upheld. 
Mrs A disagreed with our adjudicator and asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint 
and make a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs As complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Im not upholding Mrs As complaint. Ill explain why 
in a little more detail.
Everyday Loans needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Everyday Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mrs A could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Everyday Loans says it agreed to Mrs As application after she provided details of her 
monthly income and some information on her expenditure. It says it cross-checked this 
against information on a credit search it carried out and copies of bank statements that it 
obtained. In its view all of this information showed Mrs A could afford to make the 
repayments she was committing to. 
On the other hand, Mrs A has said she should never have been provided with this loan 
because of her existing financial position.
Ive carefully thought about what Mrs A and Everyday Loans have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Everyday Loans carried out a credit check on Mrs A and 
obtained bank statements from her. So I dont think that this was a case of Everyday Loans 
simply accepting an over-optimistic declaration of monthly disposable income at face value. 
Everyday Loans was aware that Mrs A had some existing debts. But this wasnt excessive 
when compared to Mrs As monthly income. And Mrs A said that she was going to 
consolidate some of her existing debts too. 
Equally, as this was Mrs As first loan with Everyday Loans, Im satisfied that it was 
reasonably entitled to rely on what it had been provided with. There wasnt anything obvious 
in the information gathered during this application which leads me to think that it wasnt 
reasonable to lend in these circumstances.
I accept that Mrs As actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information she provided, or the information Everyday Loans obtained. I know that she says 
that she was paying out more than what showed in her bank statements. But the key here is 
that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a 
lender did something wrong. Given the circumstances here, and the lack of obvious 
inconsistencies, I dont think that it was unreasonable for Everyday Loans to lend here.
Furthermore, as Everyday Loans obtained bank statements from Mrs A and considered 
these as part of her application, its difficult for me to see what more it could have done to 
have found out about what Mrs A says wasnt showing in her bank statements. I say this 
while mindful that Ive not been provided with anything that clearly shows the monthly 
payments were unaffordable.
As this is the case, I dont think that Everyday Loans did anything wrong when deciding to 
lend to Mrs A - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out 
which suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that Everyday Loans treated Mrs A unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing her with her loan. And Im not upholding Mrs As complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mrs A. But I hope that shell understand the reasons for my decision 
and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding this complaint, Id like remind Everyday Loans of its obligation to 
exercise forbearance and due consideration should it intend to collect on the outstanding 
balance on Mrs As loan and it be the case that she is experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Jeshen NarayananOmbudsman