DRN-1978380
 
The complaint
Mr A has complained that National House-Building Council (NHBC) declined a claim he 
made under his NHBC Buildmark warranty and insurance cover.
What happened
Mr A experienced issues with some external steps causing a leak into his property within the 
first two years of his warranty cover. The issues were initially reported to the builder, and 
repairs were carried out. But when the issues reoccurred Mr A contacted NHBC  within 
years 3 to 10 of his warranty cover.
NHBC liaised with the builder and it agreed to carry out further remedial works. This didnt 
involve NHBC issuing a resolution report. The issues then reoccurred again in 2018. NHBC 
communicated with both sides about the issues, but ultimately advised Mr A that the issues 
he was reporting wouldnt be covered by his warranty.
Mr A is unhappy because he continues to experience issues. He feels NHBC should cover 
the damage under section 3 of his Buildmark cover. He says NHBC has given several 
different reasons for not covering his claim, rather than just helping him.
NHBC says the issue was first reported during the builders liability period. It says the builder 
agreed to carry out repairs, so there was no resolution report issued  which means it cant 
now be held responsible for further issues. It says section 3 of the warranty specifically 
excludes anything which was, or could have been, reported to the builder during the first two 
years of cover.
One of our investigators looked into Mr As complaint. She explained that our service doesnt 
have the power to consider NHBCs decision not to offer its resolution service because the 
first two years of cover doesnt amount to a contract of insurance. But she felt by attempting 
to facilitate communication between Mr A and the builder in 2018, that NHBC had done more 
than it was required to do under the warranty. 
Our investigator did consider whether the issues Mr A reported should be covered under 
section 3 of the warranty. But she didnt think they should, because section 3 specifically 
excludes any issues reported to the builder within the first two years  which these issues 
were.
Mr A accepts that our service doesnt have the power to consider NHBCs decision not to 
issue a resolution report. But he remains of the opinion that the issues should be covered 
under section 3 of his warranty. So, because no agreement has been reached the complaint 
has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Mr A has highlighted several concerns, my decision focuses only on the issues I 
consider to be material to the outcome of his complaint.
Mr A has accepted that our service doesnt have the power to consider NHBCs decision not 
to offer its resolution service during the first two years of the warranty. So, my decision will 
focus only on whether NHBC should cover the claim under section 3 (years 3 to 10).
In basic terms, NHBCs Buildmark warranty provides cover for major problems with newly 
built or converted properties where there has been a breach of its technical requirements. 
The warranty is bought by the builder and passed on to the consumer when they purchase 
the property. The cover provided by the warranty is split into three sections, which Ill 
summarise very broadly below:
Section 1  cover before completion  typically protects the deposit paid by the 
consumer in the event of the builder being made insolvent before completion
Section 2  years 0 to 2 (Builders warranty)  the builder is required to put right any 
issues, with the home or common parts, which amount to a breach of NHBCs 
technical requirements. 
Section 3  years 3 to 10 (Defects insurance period)  NHBC is required to put right 
any issues, with the home or common parts, which amount to a breach of NHBCs 
technical requirements
Section 3 of the warranty is the relevant section in this complaint. This section states that 
NHBC will pay for:
The full Cost, if it is more than £1000 Indexed, of putting right any actual physical 
Damage caused by a Defect in any of the following parts of the house, bungalow, 
maisonette or flat and its garage or other permanent outbuilding, or its Common 
Parts
However, as with any insurance policy/new home warranty, there are specific exclusions 
applicable to the cover. Page 13 of Mr As warranty booklet explains what is and isnt 
covered under section 3. Under the heading, What NHBC will not pay for it says:
Anything which was or could have been reported to the Builder under section 2
Mr A did report the issues to the builder under section 2 of his warranty during the first two 
years of cover. So, in this case, I dont think its unfair or unreasonable for NHBC to rely on 
this clearly worded exclusion.
Mr A has also complained that NHBC has given him several different reasons for not 
covering his claim. I can see that in 2018 NHBC did tell Mr A that he would be out of time for 
raising a claim under section 3, which wasnt correct. But this was quickly rectified. And it 
appears that NHBC was clear from the outset that the builder was responsible for the issues 
because they were first reported within the first two years of the warranty.
Ultimately, Mr A reported the issues to the builder during the first two years of the warranty, 
which means they are specifically excluded under section 3. So, taking into account the 
specific exclusion, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to expect NHBC to cover Mr As claim 
under section 3 of his warranty.
It follows that I dont require NHBC to take any further action 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2020. 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman