DRN-3175870
The complaint
Mr H complains Zurich Insurance PLC havent dealt with a claim he made on his motor 
insurance policy fairly.
Other companies have been involved in this complaint, but as Zurich are responsible for it, 
Ive mainly referred to them in this decision.
A solicitors firm, who Ill call S, acted as Mr Hs accident management company for part of 
the claim. I understand from the file they changed their name on several occasions, but for 
simplicity Ill just refer to them as S.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint, setting out whatd happened, and what I 
thought about that. Ive copied the relevant sections below, and they form part of this final 
decision. 
In March 2013 Mr H says his car was hit while it was parked. He said it was hit in the rear 
causing damage. He says he knew who hit him, so wanted that persons insurance to cover 
his costs. He contacted Zurich to discuss the claim. Because of the circumstances of the 
claim, they offered him a referral to S, to run this for him. This meant initially he wasnt 
claiming on his own policy, so wouldnt have to pay his excess of £500. Instead, S would 
manage the claim for him to try and get the other insurer to meet the cost of repairs Mr H 
said his car needed.
In February 2018 Mr H got back in touch with Zurich, saying S had decided not to pursue his 
case any further which he wasnt happy with. This went back and forth, until Zurich say they 
left a message for Mr H to get back in touch with them in June 2018.
The next contact was in October 2018 when Mr H contacted Zurich again because he was 
unhappy with how long it was taking for the claim to be resolved. Mr H asked that Zurich 
take over matters. They let Mr H know they may not be able to get an admission of liability 
from the other party at this point  and they may not even be able to deal with the claim at 
all. Mr H was unhappy with this, so he complained.
In November 2018 Zurich replied. They said theyd contacted S who said they couldnt 
continue with the complaint because they couldnt prove the other drivers involvement in the 
incident. They said Mr H had sent photos showing the other car was parked in close 
proximity to his, but that didnt show any contact. Because of this, Zurich said they wouldnt 
be able to recover any costs theyd incur if they dealt with his claim. Zurich added as Mr H 
was still within six years of the event he was entitled to raise a claim  but said on 
20 February 2018 Mr H had told them hed taken his car to a garage to be modified and the 
rear bumper was replaced. They said Mr H had sent invoices for the repairs to his car to 
them, but on review they found these invoices didnt relate to the incident damage  so they 
wouldnt be paying them. They did send a photo of Mr Hs damaged bumper to their 
independent engineers, who said to repair it would have cost around £484.68. And, as that 
cost is less than the £500 excess on his policy, it means he wouldnt be eligible to make a 
claim for damage. So, overall, they said they couldnt deal with his claim and didnt uphold 
his complaint.
Unhappy with this reply Mr H contacted us. He said on the day in question it was snowing 
and the snow tracks showed the other persons car leaving Mr Hs drive and then parking up. 
He said hes been waiting since 2013 for Zurich to deal with the claim but due to many 
mistakes its not been dealt with correctly. Mr H said the cost of repairs was around £2,500, 
and as no repairs had happened rust was forming on the car. He felt theyd made an error in 
saying the front of the other partys car had hit his, when it was actually the rear  he felt this 
mistake meant the other party could deny liability. Mr H said hed been paying increased 
premiums for the last years because of this. 
To resolve things Mr H wanted an apology, to pay the estimate as cash in lieu to avoid any 
issues about repairs and pay compensation for the increased premiums. Mr H also wanted 
compensation for the distress caused along with his wasted time, felt his excess should be 
waived as he thinks it was protected, and refund 2013s premiums as he felt they were 
excessive. Mr Hs policy renewed in July 2013, four months after the incident. Mr H added 
he told them not to renew the policy, but they did anyway.
One of our Investigators looked into things. He explained Zurich werent responsible for the 
actions of S, but they were responsible for referring Mr H to them. Although Zurich didnt 
provide the phone call where this was discussed he said he thought Mr H likely would have 
wanted to use Ss services. But, he thought it likely the referral hadnt been properly 
explained  as Mr H seemed to believe S were acting on behalf of Zurich which wasnt right. 
For this he awarded £200 as he felt Mr H would have contacted Zurich sooner had this been 
done properly. Our Investigator felt Zurich had handled the issue of the rear bumper fairly 
but hadnt seemingly dealt with the damage to the front of the car. He felt Zurich should 
assess this, and if the total cost of any repairs was more than the £500 excess this should 
be paid to Mr H. Finally, he noted Mr Hs comments regarding the increase in premiums but 
said he couldnt fairly ask Zurich to reimburse those.
Mr H didnt agree with this because itd mean Zurich arent responsible for the failings. He 
felt that Zurich should have to pay for the estimate given in 2014 and pay compensation to 
reflect the increase in premiums as well.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Scope of what I can consider
I think its important to set out at the beginning that Zurich and S are different companies. I 
cant make any findings about Ss conduct, I can only consider what Zurich have done in 
their handling of Mr Hs claim.
Referral to S by Zurich
As Ive set out above, I cant consider what S did or didnt do when handling Mr Hs claim. 
But as Zurich referred Mr H to S, I can consider whether they did this in a fair way. 
Ive asked Zurich to provide a copy of the call where this referral was made. Zurich have said 
because this was in 2013, they no longer have a copy of the call. I dont find this surprising, 
its been a long time. But they have been able to provide a copy of a script they say would 
have been played by S at the time.
Ive copied below what I consider to be the key wording from Ss script here:
We can offer you credit services provided by S so you do have two options to proceed with 
your claim.
You can continue to make a claim on your own  insurance policy, however if you decide to 
do so you would be liable for your policy excess and your no-claims bonus may be affected, 
it is likely you would only receive a small courtesy car and only if your car is repairable.
If you proceed with S we pursue your claim against the insurer of the responsible Third 
Party, we will fully manage your claim and offer you a replacement vehicle suitable for your 
needs. There will be no excess to pay at this point and the vehicle will be provided to you 
until your repairs are complete or a total loss payment received.
I cant know for certain if this is what Mr H heard when he was transferred to S, but I think its 
reasonable for me to say hed have heard something like this. When I review this script, and 
think about what Mr H would have heard, I think its more likely than not hed have been 
made aware S were a different company to his own insurance company. 
So, I think it more likely than not Mr H was properly and fairly referred to S, and chose to go 
with them knowing they were separate to his insurance company. With that in mind, I cant 
reasonably award the £200 our Investigator did  as I think its likely the referral was 
completed correctly.
Delays in the claim
From what I can see, the incident happened on 22 March 2013, and the first contact from S 
to Mr H was 3 April 2013. From then, until Mr H got back in touch with Zurich in 2018, S 
were handling his claim.
So, I cant hold Zurich responsible if there were any delays during this time, as this was Ss 
responsibility. But Ive looked at what happened when Mr H got back in touch in 2018.
The first contact was in February 2018, but I dont think it was clear until October 2018 that 
Mr H wanted Zurich to provide more substantial support regarding his claim. Between then 
and November 2018 they investigated matters and provided a prompt response setting out 
their position.
Overall then, although Mr Hs claim has taken a very long time, I dont find Zurich 
responsible for that.Liability
Im aware Mr H feels very strongly that theres enough proof to say the other party he 
identified was liable for the damage that occurred. 
I do though need to explain that our service cant decide liability, this is something only the 
courts can decide. What Id usually be able to look at is whether Zurich have determined 
liability fairly. But, here, those conversations happened between S and the other insurer  
Zurich werent involved in this. This includes Mr Hs concerns that the other insurer were told 
their insured had driven forward into Mr Hs car, rather than reversing as Mr H said had 
happened.
So, I cant consider whether Zurich did decide liability fairly  I can only look at how theyve 
applied what S decided in a fair way.
Ive seen all of the reasons S decided not to pursue liability, and these appear to have 
ultimately focused on Mr Hs inability to provide the kind of evidence S felt a court would 
need to see. S said the claim would most likely be struck out if made, given the lack of 
evidence, and Mr H could end up being responsible for the other partys costs.
Given the quite strong comments from S, I dont think Zurich have acted unreasonably in 
relying on this information. Ive not seen enough on the file to provide Zurich with a clear 
reason to disagree with this  so I dont think theyve done anything wrong in not pursuing 
this element further.
Repairs
Mr Hs claim is that damage was caused to the rear and front of his car  but only damage to 
the rear has been discussed.
The damage to the rear bumper of Mr Hs car has been assessed by Zurichs independent 
engineer. Theyve provided a summary to say the cost of repair would be £484.68. 
Itll help to explain that were not mechanics or engineers, so we rely on the evidence of 
those that are to fairly quantify the cost of repairs  unless theres a reason not to. Ive not 
seen any reason to think this estimate isnt accurate, so I think Zurich are acting fairly in 
relying on it.
In doing so, that means the current cost of Mr Hs claim is below his excess amount of £500. 
An excess is something that has to be paid in the event of a claim, so I think Zurich have 
acted fairly here in saying they wont consider Mr Hs claim for the rear bumper  given the 
cost of it is less than the excess hed be required to pay if he made the claim.
Zurich hadnt assessed the damage to Mr Hs front bumper as part of his claim. So, I made 
sure we put that to them. They replied to say they couldnt see this had been raised initially  
and given the claim was for someone reversing into the rear of Mr Hs car, they didnt see 
how damage could have been caused to the front of the bumper as well.
Mr H has explained the damage was caused as a result of his car being shunted forward into 
the car parked in front of it.
But, as Zurich said theyd not been made aware of this, Ive considered the information 
provided by Mr H regarding the claim. I think the key piece of information is what Mr H told 
S. They asked Mr H to complete a report about the incident, and in the section titled Describe 
the damage sustained to your vehicle, Mr H wrote:
Exhaust dropped, repaired as car was required bracket snapped. 2nd was dent to the rear 
bumper, 3rd was alloys got curbed as been pushed toward curb. Car hasnt been fully 
inspected for damages to shocks etc
So, after Mr Hs car has been taken to a garage for some repairs, theres no mention of 
damage to the front bumper. But, there is mention of damage as a result of the car being 
pushed toward the curb. Theres also an official engineers report, which only mentions 
damage to the rear bumper, not the front bumper.
Given this, I dont think Zurich are acting unfairly by saying as this wasnt mentioned they 
wont consider it. I dont think Zurich can reasonably be confident the damage occurred at 
the same time as Mr Hs incident  and Ive not seen anything to prove otherwise.
Renewal of the policy in July 2013, and increased premiums
Mr H has said he told Zurich not to renew his policy in July 2013. So, hed like a refund of 
some of those premiums because he thinks they were a little high. He also says hes been 
paying increased premiums since the incident date as a result of it not being resolved.
Regarding the renewal, this was done by Mr Hs broker, so as hes now aware, its 
something for them to answer.
For the increase in premiums, Zurich have said they only hold premium data for up to six 
years  so cant provide what Id need to fully consider this point. I dont find this unusual and 
draw no adverse inferences from this.
In situations like this, I need to decide what I think is more likely than not, taking into account 
the information I do have.
Whenever someone makes a claim, thats got the potential to have an impact on their 
premiums. And, as Ive set out above, Mr H has been found liable for that claim. So, hell 
have a fault claim registered against him  and when answering this question with other 
insurers, theyll be taking this information into account.
I generally find, in cases where the amount of premium being charged is questioned, that the 
insurer have acted fairly in calculating it. I cant know thats the case here but taking into 
account Mr Hs fault claim registered against him, and my own experience, I think its likely 
Zurich calculated the premium fairly. So, I wont be telling them to refund anything Mr H paid.Responses to my provisional decision
Zurich didnt reply by the deadline.
Mr H provided a detailed response, Ive summarised in my own words his points relevant to 
this complaint:
Referral to S by Zurich  he wasnt ever told his complaint was being passed over to 
S he understood they were going to be helping Zurich to fulfil the claim. He wasnt 
told S were going to be controlling everything, and says hed remember if the script 
Ive referred to above was said to him.
Delays in the claim  Zurich never made any contact with him, it was always him 
chasing them up. He doesnt think Ive acted fairly in saying Zurich arent responsible 
for delays between 2013 and 2018, or in 2018 when he got back in touch.
Liability  Mr H accepts its up to S and Zurich to decide whether to pursue liability 
but says he did have legal cover. 
Repairs  They didnt handle the claim properly  for example by saying the only 
damage was to the front of the other partys car, rather than the rear where the 
damage really was which prejudiced the claim. And that the invoice shows all the 
damage, but again Zurich just think its the rear. Their comment that he cant make a 
claim because the amount is less than the excess isnt correct either, as hes got 
excess protection. He felt Zurich should pay the invoice from 2013 as that clearly 
describes all the repairs needed. He says he did tell people exactly what happened 
at the time and told them about the car being shunted forward into a parked car in 
front of his.
Renewal of the policy in July 2013, and increased premiums  Mr H questions why 
hes having to pay extra when a claim has been made, but not actually paid out to 
him. He says hed accept increased premiums, if his claim had been paid.
Overall, Mr H felt Zurich were responsible for the claim in 2013 and should be made to pay 
it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive addressed the response from Mr H under the same headings I used for my provisional 
decision.
Referral to S by Zurich
Ive thought about Mr Hs comments here. But, overall, Im still satisfied its likely Zurich 
made Mr H aware S were an entirely different company. And, I think from the script hed 
likely have heard, hed have been made aware theyd be handling the claim for him. 
I have noted Mr Hs comments where hes said hed remember hearing something like the 
script  because hes the kind of person who remembers his driving licence number. But, 
this information back in 2013 wont have held as much significance to Mr H as it does now, 
and memories can and do fade. So, although Ive noted what hes said, Im not persuaded 
that means the referral wasnt completed fairly. Given that, I dont uphold this element of 
Mr Hs complaint.Delays in the claim
Mr Hs comment here is about Zurich not getting in touch with him. But, in being satisfied the 
referral to S was likely completed fairly, I wouldnt expect Zurich to have got in touch with 
him between 2013-2018  as S were managing his claim.
In February 2018 Mr H got back in touch. But, as Ive said above, I dont think it was clear 
until October 2018 he wanted Zurich to get more involved in his claim. I said that because I 
can see some conversations in February and March, and then Mr H got back in touch in 
June asking for an update and was told information hed been asked to provide hadnt been 
sent to Zurich. In July 2018, after some further conversations, Zurichs notes show they 
called Mr H to update him, and left a voicemail, but then didnt hear back from him until 
October 2018.
So, although its clear this has been going on a very long time for Mr H, I dont think Zurich 
are responsible for that. 
Liability
Ive noted Mr H has said he accepts this but had legal cover as part of his policy. S provided 
an opinion to Mr H saying they didnt think he could provide the kind of evidence a court 
would need to see to uphold his claim against the other party. If Mr H wishes to, he can 
though get in touch with his legal cover provider (the insurer hes listed out when replying) to 
ask them about this. This is a separate element to his motor insurance contract, provided by 
another insurer, so Zurich arent responsible for addressing that.
Repairs
Mr Hs concerns about a misunderstanding regarding where the damage occurred to the 
other partys car was something addressed by S  so not something I can consider against 
Zurich, but I can see this issue was clarified with the other party.
So, when Zurich came to assess the damage to his car, they did have Mr Hs version of 
events  that the other party reversed into the rear of Mr Hs car, causing damage to the rear 
of both cars due to the impact, and the front due to Mr Hs car being shunted forward.
Ive noted Mr H says he told everyone about this at the time, but Ive not seen that evidence. 
Mr H was given a form by S to report the full details of the incident. In that report, that Ive 
quoted above, he doesnt mention any damage to the front of the car. And, I think itd have 
been reasonable for him to have done so at the time.
Ive reviewed all the evidence provided, including the invoice Mr H has mentioned from 
2013. I actually think the invoice hes referring to is February 2014  but in any event none of 
the invoices provided say any damage is as a result of the incident. I do accept its possible 
it was. But, the lack of independent evidence to confirm this, plus Mr H not mentioning this to 
S when asked to complete the initial report, means I think Zurich are still acting fairly in 
saying they wont consider a claim for his front bumper.
I have noted Mr Hs comments regarding his excess being covered as he had excess 
protection. This isnt something I considered as part of this complaint, as that cover is 
provided by another insurer, so again Zurich arent responsible for addressing that. Renewal of the policy in July 2013, and increased premiums
Whenever an incident or claim is reported it has the potential to affect someones premiums. 
This is because it could potentially affect how insurers view the risk that the policyholder 
would present. But that isnt dependent on whether the claim is met or not. I cant say 
whether Mr Hs other insurers have fairly calculated his premiums  but I can say Im 
satisfied Zurich arent required to meet his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman