DRN-4024927
The complaint
Miss S complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc trading as Santander Consumer 
Finance irresponsibly granted her a conditional sale agreement she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In April 2017, Miss S acquired a used car financed by a conditional sale agreement from 
Santander Consumer Finance. Miss S made an advance payment of £500 and was required 
to make 48 monthly repayments of around £165 with a final payment of around £2,981. The 
total repayable under the agreement was around £11,423.
Miss S says that Santander Consumer Finance didnt complete adequate affordability 
checks. She says if it had, it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Santander 
Consumer Finance didnt agree. It said that it carried out a thorough assessment which 
included credit and identity checks. It said the credit check didnt raise any concerns and 
Miss S had low monthly credit commitments. It says Miss S application was auto accepted.  
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Santander 
Consumer Finance didnt act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Miss S didnt agree and said that Santander Consumer Finance should have carried out 
checks on her income and expenditure and that it was aware she had just taken out a 
mortgage and so would have additional costs.
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander Consumer Finance will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry 
practice we consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending. So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information 
about our approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Santander Consumer Finance hasnt provided a copy of the credit check it completed but 
has noted that this didnt raise any concerns. Ive looked at a copy of the credit file supplied 
by Miss S dated December 2022. This provides some information from the time of her 
application and as such gives an indication of what Santander Consumer Finance would 
likely have seen. Having looked at the report this supports the comments made by 
Santander Consumer Finance in regard to the credit information it received, and I do not find 
this raises concerns. 
While the credit check didnt raise concerns, it is still reasonable given the size and term of 
the agreement that Santander Consumer Finance would have gathered information about 
Miss S income and expenses to ensure the repayments due under the agreement were 
affordable. I cannot see that this took place and so it didnt complete proportionate checks.
I think it would have been proportionate for Santander Consumer Finance to asked Miss S 
about her income and expenses. Had it done so it would have found her income at the time 
to have been around £1,300. I cant be certain what Miss S would have told Santander 
Consumer Finance had it asked about her regular expenditure. I dont think Santander 
Consumer Finance needed to request bank statements, but in the absence of anything else, 
Ive placed significant weight on the information contained in Miss S statements as an 
indication of what would most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed three months of bank statements prior to the application. These show that 
Miss S regular committed monthly expenditure at the time was around £500. In calculating 
this figure, Ive included costs such as other credit commitments, payments or 
communications contracts and other regular costs. At the time her income appeared to be 
around £1,300. Taking these figures into account, it appears to show the agreement was 
affordable to Miss S. I note Miss S comment about her taking on a mortgage at the time and 
I appreciate the additional costs of this. But based on the information available at the time, I 
do not think that further checks would have suggested the repayments under the agreement 
were unaffordable.
For the reasons set out above, Im not persuaded that Santander Consumer Finance acted 
unfairly in approving the finance. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman