DRN-3720700
The complaint
Mr W and Miss W complain that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited failed to send them the 
outcome of their policy reviews in 2010 and 2015.
What happened
Mr W and Miss W had a joint whole of life policy with Aviva which was taken out in 1990 with 
a sum assured of £50,000 and a monthly premium of £50. Mr W is bringing this complaint 
with the consent of Miss W but I will refer to Mr W throughout.
In 2020, Mr W received a statement which confirmed the policy sum assured was £18,563. 
He contacted Aviva has he wasnt aware this could happen. He complained that he wasnt 
told over the years that the policy value had reduced. Aviva said it had reviewed the policy in 
2010 and 2015 and the sum assured had decreased at each review in line with the terms.
Our Investigator upheld this complaint. He explained that Aviva had confirmed the policy 
reviews hadnt been sent as it didnt have the correct addresses on file for Mr W. But Aviva 
had confirmed the address history, which showed it had Mr Ws address in 2015 and the 
Investigator couldnt see any reason as to why the review wasnt sent. The Investigator said 
that he felt Mr W wouldve kept the policy at the 2010 review as the reduction in sum 
assured was fairly small. But the Investigator felt Mr W wouldve surrendered the policy in 
2015 when the sum assured reduced to £18,563  as hes since surrendered it having found 
out about the sum assured.
Mr W and Miss W accepted the outcome. Aviva disagreed. It said it didnt have the correct 
addresses on file but later acknowledged it did but couldnt work out what had happened. As 
no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the evidence, I agree with the Investigator and Im upholding this 
complaint, broadly for the same reasons.
Mr W and Miss Ws complaint is that they werent made aware of the reduction of the sum 
assured, and I cant see Aviva made them aware until 2020. Aviva has supplied us with its 
address history for Mr W. And its provided us with a screenshot to show that neither the 
2010 or 2015 review letter was sent  it said this was because it didnt have a current 
address for Mr W or Miss W.
Its not clear where the review letter shouldve been sent in 2010  when Mr Ws sum 
assured was first reduced. But, given the reduction was to around £45,000 cover I think its 
likely Mr W wouldve felt it was still worthwhile for the premiums he was paying.
Its not clear why Aviva is saying it didnt have an address for Mr W in 2015, because the 
address history it provided to us showed it had Mr Ws correct address for the time. So, its 
clear it made an error in not sending Mr Ws 2015 review letter. And the reduction of cover to 
£18,563 was likely to lead to Mr W taking different action had Aviva correctly sent the review 
letter. 
I say this because Mr W cancelled the policy when he discovered the sum assured was 
greatly reduced, and that this wasnt a mistake. So, I think its likely hed have taken this 
action as soon as he was made aware  which ought to have been in 2015 when the review 
letter shouldve been sent to his address. So, Mr W and Miss W should be put in the position 
theyd be in had the policy been cancelled at the time of the 2015 review.
Putting things right
As I think Aviva has made an error in not sending the 2015 review letter to Mr W or Miss W, 
it needs to put them in the position they would be in had the review been communicated. As 
I think the policy would be cancelled, Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited must do the 
following:
- Pay Mr W and Miss W the surrender value of their policy at the 2015 review date, 
plus 8% simple interest per annum from that date to the date of settlement.
- Pay Mr W and Miss W a refund of premiums paid since the 2015 review plus 8% 
simple interest per annum from the date each premium was paid to the date of 
settlement.
If Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr W and Miss W how much its taken 
off. It should also give them a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited 
must follow the instructions Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman