DRN-2868648
The complaint
Mr N complains Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has unfairly declined a claim hes 
made on his pet insurance policy.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this matter on 28 May 2021, an extract of which is below:
The background to the complaint is well known to the parties so Ill only provide a summary 
here.
Mr N took out a pet insurance policy, underwritten by RSA, for his dog  
which Ill refer to as T - in April 2019
In Autumn 2019, he took T to the vets and it was diagnosed with bilaterally 
luxating patellas (kneecaps which have moved out of their normal position)
The vet contacted RSA on Mr Ns behalf to check the proposed treatment 
was covered
RSA looked at Ts medical history and it showed Mr N had said T had been 
hopping on his hind legs every time he went for a walk for at least 18 months
RSA said the terms of the policy made it clear if a change in Ts behaviour 
was noticed before the policy was taken out, it would be considered to be a 
pre-existing condition or illness and wouldnt be covered
It said because Mr N had observed the clinical signs at least 18 months 
before, and this pre-dated the policy, the claim wouldnt be covered
Our investigator upheld the complaint on the basis that Mr N didnt know T 
was suffering from the diagnosed condition and he wasnt persuaded the 
condition was pre-existing
RSA asked an ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When making a claim, the onus is on the policyholder to show the claim is one covered by 
the policy and if an insurer wishes to rely on an exclusion to decline the claim, the onus is it 
to show the exclusion applies. Ill be looking at this while keeping in mind what I consider to 
be fair and reasonable.
Ive considered the exclusion which RSA has relied on to decline the claim:
If you or your vet notice changes in your pets health or behaviour before the policy was 
taken outwe will consider this to be a pre-existing condition or illness and it will not be 
covered by your policy. We will not pay for any illness or injury that develops from these 
existing changes, conditions, illnesses or injuries
This means if Ts health or behaviour changed before the policy was taken out, RSA will 
exclude this issue as pre-existing. Ts medical notes confirm in Autumn 2019 Mr N reported 
T hopping on his hind legs every time he went for a walk for between 18 and 36 months, 
significantly before the policy commenced. So, I think it follows that this hop or limp 
appearing was a change in behaviour. And this was prior to the inception of the policy.
A diagnosis for the cause of this hop wasnt established until August 2019. So I accept Mr N 
wouldnt have known the specific diagnosis until this time. But put simply, the diagnosis is 
not the test here. And instead it is the noticed change in behaviour  which isnt in dispute 
that Mr N had noticed. And while I acknowledge the vet provided a letter saying there was no 
record or clinical findings for an illness or injury to Ts knees before September 2019, this 
doesnt address the exclusion the claim was declined under, so it hasnt changed my mind.
Given a common characteristic of bilateral luxating patella is hopping or skipping it seems 
to me, on balance, the observed changes were likely an early indication of the condition 
which was later diagnosed.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied it was fair for RSA to rely on the exclusion and 
to decline the claim so I wont be asking it to do anymore
RSA accepted my decision; Mr N disagreed and said:
he had taken T to the vets in September and this was the first time the hopping was 
mentioned
at that stage, the hopping had been going on for a matter of weeks and estimated it 
only started sometime in August
the vets notes must be incorrect and it was unfair these were being relied on over his 
recollection of events
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Im not persuaded to change the outcome I reached in my provisional 
decision. I realise Mr N will be disappointed so Ill explain my reasoning.
Ts medical notes show two separate visits to the vet when the issue was discussed. The 
first of these was in September 2019 when Mr Ns partner said T had been hopping on both 
hind legs for at least three years. The second, in October 2019, Mr N said this had been 
going on for just less than 18 months.
I acknowledge Mr Ns current recollection of events is different, but Im more persuaded by 
the evidence recorded at the time by the vet on those two separate occasions. 
Overall, I remain satisfied that the observed changes in behaviour started before the policy 
was taken out and, it follows, I dont think RSA has acted unfairly in relying on the exclusion 
and declining the claim
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint and wont be asking RSA to 
do anymore.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 9  July 2021.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman