DRN-3115151
The complaint
D, a limited company, complains that Castle Trust Capital PLC (CTC) was unclear about its 
lending criteria when it applied for a mortgage to buy a holiday letting property. D is 
represented by its director, who Ill refer to as Mrs J. 
Mrs J says if CTC had been clearer about its lending criteria D wouldnt have gone ahead 
and paid application and valuation fees. She asks that these fees are refunded and CTC 
pays compensation for distress and inconvenience and reputational damage.
What happened
D applied to CTC for a mortgage to buy a property for use as holiday lets. Mrs J says CTC 
didnt make it clear it would only lend if the property also had planning consent for residential 
use. 
Our investigator said CTC had made it clear that it wouldnt lend unless the property could 
be used as a holiday let or as a residential property. CTC didnt know until after the valuation 
had been carried out that the property only had planning consents for use as a holiday let. 
D didnt agree. Mrs J said CTC hadnt made its lending criteria clear. She said the question 
about planning restrictions was misleading. She thought she was asked if there were 
restrictions on the property being used as a holiday let. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
CTC offers mortgages for properties used as holiday lets. However, it doesnt lend if use of 
the security property is limited to holiday letting. 
CTC issued an agreement in principle. The agreement in principle said CTC wouldnt 
proceed if the valuer said the property isnt suitable for the residential market. It said any 
offer to lend was heavily dependent on the valuation and the valuer making favourable 
comments. The agreement in principle was issued before D paid the application fee and 
valuation fee.
As part of the application process, CTC asked for confirmation whether there were planning 
restrictions limiting the property to use as a holiday let. The broker confirmed there were no 
limitations.
The application proceeded and CTC instructed a valuation by a qualified surveyor. The 
surveyor said thered be work and costs involved in changing the use of the property to 
permanent accommodation and obtaining the necessary planning consents and building 
regulations approvals. CTC declined to lend. 
Mrs J says that D didnt intend the property to be used for residential purposes. She says it 
isnt relevant that planning consent werent in place for residential use and this would have 
no benefit to D. I understand that Ds plans for the property meant it didnt need consents for 
residential use. But I dont think this was what CTC was concerned about here. CTC has a 
charge on the property so that it has recourse to the property to recover the debt, if that 
proves necessary. CTC is entitled to make a commercial decision about what property it 
considers to be suitable security. This doesnt include properties whose use is limited to 
holiday letting. 
Mrs J says she answered the questions in the application honestly  she thought she was 
asked to confirm that the property had the necessary planning consents for holiday letting. I 
appreciate this was an honest mistake. But I dont think the question was misleading or 
unclear. I dont think CTC knew, or should have known, the property didnt have planning 
consent for residential use. It couldnt have told D sooner that it wouldnt offer the mortgage.
I appreciate Mrs Js frustration that the purchase of the property fell through after D incurred 
costs. But I dont think CTC misled D or Mrs J that it would offer a mortgage. I think it was 
clear that its lending decision was dependant on a satisfactory valuation. I dont think its fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances to require CTC to refund any fees or pay 
compensation.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman