The Complaint
Mr M complained about Zurich Insurance PLCs handling of his claim for water damage to 
his home under his buildings insurance.   
The Background
Mr M is unhapp y about the way repairs were carried out on his claim by Zurichs contractors 
and by poor communications.
Mr M reported water ingress in his en suite to Zurich and told them th at he didnt know where 
the leak wa s coming from. Zurich appointed a contractor to carry out leak detection. The 
contractor made so me temporary repairs and advised Zurich that a strip out was required. 
The contractor also tol d Zurich th at Mr M wanted to upgrade the flooring. It was explained to 
Mr M th at he would have to pa y the difference between like fo r like flooring and an 
upgrade. Zurich also advised th at the entire wall tiling would be covered like for like.
Mr M notified Zurich and the contractor th at he had health issues. 
About a month after his initial call to Zurich, Mr M contacted them to complain because he 
had not been given an indication of what the like for li ke costs would be (so that he could 
compare thi s with cost of new tiles). A sh ort time l ater Mr M again contacted Zurich asking 
for the figures as he mig
ht consider a cash settlement. Zurich returned the call to ask Mr M if 
the contractor had discussed the option s regarding higher value tiles and reminded him that 
he would have to pay the difference. Mr M said that this hadn t been explained to him fully.
Shortly after this, Mr M called Zurich and reported that water was pouring into his property. 
He sai d that the contracto r had taped up a pipe which was now leaking. Mr M said the 
contractor couldnt make repairs until afte r the weekend and h e felt very distressed. Zurich 
decid
ed to appoint a new contractor. 
Following the change of contractor, Mr M was unsure whether the new contractor would 
agree to allowing him to re-seal new tiles himself to save costs. Mr M also had concerns 
regarding the reimbursement of the cost of tiles.
Mr M was offered compensation for the trouble caused by the change of contractor. The new 
contractor was willing to let Mr M seal the new tile s himself but advised that they would 
require a disclaimer. But in the end Zurich agreed to pay for this work.
DRN-1596759For the trouble and the effect on Mr Ms health, Zurich offered to pay the full cost of the tiles 
(including the betterment of tiles, not just the like for like cost). Zurich also paid for the 
sealant on the tiles. 
The investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. He said Mr M had received 
poor communications and uncertain decisions about his repairs. He said it was fair of Zurich 
to pay for the better bathroom tiles and the sealant, but he said the £400 compensation it 
had paid Mr M should be increased to £550.
Zurich disagreed with the investigator, saying that it had already paid and additional £150 
compensation for the change of contractor and it shouldnt have to pay anything further. 
Zurich requested an ombudsman review the complaint.
Mr M also disagreed with the investigator. He said the compensation for what he had 
experienced should be higher.
My Findings
Ive considered all the evidence available and the arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of these complaints.
Ive looked carefully at Zurich and its agents handling of Mr Ms claim to see if it has treated 
him fairly.
Zurichs first contractor did not seal the leak properly and this resulted in water pouring from 
the faulty repair about a month later. The response from the first contractor when Mr M 
reported this was not acceptable and caused Mr M significant distress. Although Mr M told 
the contractor that the leak was causing damage to the flat below his, the contractor was still 
unhelpful. Mr M then contacted Zurich who dealt with the issue and instructed a new 
contractor. They told Mr M that a plumber would attend on the Friday. I note from the claims 
history supplied by Zurich that Mr M tried to get assistance on the same day and spent 
considerable time trying to contact the contractor and Zurich. He also spent time taking video 
footage of the water leak to show the extent of the problem. He made lengthy phone calls.
I think the contractor should have attended the same day when Mr M explained the extent of 
the water leaking from the faulty repair. The failure to do so put Mr M under a lot of 
unnecessary distress. The contractor was aware of Mr Ms health issues and I think their 
handling of this situation was unacceptable.
Despite requesting figures for like for like tiles, Mr M was not given this information and he 
had to pay the full amount for the new tiles. He was left confused and distressed in regard to 
what costs would be reimbursed. The delay in getting figures to Mr M meant he was unable 
to make a decision about the betterment he wanted when replacing the tiles. His tiles had 
been stripped out and the invoice presented to him was for more than the quotation he had 
provided from the retailer supplying the tiles. The contractor said he would not start the work 
until the invoice was paid. This pressured Mr M into paying the invoice. 
Mr M had to seek medical assistance as a consequence of all these issues.
Mr M has been offered compensation in respect of the issues which arose as a 
consequence of the change of contractor. He has accepted this compensation.
In regard to the first complaint Zurich has now offered to pay the full cost of Mr Ms 
replacement tiles (not just the like for like). They have also paid for the sealant of the new 
tiles  a cost which was not included in the claim.  I find that this gesture of goodwill is appropriate, given the confusion surrounding the claim and the problems experienced by Mr 
M.
My Final Decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Zurich Insurance PLC to pay an 
additional £150 compensation to Mr M for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
handling of his claim and for the effect this had on Mr Ms health.
I agree with our Investigator that Mr M should be awarded a total of £550 compensation.
For clarity the amount of £150 is in addition to the £400 already offered by Zurich. It is also 
separate to the compensation of £150 awarded to and accepted previously by Mr M for the 
change of contractor.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2020.
Ron Handley
Ombudsman