DRN-2519510
The complaint
Mr B complains about four instalment loans that he took out with PDL Finance Limited, 
trading as Mr Lender, (PDL), which he said were unaffordable.
What happened
Mr B was given four instalment loans by PDL from January 2019 to April 2019. Loans 1 to 3 
were repaid. Loan 4 hasnt been paid and was sold to a third party, (T).
A summary of the loans taken out by Mr B is shown below:
Loan 
number Date of loan Repayment 
dateLoan 
amount Number of monthly 
repayments 
1. 7/1/19 17/1/19 £200 3
2. 24/1/19 17/3/19 £200 6
3. 17/3/19 7/4/19 £200 6
4. 7/4/19 Unpaid £1,000 12
Mr B said that PDL was irresponsible to allow him to borrow loans instantly after they were 
repaid. It showed that he could not afford them as he had to borrow straight away again on 
the same day twice. When he took out the loans, his credit file had around six defaults on it, 
the most recent being only three years previously. Other lenders had refused to lend to him.  
Mr B would also like the balance of Loan 4 written off as he feels PDL was irresponsible to 
lend to him, especially as hed borrowed it on the same day as a previous loan was repaid. 
In its final response letter, PDL said the loans were subject to proportionate checks and that 
all checks carried out were in line with its responsible lending policies and regulatory 
guidelines. PDL didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint as it was unable to ascertain how the loans  
did not meet its responsible lending criteria. But as a gesture of goodwill, it said that it would 
be willing to recall Mr Bs account from T and discount Mr Bs outstanding balance down to 
the original capital borrowed less payments made to T. It said that Mr B could repay the 
balance in a number of instalments that he could afford.
It seems that Mr B rejected PDLs offer as he complained to this Service shortly after the 
final response letter was provided.
The adjudicator issued two views. In his first view he didnt recommend that the complaint 
should be upheld. Mr B disagreed and the adjudicator asked Mr B to provide bank 
statements covering the period of the loans. Mr B supplied bank statements from a current 
account he held at the time. But the adjudicator in his second view again didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld.
Mr B disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
investigate.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr B 
and to PDL on 17 December 2020. I summarise my findings:
I noted that when PDL lent to Mr B the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). The 
CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
CONC said that a lender needed to check that a consumer could afford to meet his 
repayments in a sustainable manner. This meant a consumer being able to meet his 
repayments out of his normal income without having to go without or borrow further. 
The regulations werent prescriptive about what checks PDL needed to carry out in order to 
reasonably assess whether or not Mr B would be able to meet his repayments sustainably. 
But the regulations said that such checks needed to be proportionate. This suggested that 
the same checks might not be the appropriate thing to do for all consumers, or for the same 
consumer in all circumstances. 
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing might signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
I could see that PDL had made a number of checks before it lent to Mr B. It asked him for 
details of his monthly income and expenditure. Mr B had declared his monthly income as 
£2,097 and his expenditure as between £1,270 and £1,311 before all the loans. 
PDL also said that it had checked Mr Bs credit file before agreeing to the loans. PDL had 
provided this service with a brief summary of its credit checks. These showed that Mr B 
wasnt bankrupt or in an individual voluntary arrangement. The checks did show he had 
unsecured loans but there were no details of these.  
Mr B had provided this service with a copy of his credit report. There were a large number of 
defaulted accounts on the report. The latest of these was in December 2017 but most had 
taken place in 2014 and 2015. Given the length of time since the accounts had been 
defaulted, Id said that PDL might have reasonably thought that Mr Bs finances had moved 
on from whatever situation had caused the defaults to arise.  
But I was also aware that when a lender carried out a credit check, the information it saw 
didnt usually provide the same level of detail that a consumers credit report would, and it 
wasnt necessarily up to date. A lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit 
file, or some data might be missing or anonymised. I was also aware that not all payday and short term lenders reported to the same credit reference agencies. So, I said that this might 
explain any differences between the information provided by PDLs credit check and Mr Bs 
actual situation.
Although the amounts that Mr B needed to repay each month were smaller than if hed taken 
a normal payday loan, he was also committing to making those repayments over a longer 
period.
Loans 1 to 3 were each for £200. Loan 1 was repayable by three monthly instalments and 
Loans 2 and 3 were each repayable by six monthly repayments. The highest monthly 
repayment on each loan ranged from around £84 to 100. 
Id thought about whether PDLs checks were proportionate for Loans 1 to 3. I could see that 
the repayments were relatively modest compared to Mr Bs disposable income.  And I didnt 
think the repayment amounts on Loans 1 to 3 were so large that it was obvious they 
wouldve caused Mr B financial difficulty.
Id thought that the checks PDL carried out before agreeing Loans 1 to 3 were proportionate. 
And given Mr Bs repayment amounts and repayment history, I didnt think it wouldve been 
proportionate for PDL to have asked him for the amount of information that would have been 
needed to show the lending was unsustainable.  
So, I didnt think PDL was wrong to give Loans 1 to 3 to Mr B.
Loan 4 was Mr Bs fourth loan in three months. Hed been borrowing from SL for most of that  
time with only a weeks gap between Loans 1 and 2. Loan 3 had been borrowed on the date 
Loan 2 was repaid and Mr B applied for Loan 4 on the date hed repaid Loan 3. The loan 
was for £1,000 which was five times higher than Mr Bs previous loans. I thought by the time 
of Loan 4, the higher loan amount and swift reborrowing on three occasions might have 
suggested to PDL that Mr B had some longer term financial problems rather than just using 
the loans to help with a temporary cash flow problem. Id also noted that PDLs credit check 
showed that Mr Bs loan repayments had doubled before Loan 4.
In addition, Id noted that Mr B was committing to repay Loan 4 over 12 months. That was a 
substantial commitment that he was entering into, and so Id thought PDL should have taken 
great care to ensure that Mr B was able to repay the loan in a sustainable manner. So, Id 
thought PDL should have been concerned about whether it knew enough about Mr Bs true 
financial situation. And, looking at the checks it did, I didnt think PDL did enough to find out 
whether Mr B could sustainably afford the repayments for Loan 4.
Id carefully looked at Mr Bs credit report and bank statements for the month before Loan 4 
to see what better checks would have shown PDL. In the six weeks prior to Loan 4, I could 
see that Mr B had taken out three short term loans totalling £1,000 as well as Loan 3 in that 
period. He appeared to be using the proceeds of his short term loans to repay another 
payday loan shortly after. Mr B had one short term loan outstanding when he took out    
Loan 4 but that was for the not insignificant amount of £500 and hed taken it out only ten 
days before Loan 4. I could also see that Mr B had a log book loan with a high cost credit 
provider which was repayable at the same time as Loan 4. Mr Bs credit report also showed 
that hed missed a credit card repayment in the previous month. Id thought the extent and 
nature of Mr Bs borrowing would likely have shown that Mr B was having problems 
managing his money.
Mr Bs bank statements also showed his regular outgoings to be substantially higher than 
the amounts hed declared to PDL. Id thought PDL might have been concerned that Mr B 
had told it he was spending £50 in total on food and travel each month. Id thought that was a relatively low amount for these types of expenses and perhaps ought to have been 
questioned by PDL. Further checks would have shown that Mr B had a car and his spending 
was very much higher than £50 for food and travel. Mr Bs rent also appeared to be around 
£250 higher each month than the amount hed declared.
Overall, I thought better checks would likely have suggested to PDL that Mr B was facing 
difficulties managing his money. Id thought these difficulties would have suggested that 
there was a real risk that Mr B wasnt going to be able to sustainably repay Loan 4 and the 
potential difficulties or adverse consequences for him. So as a responsible lender, I didnt 
think PDL should have given Loan 4 to Mr B and I said that I intended to uphold Mr Bs 
complaint about that loan. 
I noted that Loan 4 hadnt been repaid and that Mr B wanted the loan balance to be written 
off. Id carefully thought about what amounted to fair compensation in this case. This 
Services usual approach to putting things right where we find a loan has been irresponsibly 
given is to require the lender to refund any interest and charges paid plus compensatory 
interest and, in the case of unpaid loans, remove any unpaid interest and charges. It seemed 
entirely reasonable to me that Mr B shouldnt have to pay any interest or charges on his 
loan. But I also thought that Mr B should repay the principal amount that PDL had lent to 
him. Hed had the use of that money. And I hadn't seen enough to make me think it would 
have been reasonable to have asked PDL to write that amount off. I also thought that PDL 
should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file in relation to the loan. 
Subject to any further representations by Mr B or PDL my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to order PDL to put things right as 
shown below. 
putting things right  what PDL needs to do
I noted that PDL had sold the outstanding debt on Loan 4 to T. PDL should buy this back if 
it is able to do so and then take the following steps. If PDL isnt able to buy the debt back, 
then it should liaise with T to achieve the results outlined below.
1. Loan 4 hasnt been fully repaid. In order to put Mr B back into the position he 
would have been had this loan not been agreed for him, PDL needs to ensure 
that Mr B only repays the principal borrowed on this loan. In other words, he 
should not pay any interest or charges for this loan. So, PDL should remove all 
interest, fees and charges applied to Loan 4, and treat any payments made by  
Mr B towards this loan as payments towards the original capital borrowed. If there 
is still an outstanding capital balance on Loan 4, then PDL should try to agree a 
mutually acceptable and affordable repayment plan with Mr B bearing in mind the 
need to treat him positively and sympathetically in those discussions if he is still 
experiencing financial difficulties.
2.If reworking Mr Bs account on Loan 4 as Ive directed results in Mr B effectively 
having made payments above the original capital borrowed on Loan 4, then PDL 
should add 8% simple interest* to these overpayments calculated from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement. The 
overpayments and interest should then be paid to Mr B. 
3. PDL should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file in  
relation to Loan 4.*HMRC requires PDL to take off tax from this interest. If Mr B asks PDL for a certificate 
showing how much tax PDL has taken off, it should provide this. If PDL intends to use the 
refunds to reduce an amount Mr B owes, it must do this after tax.
Mr B responded to my provisional decision to say that he accepted the decision.
PDL responded to my provisional decision to say that the outcome is in line with its final 
response and that there was no adverse information applied to this account and any applied 
by T would be removed once the account is recalled. It also said that this case should be 
recorded as a not upheld.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
I note from PDLs response that it appears to accept my provisional decision because it says 
the outcome is in line with what was being offered in its final response letter as a gesture of 
goodwill. I can see that the final response letter does suggest the account would be recalled, 
and the adjustment to be made appears to be in line with our approach. But the offer in the 
final response letter was silent on the changes Id decided needed to be made to Mr Bs 
credit file. And I dont think its quite true for PDL to say there wasnt any adverse information  
applied to the account, as some adverse information wouldve originally been recorded by 
PDL, before it sold the account.  So, I think the redress Id proposed in my provisional 
decision is different to what was offered in PDLs final response letter. And as the redress 
PDL offered doesnt appear to be the same as what Id proposed, I see no reason to depart 
from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold part of the 
complaint and require PDL to put things right by paying Mr B some compensation and taking 
the steps set out below.
In deciding what redress PDL should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mr B from Loan 4, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr B may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between Mr B and this particular lender which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming 
that was even possible.
Or, Mr B may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if Mr B had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr B in a compliant way at this time.Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr B would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce PDLs liability in this case for what Im satisfied 
it has done wrong and should put right.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender, to put things right by paying 
the compensation and taking the steps set out below. I note that PDL has sold the 
outstanding debt on Loan 4 to T. PDL should buy this back if it is able to do so and then 
take the following steps. If PDL isnt able to buy the debt back, then it should liaise with T 
to achieve the results outlined below.
1. Loan 4 hasnt been fully repaid. In order to put Mr B back into the position he 
would have been had this loan not been agreed for him, PDL needs to ensure 
that Mr B only repays the principal borrowed on this loan. In other words, he 
should not pay any interest or charges for this loan. So, PDL should remove all 
interest, fees and charges applied to Loan 4, and treat any payments made by  
Mr B towards this loan as payments towards the original capital borrowed. If there 
is still an outstanding capital balance on Loan 4, then PDL should try to agree a 
mutually acceptable and affordable repayment plan with Mr B bearing in mind the 
need to treat him positively and sympathetically in those discussions if he is still 
experiencing financial difficulties;
2.If reworking Mr Bs account on Loan 4 as Ive directed results in Mr B effectively 
having made payments above the original capital borrowed on Loan 4, then PDL 
should add 8% simple interest* to these overpayments calculated from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement. The 
overpayments and interest should then be paid to Mr B. 
3. PDL should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file in  
relation to Loan 4.
*HMRC requires PDL to take off tax from this interest. If Mr B asks PDL for a certificate 
showing how much tax PDL has taken off, it should provide this. If PDL intends to use the 
refunds to reduce an amount Mr B owes, it must do this after tax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman