DRN-2948981
The complaint
 Mr R is unhappy with how Marsh Finance Ltd (Marsh Finance) dealt with the voluntary 
termination of his hire purchase agreement. 
What happened
In November 2019, Mr R was working as a car salesman and via his employer, he acquired 
a used car. It was considered a trade sale and the car was sold at a reduced cash price of 
£4,000. Mr R entered into a 60 month hire purchase agreement, no deposit was paid and he 
was required to pay £104 per month. The car was first registered in June 2013 and it had 
travelled around 75,000 miles. 
In June 2020, Mr R contacted Marsh Finance and explained due to Covid-19, he had lost his 
employment and he was experiencing financial difficulty. Marsh Finance offered a deferral 
period but Mr R decided against it and preferred to end the agreement. Marsh Finance said 
he could do so by voluntary termination (VT).
In June 2020, the car was collected and it was appraised by a car auction company. 
Damage was found in several areas including chip marks to the bonnet and bumper and 
scuff marks on the wheels. The total damage charge was £674.The appraisal report also 
noted the mileage as 121,800 and the engine management lights were displaying.
 
Marsh Finance said in order to VT the agreement, Mr R would need to pay half of the total 
amount payable, which was £3,145. They confirmed he had already paid £418, meaning he 
had £2,727 left to pay plus the above damage charges. In total, they said Mr R was required 
to pay £3,400. 
In July 2020, the car sold at auction for £2,100. 
In July 2020, Mr R complained and said he wanted to reject the car. In summary, he raised 
the following:
- The car had been mis-sold as he thought it had only travelled around 75,000 miles, it 
had a number of faults including an oil leak and he had to replace the exhaust;
- The incorrect mileage was reported at appraisal, it was showing in kilometres rather 
than miles and as a result, it was undervalued when sold at auction;
- If the car hadnt been sold yet, he wanted it back as he had secured employment.
Marsh Finance said as the faults had been repaired, the agreement had ended and they 
were unable to inspect the car, this wouldnt be grounds for rejection. They also said as the 
car had travelled above the average miles, while in Mr Rs care, the damage charges were 
more than likely reasonable and they wouldnt offer a reduction. 
 
Unhappy with their response, Mr R referred the complaint to our service. He provided a copy 
of the advert for the car after it was sold at auction, it was advertised as having around 
70,000 miles. This was put to Marsh Finance for their consideration. They said the £674 
damage charges related to the condition of the car, not the mileage. However they accepted 
mileage contributes to a cars wear and tear. Given the discrepancy about the mileage, they 
offered to remove the £674 damage charges as a gesture of goodwill to resolve the 
complaint. Mr R declined their offer.
 
Our investigator recommended the case wasnt upheld. They considered the options 
available when Mr R said he wanted to end the agreement early and determined VT 
wouldve been the fairest option. They also said there was insufficient evidence concerning 
the disputed mileage but it wouldnt make a difference as Mr R was still liable to pay half the 
agreement total and the price the car sold for at auction had no bearing on this. 
Mr R disagreed. He maintained the advert for the car post-auction shows it had only 
travelled over 70,000 miles and had the correct mileage been recorded, it wouldve sold for a 
higher price so the outstanding balance wouldve been less.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to partially uphold Mr Rs complaint, Ill explain why. 
Quality of the car
Mr R acquired a car under a regulated hire purchase agreement. Marsh Finance is the 
supplier of the goods under this type of agreement meaning they are responsible for a 
complaint about the supply and the quality of the car.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant here and it says that under a contract to supply 
goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory meaning 
it would need to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory. In 
a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances might include things like the age, 
mileage, price and the cars history.
In this case, Marsh Finance supplied Mr R with a car that was over six years old and had 
travelled over 75,000 miles. For used cars, its reasonable to expect parts may already have 
suffered significant wear and tear when compared to a new car or one that is less travelled.
Mr R said he experienced faults with the car within a week of acquiring it and a number of 
repairs were needed to fix an oil leak, water leak and he needed to replace the exhaust. 
These issues werent reported to Marsh Finance and there is limited information or evidence 
about it as the repairs were carried out by Mr R himself. 
Ive reviewed the documentation at the point of supply and there is limited information about 
the condition of the car and whether Mr R knew about the faults when he acquired it. As the 
evidence is incomplete, Ive considered whats most likely to have happened in the light of 
the available evidence and the wider circumstances. Having done so, I believe its most 
likely Mr R was aware before entering into the agreement that there were some potential 
issues with the car that required fixing. I say this because he acquired it via his employer, he 
worked as a car salesman so I think its fair to say he was familiar with cars and he paid less 
than market value for it. Although I accept he may not have known about all of the issues 
and some may have become apparent later on, I dont think its now fair for Mr R to say the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. Ending the agreement
Im sorry to hear about the loss of Mr Rs employment as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic 
and the impact it wouldve had on his financial circumstances. I appreciate this wouldve 
been a difficult time for him. In situations of financial difficulty, I would expect Marsh Finance 
to treat Mr R with forbearance and due consideration as set by the CONC rulebook. More 
specifically, for financial difficulties arising as a result of Covid-19, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) issued further guidance which came into effect in April 2020. This included 
the option of payment deferrals for up to three months for those who were struggling 
financially. Im glad to see Marsh Finance followed this guidance and offered it to Mr R. As 
he didnt want to proceed with this option and preferred to end the agreement, I would 
expect Marsh Finance to assist him in doing so which is what happened here.  
In this case, Marsh Finance said the agreement could end by voluntary termination (VT). 
This meant the return of the car and paying half the total amount payable under the 
agreement plus any other sums due. In this case, the agreement states the half amount as 
£3,145, he had already paid £418 towards the agreement plus any further charges such as 
damages which I will discuss later. So here, that equates to £3,145, less the £418. Under 
VT, I believe it was reasonable for Marsh Finance to say Mr Rs liability was £2,727.
I know Mr R said he thought the amount the car sold for at auction wouldve reduced the 
overall balance. At this point, I want to stress that the proceeds of the sale of the car would 
remain with Marsh Finance, it isnt returned to Mr R or deducted from the overall balance. So 
while I understand he disputes the mileage and he believes it impacted how much the car 
sold for at auction, this isnt taken into consideration when an agreement ends by VT. How 
much the car sold for would only be a factor had the agreement ended by voluntary 
surrender (VS) as the net sales proceeds would be deducted from the outstanding balance. 
But this isnt how Mr Rs agreement ended and I agree with the investigator that on balance, 
VT was likely the most cost effective option as it was likely to have had the lowest 
outstanding liability. 
I appreciate this confusion may have been caused as Mr Rs account statement showed a 
credit of £2,100, which was the amount the car sold for at auction, but I can also see it was 
later adjusted to correctly reflect the amount owed for VT. In addition, before the agreement 
ended, Marsh Finance sent a letter which clearly outlined the liability under VT and there is 
no mention the overall balance would be reduced by the sale proceeds of the car being sold 
at auction so I believe Marsh Finance was clear about the VT process and what this 
involved. 
Overall, it think it was reasonable for Mr Rs agreement to end by VT and Marsh Finance 
acted fairly in doing so. 
Damage charges 
Mr R hasnt specifically complained about the damage charges and Im aware Marsh 
Finance has already offered to remove them as a gesture of goodwill but Ive thought about 
whether it was fair and reasonable to have applied them to begin with.
The agreement says Mr R must keep the car in good working order and condition at your 
expense and he would be responsible for any loss or damage to the car. To help me 
determine what damage would be reasonable wear and tear, Ive considered the guidance of 
the British Vehicle Rental & Leasing Association (BVRLA). It is used industry wide to assess 
damage when cars have been returned as part of a hire purchase agreement.The appraisal report by the auction house indicates several parts of the car were damaged 
such as the four wheels, chip marks on the bonnet and bumper and damage to the doors. 
Based on the photograph of the rear bumper and the approximate size of the damage, I 
accept this is likely to be beyond what the BVLRA consider to be reasonable wear and tear. 
So Im satisfied Marsh Finance were entitled to charge for the damage to the rear bumper. 
However for the other damage reported, Ive reviewed the photographs and Im not satisfied 
they are clear enough to allow me to determine the nature and extent of the damage. 
Generally speaking, I would expect to see close up photographs of the damage with a ruler 
or measuring tool next to it to show the approximate size but this isnt shown in the 
photographs. For example, for the two front wheels, its unclear whether there are scuff 
marks or whether its simply dirt. Given Marsh Finance were trying to enforce these damage 
charges, I would expect them to produce more persuasive evidence to show the damage 
was beyond reasonable wear and tear but in this case, Im not satisfied theyve done so.
So while I note their gesture of goodwill to remove the damage charges due the discrepancy 
about the mileage, with the exception of the damage to the rear bumper, Im not persuaded 
these damage charges shouldve been applied to begin with. In any event, Marsh Finance 
have already offered to remove all the damage charges from the outstanding balance and 
given the circumstances, I believe its reasonable for them to do so.
Summary
Overall, I believe it was reasonable for Marsh Finance to end Mr Rs agreement by VT and 
they acted fairly in doing so given his financial circumstances. However Im not satisfied they 
fairly applied all of the damage charges so I believe their offer to remove them from the 
outstanding liability that Mr R owes is a fair way to resolve the complaint.
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to partially uphold Mr Rs complaint. To put 
things right, as previously offered, Marsh Finance Limited should remove the £674 damages 
charges from the overall balance Mr R owes. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman