DRN-3233547
The complaint
Mr M complains about charges applied by Santander Consumer (UK) Plc when he changed 
his direct debit date.
What happened
In August 2018 Mr M was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale agreement 
with Santander.
Mr M wanted to change his payment date. Santander told him that under the terms of his 
agreement, he could do this once every 12 months and a £25 fee was payable. Santander 
said there was no fee for the first change.
Mr M complained. He said he hadnt been told about the fee in advance and said that 
Santander had provided conflicting information about the fee. Mr M said hed never received 
a copy of his executed agreement and as such, wasnt aware that he could have withdrawn 
in the first 14 days. He said if hed known about the fees for changing the payment date, he 
wouldnt have entered into the agreement.
In response, Santander said the fees were set out in the terms and conditions of the 
agreement, and that the agreement had been provided to Mr M.
Mr M remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said the agreement had been electronically 
signed by Mr M and that there was nothing to suggest that he hadnt been provided with a 
copy of the agreement. The investigator also said that details of the fees for changing the 
payment date were set out in the agreement.
Mr M didnt agree. He said hed never received an executed copy of the agreement from 
Santander. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the finance agreement. It says that there is a charge of £25 for changes to the 
repayment date. Santander has confirmed that as a gesture of goodwill it allows the first 
change of date free of charge. I think the terms and conditions make it clear that there is a 
charge to change the repayment date and I dont think Santander has provided conflicting 
information about there being no fee payable for the first change of date. 
Mr M has said that he never received the executed agreement. I can see that Mr M signed 
the agreement electronically on 25 August 2018. Ive got no reason to think that Mr M wasnt 
provided with a copy of the agreement. Generally, its the supplying dealer that provides a 
copy of the agreement at the point of supply. The agreement clearly sets out the right of 
withdrawal, and Mr M would have had the opportunity to read the agreement before 
electronically signing it, so I think he was aware - or ought to have been aware  of the right 
to withdraw.
I appreciate that Mr M may have received conflicting information from the supplying dealer. I 
can see that the dealer has alluded to its ability to print off the finance agreement in its email 
to Mr M. Ive seen nothing to suggest that the dealer wouldnt have done this.
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that Mr M was aware of the terms and 
conditions relating to the fee for the payment date change. Im unable to say that Santander 
has done anything wrong and I wont be asking it to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman