DRN-2903584
The complaint
Mr G has complained about a distribution bond he held with The Prudential Assurance 
Company Limited (Prudential). He feels Prudential mismanaged his fund and caused him a 
financial loss. 
What happened
Mr G invested in Prudentials distribution bond fund in April 1998 for capital growth and a 
regular income. 
In July 2020, after receiving his annual statement, Mr G contacted Prudential about the 
performance of his fund over the last year and asked to surrender his plan. 
In August 2020, Mr G raised a complaint about the amount he received upon surrender and 
the performance of the fund. Prudential upheld his complaint about the surrender value but 
didnt uphold the second part of his complaint. They explained the values arent guaranteed 
and can change daily. They also said that the drop in value was due to the global situation 
with covid-19 which had caused a significant drop within the markets.
Mr G was unhappy with their response in relation to the performance of his investment and 
asked our service to look into matters. Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Gs 
complaint should be upheld. He felt all investments are subject to fluctuation and there 
wasnt any evidence to suggest Prudential mismanaged Mr Gs fund. 
Mr G did not agree with the investigators opinion. He said Prudential were using covid-19 as 
a smokescreen and they didnt need to go to the markets at the time. As Mr G did not agree 
with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator and broadly for the 
same reasons. 
For clarity, Mr G hasnt asked us to look at about the suitability of the advice he was given 
when he took out the investment. So, I havent considered it under this complaint. My 
findings will focus on the issues Mr G has raised about the falling value of his investment in 
the year before he surrendered it. 
I appreciate Mr Gs fund made significant losses in its last year and can understand why hes 
disappointed and questioned Prudentials management of it. But having reviewed matters, I 
havent seen anything to suggest Prudential has mismanaged the fund. 
The fund sheets for Mr Gs investment say Fund performance is based upon the movement 
of the daily price and is shown as total return in GBP with net income reinvested. The value 
of your investment can go down as well as up and you may not get back the amount you put 
in. 
Investment returns for this type of fund arent guaranteed and its normal for the value to 
fluctuate. And poor performance of the fund doesnt necessarily mean that Prudential has 
been negligent or mismanaged the investment.  
The objective of Mr Gs fund was to deliver capital growth and produce a regular income 
over the longer term. And I havent seen anything to show the fund wasnt managed in line 
with this objective. I think its important for me to note that the fund manager has the 
discretion to make investment decisions and decide on the strategy it follows. The 
fluctuations in the market cant be predicted and because of the very nature of investments, 
sometimes returns arent as hoped for. 
Prudential explained that the global pandemic caused a significant drop in the markets. Its 
been widely reported that most asset classes fell in value during this time. Mr Gs fund was 
invested in several asset classes such as equities, corporate bonds and property via 
collective investment schemes. So, I dont think the fact that the value of the fund fell shows 
Prudential acted wrongly. 
Taking into account the adverse market conditions, Prudential have provided a reasonable 
explanation for the drop in value. And Mr G hasnt provided any evidence to suggest this 
wasnt the case. Mr G suggests Prudential are hiding behind market conditions. But market 
conditions do have an impact on investment returns whether directly or indirectly. There has 
been a period of upheaval and volatility in the market during the year before he surrendered 
his investment. Im afraid it is the nature of investments to be affected by market conditions.
Ive noted and considered the all of the comments Mr G has made, but Im not satisfied he 
has provided any persuasive evidence to support his complaint that Prudential was negligent 
in the management of his investment or that it was mismanaged. It follows that I dont uphold 
his complaint. I understand Mr G will be disappointed with this outcome, given how strongly 
he feels about this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman