DRN-1665130
Complaint
Mrs C says Uncle Buck Finance LLP (trading as Uncle Buck) irresponsibly lent to her.
Background
This complaint is about nine high-cost short-term credit loans that Uncle Buck provided to 
Mrs C. The loans were provided in two blocks or chains. The first chain consisted of 6 
payday loans with the first of them having been provided in June 2014 and the last on 
October 2014. 
The second chain consisted of 1 payday loan and 2 instalment loans. The first of which was 
provided in February 2018 (some three and a half years after the last loan had been repaid) 
and the last in October 2018.
Our adjudicator reviewed Mrs Cs complaint and thought Uncle Buck hadnt done anything 
wrong when providing loans 1 to 3 and 7 to 9. But he also thought that Mrs C shouldnt have 
been provided with loans 4 to 6. Mrs C disagreed with our adjudicators assessment. So the 
complaint was passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs Cs complaint. 
Mrs C was provided with high-interest loans, intended for short-term use. So Uncle Buck 
needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
that Uncle Buck needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether 
any lending was sustainable for Mrs C before providing it.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, I don't think Mrs Cs 
complaint about loans 1 to 3 and 7 to 9 should be upheld. But I do think that Uncle Buck 
unfairly provided loans 4 to 6 to Mrs C. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Why I don't think that Uncle Buck acted unfairly when providing loans 1 to 3 and 7 to 9Uncle Buck says it agreed to Mrs Cs applications for these loans after shed provided details 
of her monthly income and expenditure. It says the information Mrs C provided showed that 
shed be able to comfortably make the repayments she was committing to. And in these 
circumstances it was reasonable to lend. 
Ive carefully thought about what Mrs C and Uncle Buck have said. Ive also read all of the 
correspondence Mrs C has provided from her other cases with us. While I cant make a 
direct comparison between the cases Mrs C's referred to, I do think that its hugely important 
for me to explain that loans 1 to 3 were Mrs Cs first loans with Uncle Buck. And Mrs C didnt 
return to Uncle Buck for loans 7 to 9 until well over three years after her previous loan had 
been repaid.
So, although I do accept that patterns were beginning to emerge in respect of loans 2, 3, 8 
and 9, I dont think that there was any established pattern in Mrs Cs borrowing needs at 
these respective stages. Im also mindful that loans 8 and 9 were instalment loans which 
were designed to help borrowers repay what they wed more gradually. This is very important 
because its directly relevant to what it was proportionate for Uncle Buck to understand 
before deciding to lend and what it was fair for it to rely on when making this decision.
Bearing in mind the amount of the monthly repayments, and the circumstances at the time 
the respective loans were provided, I dont think it was unreasonable for Uncle Buck to rely 
on the information Mrs C gave at these stages. I accept that Mrs Cs actual circumstances 
may not have been reflected either in the information she provided, or the other information 
Uncle Buck obtained. 
For example, Ive seen the credit search information Mrs C has provided showing her other 
short-term lending and Im sorry to hear that Mrs C was struggling financially. But Uncle 
Buck could only make its decision based on the information it had available at the time. And, 
at respective stages of the lending relationship when these loans were provided, I dont think 
proportionate checks wouldve extended into Uncle Buck specifically searching for short-
term lending or asking Mrs C to evidence her expenditure.  
Equally it's only fair for me to uphold a complaint where I can safely say a lender did 
something wrong. And, I dont think that Uncle Buck did anything wrong in deciding to 
provide loans 1 to 3 and 7 to 9 to Mrs C - it carried out proportionate checks even though its 
looks like the information it mightve been provided with might not have included all of     Mrs 
Cs commitments to short-term lenders. 
Uncle Buck reasonably relied on the information provided with and given the amount of the 
repayments involved and the overall circumstances of Mrs Cs loan history at these stages, I 
dont think it was unfair for it to have provided loans 1 to 3 and 7 to 9. So Im not upholding 
the complaint about these loans.
Why I think that it was unfair for Uncle Buck to have provided loans 4 to 6 to Mrs C
While I dont think that there was an established pattern to Mrs Cs borrowing needs when 
she was provided with loans 1 to 3, or because of the three-year gap when she was 
provided with loans 7 to 9, I do think there was such a pattern when Mrs C was provided with 
loans 4 to 6. 
I say this because, in my view, by this point a pattern which I think had been beginning to 
emerge of Mrs C taking out further loans not too long after repaying previous ones became 
established. And at this point it mattered not what Mrs C said about her circumstances. 
Instead Uncle Buck had to get a thorough understanding of her circumstances  especially 
as loans 5 and 6 were for larger amounts  before lending to her. Had Uncle Buck had done this (as I think it would have been proportionate to do for these 
loans bearing in mind all the circumstances at the respective times) it would more likely than 
not have seen that Mrs C didn't have sufficient disposable income to be able to sustainably 
repay these loans. 
So I think that Uncle Bucks failure to carry out proportionate checks for loans 4 to 6, meant 
that it provided unsustainable loans. Mrs C had to pay interest on charges on loans 4 to 6, 
which shouldnt have been provided to her. So I think that Mrs C lost out because of what 
Uncle Buck did wrong and it should put things right
Putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs to do
refund all interest and charges Mrs C paid on all loans 4 to 6;
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
 
remove all adverse information recorded about loans 4 to 6 on Mrs Cs credit file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle Buck 
must give Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mrs Cs complaint. Uncle Buck Finance 
LLP should pay Mrs C compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman