DRN-4166786
The complaint
Mr N complains about the way Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as Very dealt 
with him in response to his attempts to set up a direct debit on his account.
What happened
Mr N had an account with Very on which a payment was due. He tried to set this up online 
without success. So he called Very to set up the direct debit. Verys representative told Mr N 
its systems couldnt accept the sort code and account number he gave, and told him to 
speak with his bank.
Mr N became frustrated at receiving this response and his inability to set up the direct debit. 
He told Very he wouldnt be making payment by any other means, and took offence at being 
told that this would result in interest and charges. He told Verys representative what he 
thought about the service shed provided to him, and that hed be complaining to its chief 
executive officer (CEO).
A few days later Mr N called Very to make a complaint. He was unhappy about what hed 
been told previously, and  among other things  with the location of Verys call centre. This 
conversation quickly became abusive and terminated within a few minutes. 
Mr N made a further call to Very a couple of days after this. He wanted to progress his 
complaint. However, when Very told Mr N it hadnt logged a complaint from him, he again 
became frustrated and extremely abusive.
Mr N complained to us. He was disgusted with the service he received from Very, saying 
that it had caused him emotional distress and financial loss, and had destroyed his mental 
health. He wanted Very to sort out the direct debit problem, apologise to him, and to move its 
call centre to a different location.
Shortly after this, Very wrote to Mr N to say that it had terminated his account, that it didnt 
want him to make any further payments and that it intended to report his call to the Police. It 
cited comments Mr N had made during the call in support of the action it was taking.
Our investigator felt that Very could have done more to investigate why the direct debit 
couldnt be set up. But he didnt think that entitled Mr N not to make payment by other 
means. Noting that Very had written off Mr Ns balance and its decision to close the account, 
our investigator felt that was a fair way to resolve the complaint.
Mr N didnt accept the investigators conclusions. He explained about his medical conditions 
and the impact Verys handling of matters had on him, both mentally and physically. He 
maintained Very had continuously lied and misadvised him, and that he was being unfairly 
treated as the bad guy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive deliberately left out a good deal of the specific detail of Mr Ns communication with us 
and with Very. It is, in the main, highly offensive and abusive containing racial slurs and 
threats. None of this is appropriate for me to set out in this decision. I dont seek to criticise 
Mr N for this behaviour, but I feel it is important in this case to provide context.
I accept that Mr N has described to us a number of medical conditions he has that affect his 
ability to communicate when frustrated. From listening to the calls, Im in no doubt that there 
were trigger points that resulted in Mr N reacting in the way he did. That he was triggered 
seems to me to be a result of his medical conditions, rather than because of the behaviour of 
Verys staff in those calls.
I dont find what Verys staff said to Mr N to be contentious, or that the suggestion he contact 
his bank amounts to Very lying to him. There might have been other ways in which Very 
could have explored why its systems couldnt accept Mr Ns bank details, but the way the 
conversation developed meant that quickly ceased to be a viable option.
It's unfortunate that the way in which the calls developed meant that theres been no further 
investigation of why Very was unable to accept Mr Ns bank details for the purposes of direct 
debit payment. Given that events overtook that situation quite rapidly, that Very has since 
waived any remaining balance, and that the relationship between Mr N and Very has very 
clearly reached an end, I dont propose to look into this issue further.
I realise how strongly Mr N feels about this aspect. But while understanding why the initial 
problem arose might enable me to say whether Very was right or wrong to refer Mr N back to 
his bank, it doesnt speak to what is a fair and reasonable way of resolving this dispute. That 
has to take into account all of the circumstances of the complaint.
Its not clear to me that Mr N had previously made Very aware of his conditions or his 
vulnerability. With the benefit of that knowledge, I suspect that Very might have looked to 
find a different way of communicating with Mr N, such as in writing or through a third party. 
But Im not going to criticise Very for not having that knowledge when Mr N called it with his 
query or subsequent complaint.
Nor do I think it was inappropriate for Very to take the action it did in terminating the account. 
Financial firms are expected to balance the needs of their more vulnerable customers with 
their safeguarding obligations towards their employees. While Mr Ns medical conditions 
mean he has difficulty in controlling his communications, they dont mean that Very (or its 
staff) are compelled to continue to receive those communications.
My finding is that Very was entitled to take the action it did in light of the way Mr N was 
communicating with it. Im satisfied it did not do so because of Mr Ns medical conditions  
indeed, theres no indication it was aware of these at the time  but because of the obvious 
distress that his communications caused to its staff.Having considered all thats been said and provided, I think the fair and reasonable 
approach here is for the parties to part company in the way they have. I accept that the 
whole situation was frustrating and undoubtedly distressing for Mr N, as it would have been 
for Verys staff. But I dont find that this is attributable to poor service on Verys part such that 
it would be appropriate for it to apologise, compensate him, or take any other steps to 
resolve the dispute.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman