DRN-1535276
Complaint
Ms C complained that Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her payment protection insurance 
(PPI) with a credit card. It seems the PPI was added to her existing card account in 2004, 
the year after she took the card out.  
Background
One of our adjudicators said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Ms C disagrees and has 
asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this I'm afraid Ive decided not to uphold Ms Cs complaint. 
Capital One says its records show the PPI was sold to Ms C when she called up to talk to it 
about her account. Ms C says she doesnt remember asking for the PPI or ever agreeing 
that it should be added to her credit card account.
I certainly dont doubt that Ms C doesnt remember, but of course, this was all some 16 years 
ago. We dont have any documents that prove she agreed and we no longer have access to 
the recorded call, but we do know from our experience that sales like this did happen at the 
time. Weve also looked very carefully at how the sales usually took place and the 
information consumers were typically given.
For example, we have copies of the script that Capital One staff were told to follow during 
the sale process for 2004. Consumers like Ms C were required to be told certain information 
about the cover and give their consent before the PPI was added. I obviously cant say that 
everything was done properly in Ms Cs case, but I can see from her credit card statements 
that the PPI did show up on them quite regualrly, so she would have been able to see what 
the charges were for. And because she didnt originally have PPI, I think she would have 
been able to note that charges were beginning to occur after the telephone sale.
On this basis, I think its more likely there was such a call and Ms C agreed to the PPI at the 
time. If she hadnt known what the charges were for I think she would have been able to ask. 
I completely accept, however, she might not remember any of this now but on balance 
theres more evidence to point to her agreeing to the PPI  than there is to say otherwise.
This wasnt an advised sale and so it was for Ms C to decide for herself what she wanted to 
do. Its certainly possible Capital One could have explained the policy in more detail than it 
actually did, although I can see the price and other key features of the PPI ought to have 
been explained by the call-handler. So I think Ms C probably had enough information to decide what she wanted to do. Even if I accept more could have been done by Capital One, 
I dont think this makes any difference to my decision.
This is because I think Ms C was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the main 
exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. The cost of the cover, at 79p per £100 of 
the outstanding monthly card balance, seems affordable for her and the PPI would have paid 
off 10% of her outstanding credit card balance each month for up to a year if shed needed 
to claim. Looking at Ms Cs job and general circumstances, I think this would have been 
useful.
Im very sorry to disappoint Ms C but there simply isnt enough evidence for me to say this 
policy was mis-sold. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold so Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have to pay any money 
to Ms C. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before13 May 2020.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman