DRN-4074316
The complaint
Miss A says that FLEETPRICES.CO.UK LIMITED, who Ill call Fleetprices, were wrong to 
withhold a processing fee when she cancelled a car order that they had arranged, and 
brokered finance for. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Fleetprices, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Ill explain 
why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Fleetprices ordered the car for Miss A as an ancillary action to 
their credit broking activity; the two are intrinsically linked. So, as credit broking is a 
regulated activity, this complaint is something were able to look at. And its for this reason 
Im also satisfied that the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) applies in this instance.
When Miss A ordered the car she paid a fee of £199 inclusive of VAT. Fleetprices have 
explained, and the information sheet they say they provided to Miss A at the time sets out, 
that:
We will charge a processing fee for providing our consultancy service and sourcing your
chosen motor vehicle.
The information sheet explains that the processing fee isnt refundable.
Section 155 of the CCA says that Subject to subsection (2A), the excess over £5 of a fee or 
commission for his services charged by a credit-broker to an individual to whom this 
subsection applies shall cease to be payable or, as the case may be, shall be recoverable by 
the individual if the introduction does not result in his entering into a relevant agreement 
within the six months following the introduction.
Given that, as the car hasnt been supplied and I havent seen that Miss A has entered into a 
relevant agreement within six months of the £199 fee being paid, Im satisfied that section 
155 of the CCA only allows Fleetprices to keep £5 of the fee so, £194 should be refunded to 
Miss A.
However, I also need to consider that the terms Miss A agreed to say the fee paid isnt 
refundable. 
Section 173 of the CCA says a term contained in a regulated agreement or linked 
transaction, or in any other agreement relating to an actual or prospective regulated 
agreement, or linked transaction, is void if, to the extent that, it is inconsistent with a 
provision for the protection of the debtor or hirer or his relative or any surety contained in this 
Act or in any regulation made under this Act.
The agreement Miss A signed with Fleetprices is a linked transaction to the regulated 
agreement they were arranging to finance the car. As such, Im satisfied that Section 173 of 
the CCA applies in this instance. This means that any of Fleetprices terms are void if they 
are inconsistent with the CCA. And the no refund term is inconsistent with Section 155 of the 
CCA. Which means that, in this instance, Fleetprices term is void and Miss A is entitled to a 
£194 refund.
Putting things right
Based on the above, Fleetprices should refund Miss A £194 of the £199 fee she paid, and 
apply 8% simple yearly interest on this refund, calculated from the date Miss A made the 
payment to the date of the refund.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Fleetprices to take off tax from this interest. Fleetprices 
must give Miss A a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint and direct FLEETPRICES.CO.UK 
LIMITED to put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman