DRN-3019907
The complaint
Mr F complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MB) unfairly charged 
him for damage to a car when he had been told it was fair wear and tear. Mr F also 
complains that the invoice wasnt sent to him quickly enough for him to decide whether to 
keep or return the car.  
What happened
Mr F returned his car to MB at the end of the contract period in January 2021. Mr F 
explained that before he returned the car, he was considering his options. There was 
damage to the car and Mr F says that his local dealership told him that the damage would be 
considered fair wear and tear. Mr F decided to return the car. Mr F says that when the car 
was initially inspected and collected on 11 January, he was told there would be a charge for 
damage to the alloy wheel. Mr F says he heard nothing further and was shocked to receive 
an invoice in March 2021 for damage charges of £950. Mr F says that this is 20% of the final 
value of the car and if he had known this at the time, he could have made an informed 
decision about whether to keep the car.
MB say that it was dark when the car was collected, and a further inspection was carried out 
on 15 January 2021 which revealed the further damage. MB say that an invoice was sent to 
Mr F on 20 January 2021. MB have provided the inspection report and say that the damage 
falls outside wear and tear guidelines and is properly charged. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Fs complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They said 
that MB was entitled to carry out a second inspection and this was highlighted at the time of 
the first inspection. The investigator considered that there was evidence that the invoice was 
sent to Mr F on the 20 January 2021 which they considered was within a reasonable time. 
The investigator thought that the damage was outside the fair wear and tear guidelines and 
the charges were fair and reasonable.
Mr F didnt agree and replied to say in summary that the invoice was not sent to him at the 
time and the damage charges were excessive and unfair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts are well known to the parties and so I wont repeat them in detail in this decision. I 
have reviewed all the information provided and I want to reassure Mr F that Ive looked 
carefully at all the points he has made.
I can appreciate why Mr F is unhappy with the charges, especially since he was told by his 
servicing garage that the damage was fair wear and tear. I dont know exactly what was said 
to Mr F, but this may be a complaint he wants to take up with the garage. I cant say that MB 
are responsible for any incorrect information given by the garage.
Looking at the damage and the charges I have considered whether the damage is outside 
fair wear and tear guidelines and whether the charges are fair and reasonable. In making my 
decision I have looked at MBs vehicle return standards (VRS) which were provided to Mr F 
at the outset of his agreement. I have also considered the British Vehicle Rental & Leasing 
Association (BVRLA) guidelines which set out the industry standard in relation to what can 
be considered fair wear and tear.
Looking at the inspection report which shows photographs and a video of the damage I think 
that all the damage items are outside the fair wear and tear guidelines. The scuffs on the 
wheels exceed 50mm, the scuffs on the bumpers penetrate the top coat of paint, the valance 
is misaligned, and the aperture seal is torn. I think that these items are fairly chargeable.
The charges are in line with the VRS and so I cant say that they are excessive or unfair. I 
appreciate Mr Fs point that they represent 20% of the final value of the car but MB is entitled 
to charge for the repair of these items.
It was highlighted to Mr F at the time of the first inspection that it was dark and a further 
inspection would be necessary. That was carried out a few days later and MB have provided 
evidence that the invoice was sent to Mr F on the 20 January 2021. I dont think it is unfair or 
unreasonable for there to have been a further inspection because of the conditions and this 
was highlighted to Mr F at the time. I appreciate that Mr F says he didnt receive the invoice 
but I cant say that it wasnt sent and so I cant say that MB are at fault here.
I understand my decision will be a disappointment to Mr F but I cant say that MB has done 
anything wrong so I cant ask MB to waive or reduce the charges.
   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman