DRN-2758289
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2006. Mr H and Mrs C say Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold them PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes 
Mr H and Mrs Cs circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, 
limitations and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this 
information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr H and Mrs Cs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr H and Mrs Cs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding 
Mr H and Mrs Cs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think Barclays made it clear that Mr H and Mrs C didnt have to take out the PPI and 
they chose to take it out. I say this because Ive seen a copy of Mr H and Mrs Cs 
mortgage application form which explicitly said the PPI was optional and not a condition 
of the mortgage. There were also two options for customers to select depending on 
whether they wanted to proceed with Barclays recommendation to take PPI or decline 
cover. The box requesting cover has been selected and they have signed the form. This 
application form had a separate form attached for PPI only, and Mr H and Mrs C have 
again signed the declaration requesting cover. There was a declaration they couldve 
signed if they had wanted to decline cover, but this was left blank. The cost and benefit 
amount had been made clear on the forms.
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mr H and Mrs C so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for them. And the evidence about Mr H and Mrs Cs circumstances at the time, 
shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. For example, 
Mr H and Mrs C were eligible for the cover and although they had some existing means 
they still seem to have had a need for cover. 
There was nothing about Mr H and Mrs Cs employment or occupation which would have 
made it difficult for them to claim. And they havent told us about any pre-existing 
medical conditions that could affect their ability to claim. There were also no additional 
restrictions on cover for mental health or back problems.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr H and Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr H and Mrs C as I 
concluded above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were buying 
from the information they were given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like 
it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think 
Mr H and Mrs C would have declined the cover had Barclays done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr H and Mrs C would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy 
could provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also 
think the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting. And in 
those circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr H and Mrs Cs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Barclays should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr H and Mrs Cs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific 
facts and circumstances of Mr H and Mrs Cs individual complaint  just that they apply to all 
PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr H and Mrs Cs particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint.
This means Barclays doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr H and Mrs Cs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr H and Mrs C 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2021. 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman