DRN-3439659
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Santander UK Plc didnt progress his application for a Bounce Back 
Loan (BBL)
What happened
Mr P made an application to Santander for a BBL on 29 March 2021. Santander requested 
further information from Mr P to progress the application, which Mr P felt that he 
subsequently provided. However, Santander continued to request further information from 
him, including a form of document from a UK Government department  although the 
department in question confirmed to Mr P that such a document was no longer issued by 
them. 
When Mr P couldnt supply the requested documents, Santander cancelled his BBL 
application. And because the deadline for new BBL applications had passed by that time, Mr 
P was unable to reapply. Mr P wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Santander looked at Mr Ps complaint. But they confirmed that Mr P hadnt supplied the 
information necessary to progress his application, and they felt that all the documents theyd 
requested should have been obtainable by Mr P. So, they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr P wasnt satisfied with Santanders response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Santander had 
acted unfairly towards Mr P in how theyd managed the situation, and so they also didnt 
uphold the complaint.
Mr P remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For a BBL application to have been successful, the applicant business must have self-
declared that it met the BBL eligibility criteria set out by the British Business Bank, who 
administered the scheme. Lenders were entitled  and expected  to complete certain 
checks on applications, with the decision as to whether to approve an application delegated 
entirely to them. 
When Mr P made his BBL application on 29 March 2021, this followed two previous 
applications made earlier that month which had been declined by Santander because those 
applications didnt meet the eligibility criteria for the BBL scheme. The amended application 
made by Mr P on 29 March 2021 did meet the required eligibility criteria, so the application 
was progressed by Santander who requested documents from Mr P to confirm that his 
business (which Mr P operated on a sole trader basis) met the eligibility criteria as declared.
Santander were entitled to set their own criteria as to what documentary proof they required 
as confirmation that the BBL scheme eligibility was met. As Mr P had only been trading 
through his personal bank account  rather than one in the name of his business  
Santander required some additional information from him. In such circumstances, the rules 
of the scheme required lenders to obtain a copy of the applicants tax return. So, Santander 
did what was expected of them when asking Mr P for this. They also asked Mr P for 
evidence of his business trading in order to confirm to their satisfaction that the application 
met the BBL eligibility criteria as Mr P had declared. Santander had the discretion to do this, 
and the request doesnt seem unreasonable to me.
Mr P had sent documents previously to Santander in respect of one of his earlier 
applications, but these included a tax calculation rather than a tax return. And when Mr P 
submitted documents in respect of his 29 March application, he supplied a utility bill when a 
tax return was required. 
Accordingly, on 2 April 2021, Santander paused the application and asked Mr P to provide 
the documents required to confirm his businesss eligibility. This led to Mr P contacting 
Santander and expressing his dissatisfaction at how his application was being progressed.
I can appreciate Mr Ps position here, but Ive reviewed the documents that he provided to 
Santander up to that point, and Im satisfied that they didnt provide confirmation that his 
business met the BBL scheme eligibility criteria as was required. Furthermore, I note that 
several documents that Mr P submitted to Santander in May 2021, as this matter continued, 
were in the form of photographs of those documents taken by Mr P but which were clearly 
unreadable and unfit for purpose  as should have been evident to Mr P had he reviewed 
those photographs before submitting them to Santander.
Following this, Santander again clarified the information they required from Mr P in order to 
verify his businesss eligibility for the BBL scheme, and again, given that Santander had a 
responsibility to ensure to their own satisfaction that Mr Ps business met the eligibility 
criteria for the scheme, their actions here dont seem unreasonable to me. Indeed, it seems 
evident to me from the application contact notes that Santander gave Mr P a fair amount of 
time and opportunity to provide the necessary proofs before finally cancelling the application 
in mid-May 2021.
Im aware that Mr P feels that one of the documents that Santander requested, which had to 
be sourced from a UK Government agency, couldnt be provided because that agency no 
longer issued the document in the form requested by Santander. 
Its clear that the document that Mr P is referring to here is Santanders request for him to 
provide a copy of his full tax return with an Inland Revenue Mark (IR Mark) which is 
generated upon submission of the tax return and therefore confirms that the tax return was 
submitted. The use of IR Marks to confirm the submission of a tax return remains ongoing, 
and so I find it difficult to understand why Mr P felt that the provision of this IR number to 
Santander  either on the tax return itself if possible, or provided separately to Santander as 
proof of the tax return submission  couldnt be achieved.
Ultimately, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Santander to request the specific proofs of 
business activity and income from Mr P that they did, and Im similarly satisfied that Mr P 
didnt provide these proofs to Santander despite been given multiple opportunities to do so. 
And while I can appreciate that Mr P might feel that the information he did provide to 
Santander should have been sufficient for Santander to approve his application, I feel that 
Santander made it clear to Mr P on multiple occasions that they werent satisfied from the 
information that Mr P had provided that the BBL scheme eligibility criteria had been met and that further information was required by them from Mr P, which Mr P didnt then provide.
As such, I find it very difficult to conclude that Santander have acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Mr P here as Mr P contends, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this 
complaint or instructing Santander to take any further action at this time.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr P was wanting, but I trust that hell understand, given 
all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman