DRN-4174966
The complaint
Mrs B complains Nationwide Building Society wont refund money she lost to a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
here. In brief summary, in 2022 Mrs B saw a post on a social networking platform from a 
person she believed was successfully investing in cryptocurrency, which ultimately led her to 
make the following payments from her Nationwide account for what she thought was a 
legitimate investment.  
Date Payee Amount (£)
17 February 2022 Rodeo Solutions 185.42
04 March 2022 CB Payments Ltd 150
18 March 2022 CB Payments Ltd 100
18 March 2022 CB Payments Ltd 2,000
05 April 2022 Bitstamp 2,500
06 April 2022 CB Payments Ltd 1,000
Total 5,935.42
These payments were made by debit card, with the exception of the £2,500 Bitstamp 
transaction which was a push payment. 
Mrs B later got in touch with Nationwide to report shed been scammed. Nationwide 
ultimately didnt reimburse Mrs Bs lost funds. Mrs B therefore referred her complaint about 
Nationwide to our service. One of our Investigators looked into things and didnt recommend 
the complaint be upheld. Mrs B remained unhappy, so the case has been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been provided, 
and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
think is the heart of the matter. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point or 
argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. 
This reflects the informal nature of our service as an alternative to the courts.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint for materially the same reasons as our Investigator. 
Ill explain why. 
Im sorry if Mrs B lost money to a scammer but this doesnt automatically entitle her to a 
refund from Nationwide. It would only be fair for me to tell Nationwide to reimburse Mrs B if I 
thought it reasonably ought to have prevented the payments or it unreasonably hindered 
recovery of the funds.
Prevention
Im satisfied Mrs B authorised the relevant payments. Nationwide would generally be 
expected to process payments a customer authorises it to make. And under The Payment 
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the account, Mrs B is presumed liable 
for the loss in the first instance, in circumstances where she authorised the payments. That 
said, as a matter of good industry practice Nationwide should have taken proactive steps to 
identify and help prevent transactions  particularly sufficiently unusual, uncharacteristic or 
suspicious transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there 
are many payments made by customers each day and its not realistic or reasonable to 
expect a bank to stop and check every payment instruction. Theres a balance to be struck 
between identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption 
to legitimate payments. 
In this case Nationwide didnt pause any of the instructions, pending enquiries with Mrs B, 
before allowing the payments through. So Ive considered whether I think Nationwide ought 
reasonably to have done so.
The first three payments (of £185.42, £150 and £100) were too small, and otherwise 
insufficiently remarkable or suspicious, for me to reasonably say Nationwide ought to have 
been obliged to have intervened before following Mrs Bs instructions to make them. 
The fourth and fifth payments (at £2,000 and £2,500 respectively) were larger. And I 
wouldnt say it was usual for Mrs B to make payments for this amount. However, as Ive said, 
theres a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially be 
fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. Its a question of degree  
whether the payments were sufficiently remarkable  and I dont think I can say in this case 
that the payments of £2,000 and £2,500 were individually sufficiently remarkable such that 
Nationwide ought to have been obliged to have done more than it did before allowing the 
payments through. Bearing in mind these payments were around two and half weeks apart 
from each other, I dont think collectively I could say that either. I note what Mrs B has said 
about the destination of these payments being associated with cryptocurrency, but not all 
payments made for cryptocurrency are made as a result of a scam, so in this case this 
doesnt change my mind.
Ive thought about the last payment of £1,000 too, which was made just one day after the 
£2,500 payment to Bitstamp. But for essentially the same reasons as the other payments, I 
just dont think this was remarkable enough to say Nationwide failed in its obligations by not 
intervening before following Mrs Bs payment instruction. This means I dont think I can 
reasonably say Nationwide unreasonably missed an opportunity to prevent the scam nor 
Mrs Bs loss before the payments were sent. 
Recovery
After the payments were made, I couldnt reasonably expect Nationwide to have done 
anything further until Mrs B notified it of the scam. Then, the only potential avenue to recover 
the payments made by debit card would have been via the chargeback scheme. However, 
Mrs B made these payments to Rodeo Solutions and CB Payments Ltd. And I agree with 
what our Investigator said about this. The merchants here, for chargeback purposes, would 
be Rodeo Solutions and CB Payments Ltd. I havent seen sufficient evidence that a 
chargeback against these merchants would have succeeded.  And with regards to the push payment to Bitstamp, I understand Mrs B didnt instruct 
Nationwide to send this payment directly to the scammer but instead to a Bitstamp account 
held in her own name. Thats what Nationwide did. If Mrs B was unable to recover this 
payment because the funds were then sent on from her Bitstamp account to the scammer, I 
cant see how Nationwide could reasonably be held responsible for this. So Im satisfied I 
cant reasonably hold Nationwide responsible for Mr B being unable to recover her funds. 
I realise this means Mrs B is out of pocket. And Im sorry if she lost this money. But I cant 
reasonably ask Nationwide to reimburse her in circumstances where I dont think it ought 
reasonably to have been obliged to have prevented the payments or been able to recover 
them.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman