DRN-3786545
The complaint
Mrs S has complained about Allianz Insurance Plc. She felt it overcharged for her pet 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs S took out her pet insurance with Allianz but when it came up for renewal she thought 
that she had been overcharged and went on to take out a policy elsewhere. She always 
thought Allianz had given her the best price possible and so she didnt think to shop around 
before this.
When Mrs S complained to Allianz it explained she wasnt misled and that her premium was 
based on the level of cover provided, the age and breed of her pet, the location she lived, 
and the pets claim history amongst other things. But Mrs S remained unhappy, so she 
complained to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for her but didnt uphold her complaint. She was satisfied, 
having considered all the information and the underwriting criteria, that Mrs S was treated 
the same as any other consumer in a similar position to her. 
As Mrs S didnt agree, maintaining that a pet similar to hers would be insured for less by a 
new customer, the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I can understand Mrs S position I havent seen any evidence to suggest that Mrs S 
has been treated any different to any one in a similar position to her. Ill explain why.
As Mrs S pet was getting older her insurance was rising as the risk of her pet having 
difficulties and health problems increased as it was getting older. But this isnt unusual and 
although it was possible Mrs S could get her pet insurance cheaper that doesnt mean 
Allianz acted unfairly. I say this as the policy held with Allianz continued to provide on-going 
cover as long as it was renewed whereas a new policy would exclude any pre-existing 
conditions. 
Ive looked at all the available evidence and Im satisfied that Allianz acted reasonably. I say 
this as I think it treated Mrs S fairly and didnt treat her any different to any other customer in 
a similar position to her and her pet. I know Mrs S feels a new customer would get a cheaper 
premium if they presented their pet with the same history. But I havent seen any evidence of 
this although I accept that the cover would most likely be cheaper if the previous 9-year 
history and any pre-existing conditions of the pet wasnt being covered.
I note at the time of the recent renewals Allianz made it clear to Mrs S that she might be able 
to get cheaper cover elsewhere and it highlighted that she should think about things other 
than just the cost of the policy. It said You have been with us for a number of years. You 
may be able to get the insurance cover you want at a better price if you shop around. If you 
decide to look at cover with another insurer make sure you consider more than just price; it 
is important you have the right cover..so youre protected. 
Given all of this, and the fact that Allianz made it clear to Mrs S that she may get a policy 
cheaper if she shops around over the last few years, I think Allianz have treated Mrs S fairly 
and in line with any customer in a similar position to her and her pet.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman