DRN-4477975
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the price charged by Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited 
(LV) to renew her car insurance policy. 
The complaint has been brought by a representative on behalf of Mrs S  who Ill refer to as 
Mr S. 
What happened
Mrs S received a quote to renew her policy for 2023 which Mr S says was significantly higher 
than what Mrs S paid the previous year. So, Mr S queried this with LV as he wanted to know 
the specific reasons for the price increase as well as a breakdown of the costs to 
demonstrate the price increase was justified and proportionate. LV explained they couldnt 
provide the detail Mr S was asking for, so he complained. LV responded and explained they 
take many different factors into consideration when calculating a renewal, such as, personal 
details, claims, conviction history, property and the area a customer lives in. They said there 
are also external factors they consider such as the rising cost of claims. They said they also 
use their claims information to understand how often and how much their customers are 
claiming for, which is always changing, depending on things like parts costs and availability. 
They explained they base their renewal premiums on various underwriting criteria, but 
theyre unable to disclose details of this due to the information being business sensitive.    
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs S. He thought LV hadnt treated Mrs S unfairly in 
relation to the pricing. Mr S disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr S will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
The role of this service when looking at complaints about insurance pricing isnt to tell a 
business what they should charge or to determine a price for the insurance they offer. This is 
a commercial judgement and for them to decide. But we can look to see whether we agree a 
consumer has been treated fairly  so is there anything which demonstrates theyve been 
treated differently or less favourably. If we think someone has been treated unfairly, we can 
set out what we think is right to address this unfairness.
I can see Mrs S paid a premium of £474.34 in 2022 but then received a quote for £653.81 in 
2023. This is around 38% more than what Mrs S paid the year before. So, I understand why 
Mr S is concerned about the price increase. LV have provided me with confidential business 
sensitive information to explain how Mrs Ss price increase was calculated. Im afraid I cant 
share this with Mr S because its commercially sensitive, but Ive checked it carefully. And, 
Im satisfied the price Mrs S has been charged has been calculated correctly and fairly and 
Ive seen no evidence that other LV customers in Mrs Ss position will have been charged a 
lower premium. 
As mentioned above, I cant provide specific detail about LVs risk model, but I can see the 
main factor which affected the price for Mrs Ss policy was an increase in perceived risk 
across a range of rating factors. LV explain this has been applied to all policies. I think thats 
important here as it demonstrates the pricing model used to calculate Mrs Ss premium was 
no different to what was used for any other customer in the same circumstances. Mr S may 
feel this is unfair, but LV, like all insurers, will review their approach to risks at different points 
and this will result in changes to the premium. So in short, they have treated all customers 
the same with the pricing structure and Mrs S hasnt been treated differently or unfairly when 
they chose to change their approach.  
 
In addition to this, I can see LV did, in their renewal quote, remind Mrs S that she could shop 
around to see if she could get a better price. Its not clear when Mrs S first took out her 
policy, but if there have been at least four renewals, then section 6.5 of the Insurance 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) requires a business to provide specific wording 
about the benefits of shopping around. So, as well as treating Mrs S fairly, I think LV have 
also acted in line with requirements set out under ICOBS. 
I do appreciate Mr S will want to know more detail around what specific factors have led to 
the premium increase and he was left frustrated at not receiving a response to his questions 
to LV. Pricing is an area where the information which sits behind an insurers explanation will 
often be commercially sensitive. So, I dont think LV have acted unreasonably in not 
providing the detail requested by Mr S. 
I can see Mr S questions how LV are able to refuse to disclose business sensitive 
information to him but are able to provide this to us. I do acknowledge Mr Ss frustration at 
not being able to see LVs pricing model, but in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome, its 
something I must take into account. We operate under a set of rules laid down by Parliament 
under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, published by the Financial Conduct 
Authority and known as the DISP rules. In this case, the relevant rule is DISP 3.5.9(2) which 
says, the Ombudsman may, accept information in confidence (so that only an edited 
version, summary or description is disclosed to the other party) where he considers it 
appropriate  
I think its important to point out that this rule doesnt place an absolute requirement on our 
service to provide an edited copy of a business response to a complainant. There is a 
discretionary element here which allows an ombudsman to consider whether its appropriate. 
In this case, Ive provided Mr S with as much of a description that Im able to provide without 
compromising LVs business sensitive information. 
Mr S says the risk factors should be based primarily on previous accidents  and Mrs S 
hasnt had any. He says Mrs Ss health remains in good shape for driving so he questions 
what risk factors have been taken into account. I do acknowledge Mr Ss concerns here and, 
while the factors he has referred to do generally feature in an insurers risk model, they 
arent the only factors. 
Its for an insurer to decide what risks theyre prepared to cover and what ratings and 
loadings to apply. Ive seen the rating factors which LV have taken into account and how the 
loadings have increased. So I cant say LV have made a mistake in how theyve calculated 
Mrs Ss renewal price.  
As I've said, I cannot share all the information Mr S would likely want to see to understand 
why Mrs Ss premium increased as it did at renewal. I cant provide specific detail about LVs risk model, but LV have provided their rating tables, and this demonstrates the changes in 
their rating structure. I note Mr S says he requires proof the assessment carried out by LV is 
current, fair and has been done with due care and attention to the requirements set out by 
the Equality Act 2010. I wish to reassure Mr S Ive taken the Equality Act 2010 into account 
when deciding this complaint  given that its relevant law  but Ive ultimately decided this 
complaint based on whats fair and reasonable.
I can see the factors which have attracted higher loadings dont relate to any protected 
characteristics. As mentioned above, its for a business to decide what risks theyre prepared 
to cover and how much weight to attach to those risks. We do however expect businesses to 
treat customers fairly, and in this case, LV increased Mrs Ss premium at renewal correctly in 
keeping with the changes made to their risk ratings and underwriting guidelines. Its a 
change which has applied to all customers in the same circumstances, so, I cant say LV are 
adopting an approach which discriminates against customers with specific protected 
characteristics  or which otherwise treats them unfairly.     
I can see Mr S says LV need to show their action is a proportionate means of achieving a 
legitimate aim. I have carefully considered Mr Ss points but, from the information Ive seen, I 
cant say LV have acted unfairly. While the price of Mrs Ss policy did increase, the approach 
taken by LV and the information theyve taken into account when changing their rating 
structure, isnt unfair or unreasonable. Its not uncommon or unusual within the insurance 
industry for an insurer to regularly review their rating factors and loadings to determine 
changes to their risk ratings  and thats what LV have done here. I acknowledge Mr Ss 
point that LV havent provided essential contractual information together with the renewal 
and he feels this shows a lack of due regard and mitigations required under the Equality Act 
2010. As mentioned above, I do understand why Mr S wants more detailed information to 
better understand why the price increased as it did. But, given its commercial sensitivity, its 
not unreasonable in the circumstances for LV to refuse to provide the detail Mr S has 
requested.   
I understand why Mr S has complained, and I hope he feels reassured that Ive checked the 
pricing information from LV. But I cant say theyve made a mistake or treated Mrs S unfairly. 
I wish to reassure Mr S Ive read and considered everything he has sent in, but if I havent 
mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought 
about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt 
intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman