DRN-4370623
The complaint
Mr G complains that Covea Insurance plc has decline his property owners policy claim as it 
believes some of the damage to his house is due to lateral movement rather than 
subsidence. 
What happened
Mr G noticed cracking in his house and so claimed on his policy with Covea for damage 
caused by subsidence. Covea reviewed the claim and assessed the damage to Mr Gs 
house.  All the reports Covea commissioned about the damage agree the damage to Mr Gs 
house is caused by subsidence. They say the cause is due to clay shrinkage of the soil 
which has been caused by the vegetation around the property. Because of this, Covea 
accepted the claim. 
Covea later said the front elevation of the Mr Gs house was also suffering from lateral 
movement. It said this wasnt covered by the policy and so let Mr G know the damage 
caused by lateral movement wasnt covered. Mr G didnt think this was fair and complained. 
He said Covea had agreed the property was damaged due to subsidence. 
Covea reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. It said lateral movement is not an insured 
event under the policy and therefore said it isnt covered. Covea also referred to a term 
which says it doesnt cover damage caused by defective design or workmanship. Mr G 
referred his complaint here as he didnt agree with Coveas response. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and found that none of the reports provided by 
Covea supported its position that the issues with Mr Gs house were the result of lateral 
movement. She therefore thought all the damage listed was the result of subsidence so 
recommended Mr Gs complaint be upheld. She said Covea should deal with the claim and 
carry out a lasting and effective repair to Mr Gs house.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Gs policy provides cover for subsidence, he originally raised a claim for subsidence in 
2020. On 6 October 2020 a report was done on Mr Gs house which said: The pattern and 
nature of the cracks is indicative of an episode of subsidence. The cause of movement 
appears to be clay shrinkage. The report goes onto say that following the completion of the 
tree management works that monitoring should be completed to confirm the property is 
stable. 
A schedule of works was issued on 18 June 2021 which lists the repairs needed to Mr Gs 
house. Im unable to see anywhere in this report where it highlights or shows damage which 
wouldnt be covered. 
Another report was issued on 14 August 2022 where it says: Your customers property has 
been damaged by subsidence related movement. Our investigations have confirmed that 
this movement has been caused by clay shrinkage exacerbated by the effects of vegetation 
in the vicinity of the damaged area. The claim has been validated and liability accepted 
under the terms of the policy subject to an excess of £1,000.00.
I asked our investigator to e-mail Covea, which they did on 16 November 2023, to request 
which part of the property was suffering from lateral movement and asked for evidence of 
this. Covea hasnt provided evidence, other than its comments stating there is lateral 
movement, which show which part of Mr Gs property has lateral movement. 
In the final response letter Covea confirms lateral movement isnt an insured peril and relied 
on an exclusion which says: We will not be liable for damage caused by defective design or 
workmanship or defective materials. While I agree that it appears lateral movement isnt 
covered by the policy for these reasons, Covea hasnt shown Mr Gs properly is suffering 
from lateral movement. 
Im therefore not satisfied Covea has acted fairly by saying damage reported by Mr G in 
relation to this claim isnt covered by the policy. From the reports provided all the damage 
listed in them is related to subsidence and therefore covered by the policy. To put things 
right Covea needs to repair the damage reported in this claim, in line with the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy.   
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Covea Insurance plc to repair all damage reported in this claim, in line with the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman