DRN-2450128
The complaint
Mr W complains that the loans provided to him by Provident Personal Credit Limited trading 
as Satsuma Loans (Satsuma) werent affordable.
What happened
Mr W took out three loans with Satsuma in 2019. He says the loans were unaffordable.
Loan Date Amount
1 Feb-19 £250
2 Jun-19 £400
3 Aug-19 £1,360
Satsuma says that before the loans were provided it carried out a series of checks to ensure 
it was responsible to lend to Mr W and that he could afford the loan repayments. It says it 
gathered information about Mr Ws income and expenses and that based on this the loans 
were affordable.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. She said that given the loans taken out by Mr 
W, and the information provided at the time, it wouldnt have been proportionate to say that 
Satsuma was required to carry out further verification checks. 
Mr W didnt accept our adjudicators view. He reiterated that he couldnt afford the loan 
repayments. He said if Satsuma had carried out adequate affordability checks such as 
asking for copies of his pay slips and bank statements it would have been clear that the 
loans were unaffordable.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr W could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.
Mr W took out three loans with Satsuma. As set out above, in the early stages of the lending 
relationship it isnt unreasonable to accept that less thorough checks may be proportionate. 
Before the loans were provided information was gathered on Mr Ws income and expenses. 
His monthly income was recorded as £2,175 for the first two loans and £2,500 for the third 
loan. Given the size of the repayments due under the loans compared to Mr Ws monthly 
income I find that the checks carried out before the loans were provided were proportionate. 
Mr W has provided copies of some bank statements from around the time of the loans. 
These suggest a monthly income of around £2,000 and this appears to increase in 
September. This is around the amount given for the first two loans. In this case I dont find 
that the income information received by Satsuma should have raised concerns that meant 
further verification was needed. Therefore, I find it reasonable that it relied on the income 
figure provided. 
Mr W provided information about his expenses. This information didnt include any amount 
for financial commitments and had a low amount recorded for other expenditure. However, 
Satsuma has shown that it increased the expenses amount to reflect the information it had 
found through its credit searches and by referring to other external data sources. Therefore, 
the affordability assessments included higher expenses figures. I find this approach 
reasonable. At this stage in the lending relationship I wouldnt expect any further verification 
to take place.
The first loan was for £250 with monthly repayments of around £80. Based on Mr Ws 
declared income and the increased expenses amount, these repayments appeared 
affordable. 
Mr W took out the second loan before repaying the first. As this was only the second loan I 
think it was too early to suggest that Satsuma should have carried out further checks at this 
time. I have considered the total amount of repayments due under the loans and as these 
appeared affordable I do not find that I can say this loan shouldnt have been provided. 
Mr W repaid his first two loans and took out a third. The third loan was for a larger amount. It 
was repayable over 52 weeks with weekly repayment of around £52. Again, based on the 
information gathered the loan appeared affordable. 
I note Mr Ws comments about further verification of his income and expenses. However, in 
this case I think it was reasonable that Satsuma relied on the combination of information 
from Mr W and the information it received from external sources. I do not find in this case 
that the information gathered raised concerns that meant Satsuma should have undertaken 
further investigation such as requesting Mr Ws bank statements.
As I find the checks undertaken were proportionate, and this suggested the loan repayments 
were affordable, I do not find that I have enough evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Provident Personal Credit 
Limited.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman