DRN-3387480
The complaint
Mr H complains that Trading 212 UK Limited (T212) restricted his ability to trade in January 
2021 which has caused him direct financial loss.
What happened
Mr H had a trading account with T212. Hes complained as he wanted to sell his AMC 
shares on 27 January 2021 but wasnt able to log in and do so. Hes referenced findings in 
the USA against a broker to say that T212 was manipulating the ability to trade and says 
hes lost out because of it.
Mr H says he wanted to sell his shares at around $19 per share but was restricted from 
doing so. He said he eventually sold shares at around $6 per share and has lost out on 
significant returns.
Our Investigator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. In summary she said the following:
- There was unprecedented worldwide activity and volatility which affected Mr Hs 
shares in AMC. As a result this impacted on the demand for T212s services meaning 
some customers experienced issues when placing trades on 27 January 2021.
- Evidence shows Mr H was able to access the platform and sell some of his AMC 
shares for around $18.07 on 27 January 2021.
- Trading was then suspended on 28 January 2021  this was done by T212s broker 
and liquidity provider and was outside of T212s control.
- The terms of Mr Hs account say T212 can suspend or remove from the trading 
platform any financial instrument and market hours at its sole discretion.
- The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued a statement to say that firms like T212 
have no legal or regulatory obligation to offer trading facilities and where a platform 
considers it necessary they may withdraw their services.
Mr H disagreed with our Investigator. He explained that he was unable to access the 
platform for a number of hours  virtually the whole day. Hes unhappy T212 responded 
talking about shares in GME when he had shares in AMC. When he was able to log into his 
account the markets were closed and T212 offered no phone support like other platforms. Mr 
H submitted a number of social media complaints made about T212s platform for the time 
period. He says he couldnt sell his shares when he wanted to and has lost money as a 
result. He asked for an Ombudsman to consider the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint for similar reasons to our Investigator. Ill 
explain why.
Mr Hs complaint is about the inability to sell his shares in AMC on 27 January 2021 at the 
price he wanted to sell them. Hes mentioned they reached $19, $20 and £22 per share 
when he couldnt trade. T212 has explained that many of its customers had issues 
accessing the platform on this day  which is supported by the social media complaints that 
Mr H has sent in. However, on 27 January 2021 the market for the AMC shares, amongst 
other shares, was extremely volatile. This was the day that saw unprecedented demand for 
certain shares following an online movement.
Ive considered the evidence submitted by Mr H and T212 carefully and Im satisfied that 
T212 has acted in line with its terms and the regulations. 
Mr Hs agreement with T212 says that he acknowledges that the platform may be subject to 
disruption and downtime caused by external factors. And the agreement goes on to say that 
Mr H agrees to waive any claim against T212 for loss suffered due to disruption to the 
provision of the platform due to circumstances outside of its reasonable control. In this case, 
the downtime on the platform was due to the unprecedented demand for T212s services. 
This was caused by external market factors outside of its reasonable control  a movement 
created by users of various social media platforms to increase the prices of certain stocks 
and shares.
Im satisfied that on 27 January 2021, the time Mr H wasnt able to access the platform or 
sell his shares was directly caused by this unprecedented interest and market activity and 
wasnt something that was inside of T212s control. I understand Mr H was disappointed 
there was no phone support available  but T212 hasnt offered this for some time. And I 
dont think it wouldve made any difference if it had been available during what was a period 
by which the unprecedented interest in GME (and other shares like AMC) caused an 
extreme strain on trading platforms worldwide.
On 28 January 2021, T212 suspended trading in AMC shares. This restriction was prompted 
by circumstances outside of its control including its liquidity provider restricting access to the 
shares. Essentially  T212 wasnt able to offer these shares on its platform. This was 
because the volumes of trading on the shares generated substantial risk exposures at the 
firms that clear the trades. So large brokers, including T212s execution intermediary, had to 
stop accepting orders until additional funds could be cleared and transferred. 
The FCA issued a statement on 29 January 2021 which made it clear firms could act in the 
way T212 has done in this situation. It said:
Broking firms are not obliged to offer trading facilities to clients. They may withdraw their 
services, in line with customer terms and conditions if, for instance, they consider it 
necessary or prudent to do so. Firms are exposed to greater risk and therefore more likely to 
need to take such action during periods of abnormally high transaction volumes and price 
volatility.
So, it follows that I dont think T212 has done anything wrong here. Its acted in line with its 
terms that Mr H agreed to as well as the regulators guidance.
As a side note, whilst I appreciate that Mr H wasnt able to sell his shares in AMC when he 
wanted to  which was due to the extreme market volatility at the time  I can see he was 
able to sell some shares on 27 January 2021 at around $18 per share. This shows me he 
was able to make some profit but it appears he didnt sell his full holding. The following day 
the trades were suspended and when Mr H was able to sell, the share price had dropped 
again. I appreciate his frustration with this, but for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think 
T212 has caused any losses Mr H experienced when selling his shares.Mr H has referenced regulatory action in the USA against a broker to support his complaint, 
however Ive already explained that I cant see T212 acted outside of its regulatory duties or 
outside of its terms.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman