DRN-3372154
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a number of packaged 
bank accounts his account history is as follows.
13 June 1997  Fee free Classic account
7 June 2002  Upgraded to a fee paying Gold Service AVA 
4 November 2003  Downgraded to Fee free Classic account
9 January 2008  Upgraded to a fee paying Platinum AVA  
6 February 2009  Account changed to fee paying Silver AVA 
22 June 2020  Downgraded to fee free Classic account
Amongst other things, he says that the accounts were not suitable for him and he was not 
aware that free accounts were available.
What happened
Lloyds initially said that we could not look at the sale of the Gold and Silver account as they 
believed the complaint was brought too late. One of our adjudicators looked into this and 
they decided that we could not look at the sale of the Gold account but we could look at the 
sale of the Silver account (as well as the Platinum account). All parties agreed with this.
Our adjudicator then assessed the sale of the Platinum and Silver accounts and they didnt 
think that Lloyds had mis-sold them. Mr W disagreed with this and therefore his complaint 
was referred to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
Ive used this approach to help decide what to do about Mr Ws complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete and matters are in dispute, as they are here, I make my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened - based on the evidence that 
I have been provided with. With this in mind, and having considered everything that Mr W 
and Lloyds have said and provided, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Firstly I have considered whether Mr W was given a fair choice in taking out these accounts. 
Mr W had held a fee free account on two occasions prior to the sale of the Platinum account. 
So I think that he wouldve been aware that fee free accounts were available and an option 
for him. Mr W has not explained why he thought that he could not get a fee free account for 
either of these sales so overall on balance I think that he agreed to these accounts knowing 
he did not have to.
Both accounts were recommended to Mr W. Given this, Lloyds had to ensure that it was a 
broadly reasonable fit for his circumstances at the time.
At the time the Platinum account was taken out, it included breakdown cover, 
comprehensive breakdown cover and worldwide family travel insurance, mobile phone 
insurance and a fee-free and interest-free £250 overdraft buffer.
At the time the Silver account was taken out, it provided European Travel insurance, less 
comprehensive breakdown cover and mobile phone insurance.
Whilst holding these accounts Mr W registered a mobile phone under the mobile phone 
insurance, made a claim under the breakdown cover and from his statements appeared to 
travel as well. So it suggests that Mr W could use the major benefits that the accounts came 
with. Additionally Mr W has not explained why he could not use these benefits. So overall I 
think that Lloyds recommending these accounts was not unreasonable.
I accept that Mr W may not have been told everything during the sales, about all of the 
benefits that the accounts came with. But I have not seen anything specific about Mr Ws 
circumstances from either sale, that makes me think he wouldve been put off from agreeing 
to them, had he been given even more information about the benefits that the accounts 
came with.
Mr W has explained that Lloyds did not contact him to ensure that the accounts continued to 
be of use to him. But Lloyds was not under any obligation to do so. I can see that it did send 
Mr W annual eligibility statements detailing the benefits of the accounts and the limitations of 
these benefits so I think Mr W was able to establish for himself whether the accounts were of 
use to him. 
I appreciate that, with the benefit of hindsight, and perhaps with what Mr W mayve read 
recently about financial products being mis-sold, he may now believe that his accounts were 
mis-sold. But based on what Mr W has said, alongside all of the available evidence that I 
have seen, I cant say that its more likely than not that his accounts were mis-sold in the first 
instance. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman