DRN-3065129
The complaint
Mr E complains that Hastings Insurance Services Limited (Hastings) listed his no claims 
discount (NCD) incorrectly. Mr E also raised other complaint points related to this issue. 
What happened
Mr E had a motor insurance policy with Hastings which he first took out in 2016 and renewed 
each year. Mr Es policy was due to renew on 18 February 2021 and Hastings wrote to him 
on 20 January 2021 to inform him of this, saying he had 9 or more years NCD.
Mr E contacted Hastings on 21 January 2021 to complain that it hadnt recorded the correct 
amount of NCD on the renewal documents.  
Hastings sent an email to Mr E on 26 January 2021 and told him that if he completed the 
current year, he would have 11 years NCD. 
Hastings wrote to Mr E on 5 February 2021 with an updated renewal invite. It said his policy 
would automatically renew on 18 February 2021. Hastings wrote to Mr E for a second time 
on the same day informing him that his policy had been renewed. 
Mr E contacted Hastings on 8 February 2021 and said he should have 17 years NCD by the 
time his policy renews. He asked for Hastings records to be corrected. 
Hastings contacted Mr E on 19 February 2021 and confirmed he had 16 years NCD. It then 
wrote to Mr E on 23 February 2021 and provided him with proof of his NCD.  
Hastings responded formally to Mr Es complaint on 24 February 2021. It said his complaint 
was that he was unhappy the renewal document stated his NCB was not confirmed, as well 
as the delay in sending the correct document. 
Hastings said it only considered the first nine years NCD, which is why the renewal 
document said Mr E had 9 years or more NCD. It also said the renewal document stated 
the NCD was not confirmed as Mr Es policy account hadnt been checked by its validation 
team. Hastings said Mr E asked to be sent the NCD letter on 26 January 2021 but it said it 
could only send the updated NCD document once the policy expired without any claims 
being made against him. Hastings said the policy renewed on 18 February, the correct NCD 
document was processed on 19 February and was sent to Mr E on 23 February. 
Mr E was unhappy with the response from Hastings and so complained to this service. He 
said his complaint was about the incorrect NCD; Hastings misinterpretation of his complaint; 
Hastings failure to validate his NCD; being provided with incorrect policy information and 
failure to implement the outcome of an earlier complaint. He said when Hastings responded 
to him on 19 February 2021 it said there was no significant delay in sending this to him. But 
he said the delay wasnt his complaint. It was about the number of mistakes Hastings made. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Es complaint and as Mr E didnt agree, this came to me for 
a decision.  
I issued a provisional decision on 8 September 2021 and said I didnt intend to uphold Mr Es 
complaint. I gave both parties the opportunity to respond. 
Mr E responded and said my decision misrepresents his complaint about Hastings failure to 
validate his policy. He said Hastings letter from 2017 confirmed his NCD, while the decision 
said Hastings either had not confirmed the NCD or else they could not validate the NCD for 
some reason. Mr E also said I did not suggest compensation, even though several mistakes 
had been acknowledged. Mr E said he would complain again, as a matter of principle, since 
both Hastings and this service have made it clear that mistakes are acceptable. 
Hastings did not respond to the provisional decision. 
I am now in a position to issue a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why. 
I know that Mr E said Hastings had listed his NCD on the policy schedule as 9 years, but Ive 
seen the schedule and it says 9 or more years which in my mind is clearly different to just 
9 years. And its listed in this way because Hastings only gives a discount for NCD up to 9 
years. Anything above that doesnt make a difference to the discount offered and so wont be 
listed. Its not my role to say how Hastings should present the NCD information on the policy 
documents. Its not incorrect to say Mr E has 9 or more years NCD. Whats key here is that 
Hastings holds the correct information about Mr Es NCD and that this can be provided to Mr 
E as and when he needs it. 
Which brings me to another of Mr Es complaint points, namely that Hastings told Mr E he 
had 16 years NCD at renewal in 2021, when he believes the amount is actually 17 years. 
But, from what Ive seen, Mr E has 16 years NCD at the point in time his policy expired in 
February 2021. 
It might help to clarify that NCD is only earned when a policy holder has been insured for an 
entire year without any claims being made. From what Ive seen, Hastings confirmed to Mr E 
in April 2017 that he had 12 years NCD at that point. And Mr E agrees this is correct. This 
means that from 18 February 2018, Mr E had 13 years NCD, and from 18 February 2021 he 
had 16 years. So, when Mr E emailed Hastings in early February 2021, the amount of NCD 
at that point in time was 15 years. It only became 16 years from 18 February 2021, when the 
last years policy expired. And it will only be 17 years when Mr Es policy expires next year, if 
he doesnt make any claims in the meantime.
I think its also worth noting that insurers do not have to provide information about what NCD 
an individual might hold at the end of a policy term. They only need to provide, as Hastings 
did in its letter of 23 February 2021, information about the NCD following renewal. Having 
said all of that, I can see that Hastings did incorrectly tell Mr E in early February 2021 that he 
only had 11 years NCD. I understand that Mr E was inconvenienced and had to email 
Hastings about this but I cant see that this caused Mr E any other detriment and Hastings 
quickly corrected the error. This is why Im not asking Hastings to pay any compensation. 
Mr E also complained about Hastings failure to validate his NCD. Hastings told this service 
that Mr E opted to take out a new policy with it in February 2021 rather than renew the old policy. And so its systems treated him as a new customer and sent a welcome pack with 
standardised wording about the NCD. Hastings said it asks some new customers for proof of 
NCD and the wording lets customers know if Hastings has confirmed the NCD with their 
previous insurers. Its not my role to say how Hastings should present information in the 
welcome pack or whether it validates NCDs prior to sending out documentation. Even when, 
as in Mr Es case, it has previously confirmed a customers NCD with them. From what I can 
see, this matter has not had a negative impact on Mr E. 
Mr E also said Hastings misinterpreted what he was complaining about during his 
correspondence with it, while it was looking into his complaint. And Mr E wants this looked 
into as a separate complaint point. But Im not going to do that. This service looks at 
complaints about regulated products and services offered by regulated businesses, as 
outlined by the Financial Conduct Authority Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules. And how a 
business handled a complaint is not a regulated activity under DISP rule 2.3.1 (R).  
For the reasons outlined above, I am not upholding Es complaint.  
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman