DRN-3438605
The complaint
Miss A and Mr L complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC delayed their application to make 
changes to their mortgage  causing them to incur interest at a higher rate for several 
months. They are also unhappy that Barclays declined to backdate the change to their 
mortgage and refund the additional interest they paid after indicating it would do so.
What happened
Miss A and Mr L have a mortgage with Barclays. Barclays wrote to Miss A and Mr L on 
5 August 2020 to remind them that their interest rate deal was due to expire at the end of 
October 2020.
On 10 August 2020 Miss A and Mr L contacted Barclays by phone to discuss making 
changes to their mortgage in preparation for the mortgage term expiring. Theyd renovated 
their property since they first took out their Barclays mortgage and felt it had increased in 
value. The representative of Barclays they spoke to said that Miss A and Mr L could appeal 
the valuation. They provided an email address for information to be sent to. But after the 
email bounced back, an agent asked Miss A and Mr L to email them directly and theyd 
lodge the valuation appeal on their behalf.
On 12 October 2020 Miss A and Mr L contacted Barclays again as theyd heard nothing 
further since the earlier phone call. And they still wanted to arrange a rate switch. The 
valuation appeal was chased. Additional information was subsequently requested, and Ive 
seen evidence Miss A and Mr L provided this on 29 October 2020. And once that was 
received by Barclays the appeal was accepted.
In the meantime though, Miss A and Mr L had contacted Barclays again, on 27 October 
2020, as they wanted to arrange a new rate but had been unable to do so online. They 
indicated they didnt want to wait for the valuation appeal as, based on the rates available 
from Barclays, they realised it wasnt going to impact what was available to them. They were 
also interested in changing their mortgage to an offset mortgage.
An appointment was booked with a mortgage advisor on 6 November 2020 for this to be 
discussed. However, it hadnt been noted when the appointment was made that Miss A and 
Mr L were looking for an offset mortgage. As their existing mortgage was not on an offset 
basis, Barclays said a full re-mortgage application would therefore be required, so the 
appointment had to be rescheduled to 10 November 2020.
In the meantime, Miss A and Mr Ls existing interest rate deal expired and their mortgage 
moved onto Barclays reversion rate.
Miss A and Mr L went through an application with an adviser on 10 November 2020. The 
mortgage advisor said that the application process could take time  potentially up to six 
weeks. But they also indicated that the new interest rate would be back dated to the point of 
the application and the difference in interest refunded.
An application was submitted, and a mortgage offer issued on 23 December 2020. As this 
was a re-mortgage, legal work needed to be completed. Miss A and Mr L didnt incur a 
charge for this but theyve said they had some issues communicating with the solicitors 
appointed by Barclays, which caused some additional delays. The re-mortgage was 
completed on 5 February 2021.
Miss A and Mr L then asked Barclays about backdating the interest rate theyd now taken. 
But Barclays said this wasnt something it would do for a full re-mortgage. Miss A and Mr L 
then complained to Barclays as they were unhappy that there had been delays in the 
application. They also felt it was unfair Barclays was declining to refund the additional 
interest theyd paid while their mortgage had been on its reversion rate  despite previously 
indicating it would.
Barclays said it couldnt find evidence it had said interest would be backdated but, in any 
event, as this was a re-mortgage, it wouldnt agree to do this. It did though offer £400 for the 
distress caused by the delays in the application, which it said was due to a lack of response 
from its underwriters and surveyors.
Miss A and Mr L asked our service to consider their complaint. One of our Investigators 
looked into matters. She felt Barclays had indicated in one of the conversations with Miss A 
and Mr L that the interest rate deal would be backdated, and a refund made. But this was an 
error. She didnt recommend that Barclays refund the interest  as she were satisfied this 
wasnt something that Barclays would usually do as part of its processes. But she felt it 
should pay an additional £100 for the upset caused when Miss A and Mr L became aware 
theyd been given incorrect information.
Miss A and Mr L did not agree with the Investigators opinion. They said as Barclays had 
said it would do something, they felt it should be required to do that and to refund the 
additional interest theyd paid.
I issued a provisional decision earlier this month explaining that I intended to uphold Miss A 
and Mr Ls complaint. Below are extracts from my provisional findings, explaining why I 
thought this.
Having listened to the recording of the conversation between Mr L and the mortgage advisor 
on 10 November 2020, Im satisfied that the mortgage advisor did say that the new interest 
rate product would be backdated to the point of the application being made and the 
difference in interest charged would be refunded. Barclays has said recently that the adviser 
said they werent sure of the process and would check  so hadnt confirmed a refund would 
be provided. But I dont agree. I think the advisor was clear that a refund would be made  
what they were uncertain of was how that would happen.
Barclays has said that where a simple product switch is made it would potentially look to 
back date a new interest rate. But where a full re-mortgage takes place, as was the case 
here due to Miss A and Mr L wanting an offset mortgage in place of what they already had, it 
wouldnt do this. Because a whole new mortgage was put in place. I think Barclays 
explanation is reasonable and I dont think what it has said about why it approaches these 
scenarios differently is unfair, given the extent of the changes to the agreements in the two 
different scenarios.
I am satisfied though that the advisor gave Mr L incorrect information. Miss A and Mr L say 
they think that Barclays should be required to backdate their interest rate because it 
incorrectly said it would. But I dont agree. While Barclays has given incorrect information, I 
dont think it would be fair to require it to do something it wouldnt otherwise have done  to 
make the incorrect statement true. So, I dont think a refund of interest should be given due 
to this error.I do acknowledge that finding out later that theyd been given incorrect information wouldve 
been upsetting for Miss A and Mr L. And I think Barclays should make a payment to address 
the upset caused by this. Our Investigator recommended that Barclays make a payment of 
£100 for the upset caused by this. And I think that is fair. While it wouldve been upsetting to 
hear this at the conclusion of the application, it didnt cause ongoing distress or 
disappointment during the application process itself. So, I think an award of £100 is 
appropriate.
But while I dont think Barclays needs to do more in respect of this error, I think it has made 
other mistakes during this application, which have caused delays.
Miss A and Mr L contacted Barclays on 10 August 2020 to discuss amending their mortgage. 
They were prompted to do this by a reminder letter Barclays sent on 5 August 2020 that their 
interest rate deal was ending. So, Im satisfied that was the motivation for their call.
During their conversations with Barclays on 10 August 2020 they said they thought their 
property had increased in value and wanted that to be taken into account. And that seems to 
have become the focus of their discussions initially. But Im satisfied that the underlying 
reason for contacting Barclays was to make new mortgage arrangements in advance of the 
interest rate deal ending.
Barclays provided Miss A and Mr L with an email address to send information to in order to 
appeal the current valuation. But when they tried to use this email address, their message 
was returned. So, they spoke to Barclays again on 10 August 2020 and the representative 
that they spoke to asked Miss A and Mr L to email them directly. They said theyd then 
forward the information to the relevant department and that an update should be received 
within 48 hours. And the representative said that Barclays would then get in touch with 
Miss A and Mr L with an update  either by providing confirmation the new valuation was 
accepted or by updating them as to why the appeal hadnt been accepted at that time.
Ive seen evidence that Miss A and Mr L did email the representative on 10 August 2020 and 
that this was received  Barclays has provided a copy of that email in their file. But no further 
action was taken by Barclays until 12 October 2020, when Miss A and Mr L chased for an 
update.
When Barclays did review the request for the valuation to be reconsidered, it asked Miss A 
and Mr L for additional information  which they had to obtain from a third party. And as a 
result, the review took from 12 October 2020 to 29 October 2020. Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that, if Barclays had dealt properly with the initial request to review the valuation, 
this review wouldnt have been completed, including Miss A and Mr L obtaining the relevant 
information, in a similar timeframe. Meaning theyd have had their query about the valuation 
answered by around 27 August 2020. And they couldve, and I think wouldve, then 
immediately begun their application for a new mortgage product - significantly sooner than 
they eventually did.
Based on this I think Barclays has made an error and delayed the application process by 
approximately two months. It was clear that Miss A and Mr L needed to email it with 
information, and it would then move things forward and contact them. But it didnt do that, 
even though the email was received. And there has been no explanation for this delay or 
Barclays failure to act.
Barclays has argued Miss A and Mr L couldve chased for an update sooner than they did. 
And in the conversation Mr L had with Barclays on 27 October 2020 he acknowledged as 
much. I agree that they couldve pursued matters sooner. But they were told by Barclays that 
it was dealing with their enquiry about the valuation and would contact them. So, I dont think it is fair to hold Miss A or Mr L entirely responsible for the delay. Particularly as they wouldnt 
have needed to chase sooner or at all, if Barclays hadnt initially made an error by failing to 
deal with their enquiry.
I also think Barclays made another error that caused a short delay to the application 
process. When Mr L spoke to Barclays on 27 October 2020, he said that he and Miss A were 
interested in an offset mortgage. An appointment was arranged with a mortgage adviser for 
6 November 2020. But it wasnt noted that they were interested in an offset mortgage  
which would mean a full re-mortgage was needed. This meant that the discussion with the 
mortgage adviser had to be rescheduled for 10 November 2020  causing a delay of four 
days.
Once the application was submitted, it needed to be reviewed by underwriters. And it was 
several weeks until the mortgage offer was issued. But, based on what Ive seen, I dont 
think the time taken was unreasonable.
Miss A and Mr L have said that they also encountered difficulties, after the mortgage offer 
was issued, completing relevant requirements for the solicitors involved. Theyve said that 
the link that they were provided to a government website wouldnt allow them to provide 
online signatures. Theyve said the only way they could communicate with the solicitors was 
through an online portal. And when they spoke to Barclays, it just referred them back to the 
solicitors.
The solicitors did act for Barclays during the re-mortgage. So were arguably acting as its 
agent  meaning it might be reasonably responsible for their actions. I understand though 
they also acted for Miss A and Mr L, by providing a free legal service so that all of the 
relevant requirements for the re-mortgage were met. So, the solicitors dont appear to have 
been acting solely for Barclays. And the alternative wouldve been for Miss A and Mr L to 
appoint their own solicitors, at an additional cost and potentially not saving any time.
In any event though, from what Miss A and Mr L have said, the issue seems to have been 
with the systems of a third party, the relevant government agency, rather than the solicitors. 
So, while I appreciate these further issues wouldve been frustrating, I dont think I can 
reasonably hold Barclays responsible for this or any additional delay this caused. As it isnt 
responsible for the systems used by third parties.
Overall, Barclays seems to have caused delays of just over two months. Without these 
delays, I think the application couldve been progressed and concluded a lot sooner than it 
was. The application started at the beginning of November 2020. And the new mortgage was 
put in place on 5 February 2021. Had Barclays responded as it shouldve to the valuation 
enquiry and not caused other delays, I think its fair to estimate that, the application wouldve 
begun at the end of August 2020 and the mortgage couldve been put in place for the start of 
December 2020.
So, Ive thought about what the fair way to put things right would be.
Barclays offered £400 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the delays. And I think 
that is fair in terms of the upset caused. But I think it also needs to address the cost of the 
delays to Miss A and Mr L
If Miss A and Mr Ls application had been started at the end of August 2020 rather than in 
November 2020  which I think it wouldve been but for Barclays delays  the like for like 
mortgage product available at the time wouldve had a marginally lower interest rate. Based 
on information Ive reviewed, they couldve applied for a rate of 1.44% above Bank of 
England base rate for two years, as opposed to the rate of 1.62% above Bank of England base rate for two years that they did take out (with all other aspects of the mortgage 
remaining the same). And, given their application was successful, and there seems to be no 
other difference to the mortgage products, I think theyd have been successful in applying for 
their new mortgage at this lower rate.
It appears that this lower rate was withdrawn at the end of October 2020 and replaced by the 
product Miss A and Mr L ended up taking. As Ive said I think it is likely that the application 
wouldve taken until the start of December 2020, even if it were not delayed. But I havent 
seen anything that suggests that they wouldnt have still been able to take this lower rate  
as long as their application was begun before the product was withdrawn.
So, with this in mind, it appears that Barclays errors and delays have caused Miss A and 
Mr L to incur interest at a higher rate than they otherwise wouldve done, for the duration of 
the interest rate deal. And Im currently of the view that Barclays needs to cover that loss.
In addition, Miss A and Mr Ls mortgage switched onto a reversion interest rate at the end of 
October 2020. And it remained on that rate until 5 February 2021. As Ive said, I think 
Barclays caused unnecessary delays to Miss A and Mr Ls enquiries and application. And 
without these the new rate couldve been in place by 1 December 2020. So I think itd be fair 
for Barclays to refund the difference between what Miss A and Mr L did pay in interest on 
their mortgage, and what they wouldve paid, if their new mortgage had been put in place on 
1 December 2020.
Responses to my provisional decision
I gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further information 
before I reached my final decision.
Miss A and Mr L said they thought my provisional decision was sufficient to resolve matters.
Barclays did not respond to my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything again, as neither party have provided me with any additional 
information to take into account, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. So, 
for the reasons explained above, I think Barclays caused delays to Miss A and Mr Ls 
mortgage application, resulting in them paying more interest than they would otherwise have 
done. So, I think Barclays needs to take action to address this, as well as the upset caused 
by its handling of the matter.
Putting things right
To put things right I think Barclays should;
Re-work Miss A and Mr Ls mortgage as if the lower interest rate deal (1.44% above 
Bank of England base rate for two years), that I think they wouldve obtained if 
Barclays hadnt delayed their application, had been applied from 5 February 2021 
and refund them any amounts theyve overpaid since.
Refund Miss A and Mr L the difference between the interest they did pay on their 
mortgage between 1 December 2020 and 5 February 2021 and what they wouldve paid if their new mortgage product (at the rate of 1.44% above Bank of England base 
rate that Im satisfied they wouldve obtained) had been put in place over that period.
Pay Miss A and Mr L £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused by its errors.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold Miss A and Mr Ls complaint.
To resolve matters I order Barclays Bank UK PLC to take the action set out in the Putting 
things right section of my decision, set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman