DRN-1418565
The complaint
Mrs B says funds she tried to send to her sons bank account were not received by him. And 
Mrs B is unhappy Santander UK Plc has been unable to retrieve the funds for her.
 
To resolve things Mrs B would like Santander to give her back the £32 she was trying to 
send her son.  
What happened
On Sunday 12 May 2019 Mrs B instructed Santander to send £32 to her sons account using 
the faster payment service. Mrs B made the request using her mobile. The faster payment 
was processed on 13 May 2019. 
Mrs B says the money never reached her sons account and so she called Santander to find 
out what had happened. Santander have been unable to find a recording of this call, but 
Mrs B refers to it in a later call with Santander on 15 May 2019. 
During the call on 15 May 2019, Mrs B explains a previous Santander staff member had 
given her the faster payment trace number to give to the other bank so they could find the 
money - but the receiving bank were unable to help. Mrs B says the previous Santander staff 
member said she should call back if she still didnt know where the funds were and 
Santander could look to reverse the payment.
 
The staff member Mrs B spoke to on 15 May 2019 explained if the payment details were 
correct then they wouldnt be able to recall the payment. After checking, the staff member 
did say they could try and recall the funds on a best endeavours basis, but this could take 
up to 20 working days and there was no guarantee that Mrs B would get the money back. 
Mrs B agreed to do this.
 
During this call the Santander staff member confirmed with Mrs B that the account details 
shed used for her son were correct. Mrs B explained shed never had problems before and 
regularly sent her son money in this way using his account details which were saved on her 
account. 
The receiving bank replied to Santanders best endeavours request and said the funds had 
been credited to an open and active account in the name of the intended person. So they 
didnt return any funds to Santander or directly to Mrs Bs account. 
Santander explained to Mrs B their records showed the faster payment had been processed 
correctly and that the funds must be somewhere with the receiving bank. So Santander 
didnt think theyd done anything wrong. 
Mrs B didnt agree and brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs B and concluded from all the available evidence 
that Santander hadnt done anything wrong on their part in terms of processing the 
transaction.
 
Mrs B didnt agree with the investigators conclusions, but didnt provide any further evidence 
or submissions other than to say she wished to take things further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The faster payment service is a way for a bank to quickly send money to another bank using 
the same faster payment service. Each bank then has a part to play in terms of completing a 
faster payment. To be clear, my review is to look at whether Santander has done anything 
wrong in the circumstances of this complaint and not to look at the actions of the other bank 
involved.  
In this case Santander have provided evidence to show they processed the payment and 
that this reached the receiving bank at 11.30am on 13 May 2019. 
 
The details used to send the funds also appear to be correct as they match one of the 
mandates Mrs B has set up on her account for Mr B, her son. And as Mrs B has said, this 
wasnt the first time she had sent money to her son in this way. So theres nothing to suggest 
Mrs B provided the wrong bank account details or that Santander used the wrong bank 
account details. 
Mrs B tried contacting the receiving bank to find out what had happened to the funds, but 
was told they couldnt help her. 
Given the account details used appeared to be correct and as the receiving bank had not 
helped Mrs B, I think it was reasonable for Santander to try a best endeavours request on 
Mrs Bs behalf. And having listened to the call recording from 15 May 2019, I think it was 
made clear to Mrs B that this could take up to 20 working days and there was no guarantee 
Santander would be able to get the funds back. 
As already described, the receiving bank responded to Santanders request to say the funds 
had reached an active account that was in the name of the intended recipient. So they did 
not return the funds. 
Taking everything into account, I cant see that Santander have treated Mrs B unfairly in the 
circumstances. The account details used by Santander were correct and in line with the 
mandate Mrs B already has set up on her account; Santanders internal records show the 
payment was sent by them and received by the receiving bank (the receiving bank has also 
confirmed they got the funds and allocated them to an account), and Santander made a 
reasonable attempt to get the funds back for Mrs B having explained to Mrs B retrieving the 
funds was not guaranteed. 
I understand this has been frustrating for Mrs B to sort out, but I cant see that Santander 
have done anything wrong in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman