DRN-4294029
The complaint
Mr M has complained about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Insurance Limiteds decision to 
withdraw a claim it initially accepted for an escape of water under a home and buildings 
insurance policy he held jointly with Mrs M. 
Mr M is being represented by O in his complaint. For ease Ill refer to Mr M as the 
complainant in my decision. 
What happened
In June 2021 Mr M reported damage to his kitchen which was caused by an escape of 
water. Admiral initially said it may decline the claim as Mr M said dry rot had been 
discovered. Admiral appointed a Loss Adjuster (LA) and the decision was made to accept 
the claim. 
Works began and Mr M and his family were moved into alternative accommodation (AA) as 
their home wasnt habitable while the works were being carried out. 
In June 2022 Admiral withdrew the claim and stopped paying for AA. This left Mr M and his 
family having to stay with friends and relatives. Mr M raised a complaint in June 2022 as he 
wanted an explanation as to why the claim had been withdrawn. 
In March 2023 Admiral responded to Mr Ms complaint. It apologised for the delay and 
accepted it couldnt find evidence it had informed Mr M of why it had withdrawn the claim. 
For its poor service and delays it paid Mr M £450 compensation. But it said its decision to 
withdraw the claim was correct as the policy excluded cover for damage caused by dry rot. 
In October 2022 Mr M asked us to look at his complaint. He has since paid for the remaining 
damage to be repaired and moved back home. 
Our Investigator asked Admiral for more information to be able to reach a view - as based on 
the limited information provided he found Admiral had unfairly declined the claim. It was 
aware there was dry rot from the outset - and there wasnt anything to show the dry rot 
wasnt linked to the escape of water which Admiral had accepted a claim for. The 
Investigator thought it unfair for Admiral to withdraw the claim for this reason several months 
later - and to remove assistance with AA and Mr M and his family with their home as 
unhabitable. 
The Investigator recommended Admiral reimburse Mr M for the costs he paid to have the 
repairs completed with interest at our recommended rate of 8% simple interest a year. He 
also recommended Admiral pay compensation of a further £500 to Mr M for the distress and 
inconvenience its decision, the impact. and the delay in providing an explanation as to why it 
reached this decision, had caused. 
Mr M accepted the Investigators recommendations. Admiral hasnt replied. So the case has 
been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ms policy with Admiral provides cover for specific insured events. Mr M made a 
claim for damage caused by an escape of water: a leak under the flooring of their kitchen. 
From what Mr M told us - and from Admirals notes - Admiral was made aware of dry rot 
following the discovery of the leak when Mr M first reported the damage. And Admiral 
considered declining the claim at this stage because their policy excludes cover for damage 
caused by dry rot. But Admiral appointed an LA who attended Mr Ms home and following 
their report, Admiral accepted the claim. 
We have limited information from Admiral around its decision in June 2022 to withdraw the 
claim and remove all assistance for Mr M. Our Investigator asked Admiral for substantive 
information and evidence to support its decision. But he didnt receive a reply. 
From the information we have, Admiral accepted that damage was caused by a leak from a 
waste pipe. If additional damage had been found at a later date to have attributed to dry rot, 
there isnt anything to show that the dry rot wasnt caused by the original escape of water. 
This is particularly relevant given the time lapse between the damage being reported and the 
discovery which led to withdrawing the claim almost a year later. 
If the reason for withdrawing the claim is because dry rot had been discovered outside of the 
damage caused by the escape of water, Admiral hasnt provided evidence to support this 
decision. 
So I havent seen enough evidence to show that Admirals decision to withdraw the claim in 
June 2022 was fair. I think the impact of reaching this decision was significant. And Admirals 
failure to show it gave an explanation of its decision to Mr M until March 2023 was 
unreasonable. Mr M says he was left unable to move back home as it wasnt habitable. This 
meant Mr M had to make alternative arrangements to live with friends and relatives for 
several months. In December 2022 Mr M says he paid for the remaining repairs to be 
completed. 
So I think a fair outcome is for Admiral to reimburse Mr M for the costs of the remaining 
repairs - subject to reasonable proof of payment with an itemised repair invoice. 
Admiral upheld Mr Ms complaint that it had caused avoidable delays and provided a poor 
service in its handling of the claim. It paid Mr M £450 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. I think it should pay Mr M a further £500 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by its decision to withdraw the claim and the impact this 
had, based on what Ive seen. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited to do the following:
Subject to proof of payment and an itemised repair invoice, reimburse Mr M for 
the remaining repair costs he paid as a result of Admirals withdrawal of the 
claim. 
Pay interest on the amount at a rate of 8% simple interest a year from the date 
Mr M paid to the date of reimbursement. 
Pay Mr M £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its decision - in addition to the £450 compensation already paid. 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mr M accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman