DRN-2836174
The complaint
Mrs D is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) declined to refund her for a hotel booking 
that couldnt be used. Mrs D is represented by her husband on this complaint who I will refer 
to as Mr D. 
What happened
Mr D booked a hotel stay in Amsterdam, using Mrs Ds credit card. The stay was due to take 
place between 28 and 31 May 2020 and the total cost was £1,727.85.
Following the UK governments advice against all but essential travel, Mr D contacted the 
hotel in March 2020 to say he likely wouldnt be able to travel and therefore enquired about 
receiving a refund. The hotel replied advising the booking was non-refundable and said that 
at that time, it was only offering the possibility to re-book non-refundable reservations where 
the arrival date was on or before 30 April 2020. The hotel advised Mr D to check back in a 
few weeks, to see if the situation had changed. 
In April 2020, Mrs D contacted HSBC and raised a dispute for the transaction to the hotel. In 
early May 2020, Mr D again contacted the hotel to ask for a refund. The hotel replied and 
said it had adjusted its policy for non-refundable bookings and would offer possible 
rebooking of any stay due to arrive up until 17 May 2020. The hotel confirmed it was open 
and able to accept guests. 
On 26 May 2020, Mr D contacted the hotel again. He explained that he understood it wasnt 
willing to provide a refund but asked if he had the option to rebook. The hotel confirmed the 
following day that it had now extended its rebooking policy for stays due to arrive up until 
31 May 2020.
On 27 May 2020, Mr D spoke to HSBC on Mrs Ds behalf as no update had been received 
after raising the dispute in April 2020. After discussing the details of the dispute, the advisor 
confirmed to Mr D that HSBC wouldnt be able to action a chargeback as the booking was 
non-refundable, the hotel hadnt cancelled the stay and it was still open. The advisor 
explained that she would refer the matter to the section 75 team, who would be in contact. 
The advisor explained no time frame could be given for when the section 75 team would 
respond. Mr D asked for a call back from a manager and the advisor said a call would be 
received within 24 hours. 
Mr D called HSBC again on 12 June 2020, as no call back was received. The details of the 
dispute were again discussed, and this advisor also said that no chargeback could be raised. 
The advisor explained that he would pass Mr D to an insurance team, to see if they could 
help further. The call however dropped out. 
A complaint was raised following this and HSBC replied on 29 June 2020. In this it repeated 
what its advisors had said about Mrs D not being eligible for a refund via the chargeback 
scheme. It explained that a case had been raised following the call on 27 May 2020, for a 
section 75 claim to be considered. However, this couldnt be progressed as the booking was 
non-refundable. HSBC credited Mrs Ds account with £50 as a gesture of goodwill towards 
call costs. 
As Mrs D remained unhappy, she referred the complaint to this service. Our investigator 
considered the complaint and concluded that HSBC hadnt acted incorrectly in declining to 
refund Mrs D. He said that any chargeback raised and robustly pursued wouldnt have been 
successful and that the relevant criteria for a section 75 claim to be pursued hadnt been 
met. He did acknowledge HSBC couldve been clearer in its communication, but that the £50 
it had already paid was sufficient compensation for these errors. 
Mr and Mrs D didnt agree and therefore the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC initially looked to see if it could assist Mrs D in retrieving a refund via the chargeback 
process. Chargeback is the process by which settlement disputes are resolved between card 
issuers and merchants, under the relevant card scheme. For Mrs Ds credit card the relevant 
card scheme is VISA.
 
A consumer is not entitled to chargeback by right. But where there are grounds to raise one 
and it has a reasonable prospect of success, it is good practice for one to be raised by the 
card issuer. Once a refund is requested by a consumer the card issuer will usually look at 
the card scheme rules to see if the nature of the dispute is covered under the list of possible 
chargeback reasons. If so, relevant evidence might be requested to back up the claim and 
the chargeback is raised. 
In Mrs Ds case, HSBC didnt believe that a chargeback had any chance of being successful, 
so didnt pursue it further. Ive therefore considered whether I agree with that position. 
Ive looked at the VISA chargeback rules which gives the full list of dispute reason codes that 
can be used to raise a chargeback. Having considered these reason codes, there are two 
that I believe couldve potentially been used by HSBC to initiate a chargeback. 
One of these is where merchandise/services havent been received. For this chargeback 
reason the rules state that the cardholder or an authorized person did not receive the 
merchandise or services because the merchant or prepaid partner was unwilling or unable to 
provide the merchandise or services. 
In this case the hotel was still able to provide the service and appears it was open for 
business. Its emails to Mr D show that it was in all likelihood open both during its discussions 
with him and at the time of his booking. Ive not been given anything that makes me think 
otherwise. 
 
Given this, any chargeback HSBC raised under the merchandise/services not received 
reason code would have likely been defended by the hotel on the basis the services were 
available. 
The other possible reason code that couldve been used is cancelled merchandise/services. 
Under this dispute reason, the rules firstly say the cardholder must have cancelled the 
services. Im not persuaded here that Mr or Mrs D ever cancelled the reservation. Its clear from the 
email exchanges with the hotel, that Mr D was trying to find out what options were available 
to him. But it doesnt appear he formally requested cancellation. In Mr Ds email of 26 May 
2020, two days before he was due to travel, he enquired whether he had the option to 
rebook.
 
In the hotels final email to Mr D on 27 May 2020, it confirms that if it doesnt hear from him 
the booking would be classed as a no show. So at that point, one day before travel, Im 
satisfied that the hotel still believed the booking was active and hadnt been cancelled. It 
doesnt appear that Mr D replied to this email.
 
Ive nevertheless thought about the position if the booking had been cancelled. The rules 
state that along with the cardholder cancelling the services, the merchant has to have not 
properly disclosed or did disclose but didnt apply a cancellation policy at the time of the 
transaction. It isnt in dispute that Mr Ds hotel reservation was booked on a non-refundable 
basis. The booking confirmation evidences this. The hotels current online booking screens 
also make it clear when a booking is non-refundable. I have no reason to doubt that these 
are the same screens Mr D wouldve seen when he made his reservation. 
The hotels terms and conditions explain that this type of booking will result in 100% of the 
booking price being due, in the event of cancellation. Therefore, I find that the hotel did 
disclose and correctly apply its cancellation policy and any chargeback raised under this 
reason code wouldve again likely been defended on the basis the cancellation policy had 
been disclosed at the time of the transaction and correctly applied.
Given the new and novel issues the global Covid-19 pandemic was creating for businesses, 
VISA created a best practice guide for managing disputes through Covid-19 and a dispute 
frequently asked questions document. Ive reviewed these to see if any provisions were 
made that may have entitled Mrs D to a refund.
 
Having done so, I dont believe there are. The frequently asked questions document 
provides a scenario that I feel mirrors that of Mr Ds. It says that where the cardholder 
purchased any services and now isnt able to use them due to government restrictions, the 
card issuer does not have a dispute right. It goes on to say that in this scenario the merchant 
is willing and able to provide the service, (as was the case for Mr Ds hotel), so the merchant 
is entitled to be paid. 
Taking everything into consideration, HSBC hasnt acted unreasonably in not attempting a 
chargeback. If it had tried under the possible reasons codes Ive mentioned above, I find that 
the chargeback wouldnt have had any reasonable grounds for success as it would in all 
likelihood have been defended by the hotel. 
 
Given this, Ive also considered the section 75 position for Mrs D and whether HSBC was 
right to not pursue a claim any further via this method for her. To explain, section 75 is part 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). It allows, in limited circumstances, someone buying 
goods and/or services on credit to claim for a breach of contract or a misrepresentation 
against their credit provider when there is a like claim against the supplier. I believe it was 
section 75 that Mr D was referring to when he was speaking to the advisor about credit card 
insurance during the calls to HSBC in May and June 2020. 
To have a valid claim under section 75, there are certain conditions that need to be met 
one of which is establishing a debtor-creditor-supplier relationship (DCS) between the 
parties.
Mrs Ds credit card was used to pay for the booking, and so she is the debtor. The creditor is 
HSBC and the hotel is the supplier. 
Mr D has confirmed the booking was for him and a group of friends. The booking 
confirmation from the hotel shows it was Mr D that it was providing services to and so I find 
he was the contracting party and not Mrs D.
This means the finance HSBC provided was used to fund a transaction between Mr D and 
the hotel and not Mrs D. So, the DCS relationship needed for a valid section 75 claim isnt 
present. HSBC hasnt therefore acted unfairly in not pursuing a claim further in this instance.
 
Lastly, I have considered how HSBC handled Mrs Ds dispute. This was first raised in 
April 2020, but HSBC didnt explain at that time what its position was. Mr and Mrs D had to 
call back again in May 2020, as they hadnt heard anything on the dispute and didnt know 
what was happening. I can understand why this was frustrating, especially given the date of 
the intended hotel reservation was fast approaching. Also following the call in May 2020, a 
promised call back from a manager wasnt received. This meant Mr and Mrs D had to again 
call back for an update in June 2020.
Ive taken into consideration the unprecedented time it was for banks and the operational 
challenges that were being faced, when considering whether HSBC should do more to put 
things right here.
 
I do find that HSBC couldve handled things better in this case and I acknowledge the impact 
this had on Mrs D. However taking everything into consideration, I feel the £50 its already 
paid is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I therefore wont be asking HSBC to do 
anything more in this case. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Paul Blower
Ombudsman