DRN-4105394
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd placed a fraud marker against his name.
What happened
As both parties are familiar with the circumstances of this complaint, Ive summarised them 
briefly below.
Mr G held a bank account with Monzo. In February 2021, Monzo received a report from a 
third-party bank letting it know that Mr Gs account had been in receipt of funds that were 
sent as a result of fraud.
Monzo reviewed Mr Gs account and requested that he provide proof of entitlement for both 
the fraudulent transaction and another inbound payment the same day for the same amount. 
Mr G did respond stating that the payments were for the sale of electrical goods, but failed to 
provide any evidence to support this.
Monzo took the decision to close Mr Gs account with immediate effect. It also loaded his 
details to Cifas: a fraud prevention database.
Mr G later realised the fraud marker had been recorded after his account with another bank 
closed. So, he contacted Monzo and complained as he wanted the marker removed. Monzo 
looked into Mr Gs complaint but didnt agree it had made an error.
Mr G remained unhappy with Monzos response, so he came to our service for an 
independent review. An Investigator considered the evidence provided by both parties but 
found that Monzo hadnt made an error. They concluded that Monzo had adhered the 
standards set out by Cifas to fairly load the marker.
Mr G disagreed with the Investigators assessment, so the matter has now been passed to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
One of the relevant considerations here are set out by Cifas: the fraud marker database 
controller. In its Handbookwhich members must adhere to when loading markersit 
sets out the burden of proof the member must meet. The relevant standards applicable to 
this complaint are:
That there are reasonable grounds to believe that a fraud or financial crime has 
been committed or attempted.
That the evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member 
[Monzo] could confidently report the conduct of the subject [Mr G] to the 
police.
These rules mean that Monzo must have more than mere suspicion when loading a marker 
against a persons name. It must have strong evidence to support that a financial crime has 
been committed or attempted and that the person to whom they are loading the marker 
against is likely to have had witting involvement.
Im satisfied when considering all the circumstances of this complaint that the first of the 
above two standards has been met. Monzo had received a fraud report from a third-party 
bank that provided sufficient detail on how its customer had been defrauded. Im unable to 
disclose the specific details of this fraud report, but Im satisfied it demonstrates reasonable 
grounds that a fraud had been committed.
Im also satisfied that Monzo has demonstrated it has adhered to the second of the two 
standards. Monzo followed Cifas guidance in asking Mr G to prove his entitlement to the 
funds that had entered his account. While Mr G did provide a reason for the payments, he 
had no evidence to support his testimony.
Our service has since provided Mr G with another opportunity to obtain evidence supporting 
his assertion that he received both payments from the sale of the same electrical goods, but 
Mr G has only provided two images: neither of which supports his case. The two images 
show no link to an account associated with Mr G, there are no communications with the 
buyers and, as Mr G states he delivered the items by hand, no proof of delivery.
I would like to assure Mr G that my findings above are not intended to accuse him of 
committing fraud or that he has misrepresented himself in any way. Im merely highlighting 
that Monzo has been able to demonstrate that it fulfilled the criteria required by Cifas to load 
the fraud marker against his name. And for these reasons, it hasnt made an error here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman