DRN-3568873
The complaint
Mr N has complained that Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited, trading as Positive 
Solutions, gave him incorrect advice about the retention of protected tax free cash (PTFC) 
before transferring his occupational pension scheme in order to access the tax free cash. 
This resulted in him losing his protected tax free cash entitlement.
The entity which provided Mr N with the advice was called Redwood Financial, but Ill refer in 
this decision to the company of which it was an appointed representative  Quilter.
What happened
Mr N had accrued pension benefits in his former employers defined contribution scheme, 
amounting to approximately £1.1m. He also had a pension plan with another provider valued 
at around £1.04m.
In January 2019, a fact find was completed by Mr Ns adviser at Quilter, and it was 
established that Mr N wished to release the maximum available pension commencement 
lump sum (tax free cash), citing concerns about possible changes in pension legislation.
Mr N had a PTFC entitlement of 26.77% with his defined contribution scheme, rather than 
the standard 25%. The adviser noted that, due to Mr Ns considerable other assets, he didnt 
want to draw an annuity from the scheme and that, at present, any transfer out would result 
in Mr N losing his PTFC entitlement.
However, the adviser also noted that a drawdown facility would shortly be in place later in 
2019, at which point he said Mr N could then withdraw his PTFC. 
The scheme administrator wrote to Mr N on 10 May 2019 saying that a new scheme had 
been set up to facilitate flexi drawdown, but it also confirmed that the PTFC would be lost 
through a transfer into that arrangement.
It seems, however, that the adviser nevertheless considered that the PTFC entitlement 
would persist and advised Mr N to proceed with the transfer.
In a further call between the adviser and the scheme administrator on 30 May 2019, the 
administrator clarified that the PTFC would be lost on transfer, but although the call note 
recorded that the adviser hadnt been aware of this, he said that this was the only way in 
which Mr N could access the tax free cash as he didnt want to receive an annuity.
On 5 June 2019, the administrator emailed Mr N to confirm that the transfer had completed. 
Mr N subsequently learned that he had lost his PTFC entitlement, and although some 
potential solutions were suggested to resolve this, they werent workable.
Mr N then complained to Quilter, saying that due to its error, he had lost the additional PTFC 
entitlement of £19,599, and that, as he could no longer rely on its advice, hed appointed 
another adviser at a cost of £11,000. He also said that his pension funds had been invested 
in cash for over eight months, with the associated loss of growth over that period.
In the meantime, the scheme administrator amended the rules to allow members to transfer 
their pension fund into a drawdown arrangement and also take PTFC. However, this wasnt 
retrospectively applied to Mr Ns transfer.
Quilter didnt uphold the complaint, however, saying the following in summary:
The scheme administrator had led its adviser to believe that the transfer would be an 
internal transfer and would allow Mr N to keep his PTFC entitlement. The adviser 
acted on this, but was unable to evidence that hed been given that information
It upheld Mr Ns complaint, but concluded that he hadnt been financially 
disadvantaged. It said this was because, on the basis that Mr Ns overall pension 
funds exceeded the fixed protection (FP14) in place, the PTFC would need to have 
been taken from the scheme first to ensure its retention. But Mr N had been adamant 
that he should take funds from his other pension plan before this. This would have 
resulted in a significant amount of Mr Ns tax free cash entitlement in any case being 
lost.
It also added that the only way Mr N could have taken the PTFC amount was by 
also buying an annuity, which Mr N didnt want to do.
It said it wasnt responsible for Mr Ns funds remaining in cash, as the adviser 
couldnt provide advice on buying or selling shares - and this had been explained 
in the suitability report.
Quilter also said that it wasnt prepared to reimburse any fees paid to Mr Ns new 
adviser, as instructing a new adviser was his own decision. Mr N would have been 
aware of the costs involved before proceeding, it said.
However, Quilter did propose to refund the ongoing advice charges that had been 
taken from Mr Ns other pension plan for the period 17 May 2019 to 15 November 
2019. A notional return would be added to this to reflect any missed investment growth 
on these charges. 
A further sum of £500 was suggested, to compensate for any trouble and upset 
caused. The total offer was £ 2,111.
Mr N was dissatisfied with the response, however, and referred his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators considered the matter, but said that he didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. 
In support of that position, the investigator said, in summary, that there was no dispute that 
incorrect advice had been given relating to the PTFC. But he concluded that, on the basis 
that Mr N was keen to access the tax free cash (given possible changes in legislation) and 
had no need for an annuity, he would have proceeded even if hed been aware that the 
PTFC entitlement would be lost.
He acknowledged that the loss of nearly £20,000 wasnt an insignificant sum, but he didnt 
think that Mr Ns standard of living  given other available assets  would have been 
impacted by this. But if a change in legislation had resulted in the removal of the tax free 
cash entitlement, this would have had a significant impact on Mr N.
In terms of the reimbursement of the fees paid to Mr Ns new adviser, the investigator noted 
Mr Ns comment that he had moved advisers due, in part, to his experience relating to the 
PTFC, but also as the adviser didnt offer a bespoke investment service. It was important to 
Mr N that his funds were professionally managed, the investigator said.But he said that the advisory function required before a subsequent move to a new 
proposition from the defined contribution scheme would in any case have incurred a cost to 
Mr N, whether it was provided by Quilter or by a new advising firm. It had been Mr Ns 
choice to switch to a new firm, but the investigator thought that he could instead have 
requested to be allocated a new adviser within Quilter. As such, he didnt think that the fees 
paid to the new adviser should be refunded.
As to the issue of the loss of investment growth, the investigator didnt think there had been 
a need for Mr N to have retained his pension funds in cash whilst discussions were ongoing 
about a resolution of the matter relating to the transfer and the loss of the PTFC. Although 
he understood that Mr N may have wanted his funds to remain liquid at the time, he 
considered that this was Mr Ns personal choice.
He also noted the refund of fees in respect of Mr Ns other pension plan, along with a 
notional gain on them, and the £500 payment in respect of the trouble and upset that the 
matter would have caused to Mr N. And he thought that this was appropriate in the 
circumstances.
Mr N disagreed, however, saying the following in summary:
There could be no dispute that the reason he didnt transfer to a different drawdown 
facility was the prospect of being able to transfer within his ex-employers arrangement 
and retain the PTFC.
He hadnt been aware of the 30 May 2019 phone call between the administrator and 
the adviser  he only found out that hed lost the PTFC entitlement later from the 
scheme administrator.
Hed received a letter from the scheme administrator in September 2019 confirming 
that his PTFC entitlement remained. This hadnt been taken into account.
When the adviser realised what had happened, he worked with the scheme 
administrator to change the scheme deed on the basis that previous advice it had 
receive on this had been incorrect. The deed had since been amended so that 
members could transfer and retain their PTFC, and it must be assumed that this would 
have applied to him as well.
With regard to his concerns about a change in legislation, this was before the spring 
budget in 2019, but once he learned that a transfer would be possible within the 
employers in house arrangements later that year, he decided to take the risk of not 
transferring to a different drawdown plan at that point. And he didnt transfer after this 
as he believed that the position was going to be put right.
As to the loss of growth on his pension funds whilst in cash, he said that it had been 
assumed that he would know how long it was going to take to resolve. After the error, 
hed assumed that it would be resolved in a few weeks, as was confirmed by the 
administrators letter stating his PTFC entitlement in September 2019. But he didnt 
actually receive cash from the scheme until mid-February 2020.
In respect of the new adviser fees, Mr N said that the whole matter had caused him 
many hours of work and stress, and the prospect of remaining with Quilter and 
appointing another adviser was unpalatable. He felt that, under the circumstances, he 
had no option other than to engage a new advisory firm.The investigator acknowledged Mr Ns points and replied, saying that he remained of the 
view that the adviser should have clarified the position with regard to the PTFC before the 
transfer. And it was clear that Mr N wouldnt have bought an annuity to otherwise secure it.
He also noted the change in the schemes position relating to the PTFC entitlement for 
members, but said that it had indicated that this change had occurred because of Mr Ns 
experience. He couldnt be certain that the change would have occurred but for the 
advisers challenge to the position - or that this challenge would have materialised but for 
the unfortunate position which emerged from his advice to Mr N.
The investigator added that, if Mr N thought that the scheme had reneged on an offer to pay 
the PTFC, this was something that he could raise with the Pensions Ombudsman.
He also wasnt persuaded to change his view on the issue of any lost fund growth, saying 
that Mr N could have mitigated his position at any point.
Mr N still disagreed, however, saying that it was disingenuous to conclude that the scheme 
would have changed the deed for all members excluding him, had his adviser not 
complained on his behalf. It was only through the complaint made by his adviser that the 
scheme realised that the previous advice theyd received on the matter was wrong, and it 
was a leap of faith to say that the scheme would have changed its mind by itself. This would 
only have arisen because of the pressure from Mr N and his adviser.
As agreement wasnt reached on the matter, it was referred to me for review.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint on 31 May 2022, in which I set out my 
reasons as to why I considered the complaint should be partially upheld. The following is 
taken directly from the provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id firstly echo the opinion seemingly expressed by all parties here, and including our 
investigator, in that an error was made by the adviser in conveying the impression that Mr N 
would still receive the PTFC if he transferred within the in house scheme arrangement.
This then leaves the position of loss to be considered, and whether this is mitigated by a 
conclusion as to what, on balance, Mr N is more likely than not to have done if hed been 
made aware that the transfer would result in the loss of the PTFC.
Ive firstly noted the point made by the business that Mr N was adamant that he should take 
the tax free cash from his other pension plan, even though this had consequences for the 
PTFC he could take. But whilst its response to the complaint may have made it clear that, by 
not taking the PTFC first, he would be forfeiting any enhancement beyond the usual tax free 
cash position as dictated by the lifetime allowance, I dont think the available evidence  
namely the suitability report - supports the position that this was made clear to Mr N at the 
time.
And so Im not persuaded by the argument that Mr N was determined to take the tax free 
cash first from his other pension plan in the knowledge of the effect that this would have on 
his overall tax free cash entitlement.
I also dont think that it could be reasonably concluded that Mr N had a great sense of 
urgency to take the maximum tax free cash from either of his pension plans in case of a change in legislation. I appreciate that this may have been a concern for Mr N, given the 
amounts at stake, but I do think, as Mr N suggests, that his own ability to manage that 
concern is borne out by his decision to wait until the scheme would (as it seemed to the 
adviser at least) establish an arrangement later in the year to accommodate a transfer and 
the payment of the full PTFC. 
So I dont think that its clear cut as to what Mr N would have done, had he known that the 
PTFC would not be paid after a transfer. Ive therefore carefully considered the facts of the 
case to determine, on balance, what I think is more likely than not have been the case.
Mr Ns adviser was clearly of the view, in the run up to the transfer, that Mr N would still 
benefit from the PTFC once his funds had been transferred in house. This was the very 
reason as to why Mr N was advised to wait until the new recipient in-house scheme had 
been established before transferring.
And so an expectation of a transfer and the PTFC had been created, irrespective of how 
legitimate that expectation may have been. On that particular point, and whilst I appreciate 
that the information which led him to believe that this would be the case cannot be produced, 
I think its unlikely that the adviser simply imagined this scenario. 
But if, prior to the transfer occurring, it had been made known to Mr N that this was no longer 
the case, I think its more likely than not that both he - and then his adviser - would have 
challenged this. And I think Mr N would have opted to place the transfer on hold until the 
outcome of this challenge was known.
Mr Ns adviser was seemingly quite effective, after the transfer, in putting the case to the 
scheme administrator/trustees that it would be in all members best interests to allow them to 
take PTFC and then transfer the remainder to a drawdown arrangement. The vociferousness 
with which this occurred on behalf of Mr Ns adviser may well have been influenced by the 
complaint which was being brought by Mr N, but I think its fair to assume that he might have 
acted in a similarly compelling manner even if a complaint wasnt ongoing. And I dont think 
Quilter would suggest that there might have been any less effort placed in acting on a 
clients best interests simply because it wasnt in the process of defending a complaint.
So I think that both Mr N and his adviser would have robustly challenged the decision 
previously made by the scheme. And on the basis that it then changed its stance without, as 
far as I can tell, too much resistance, I think its more likely than not that it would have also 
appreciated the benefit to all members on the basis of what Mr N was trying to achieve, 
rather than on the back of what had already happened. 
I think its also worth noting in support of the position that the scheme wouldnt only have 
acted in this way in response to a complaint situation that there was no complaint about the 
scheme, nor was it seemingly considering any concessionary payment to Mr N before 
changing the deed. It seemingly decided to allow the withdrawal of PTFC and then 
drawdown on the basis that this was fair to its valued members.
And if it decided to allow the withdrawal of PTFC and a transfer into drawdown, this would in 
all likelihood have applied to Mr N as with all other members. Theres no reasonably 
conceivable circumstance in which Mr N might have been excluded from that provision, 
especially if he and his adviser had been the genesis of the endeavour in the first place.
Therefore, whilst I agree with the investigators point that the change in the scheme 
provisions to allow PTFC to be taken and then for members to move into drawdown came 
about after Mr Ns experience with the transfer, I dont think this was the only way in which 
such a change could or would have been effected.And so Im currently minded to conclude that Mr N would have followed just such a course of 
action, and would have paused the transfer whilst further efforts were made to persuade the 
scheme that a change of stance was required. And given my view that this would have 
resulted in a similar change in the scheme rules, I think Mr N would then have transferred 
and capitalised on the higher PTFC amount.
I do, however, have a similar view to that expressed by the investigator on the lack of 
investment exposure of Mr Ns pension funds to financial markets for the months following 
the transfer. I take Mr Ns point about not knowing how long it might take to resolve the 
matter, and not wishing to face the cost of what might be short term investment, but I think 
when it transpired that this wasnt going to be quickly resolved, then he could have taken 
matters into his own hands. 
And if the scheme administrators letter of September 2019 offered him false comfort as to 
the likely retention of the PTFC and therefore stayed his hand, as with the investigator, this 
is something he would need to raise with them  and ultimately if dissatisfied with its 
response, refer to the Pensions Ombudsman.
But Mr N will also note my specific reference to investment exposure used above, rather 
than investment growth. And whilst this doesnt influence my overall view on the matter of 
whether any investment losses should be met by Quilter, Id ask Mr N to carefully consider 
the relatively flat performance, certainly of the FTSE 100, from the beginning of June 2019 to 
the end of February 2020 and the significant and sudden declines in financial markets from 
late February 2020 onwards. Its unclear to me exactly when Mr N reinvested his pension 
funds, but if he still had a cash holding at that point this might have been viewed with some 
considerable envy by those still invested in, for example, equities at that time. 
Im also broadly of the same view as the investigator in terms of the issue of the fees. I 
accept that Mr N may have been distinctly disillusioned by what had happened, and that he 
had no choice but to change his firm of advisers, but this was nevertheless his choice. It 
seems more likely than not that additional fees would have been required by Quilter for the 
provision of transfer advice, and I also note that Mr N has said he switched to obtain an 
investment management service which Quilter couldnt provide. And so it might well have 
been the case that Mr N needed to seek a new advisory busines in any case. 
But I have in any case noted the refund offered, along with the £500 payment in respect of 
the stress and trouble caused to Mr N by the matter, which I accept will have been not 
insignificant. And I currently think that this is probably about right and in line with other types 
of award this service might make in similar circumstances.
Putting things right
As Ive set out above, I think that, had Mr N been told that the PTFC wouldnt apply upon the 
transfer of his pension funds, he would have paused the transfer until further enquiries were 
made in this regard. And that once the matter had been pursued by both him and his 
adviser, the scheme would have reached the same conclusion as it ultimately did  in the 
interests of fairness to its members rather than because of a complaint from Mr N.
And so to put Mr N in a position as close to that he would otherwise have been, my current 
view is that Quilter should pay Mr N the difference between the tax free cash he received 
and the PTFC he would have received had the transfer been made, say, two weeks 
(providing a ten working day turnaround) after the decision was made to allow members to 
withdraw PTFC and then transfer into drawdown.
Mr N didnt in fact receive his tax free cash until mid-February 2020, due I understand, to the ongoing attempts at resolution of the matter. Although if there were other reasons for this 
which need to factored in, Id be grateful to be informed of these.
As Mr N would in all likelihood have received his PTFC sooner than he received his normal 
25% tax free cash, interest should be added on the entire PTFC amount he would have 
received at the rate of 8% simple pa from the date that it would have been paid (see above) 
up to the date that Mr N actually received the normal 25% tax free cash amount. 
Quilter should also apply interest at the same rate to the difference in the two tax free cash 
amounts from the date that the PTFC would have been paid up to the date of settlement.
Neither party has submitted further comments in response to my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My view on this matter remains the same, for the same reasons as set out in the provisional 
decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited, 
trading as Positive Solutions, should pay any loss to Mr N as directed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman