DRN-1851558
The complaint
D, a business, complains that Revolut Ltd declined an application for a business account 
and would not explain why.
What happened
D applied for an account and as it was unsuccessful asked Revolut for the reasons why. D 
was not satisfied with the answer given the financial standing of its owner and the nature of 
its business activity. It said that Revolut had not acted fairly.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that Revolut 
could decide who it wanted to do business with. Revolut had said it followed its normal 
checks and applied its commercial judgement. It did not have to give any further explanation 
and she did not see it had acted unfairly.
D did not agree. It said that Revolut should not decline an application without a proper 
reason. It must treat new and existing customers fairly and any differentiation needs to be 
objectively justified as set out in established case law. Although there are some criteria given 
in the terms and conditions D meets all those and in practice Revolut has already accepted 
applications in its area of business. It claimed discrimination between businesses.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We provide informal dispute resolution and we are not a court. If D wants to pursue a legal 
case against Revolut then it is free to do so if it does not accept my decision and subject to 
any relevant time limits.
In the final response to D about the complaint Revolut said that apart from its published 
eligibility criteria  there are many other internal reviews and checks run by the on-
boarding team. I am afraid, due to internal policies, we won't be able to provide detailed 
information regarding why the application was declined.
Im satisfied that Revolut fairly considered Ds application and applied its normal review 
processes without any error. I think its reasonable for it to keep the nature of its checks 
confidential and not to disclose these to D. I do not see that this has created any element of 
unfairness. And so, I know the owner of D will be disappointed when I say that I wont be 
asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman