DRN-3914720
The complaint
Mr W had a motor insurance policy with West Bay Insurance Plc. He says it misled his son 
during a call, which meant Mr W was also misled and later faced financial detriment.
What happened
Mr Ws policy didnt cover Mr W2, and he was driving Mr Ws car under the driving other 
cars (DOC) cover on his own policy when an accident happened. He contacted garage S 
to collect the car, but it said it needed a claim number first, so Mr W2 called West Bay. 
Mr W2 told the advisor he wasnt on the policy, so he wasnt calling to make a claim. He 
says she told him that the car was covered by West Bay (as was the other car involved in 
the accident) so West Bay would handle both claims. Mr W2 says she then gave him a claim 
number, which he gave to garage S. It collected the car and assessed the damage. In fact, 
the number Mr W2 had given it was the telephone number for the claims team. Later, West 
Bay wouldnt cover any costs, so Mr W had to pay a total of £753 to the garage and to have 
the car delivered home. He wants a full refund from West Bay.
West Bay said that due to a technical fault, the call between Mr W2 and the advisor wasnt 
recorded. But it said the notes she made at the time show that he didnt make a claim during 
it, as he wasnt covered by the policy. So it didnt think it was liable for Mr Ws costs. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ws complaint and thought it was unlikely that Mr W2 
was told by West Bay that the damage to Mr Ws car would be covered. He said the notes 
recorded at the time said the reason for a claim not being made during the call was due to 
there being no cover. The investigator didnt think West Bay was liable for any costs, but he 
thought it had provided poor service by wrongly writing to Mrs W, rather than to Mr W,  as 
the policy holder. He said West Bay should pay Mr W £100 compensation for that. 
West Bay accepted the investigators view. Mr W said the advisor had convinced Mr W2 that 
the car was covered (regardless of the fact that Mr W2 wasnt insured on the policy) as she 
said both cars were insured by West Bay. He pointed out that part of his complaint was that 
West Bay hadnt investigated the complaint fully, as there was no call recording.  As the 
investigator didnt change his view, the complaint was passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr W2 wasnt insured by the policy that covered Mr Ws car, he and Mr W knew that the 
car wouldnt be covered should there be any damage to it when Mr W2 was driving it. The 
DOC cover in Mr W2s policy only covered any third-party damage that might occur in an 
accident. So Mr W took the risk that if he allowed Mr W2 to drive his car, and Mr W2 had an 
accident, then Mr W would be left to pay any costs arising from any damage to it. 
I dont think its clear why Mr W2 called West Bay for a claim number. I think most 
consumers would have called their own insurer for advice. In this case, Mr W2 had third 
party cover, and there was damage to a third partys car. So I think that was the obvious 
thing to do. Or he could have called Mr W. Regardless of what was in Mr W2s mind at the 
time, he knew he wasnt insured under the policy with West Bay. As he knew he wasnt able 
to make a claim on the policy, I cant see why he thought hed get a claim number by calling 
West Bay. And Mr W2s statement shows that he wasnt in any doubt about not being able to 
make a claim. 
The best evidence about what happened next would have been in the call recording 
between Mr W2 and West Bay. In the absence of that, the relevant evidence is the notes 
recorded by the advisor and the statement provided by Mr W2 several months later. 
I dont think West Bay can be said not to have investigated the complaint properly just 
because the call recording isnt available. It isnt particularly unusual for calls meant to be 
recorded by insurers not to be recorded. West Bay searched for the recording and has 
shown that it then found a technical problem caused the failure to record. So it looked at the 
other available evidence. I cant see what else it could have done. Mr W seems to think that 
had the recording been available, it would have shown that the advisor was at fault. But it 
could also have shown that Mr W2 simply misunderstood what was said.  
West Bays notes were made by the advisor at the time of the call. She recorded that the 
answer Mr W2 gave to the question Are you claiming for damage to your own vehicle as a 
result on the incident? was No and that the reason given for that was the level of cover / 
DOC. So there was no misunderstanding between the parties on these points  Mr W2 
wasnt calling to make a claim because he knew he couldnt do so.   
Mr W says the point is that - regardless of the fact that Mr W2 knew he wasnt able to make 
a claim - the advisor convinced him the car was covered. But that makes no sense in the 
circumstances here. I think its likely she told him that both cars were insured by West Bay, 
which would have been an accurate statement, and she then asked about the circumstances 
of the accident. West Bay says that was to help to establish whether the third party was at 
fault for the accident. I think that was reasonable. 
I dont think theres any evidence to show that the advisor told Mr W2 the damage to Mr Ws 
car would be covered, as the car was insured by West Bay. The car was only covered when 
a driver named on the policy was driving it. And I think its very unlikely shed have said the 
damage was covered (which would involve a claim being made on the policy) whilst 
recording that a claim hadnt been made. Mr W2 said in his statement he thought it was odd 
that the advisor seemed to be saying West Bay would deal with both claims. But it appears 
that he didnt query it. And Mr W says there was a language difficulty between Mr W2 and 
the advisor. If so, it would have been even more vital for Mr W2 to check his understanding  
and to advise Mr W what he thought had been said, so he could check too. 
I think its reasonable to assume that Mr W2 would have been at least moderately affected 
by the accident, given that his car skidded, hit another vehicle and then tipped over. Many 
consumers are greatly affected by such incidents for a considerable period of time. Mr W2 
said in his statement that his recollection was that he was ..somewhat in shock. at the 
time he called West Bay. That may explain why he gave the telephone number hed used to 
contact West Bay to garage S as a claim number, despite not having made a claim. Theres 
nothing to show that the advisor gave him that number, or said it was a claim number, and 
there would have been no reason for her to have done so. I can only base my opinion on the available evidence and on what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened. I think its likely that Mr W2, probably in a state of shock - and upset 
by the accident, misunderstood the advisor and became confused. Theres certainly nothing 
to show that he was misled, so I dont think West Bay can be held accountable for Mr Ws 
costs. West Bay has agreed to pay £100 for distress and inconvenience, given its error in 
writing to Mrs W. I think thats reasonable, so Im not going to require it to pay more. 
 
I know Mr W will be disappointed with my decision, but as I dont think hes shown that West 
Bay acted unreasonably, I cant uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman