DRN-3639031
The complaint
Mr W complains that since the migration of his account  from a previous provider to ITI 
Capital Limited (ITI)  hes been unable to access his account, withdraw funds and/or 
manage his holdings.
Due to the ongoing account access difficulties, Mr W requested to transfer his account away 
from ITI. He says this process was delayed and is still incomplete  his RM2 stock is still with 
ITI, and his account remains open with cash, dividends, and holdings outstanding.  
Mr W would like compensation for the financial loss and the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
What happened
Mr W initially held an account with a different provider. In August 2019, following intervention 
from the industry regulator the Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA), the provider went 
into administration. 
In June 2020 ITI eventually took over the previous providers client books, and Mr Cs assets 
were transferred over. I understand that customers were generally told/led to believe that 
accounts would be up and running by July 2020, but this has been far from the case. 
ITI upheld the complaint and initially offered Mr W £60 compensation. It then increased its 
offer to £300 as full and final settlement of the complaint.   
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
She wasnt satisfied that the monetary offer alone was reasonable, because Mr Ws 
account was still open and contained cash, dividend payments, and holdings that 
were yet to be transferred/dealt with. 
The following were key points:
oA letter from ITI shows that as of 5 August 2019, Mr W held £48.61 in cash 
and 10 holdings. 
oITI wrote to Mr W about his outstanding assets in 2022. Upon Mr Ws request, 
it provided a statement for the period between 1 June 2020 and 20 May 2022, 
but its unclear whether or not all the cash was transferred to the new 
provider.  
oIn June 2020 Mr Ws holdings were transferred to ITI. In late November 2020, 
most of his holdings were transferred to the new provider, except for the RM2 
holdings. 
oThe statement also showed that Mr W received further shares on his Banco 
Santander holdings in December 2020, but these were removed from Crest in 
mid-January 2020 and Mr W is yet to receive these shares, along with some 
cash dividends. 
oMr W also believes that hes due some cash dividends and shares for Banco 
Santander holdings from March 2021, September 2021, and April 2022 which 
hes not yet received.    
oAn email from ITI dated 22 April 2022 confirmed that Mr W had some 
holdings left in his account. ITI asked if Mr W would agree to have EUR 1.95 
converted to GBP, which he confirmed, but is yet to receive the funds. 
Shes not satisfied that Mr Ws cash, dividends and holdings have been fully 
transferred to his new provider. So, in order to resolve this complaint ITI should do 
the following:
oProvide a statement detailing what dividends have been received in his 
account since 26 November 2020.
oConfirm what Mr W can do with his RM2 holdings if they cant be transferred 
to his new broker. 
oTransfer all of Mr Ws outstanding holdings to his new broker, within 28 days, 
in order to close his account with ITI. 
oReconsider compensation amount for distress and inconvenience.  
oComplete the steps required to close Mr Ws account fully. 
ITI hasnt replied or provided any further points for consideration. Because of this, the matter 
has been referred for an ombudsmans decision.  
Mr W replied and made the following observations:
He checked his new provider account, to which ITI shouldve transferred the 
outstanding 29 Banco Santander shares and cash holdings of around £3  following 
conversion from Euros  and it still hasnt carried out the transfer. 
The transfer instructions have been with ITI for over two years now, and the 
outstanding shares still havent been transferred. 
The RM2 holdings are also outstanding and he doesnt have access to these.  
He still doesnt have a statement showing the dividends ITI have received.  
In April 2022 ITI notified him that he had outstanding holdings. Despite authorising 
their transfer hes not seen anything. 
He remains a financial prisoner of the company and cant escape.  Telephones calls 
are unanswered, and letters and emails are ignored. 
He hopes that our service can punish the business for its deceit and complete refusal 
to release his shares with a punitive fine. 
Recently he was notified that ITI is offboarding all its UK customers and ceasing 
trade in the UK, and that by 30 September 2020 all accounts will be closed unless a 
withdrawal or transfer has been requested.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion, for much the same reasons. Im 
going to uphold this complaint. 
Because ITI upheld the compliant, the key issue for me to consider is redress, and whether 
or not what the business offered is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think ITI should pay Mr W £350 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the delays, lack of access to his 
accounts and poor communication. In the circumstances I dont think its necessary for me to issue a provisional decision just 
because Ive increased the redress payment by £50 to mark the ongoing delays and distress 
and inconvenience caused. Im aware that Mr W has, out of apparent desperation, also 
complained to the FCA and Action Fraud, and has mentioned that he feels like a prisoner. 
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mr Ws strength of feeling about this matter. Hes provided submissions to support 
the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope that he wont take 
the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much 
detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr W, and ITI, and reach what I think is an independent, fair and 
reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the available information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened. Despite what Mr W wants, Its not for 
me to punish a business for any wrongdoing, thats the role of the industry regulator, the 
FCA. So, in the circumstances I cant issue a financial penalty against ITI as its not within 
my powers. 
Based on what Mr W says, it seems to me (in the main) he agrees with the investigators 
view, and the award for appropriate compensation for distress and inconvenience caused. 
But because the business hasnt materially responded to the investigators view, Im obliged 
to consider this complaint.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr W says, I cant blame ITI for 
the entire delays that hes experienced. In other words, on the face of the evidence, and on 
balance, Im unable to safely conclude that ITI is solely responsible for the delays 
experienced, although I think it probably is responsible for the greater part of these. 
Im conscious that ITI couldnt act without the relevant information from other parties and 
therefore initially it could only go so far with the transfer request. Nevertheless, I dont think it 
managed Mr Ws expectations as well as it couldve done or provided the level of service 
that he could expect from ITI, including accurate and up to date information about what was 
going on.
Its not entirely clear the size of the books that ITI took over from the previous provider that 
went into administration. But its likely that the new additional accounts and investments will 
have greatly affected ITIs capacity to deal with the additional customers and increased 
requests. Im aware that Mr W was far from the only customer seeking to transfer assets.  
Based on what he says, it seems that in August 2020 he probably contacted the transferee 
and requested a transfer of his assets. At or around the same time, he contacted ITI to notify 
it of his instructions to transfer. Despite several emails to ITI in August 2020, the transfer 
wasnt initiated and/or completed until November 2020  when most of the holdings were 
transferred to his new provider, except for the RM2 holdings. 
Notwithstanding the above, the transfer remains incomplete, with cash, shares in Banco 
Santander, and RM2 holdings remaining outstanding. Despite ITI confirming, as recently as 
May 2022, that it would cash Euros to UK sterling and transfer outstanding assets to the new 
provider, nothing has been done. In the circumstances, I think ITI should pay Mr W compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. Im satisfied that he suffered destress and inconvenience during the 
entire process, and chasing ITI for answers, for which Ive said £350 compensation is 
broadly fair and reasonable. In other words, Im satisfied that the compensation broadly 
reflects the time and effort put in by Mr W to try and resolve the issues. 
I also think that ITI should transfer all remaining outstanding cash, dividends, and holdings 
immediately or as soon as practicable, notwithstanding its decision to cease all business in 
the UK  including all Banco Santander holdings, and RM2 (if its possible). 
In any case, it should consult Mr W on what his options are regarding the RM2 shares. If the 
fund has been suspended then its unlikely Mr W will be able to trade these shares, but he 
might be able to encash the value of his shares, if he (or ITI) is able to find a willing buyer.  
ITI should also provide Mr W with a clear and up to date statement detailing the cash, 
dividends and shares received since November 2020, after most of his holdings were 
transferred to the new provider.  
Once all the outstanding matters listed above have been dealt with, I think ITI should close 
Mr Ws account in line with his wishes, which it looks like it plans to do in any case. Im 
mindful that Mr W is looking forward to leaving ITI and will do anything to speed along this 
process. 
I appreciate Mr W says that ITI lied to him/deceived him about aspects of the transfer, but 
Im unable to safely say that this was the case, or that he was deliberately misled by ITI. 
Evidently there was miscommunication between ITI and Mr W, and possibly the transferee, 
which wasnt helped by the delays. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr Ws frustration in this matter, Im going to ask ITI to pay him £350 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.  
Putting things right
By way of redress ITI Capital Limited should pay Mr W £350 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused.
 ITI Capital Limited should also:
Transfer all outstanding cash, dividend payments and holdings immediately to Mr 
Ws new broker/broker of choice.  
Provide a clear statement of all cash, dividends and shares received by ITI on behalf 
of Mr W since November 2020, to date.  
Consult Mr W on the possible options he has regarding the RM2 shares, and 
whatever option Mr W chooses, facilitate this as far as is able. 
Subject to the above points, close Mr Ws account. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman