Complaint
Mr C says Stagemount Limited trading at the time as Quidmarket irresponsibly lent to him.    
Background
This complaint is about five loans Quidmarket provided to Mr C between February 2016 and 
March 2018. Mr Cs borrowing history is set out on the table below as follows:
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments AmountHighest 
Repaym
ent 
Amount Deferrals
106/02/2016 23/02/2016 1 £200.00 £227.20
229/02/2016 22/04/2016 4 £350.00 £141.13
326/07/2016 24/11/2016 3 £200.00 £100.89 1
405/01/2018 23/03/2018 3 £200.00 £93.45
526/03/2018 24/08/2018 5 £200.00 £72.47
There was a gap in lending of around 13 months between Mr C repaying loan 3 and taking 
out loan 4 - this constitutes two separate chains of lending.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Cs complaint and thought the loans from loan 3 onwards 
shouldn't have been given. He said the information Quidmarket gathered showed Mr C was 
having problems managing his money. 
Quidmarket disagreed with this view. It said Mr C had evidenced no difficulty in repaying his 
first two loans, his most recent default was seven months prior to loan 1 and Mr C was still 
employed by the same company. It also said it received a copy of his payslip. It told us that 
loan 3 was significantly less than the previous instalment loan which Mr C had repaid 3 
months earlier. 
Quidmarket also noted that Mr C had four other short-term loans with other providers, but it 
argued that even taking these into consideration Mr C had enough disposable income. It 
DRN-1467335also said that loans 4 and 5 were taken out 13 months later and therefore formed a separate 
lending chain.
Mr C said that Quidmarket shouldn't have given him the loans from 3 onwards without doing 
further checks. If it had done some more checks he wouldn't have been approved for a loan 
- at that time he had 4 or 5 other loans and was in a lot of debt.
As the parties aren't in agreement the complaint was passed to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Quidmarket needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Quidmarket should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
 
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Quidmarket was required to establish 
whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint. Having done that, my decision is that 
loans 3-5 shouldn't have been provided.
There appears to be no ongoing dispute about loans 1 and 2 so I have not considered them 
in this decision but I have kept them in mind when thinking about Mr Cs overall lending 
relationship. Ive looked to see whether loans 3 onwards should have been provided to Mr C.
Quidmarket has sent a copy of Mr Cs application form when he took out his third loan. Mr C 
told Quidmarket his income was £1,450 and he listed his outgoings as £280 for other credit 
commitments, a monthly mortgage/rent repayment of £250, utilities as £100 and other 
monthly outgoings as £80. This left a disposable income of £740. Quidmarket confirmed Mr 
Cs employment status. 
Quidmarket also carried out a credit reference check which confirmed Mr C had various 
other outstanding commitments. Mr C had at least four other unsecured loans, one of which 
was due to be repaid before the instalment repayment on this loan was due. Quidmarkets 
underwriters noted that the sums to be repaid were higher than those declared by Mr C and 
therefore it adjusted his disposable income to £464. Based on this it said the loan 
wasn't unsustainable and was affordable for Mr C.
Ive also looked carefully through the credit report. It seems Mr C had opened 18 accounts in 
the last six months  an average of three each month. I can see that Mr C had regular credit 
repayments of £246 with another provider starting on 25 June 2016 (a month before taking 
loan 3) for a month. Another regular repayment for £71 weekly and other monthly 
commitments of £250 and £111. Mr C had also settled some other accounts of short-term 
credit not long before taking loan 3.
Although one of the unsecured loans was due to be repaid in the same month it still should 
have been taken into account when Quidmarket looked at the amount Mr C was declaring as 
his disposable income as it still should have been a factor in deciding about whether Mr Cs 
repayments were manageable.
Quidmarket says that it had adjusted the figures Mr C provided to give a more accurate 
picture of Mr Cs finances and as a result of its checks it says that loan 3 appeared to be 
affordable. But Quidmarket also need to take steps to make sure the loan was sustainable 
too. I think the report Quidmarket saw ought to have alerted it to the fact Mr C had a likely 
ongoing need for credit, reflected in the fact that Mr C had on average opened three new 
credit accounts per month for at least the last six months. So I agree with our adjudicator 
that loan 3 should not have been provided. I dont think this loan was sustainable and I think 
based on its own checks, Quidmarket should have noted Mr C was likely having problems 
managing his money. 
Mr C took out loan 4 around 13 months after he had repaid loan 3. I think this constituted a 
new chain of lending. But even after a year away from borrowing from Quidmarket, it 
couldn't ignore the information it had collected about Mr C. 
I have looked to see what Quidmarket saw from its own checks it carried out. This time Mr C 
told Quidmarket that he had a disposable income of £1,480. He said his outgoings were 
£180 for his credit commitments, £200 for his monthly rent payment, £150 for monthly utilities and £210 for other outgoings. Based on what Mr C said, it appeared his disposable 
income was £740. Quidmarket looks like it verified Mr Cs income. 
The credit check for loan 4 showed he had a total of £2,489 in loans and instalment credit 
and Mr C had opened 11 accounts in the last 6 months, so an average of nearly two per 
month. Again, the credit check revealed there were four other unsecured loans. Based on 
what it saw, Quidmarket adjusted Mr Cs disposable income to £452. As I said above, 
Quidmarket needed to make sure the loan was sustainable as well as affordable. 
If Mr C had to return for more money or had to go elsewhere to repay his loan, then that 
wasnt sustainable. It looks to me like Mr C was having problems managing his money and 
the credit checks carried out indicated in my view that Mr C was likely having longer term 
money management problems. So, I dont think based on the information it saw that loan 4 
was likely sustainably affordable over the period it gave Mr C the loan for. 
When it provided loan 5, Mr C had repaid loan 4 only three days prior to requesting a further 
loan from Quidmarket and it was for the same amount. Mr C declared his income to be 
£1,480. His monthly credit commitment was £250, rent payment £200, his monthly 
utilities were at that time £180 and other monthly commitments were £100. Quidmarket 
verified his income. Taking into account what Mr C had said this left him with a disposable 
income of £750. Again because of what Quidmarket saw on its own credit checks it adjusted 
Mr Cs declared disposable income to £277.
The credit report Quidmarket saw when Mr C applied for loan 5, showed this time that his 
total balances for loans and instalment credit was £16,854. This had increased substantially- 
nearly seven times the indebtedness in loans and instalment credit from loan 4. It also 
showed Mr C had opened 14 accounts within six months. I think it should have appeared to 
Quidmarket that Mr C was having longer term problems and an ongoing need to access 
credit. And I think the information Quidmarket had gathered should have indicated that Mr C 
was having wider money management problems. I dont think Quidmarket should have given 
loan 5 either. 
So Im upholding Mr Cs complaint about loans 3- 5 and Quidmarket should put things right.
Putting things right  what Quidmarket needs to do
 
refund all interest and charges Mr C paid on loans 3 -5;
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
 
remove any negative information about loans 3-5 from Mr Cs credit file;
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quidmarket to take off tax from this interest. Quidmarket 
must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Cs complaint. Stagemount Limited 
should put things right as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2020.
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman