DRN-2056383
The complaint
M is a limited company and is represented by its directors, Mr and Mrs T. M complains that 
Paymentsense Limited failed to administer next day settlements on its merchant account 
and later charged a fee when M decided to cancel the account. M also claims that a 
Paymentsense representative impersonated Mrs T.
What happened
M took out a merchant account with Paymentsense around May 2019. The agreement 
included next day settlements, which meant credit or debit card payments made at Ms 
company would arrive in Ms bank account the next business day.
M contacted Paymentsense after it realised that payments werent arriving in its bank 
account within one business day. Paymentsense said it established that the error was due to 
a third-party business. Paymentsense says that, due to an administrative error, next day 
settlements werent correctly set up. 
The problem took around a week to resolve, but M remained unhappy and asked 
Paymentsense to cancel the merchant account. Paymentsense presented M with the option 
to continue with the account and offered £40 credit as well as three months free rental on the 
card terminal M had been supplied with. It also offered reduced cancellation fees if M still 
decided to cancel. M complained because it didnt think the cancellation fees were fair. 
Paymentsense didnt think it had done anything wrong, so M asked this service to review the 
complaint. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint because she felt the reduced 
cancellation fee was reasonable. The investigator was also satisfied that Paymentsense had 
taken reasonable steps to help resolve the problem with next day settlements  even though 
it was not responsible for why it wasnt set up correctly. 
As M didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For similar reasons as our investigator, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why.
Looking at the contact notes between M and Paymentsense, I can see that M notified 
Paymentsense about the problem with next day settlements on 28 May. It seems there was 
a degree of back and forth communication between M and Paymentsense while the problem 
was being looked in to and it took around 4-5 business day to resolve things.
I can appreciate that M expected next day settlements to be in place when the merchant 
account was opened, and I can understand why M wouldve been frustrated that this feature 
of the account wasnt in place straight away. And, although M says it didnt experience a loss 
because of the problem, I can see that it caused some disruption to the day to day operation 
of Ms business.
But I dont think the problem was because of something Paymentsense did wrong. From the 
contact notes, I can see that Paymentsense actively tried to resolve the problem. Ultimately, 
Paymentsense says it established that something had gone wrong elsewhere, so it had to 
arrange to set up next day settlements on Ms merchant account again. It seems to me that 
Paymentsense acted promptly to resolve the issue, so I dont think its treated M unfairly 
because of this.
M thinks the cancellation fees Paymentsense is asking it to pay is unfair. The terms and 
conditions of Ms merchant account say that upon termination, all charges owing to 
Paymentsense for the period up to and including the date of termination shall become 
immediately due and payable. These terms were agreed by M when it applied for the 
merchant account. So I dont think that Paymentsense acted unfairly by asking M to pay 
cancellation fees.
Paymentsense says it offered M alternative options  one that involved M keeping its 
merchant account open with the offer of £40 credit and three months free rental on the card 
terminal; or the option for M to cancel its merchant account and pay a reduced cancellation 
fee, which was significantly less than what M would have had to pay in normal 
circumstances. I think Paymentsense acted reasonably when it put forward these options, 
even though the error with next day settlements wasnt because of something it did wrong. 
So I wont be asking Paymentsense to do anything more.
M claims that a Paymentsense representative impersonated Mrs T over the phone. I havent 
seen any information that makes me think Mrs T was impersonated. And Ive looked through 
the documents M completed when it applied for the merchant account, and these seem to be 
signed and agreed to by Mrs T. So I cant fairly conclude that some form of wrongdoing took 
place in relation to this. 
In summary, I think Paymentsense acted fairly in trying to resolve the problem M 
experienced. The terms and conditions of Ms merchant account set out that Paymentsense 
can charge a cancellation fee, and it has acted reasonably by offering M the option to pay a 
reduced amount. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M and M to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman