DRN-4492286
The complaint
Mrs H complains Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) unfairly declined a
claim for an escape of water against her home insurance policy.
Mrs H is represented, but for ease of reading I will refer to their actions collectively as hers.
References to LV includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
In February 2023 Mrs H made a claim for an escape of water against her home insurance
policy. LV considered the claim and concluded Mrs H had told it the property would be
occupied when it wouldnt be. It said this was a deliberate qualifying misrepresentation and
avoided the policy from inception (without a refund of premiums) and declined the claim.
Mrs H didnt think this was fair, saying she had been occupying the property. She asked our
Service for an independent review. The Investigator thought LVs conclusion that the
property had been unoccupied was reasonable based on the evidence available to it. Mrs H
didnt agree, so the matter was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision. I said:
The relevant law in this case is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract 
(a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For 
it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered 
the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed 
to take reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA 
depends on whether the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or 
careless.
Mrs Hs property had a tenant and she had a landlord home insurance policy with LV. 
In late 2022 the tenant moved out. Mrs H called LV and took out a domestic home 
insurance policy. When asked if the property would be occupied, she said it would 
be. LV says this was a deliberate qualifying misrepresentation because the property 
wasnt occupied. The crux of this matter is whether the property was occupied or not. 
Mrs H says it was. LV doesnt think the property was occupied for the following main 
reasons:
A Council tax bill showed the property had been declared unoccupied from 
policy inception until the date of the incident;
Mrs Hs driving license didnt show the property as her home address;
Utility bills for the property showed minimal usage in the period leading to the 
incident;
There were no services such as broadband or television license registered at 
the property;
Mrs Hs mobile phone was registered at a different property;
Mrs Hs bank statements show many transactions in the vicinity of a different 
property, and none near the property;
Mrs H was linked to other insurance products at a different property;
There were inconsistencies about Mrs Hs relationship with her 
representative, who lived at a different property; 
The property was not furnished and held no personal effects, such as 
toothpaste, shampoo or other essential toiletries; and 
Several neighbours to the property didnt think it had been occupied since 
before Christmas 2022.
The reasons set out above were put to Mrs H. She responded with some comments 
and further evidence, such as a new Council tax bill and an amended water bill. LV 
wasnt persuaded by this additional evidence. Having considered all the information 
available to LV, I find it was (and is) fair and reasonable for it to conclude the 
property was unoccupied from policy inception to the date of the incident. The 
evidence to support this conclusion is, in my view, overwhelming. Im satisfied, like 
LV, that its more likely than not Mrs H was living with her representative at his 
property.
The policy was taken out in a phone call in late 2022. LV has described the call to 
Mrs H as:
During the above call you authorised [Mrs Hs representative] to take out this policy 
on your behalf. One of the questions asked during this telephone call was "So she's 
[you] living at the address now as opposed to renting it?" to which [Mrs Hs 
representative] replied "Yes, yes." When asked who would be occupying the 
property, [Mrs Hs representative] replied "It will just be her mostly as I have my own 
house."
This appears to be based on a recording of the call being listened to by LV and put to 
Mrs H, who hasnt disputed its accuracy, so Im satisfied I can rely on it. I find the 
questions and the answers clear. So, by saying the property would be occupied when 
it wouldnt be, Im not satisfied Mrs H took reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out the policy. Further, LV has shown it wouldnt have 
provided cover at all if it had known the property would be unoccupied. It follows this 
was a qualifying misrepresentation.
LV considers Mrs H made a deliberate qualifying misrepresentation on the basis she 
knew she wouldnt be occupying the property, because she was living with her 
representative, but said she would be anyway. CIDRA says a qualifying 
misrepresentation is deliberate or reckless if the consumer:
(a) knew that it was untrue or misleading, or did not care whether or not it 
was untrue or misleading, and
(b) knew that the matter to which the misrepresentation related was relevant 
to the insurer, or did not care whether or not it was relevant to the insurer.
I find LVs conclusion fair and reasonable. I say this because its more likely than not Mrs H knew it was untrue to say she was/would be living in the property and knew it 
would matter to LV. As Im satisfied Mrs Hs misrepresentation should be treated as 
deliberate or reckless, Ive looked at the actions LV can take in accordance with 
CIDRA. Having done so I find its fair and reasonable for LV to avoid the policy and 
keep the premiums, and not pay the escape of water claim because effectively the 
policy never existed.
My provisional decision
I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
LV didnt provide any further evidence or arguments in response to my provisional decision. 
Mrs H responded to say she didnt accept my provisional decision but provided no further 
evidence or arguments on the merits of the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any further evidence or arguments, I see no compelling reason to depart of 
my provisional decision. It follows I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2024.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman