DRN-4468691
The complaint
Mr B complains about the advice given by Tuto Money Limited (Tuto) to transfer the benefits 
from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. He says 
the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Our Investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. Tuto disagreed with the 
Investigators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld, albeit for 
slightly different reasons than the Investigator, and with slightly changed compensation. A 
copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings are below in italics and 
form part of this final decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to restructure its 
business including decoupling the BSPS (the DB pension scheme) from the company. The 
consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, 
one of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund 
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when their 
employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that, if risk-related qualifying 
conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme sponsored by Mr Bs 
employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave them the 
options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or transfer their 
BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 11 December (and was later 
extended to 22 December 2017).
Mr B approached Tuto in November 2017 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. I understand 
that Mr B was referred to Tuto by another advising firm that wasnt able to give advice about personal 
pension transfers. Ill call this other advising business Firm A. Both sides have confirmed that Tuto 
and Mr B didnt meet, and that the advice process was conducted by written correspondence only.
Tuto sent Mr B a fact-find to gather information about his circumstances and objectives. This was 
completed by Mr B and the adviser from Firm A. The completed by section of the fact find says that 
the document was completed by a representative of Firm A.
The fact find shows that Mr B was aged 55 and married. Mr and Mrs B owned their own home which 
was subject to a mortgage. He had a loan with a value of £11,000 and savings with a value of 
£12,000. The fact find did contain handwritten notes which explain why Mr B wanted to transfer, and 
these are written in the first party. But they do use the same handwriting as the rest of the fact find so 
Ive assumed, even if these were Mr Bs own words, that this section was also completed by Firm A.
Tuto also carried out an assessment of Mr Bs attitude to risk, which said was lowest medium or four 
on a scale of one to ten.
In respect of Mr Bs pension arrangements:
Mr B had received a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) from the BSPS on 13 November 2017. 
This showed that he had around 24 years service. He was entitled to a pension of about £11,400 per 
year at the date of leaving the scheme. The CETV was about £278,000.
Mr B was already in receipt of a pension of £4,480 per year from another DB scheme.
Mr B had also joined his employers new defined contribution (DC) scheme. He was contributing 6% 
of his salary into this and his employer was contributing 10%. On 16 January 2018, Tuto advised Mr B 
not to transfer it said that:
The critical yields, that is the growth rates that the personal pension would need to achieve to 
match the benefits Mr B was giving up were very high. These were 13.62% to age 60 or 
7.29% to age 65.
Tuto didnt think these were achievable and so Mr B would likely receive lower pension 
benefits at retirement. And it stressed that Mr B was giving up guaranteed benefits that he 
was unlikely to replicate.
Mr B did want some tax-free cash to pay his mortgage, but Tuto thought that he could meet 
this aim using funds from the BSPS2 at retirement.
Whilst Mr B wanted his wife to inherit his funds, the BSPS2 would pay her an income for the 
rest of her life which may be more beneficial than the lump sum. And life assurance was 
inexpensive.
Whilst Mr B wanted a flexible income, he wouldnt be retiring until age 60, so the increased 
risks of transferring into a personal pension didnt warrant the transfer.
On 22 January 2018 Mr B wrote to Tuto saying that he thought it was in his best interests to transfer 
and he wanted to proceed. He said this was because he:
Didnt trust current BSPS management and felt that his pension entitlement may change in 
the future.
Was worried the BSPS2 would end up in the PPF.
Wanted the greater tax-free cash provided by a personal pension.
Wanted to retire at age 60 without penalty.
Wanted to leave funds for his wife and didnt want to take out a life insurance policy to provide 
death benefits.
On 25 January 2018 Tuto issued a second suitability letter. This contained the same information as 
the earlier report and it reiterated that Mr B shouldnt transfer. But it did now confirm that Mr B wanted 
to transfer on an insistent customer basis against its advice.
The suitability letter went on to give Mr B advice about which pension product he could transfer to if 
he decided to go ahead. Consequently, Mr B did transfer his pension benefits into a personal pension 
and invested the proceeds in funds that met his attitude to risk.
Mr B complained in 2022 to Tuto about the suitability of the transfer advice. He said he had little 
understanding of the transfer process at the time, but he now thinks the advice he received was poor. 
He thought he had been put in a position of financial detriment.
Tuto didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. It said that it had advised Mr B not to transfer his BSPS pension 
but that Mr B had proceeded on an insistent customer basis anyway.
Mr B referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An Investigator upheld the 
complaint and recommended that Tuto pay compensation. He agreed that Tuto advised Mr B not to 
transfer his BSPS scheme benefits as it wasnt in his best interests to do so. But he wasnt persuaded 
that the Insistent customer process that Tuto followed was robust and so it wasnt clear whether or not Mr B fully understood this. He thought that if Mr B had fully understood the risks of the transfer then 
he wouldnt have transferred.
Tuto initially didnt agree with this and said it would appeal, but at this point it didnt provide its 
reasons why it disagreed.
However, at a later point in time, Tuto said that it had performed a loss assessment on the same basis 
that the Investigator had recommended. And this had shown that Mr B hadnt suffered a loss. The 
Financial Ombudsman Service hasnt been provided a copy of the calculation and, as far as I can 
see, neither has Mr B.
And after this the regulator has since developed, and now provides access to, a BSPS- specific 
redress calculator. Ive seen no indication that Tuto has performed a loss assessment using this 
calculator. And Mr B still would like his complaint considered by an ombudsman. As this is the case, 
Im now issuing a provisional decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Although Tuto has in the past carried out a loss assessment, I understand it is still disputing that it 
didnt act incorrectly in respect of Mr B. This is because it acknowledged at the time of sale that the 
advice wasnt in his best interests and that he shouldnt transfer.
Because its agreed that transfer wasnt right for Mr B I dont see the need to address the suitability of 
its advice to Mr B in detail. However, I would like to note that I agree that transferring his DB scheme 
away was unsuitable for Mr B for largely the same reasons given by Tuto at the time of sale. These 
are, briefly:
Given the returns needed to match the DB scheme benefits he was giving up Mr B was very 
likely to receive lower benefits at retirement.
Whilst he did have some debt (his mortgage mainly) he didnt have a pressing need for the 
tax-free cash and in any event the cash the scheme provided would have likely met this need.
Mr B didnt really need flexibility in his pension planning at this stage.
The death benefits could have been better in some circumstances from the personal pension, 
but his priority should have been his retirement income.
Mr B was concerned about his employer and the BSPS, but these concerns shouldnt have 
outweighed the guaranteed benefits he was giving up from the DB scheme.
Overall, I cant see any persuasive reasons why it was in Mr Bs best interests to give up his
DB benefits. And I dont think there is any disagreement about this.
So, Ive gone on to consider if it was fair for Tuto to treat Mr B as an insistent customer.
Since 3 January 2018, COBS 9.5A includes additional guidance on insistent clients. It defines who is 
an insistent client and it sets out three key steps for advisers to take. So, at the time the advice was 
provided to Mr B, this guidance was in force. However, the FCA had put out guidance in 2016 setting 
out what it expected firms to do if facilitating a transaction for a customer against their advice. And this 
had also been good industry practice for some time. So, I think Tuto wouldve been aware of the steps 
it should take if it was processing a pension transfer on an insistent client basis.
COBS 9.5A.3 says:
(1) Where a firm proceeds to execute a transaction for an insistent client which is not in 
accordance with the personal recommendation given by the firm, the firm should 
communicate to the insistent client, in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading, and 
having regard to the information needs of the insistent client so that the client is able to 
understand, the information set out in (2)(2) The information which the firm should communicate to the insistent client is:
a) that the firm has not recommended the transaction and that it will not be in 
accordance with the firms personal recommendation;
b) the reasons why the transaction will not be in accordance with the firms personal 
recommendation;
c) the risks of the transaction proposed by the insistent client; and
d) the reasons why the firm did not recommend that transaction to the client.
And COBS 9.5A.4 says:
(1) The firm should obtain from the insistent client an acknowledgement that:
(i) the transaction is not in accordance with the firms personal recommendation; and 
(ii) the transaction is being carried out at the request of the client.
(2) Where possible, the acknowledgment should be in the clients own words.
Tutos role was to find out what Mr Bs wants and needs were and why Mr B wanted to transfer his 
pension. Its role wasnt simply to facilitate what Mr B wanted. And overall, it had to act in his best 
interests. And the guidance above sets out that it should be clearly communicated to the consumer 
why the advice is against their best interests. And it should also be clear that the customer has 
understood and acknowledged this, but wants to proceed anyway.
Mr B has essentially said that this didnt happen. He doesnt recall that he was proceeding on an 
insistent customer basis and he feels that he was advised to leave the DB scheme. He said the notes 
on the fact find that explained he wanted to proceed on an insistent customer basis were written by 
the adviser (presumably Firm A) and not him. Ive thought about if this was likely to be the case.
I think it ought to have been clear to Tuto that Mr B had little knowledge or experience of financial 
matters based on the information available at the time of the advice. I say this because he had a low 
attitude to risk and he doesnt seem to have invested before. Other than his mortgage and some cash 
savings he doesnt seem familiar with financial products at all. And I think this shouldve put Tuto on 
notice that it had to be careful if it was to take matters through the insistent client route, particularly as 
another advisory firm was involved, meaning it was dealing with Mr B indirectly. And overall, I dont 
think Tuto took a reasonable amount of care here.
It was clear that Mr B was receiving significant assistance from Firm A in the advice process. And this 
was clear right from the start, and before Tuto gave any advice. The fact find was completed by this 
firm including a section where Mr B indicated why he wanted to transfer. This was written in the first 
person, indicating that Mr B may have been involved in this, and it included details of Mr Bs want for 
tax free cash and his concerns about the BSPS. But this section is really based on what I think are 
generic reasons as to why a DB transfer can be appropriate for a consumer. So, Im not persuaded 
that these were Mr Bs own words, or that he was really engaged in this process.
After Tuto issued its first suitability letter Mr B responded and said he wanted to transfer. But the letter 
was typed and its not clear if Mr B wrote it himself. He did sign it but he has said that he doesnt recall 
reading or signing it and that the Firm A adviser wrote it. Which to me indicates that this letter wasnt 
brought to Mr Bs attention. But in any event this letter was essentially a repetition of the reasons why 
Mr B wanted to transfer. There isnt any acknowledgement that this wasnt in his best interests or 
anything to show that Mr B had understood the risks and disadvantages of the transfer that were 
given in the first suitability letter.
I think there was a significant risk that Mr Bs decision to proceed couldve been influenced by Firm A, 
which wasnt a pension transfer specialist. And I think that Tuto ought to have recognised that by 
transacting the business in the way it did, through correspondence only and without any direct contact 
with Mr B, that there was a risk Mr B may not have fully understood the consequences of his decision 
to proceed. Thats particularly the case given Mr Bs level of experience. So, I think it wouldve been 
important for Tuto to ensure Mr B understood what he was getting into, and a good way to have done 
this wouldve been to see in his own words that he understood the recommendation being made and why he wanted to proceed. Alternatively, it could have done this by arranging a telephone call with 
Mr B, and discussing his reasons for wanting to proceed in more detail. In the absence of this, Im not 
persuaded Mr B made an informed choice here.
While Tuto acknowledged the transfer of Mr Bs benefits wasnt suitable, I think there were failings in 
the advice process which meant he probably wasnt fully aware about how this would have affected 
him. And I think its more likely than not if Tuto had taken more steps to ensure that Mr B did have a 
full understanding of the advice, this wouldve influenced his decision making.
On balance, given these failings, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to conclude the process 
Tuto followed meant that Mr B can truly be regarded as an insistent customer. Overall, I dont think it 
acted in Mr Bs best interests. And it failed to act with due care and skill.
I think if Tuto had been acting in Mr Bs best interests and taken an extra step to ensure he fully 
understood the recommendation not to transfer, and why he still wanted to do so, I dont think Mr B 
wouldve insisted on going ahead with the transfer. And Mr B says this is the case.
I want to make it clear that Im not making a finding about Firm A here. Clearly Mr B wanted some 
assistance with the transfer process and it wasnt unreasonable that he received this. What Im saying 
is that because of the way Tuto dealt with Mr B, through Firm A, it wasnt clear that Mr B truly 
understood the disadvantages of the transfer or why his reasons for wanting to go ahead wouldnt be 
considered to be compelling reasons to transfer. And Tuto had a responsibility to ensure that he had 
understood this. But I dont think it did this.
Our Investigator thought that Mr B should be paid £500 for the distress and inconvenience the advice 
has caused him. But I think this is too high an amount.
Using financial services wont always be straightforward and sometimes things do go wrong. Its not 
really fair to make an award just because something has happened that causes frustration. And Mr B 
hasnt indicated that he felt a significant level of distress due to the advice.
That said it clearly would have caused him some concern when he realised that his retirement 
benefits may have been reduced due to the advice that Tuto gave. And this would have been at a 
time when he was concerned about the situation with his employer and the scheme in any event. 
Because of this I think £300 compensation is reasonable to compensate him for this.
Developments
Tuto, and Mr B, were provided with a copy of my provisional decision. But neither party to 
the complaint had anything to add after theyd seen it. As this is the case, Ive now gone on 
to issue my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tuto and Mr B didnt raise any new points after receiving my provisional decision or provide 
any further evidence for me to consider. So, Ive reached the same conclusions I reached 
before, for the same reasons. As there is nothing further to consider I wont add to the 
conclusions that I reached earlier. Tuto should now put things right as below. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Tuto to put Mr B, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr B would most likely 
have remained in the occupational pension and opted to join the BSPS2 if suitable advice 
had been given and his reasons for wanting to proceed against the advice had been robustly challenged by Tuto. Whilst the suitability letters were produced after the time to choose 
deadline, Mr B was in contact with Tuto before this. And I think it would have been 
reasonable for it to have advised him to join the BSPS2 pending any advice it gave.
Tuto must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4:
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
Tuto should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr B and The Financial Ombudsman 
Service upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what Tuto 
based the inputs into the calculator on.
For clarity, Mr B has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Bs 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Tuto should:
calculate and offer Mr B redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr B before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in line 
with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment his 
DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr B receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr B accepts Tutos offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr B for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Bs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr B as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Tuto may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Bs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20. So 
making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Tuto should also pay Mr B £300 for the distress and inconvenience that the poor advice has
caused him.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Tuto Money Limited to 
pay Mr B the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Tuto Money Limited pays Mr B the balance.
If Mr B accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Tuto Money Limited. My 
recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr B can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr B may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman