DRN-3080179
The complaint
Following an accident, Mr M complains that the Society of Lloyd's (Lloyds) handled his claim 
very badly and that it unfairly refused to pay for damage that came to light after his van was 
repaired. 
Other parties have been involved in this complaint, but as Lloyds are responsible for it, Ive 
just referred to them in this decision.
What happened
Mr M was involved in a single vehicle collision in July 2020. He submitted a claim on his 
commercial insurance motor policy with Lloyds and his van was deemed a total loss. Mr M 
wasnt satisfied with the total loss settlement and he complained. Lloyds reviewed its 
valuation and after a number of months increased it. Because of this increase, Mr Ms van 
was then considered repairable and Lloyds arranged for it to be repaired. 
After the van was repaired Mr M continued to experience mechanical issues that he says 
werent there before the accident or repair. So, Mr M returned his van to the repairer. But he 
was told these issues werent accident related and as such were outside the scope of cover 
provided. Lloyds did however award Mr M £300 for the delays caused and its poor handling 
of the claim.  
But Mr M remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to this service. Mr M was unhappy 
with how the claim was handled and in particular the inconveniences hed suffered. He was 
also dissatisfied with the additional repairs he had to undertake after Lloyds repair. An 
investigator reviewed his complaint and said that given the mechanical failings listed after 
Lloyds repair, it was more likely than not that some of these additional repairs were accident 
related. He recommended Lloyds pay for these further repairs, totalling £650.
However, Lloyds doesnt agree, and it asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 25 May 2022. That provisional decision 
is below and forms part of my final decision.
What I provisionally decided and why
Our approach is to review Lloyds actions and to decide whether it handled the claim poorly. 
I will also look at whether Lloyds has done enough whilst dealing with the claim to fairly and 
reasonably decline the further repairs Mr Ms van required post repair. 
Mr M reported the incident immediately on 24 July 2020. Photos were submitted, and an 
estimate of repairs was provided within days. At this point Mr M queried the excess and the 
claims handler queried the modifications it had found on the vehicle with Lloyds. By 7 
August Mr M had had the excess clarified and he was told he was getting £4,000 as a total 
loss settlement. Mr M didnt think the valuation was correct and told Lloyds his GAP Insurer 
had also raised a concern with it. Over the next four weeks Mr M contacted Lloyds a number 
of times. And on 16 September Mr Ms GAP insurer called Lloyds to advise that the original 
price of this vehicle far exceeded the valuation Lloyds was providing. It asked Lloyds to 
carry out another valuation. 
By 24 September Lloyds had amended the valuation, and the van was deemed repairable. 
Three weeks later, on 16 October 2020, the van was repaired and returned to Mr M.
Two weeks after that, on 30 October 2020, Mr M called the garage to say a warning light had 
appeared on his dashboard. But after a further inspection Lloyds deemed the damage 
outside the scope of the accident and said it wasnt going to pay for it.
At this point Mr M complained. He said:
the excess was too high
he only had limited access to a courtesy vehicle 
when he received his vehicle back there were a number of problems. There was a 
wiring loom issue and the radio kept flickering. He said there was overspray on the 
body of the van. He said there was a leaking seal into the injector, the EGR valve 
was stuck, the water pump had failed along with the intercooler, and his brakes had 
corroded. He said it cost him just over £1,700 to rectify these issues post repair
there had been unreasonable delays throughout the claim, and hed suffered much 
inconvenience because of them
Excess and Courtesy Vehicle
Mr M says his excess was £250. Lloyds says it was £725. There are two issues here, the 
first one is the excess itself. Looking at the policy terms and conditions I can see that Mr Ms 
excess was £750. But the policy schedule says £725. This is made up of an accidental 
damage excess of £225 and an additional excess of £500 because Mr M was under 25. This 
is clear in the schedule of insurance and I agree that £725 is correct, and Lloyds made an 
initial error by stating £750. 
The second issue is Mr Ms excess protect cover. Mr M mentions this numerous times in 
his calls with Lloyds. But from looking at the supporting documentation this looks like this 
was an additional, separate policy provided by Mr Ms broker. So, I cant comment on this 
additional policy in this decision.
And the same goes for Mr Ms courtesy car arrangements. Looking at the policy terms and 
conditions provided by Lloyds, under the summary of cover I cant see courtesy car cover 
listed. But it looks like Mr M selected replacement vehicle as an additional cover from his 
broker and he has a separate policy for that too. So, I cant comment on this additional policy 
in this decision either.
Additional repairs
To get the vehicle back to its previous working condition Mr M had the timing kit, water 
pump, alternator belt, EGR valve, front brake discs and pads, a perished pipe seal and the 
gearbox mount all replaced. Our investigator in their assessment said that they thought it 
more likely than not that some of these issues were accident related and should be covered 
by Lloyds (specifically the EGR valve and the water pump). 
But I think this slightly misses the point. The point Mr M is making is that as the vehicle was 
lying idle for so long in an unrepaired state, corrosion had set in and a number of issues 
arose while it was lying idle. These issues are not specifically accident related. Mr M says 
they set in because of delays and neglect after the accident.After our investigators assessment was sent to Lloyds, asking it to pay for partial repairs, 
Lloyds consulted with an engineer. The engineer said our investigators reasoning for 
upholding this part of the complaint was slightly flawed. He said that even though the 
radiator was damaged in the accident and there was a loss of coolant, it was unlikely this in 
turn damaged the water pump. He says its more likely than not that the water pump was 
changed in line with manufacturing guidelines around the replacement of the timing belt kit. 
And that this wasnt accident related. He also said that the EGR valve and the intercooler are 
not connected in any way to any mechanism that was damaged in the crash. So, he found it 
hard to see how these issues would now come under the scope of the cover provided for the 
accident.
I appreciate Mr Ms argument about the time this vehicle was idle, and the degenerative 
effect this can have. But Lloyds has provided expert comments from an engineer that would 
indicate that as this vehicle has approximately 73,000 miles on the clock, it would not be 
unusual to see issues arising with the EGR valve becoming blocked and the timing belt 
(alongside the water pump) needing replacement.
I can see how brakes can become corroded whilst a vehicle is idle. But as a serviceable 
item, its hard to know what condition they were in before the accident, and maybe they just 
needed replacing. And given that the discs were also replaced, this suggests normal wear 
and tear being the reason for them needing to be replaced as opposed to neglect. 
As such, Im more persuaded by the evidence provided by Lloyds. Im satisfied it has done 
enough to show me that these issues more likely than not relate to the age and mileage of 
the vehicle, as opposed to being either accident related or linked to the time the vehicle was 
left awaiting repair. So, I wont be asking Lloyds to pay for any of these repairs. Please note, 
there has been no further mention of the wiring loom issue, leading to the radio flicker issue 
and the overspray issue. So, unless Im told something different, I will assume these issues 
have been resolved.
Distress and inconvenience
As a service we'll consider whether compensation is appropriate in each case. Well ask 
about what happened, and the impact it had on a consumers life. We can make a money 
award to put right any financial losses. We can also make a money award for distress, 
inconvenience, pain and suffering and damage to reputation. This allows us to put right the 
emotional or practical impact of a businesss mistake.
In this specific instance Lloyds initially awarded Mr M £200 in compensation. It said this was 
for the delays in handling the claim. On review another £100 in compensation was awarded 
because Mr M had called numerous times and didnt receive a response and because 
Lloyds had the vans modifications on record all along, so the valuation shouldve been 
correct from the beginning. 
In the file itself there is an exchange between two handlers in Lloyds. One says that not all 
modifications would increase the value of the vehicle. This handler argues that its clear from 
the time spent by the GAP insurer to come to a valuation that this wasnt a standard 
valuation, and its been requested that this is highlighted to our service.
But I think when it was considering compensation Lloyds has missed the point. The first 
thing that stands out for me was how calm Mr M was throughout this whole process. Hes 
young, and hes never been through this process before. And over and over again he 
methodically explains how stressful this whole situation has been on him. He says on 
numerous occasions during his numerous calls with Lloyds that not having a vehicle is causing him to have to go to additional lengths to move tools and equipment around various 
sites, and that during the pandemic, with social distancing a priority, this is in fact becoming 
a real issue for him and is very stressful. It was Lloyds responsibility to get the market value 
of this vehicle right in the first place. The details were all available. The modifications were 
all listed in the policy schedule. There was a full set of photographs provided five days after 
the accident. It shouldnt have been up to Mr Ms GAP insurer to get involved at all, and it 
certainly wasnt its responsibility to provide a market value to Lloyds. If this had been 
handled correctly, Mr M would more likely than not have been back on the road by the end of 
August 2020, and his disruption would have been minimal given his additional replacement 
vehicle policy.
Because of this I dont think Lloyds has awarded Mr M enough compensation for the 
inconvenience hes suffered. Lloyds hasnt factored in enough for the time it took to sort out 
its error in valuation, or the impact this has had on Mr M. This to me is a significant 
inconvenience and disruption that needed a lot of extra effort to sort out, as can clearly be 
seen by the amount of times Mr M had to call Lloyds to progress this claim. Further to this 
hes had a serious disruption to his daily life, with the impact felt over a number of months.
As such I think the compensation award sits more into our medium range of compensation 
and Im planning on asking Lloyds to pay more. I note Lloyds has already paid Mr M £300. 
So, Im planning on asking Lloyds to pay a further £500 in compensation (£800 in total) to 
Mr M for the distress and inconvenience hes suffered as Ive set out above. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sent my provisional decision on 25 May 2022 as set out above.
Mr M has replied, and hes satisfied with the outcome. But he added more substance to two 
points hed already raised. He says that when the van left the body shop, the body shop 
raised the possibility of there being underlying mechanical damage. Mr M says the body 
shop told him that it was a body shop only and it hadnt looked into the impact this collision 
couldve had mechanically to the van. He says this means the collision couldve impacted 
and damaged the water pump. However, an engineer has already commented on this and 
has said it was unlikely the collision had any impact on the water pump. And Im more 
persuaded by the engineers expert opinion. I think its more likely than not the water pump 
was replaced as per manufacturing guidelines and not because it was damaged in the 
accident.
Mr M also asked whether wed consider raising the distress and inconvenience award. He 
says an additional £650 to £700 would be more appropriate. Mr M says he had to pay 
interest on the loan to repair the car and hed like this additional expense covered. But as Im 
satisfied that the additional repairs that were required were unlikely to be accident related, I 
wouldnt consider including an expense relating to this repair in any compensation award. 
Because of this, I wont be recommending any additional award for distress and 
inconvenience, on top of what Ive already recommended.  
Lloyds has also replied. It says the increase in compensation by £500 is too high and not 
warranted. Lloyds say that this increase in compensation seems to be due to the impact of 
not having a vehicle during the pandemic. Lloyds says its surprised with this increase as Mr 
M works in the construction industry and it says it is common knowledge that the building 
trade came to a much of a halt during the pandemic. Lloyds says the impact on Mr Ms 
occupation has been overstretched and the compensation it initially awarded is sufficient. However, Lloyds observations on why Im recommending a higher compensation award 
arent supported, so I wont be changing my mind. Mr M was without a van from 24 July 
2020 to 16 October 2020. The construction industry in the UK reopened on certain projects 
from 23 May 2020, and by 4 July 2020, the UK construction industry had returned to work 
fully but in line with government social distancing guidelines. The next UK wide lockdown 
didnt happen until November 2020. 
So, its more likely than not Mr M was back working in July 2020. And Mr M says that his 
inconvenience was mainly down to not having a van whilst being required to maintain social 
distancing rules. He says he had to routinely seek separate lifts and transport for his tools 
from site to site because he had no van. And he had no van because Lloyds valued his van 
incorrectly, leading to extensive delays in getting it repaired. And as I set out above, I dont 
think Lloyds awarded Mr M enough for this inconvenience. As such, I see no reason to 
depart from my findings as set out above and I require Lloyds to pay Mr M a further £500 in 
compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require the Society of Lloyd's to pay 
Mr M a further £500 in compensation (£800 in total) for the distress and inconvenience hes 
suffered for the reasons Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022. 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman