DRN-4222115
The complaint
Mr S complains First Response Finance Ltd (First Response) supplied him with a car that he 
believes wasnt of satisfactory quality.
 
What happened
In June 2022, Mr S entered into a 49 month hire purchase agreement for a used car. The 
cash price of the car was around £4,700. It had travelled over 77,000 miles and it was 
around 10 years old. Mr S was required to make monthly payments of £173.
In February 2023, he reported issues with the car. It was found there was a fault with one of 
the fuel injectors and the ignition coils. These parts were replaced and the cost was covered 
under warranty. However this didnt appear to resolve the issue. 
Shortly afterwards, a further diagnosis by another mechanic (who I will refer to as Q) was 
carried out. He said the root cause of the fault was the electrical control unit (ECU) and it 
needed to be replaced. However the warranty company refused to cover the repair cost 
stating it had reach the policy limit. The repair garage said Mr S needed to pay around £480 
for them to do the repair but they wouldnt be able to replace the ECU as they didnt have the 
facility to do so. Mr S complained.
First Response said Q had told them the ECU fault was unlikely to have been present at 
supply therefore they couldnt be held liable for the repairs.
Unhappy with their response, Mr S referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the complaint wasnt upheld. Based on the findings of Q and the miles 
covered by Mr S, she concluded the car was of satisfactory quality at supply.
Mr S disagreed and maintained his position. In summary, he said the repair garage failed to 
correctly identify the fault was the ECU. He questioned what he was initially told about the 
car before agreeing to purchase it, such as its service history and MOT. He also comments 
First Response werent supporting him during his time of financial difficulty. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr S complaint. I will explain why. 
Mr S acquired a car under a regulated credit agreement. First Response was the supplier of 
the goods under this type of agreement meaning they are responsible for a complaint about 
the supply and the quality of the car.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a 
contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory. To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of 
the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. In a case involving a car, the 
other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might include things like the 
age and mileage at the time of supply, the cars history, safety, durability, etc.
In this case, Mr S acquired a car that was around 10 years old and had travelled 
over 77,000 miles. As this was a used car with considerable mileage and age, its 
reasonable to expect parts may already have suffered substantial wear and tear 
when compared to a new car or one that is less travelled. Additionally theres a greater 
risk this car might need repair and/or maintenance sooner than a car which wasnt as road-
worn.
Based on the evidence presented to me including job cards and the reports from Q, its clear 
there was a fault with the car. Initially it was believed it was the fuel injector and ignition coil 
but it was later found the source of the fault was the ECU. I note Qs comments that the fault 
was initially misdiagnosed however I dont believe that has a material difference to the 
overall outcome of this complaint. I say that because even though its clear there was a fault 
(whatever that may be), I must determine whether that fault was present and/or developing 
at supply. In this case, I dont believe it was. 
At the time the fault occurred, Mr S had been in possession of the car for around eight 
months and from my understanding he had travelled around 5,000 miles. I consider both the 
time and distance to be a significant amount. Had the fault been present at supply, I believe 
its reasonable to expect it wouldve presented itself sooner than it did.  
Like the investigator, I find its reasonable to rely on the findings of Q as hes a mechanic 
with the relevant knowledge and expertise. As part of their investigation, First Response 
contacted Q and he said the ECU fault was unlikely to be present at supply. He also 
repeated the same when the investigator contacted him. In light of these findings and my 
explanations above, Im not persuaded the ECU fault was present and/or developing at 
supply. Ive already set out above the expectations of used cars and in this case, I find the 
fault is most likely due to wear and tear. Overall I find the car was of satisfactory quality 
when supplied to Mr S. 
Other
I understand Mr S has raised a number of other issues including what he was told about the 
car by the dealership before he entered into the agreement and First Responses actions 
when he told them he couldnt afford to pay for the repair or make the contractual payments. 
As these complaint points werent subject to the initial complaint, I wont be addressing them. 
As already advised by the investigator, Mr S would have to raise this as a separate and new 
complaint. 
Summary
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied the car was of satisfactory quality when Mr S 
acquired it. I find the fault with the ECU is most likely a wear and tear issue. Therefore, I 
wont be asking First Response to cover the cost of the repair or to allow rejection. Im sorry to hear about the issues Mr S experienced with the car and the impact its had on 
his daily life. I appreciate my findings will come as a disappointment to him but I hope he 
accepts the same. 
Lastly if Mr S is still experiencing financial difficulty, I would like to remind First Response of 
their obligations to treat him with forbearance and due consideration. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Simona Reese
Ombudsman