DRN-3686443
The complaint
Mr W complains that Madison CF UK Ltd, trading as 118 118 Money (Madison), lent to him 
irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr W took one loan from Madison in June 2018 for £1,000 repayable with 24 monthly 
payments of £102.59 each. Mr W repaid the loan early in October 2018. He says his mother 
repaid it for him. 
After Mr W had complained, Madison issued him with its final response letter (FRL) in which 
it gave reasons why it did not uphold his complaint. 
Mr W referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and one of our 
adjudicators reviewed it. She looked at all the financial information Mr W had provided to 
Madison at the time he applied and thought that it had complied with the regulations and it 
did not need to have done more. She also gave her opinion on the fact that the high interest 
rate charged by Madison was made clear to Mr W at the time he took the loan.  
Mr W disagreed and has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. Mr W has 
submitted articulate and detailed points and additional evidence about payment of his 
university fees to support his claim. I have read them all. 
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, what I need to 
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are 
whether Madison completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr W  
would be able to repay in a sustainable way? And, if not, would those checks have shown 
that Mr W  wouldve been able to do so?
If I determine that Madison did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr W and 
that he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required Madison to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ws ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Madison had to think about whether repaying 
the loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for Mr W. In 
practice this meant that Madison had to ensure that making the payments to the loan 
wouldnt cause Mr W undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Madison to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr W. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the circumstances of the consumer (e.g. 
their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or 
financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same 
customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.
Mr W has raised several issues which link to or are related to his application for the loan. So 
I have dealt with each individually and I note that the adjudicator had done the same. 
Interest rate levels
Starting with the level of interest charged by Madison, Mr W has acknowledged that he knew 
it was high interest and took the loan anyway. 
And I say this because the interest rates were clear on the documents Madison would have 
given him at the time he signed for the loan. And as well as this, I refer to some copy 
correspondence Mr W has sent us dated from April 2018 and May 2018  before the loan 
was approved  where he was asking Madison to reactivate his account. He wished to start 
a fresh loan application. One of the emails he sent to Madison said this: 
can you please clarify the best rate for borrowing £1000 over two years? I had applied 
before but the rate was too high, was just wondering if there's any room for reduction.
Mr W has told us that this email dated 27 April 2018 to Madison demonstrates that he 
recognised that the rate was very high and he says that this ought to have been a red flag. 
But I do not think that. It is clear evidence that Mr W knew as early as April 2018 that the rate 
for the new loan was high and he wanted to reapply anyway. And the reply Mr W received 
from Madison shows no sign of being a reply designed to apply pressure to a potential loan 
applicant as Mr W has suggested. I reject that argument from Mr W. And I do make it clear that the rate any lender fixes are commercial matters and for the 
lender to arrange and the Financial Ombudsman Service does not get involved with 
commercial matters surrounding policy issues such as rates of interest. 
I do not uphold this part of Mr Ws complaint. 
Irresponsible lending
Reading all that Mr W has submitted to us as part of his complaint, he seems to accept that 
Madison did obtain the right information, but his complaint is that having got documents to 
show his existing debt and copies of his bank statements Madison ought to have realised 
that he could not afford the loan he was applying for. Mr W has said to us recently: 
But I reiterate that as they did conduct those checks and requested bank statements etc., 
[sic] They should have acted on that information and declined my loan application.
The application details I have been sent, show that Mr W declared to Madison that he was 
single, employed full time and earned around £950 a month, that he lived at home with his 
parents, and he spent £100 a month on food and £110 on credit card and loan repayments 
which he already had in place. 
Madison in its FRL explained that it did not rely entirely on what Mr W had told them: it 
carried out some verification checks and did a credit search. The results of that credit search 
have been sent to me and show that overall Mr W had relatively little existing credit. His total 
outstanding balances were £2,788  one part being a loan and one being £497 on his credit 
card (limit £500). Mr W had no arrears, he had no defaults or any indication of any 
insolvencies, he had hardly any search history on his record and overall, Id describe his 
credit position as relatively light. These were not a set of credit results that I would expect 
Madison to obtain and then be alerted to any concerns surrounding Mr Ws handling of debt. 
Having outlined the credit search details above, my view is that Mr W had a low level of debt 
overall. The fact that he was close to his limit on a card and had taken a loan relatively  
recently and had an overdraft which he was using are not reasons for Madison not to lend. 
And I say that because it does come down to affordability. 
Madison asked to look at two months worth of bank statements as part of its 
creditworthiness assessment, and Mr W provided those to it. They have been sent to us and 
I have reviewed them.
Madison was able to see, as can I, that Mr W was servicing that existing debt, that he was 
bringing in a regular wage and that his basic cost of living outgoings was about £210 a 
month on food and existing debt. 
Therefore, I reviewed Mr Ws bank statements to see if there were any other payments out 
which may have alerted Madison at the time that he was under some financial pressure. 
I can see that he was repaying his student loan about £25 a month but that does fall into a 
different category of debt as it is paid through a salary and when specific circumstances 
apply. I can see that there were no regular outgoings such as rent, utility bills, TV package 
contracts or much spent on supermarket shopping for food and so it does appear that his 
housing and regular bill costs were non-existent. 
So, the income less his costs for food and the other debt plus his new loan payments to 
Madison would have been affordable. The other transactions I can see from his bank 
statements largely relate to leisure activities or to eating out or to taxi fares and cash withdrawals. And so, the picture I have is not of a person in financial difficulties, but rather a 
person who may have needed to manage his finances differently. 
I do not uphold this part of Mr Ws complaint.
Mental health issues
As for the mental health issues, Mr W has described the knock-on effects of him having 
been approved for the Madison loan which included, in his view, that he had to drop out of 
university. I am sorry to hear that.
There are two things which arise from what Mr W has said. The first is that he seems to be 
apportioning some blame on the Madison loan for the deterioration in his mental health. I do 
not consider that the evidence suggests that was the case and if his mental health did 
deteriorate after June 2018 when he took the loan, I consider it a consequence too far 
removed for me to be able to determine Madison had done something wrong which had 
caused that. 
And the second element is that Mr W seems to be telling us that his mental health issues 
arose after the loan was approved in which case its another reason or me to not consider it 
relevant to this complaint as it appears to post-date the loan approval in June 2018. Im 
being asked to decide on a complaint surrounding the approval of a loan applied for by Mr W 
and so the date he applied is the relevant period. 
Mr W has spoken of there being a human element to the complaint and I understand that as 
all the complaints we receive, and with which I am used to dealing, have an element where it 
touches and concerns the individual deeply. I appreciate that. 
However, I do not uphold this part of Mr Ws complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman