DRN-3600517
The complaint
Mr S complains that it was unfair of Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance (BPF)) to provide a loan for the purchase of a timeshare product 
without checking if he could afford the finance - and then refuse to consider claims he made 
about the product being mis-sold.
The timeshare agreement is in the joint names of Mr S and his partner but the finance 
agreement is in Mr Ss sole name. This means hes the eligible complainant who can bring 
the complaint to our service and Ive referred to Mr S alone in this decision.
Mr S is represented by a claims management company but Ill refer (generally) to everything 
thats been said on his behalf as if Mr S said it himself, to keep things simple.
What happened
Mr S purchased a timeshare product in September 2009 with a fixed sum loan provided by 
BPF. The product cost £15,849 and Mr S agreed to pay back the borrowing (including 
interest) by making payments of nearly £240 a month for 15 years. Amongst other things, Mr 
S says the product was misrepresented, terms and conditions were unfair and unduly 
onerous, he was subject to high pressure and aggressive sales tactics and BPF didnt 
declare commission paid to the supplier or undertake proper checks before lending. Mr S 
wants BPF to provide a refund and compensation.
BPF investigated Mr Ss claims but considered they were raised too late under the Limitation 
Act 1980 (LA) and declined liability so Mr S referred the matter to our service.
One of our investigators considered the evidence. She didnt think Mr S had provided 
enough evidence to show that the loan was unaffordable for him at the outset. She 
acknowledged a lender is jointly and severally liable with the supplier of goods or services 
for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). But, she thought the time to bring any like claim against 
BPF here would expire at the same time as any claim against the supplier under the LA - 
and its not unreasonable for BPF to take this into account.
The investigator said Mr S has six years under the LA to bring claim for misrepresentation - 
and the same time frame applies for claims under statute and contract. She was satisfied 
that a misrepresentation claim can be made once the person bringing the claim has suffered 
damage. And any damage here would have occurred when Mr S experienced financial loss 
as a result of purchasing the timeshare. Mr S says he bought the timeshare due to 
misrepresentations made by the supplier and he wouldnt have done so but for that. And the 
investigator was satisfied that the point of loss for Mr S was when he entered into the 
timeshare transaction  when he accepted the cost and any potential benefit under the 
contract.
The investigator recognised Mr S may not have known that he could raise concerns about 
any misrepresentations until later. But she was satisfied relevant time limits start to run from 
the date of loss  which may be earlier than the date Mr S realised something might have 
gone wrong. She thought Mr S needed to raise his claim under section 75 no later 
September 2015 and, given he didnt complain to BPF until August 2018, he had done so 
too late.
The investigator also considered section 140A of the CCA which allows the courts to make 
an order under section 140B if it is determined that the relationship between the creditor and 
debtor arising out of the agreement is unfair to the debtor. Only a court has this power but 
section 140A is relevant law and we need to take into consideration. The investigator was 
satisfied that the LA applies to a section 140A and, as Mr Ss account closed in June 2010, 
he would have needed to bring any such claim no later than June 2016. Mr S didnt raise his 
claim with BPF until 2018 and she thought this was probably time barred as well, under the 
LA.
The investigator said its a matter for the courts ultimately to decide whether or not any claim 
that Mr S may have has expired under the LA. But, she was satisfied it looks as if Mr Ss 
claims here under sections 75 and 140A have more than likely exceeded the relevant time 
limits. She thought it was reasonable to take this into account. She wasnt persuaded it was 
wrong of BPF to decline Mr Ss claims. And she didnt recommend the complaint should be 
upheld.
Mr S didnt agree. His representatives said (in summary):-
The action is not time-barred - there is no statutory time limit for raising a complaint 
under the CCA;
Mr S is not a sophisticated buyer, he only discovered the actual characteristics of the 
product (including unfair and unduly onerous terms) years later when he sought 
advice in 2017 and became aware that he had cause for complaint, so this is the 
date of knowledge for the purpose of limitation and/or limitation is postponed until Mr 
S could have been aware of the facts with reasonable diligence  under sections 
32(1)(b) and 32(2) of the LA;
The relationship between the broker and Mr S was fiduciary in nature and the broker 
and BPF both failed to disclose the existence and amount of commission paid by 
BPF to the supplier/broker and/or this was concealed at the point of sale and still 
hasnt been disclosed;
Mr S could only have become aware of this non-disclosure when he sought 
professional advice in 2017 and the limitation period under sections 140A  140D of 
CCA is postponed under sections 32(1)(b) and 32(2) of the LA;
The BPF loan has all the hallmarks of an unaffordable loan at an APR of 17.7% a 
year when mortgage loan interest rates were in the region of 3.5% and no proper 
affordability checks were carried out so limitation is postponed by sections 32(1)(b) 
and 32(2) of the LA and causes of action under sections 140A - 140D of CCA are 
not time barred.
Mr S asked for an ombudsman to look into the matter. He thinks the complaint should be 
upheld and BPF should cancel the finance, refund all payments together with interest, 
reimburse any commission paid to the supplier and pay compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.
Having considered the evidence available I wasnt minded to uphold Mr Ss complaint. My 
reasons werent quite the same as the investigators, however. And I issued a provisional 
decision on 17 June 2022 to let the parties see my provisional findings and make further 
submissions (if they wanted to) before I made my final decision. Ive set out what I decided 
provisionally - and why  below, and this forms part of my final decision. My provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision about the merits of 
this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely 
to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr Ss representatives made detailed submissions which refer to various regulations, 
legislation and caselaw (amongst other things). I must take account of the law and 
regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice and good 
industry practice, when I make my decision. And I want to assure Mr S, if I dont address 
every point thats been raised, its not because I havent thought about it. I have considered 
everything thats been said and sent to us. But, Im going to concentrate here on what I think 
is relevant and material to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
Jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service
BPF indicated in its final response to Mr S that it thought he was out of time to raise his 
complaint with this service so I have considered whether this complaint comes within our 
jurisdiction. BPF says it doesnt, because Mr S is complaining about events that took place in 
2009 and it was more than six years before he brought his complaint to us.
The rules about the complaints that we can consider are set out in the FCAs Handbook. 
These are known as the DISP rules. DISP 2.8.2(2) provides (unless the failure to comply 
with the time limits was as a result of exceptional circumstances) that we cant consider a 
complaint if a consumer refers it to us more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of, or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably 
to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint.
To decide if this complaint is one that we can look into, Ive considered what Mr S is 
complaining about exactly. I think its clear hes unhappy because he feels BPF failed to fulfil 
its obligations under the CCA when it rejected claims he made under sections 75 and 140A 
arising out of his purchase of the product.
Jurisdiction and the section 75 claim
Im satisfied that the exercise of a lenders rights and duties under a credit agreement is a 
regulated activity under (Article 60(B)(2) of the FSMA (Regulated Activities Order 2001). A 
creditor has a duty to comply with the CCA and I think considering a claim under the CCA is 
ancillary to - and carried on in connection with - a regulated activity. I find the event (as 
referred to at DISP 2.8.2(2)(a) above) that Mr S is complaining here about is BPFs rejection 
of the claim that he made under the CCA. So, the relevant date is when BPF declined his 
complaint in May 2019. Mr S had already brought this complaint to our service before that 
and Im satisfied hes not out of time to do so. I find this part of Mr Ss complaint falls within 
the jurisdiction of this service and we can consider it.
Jurisdiction and section 140A
Mr S also considers the acts and omissions of the product supplier here resulted in an unfair 
relationship between him and BPF. I think that amounts to a claim under section 140A of the 
CCA, so Ive given some thought as to whether this part of the complaint falls within our jurisdiction. Having considered the evidence, Im satisfied that the events complained of (for 
the purposes of section 140A) took place at the point of sale in September 2009 and I cant 
reasonably conclude that this part of Mr Ss complaint was brought to us within the six-year 
period set out in the first part of DISP 2.8.2R as outlined above.
Ive gone on to consider the second limb of DISP 2.8.2 - when Mr S knew, or ought 
reasonably to have known, that he had cause for complaint - to see if this extends the time 
under DISP 2.8.2R (2)(b). Mr Ss representatives say he first became aware that he had 
cause for complaint in 2017 - when he sought professional advice.
From the evidence Ive got, taking into account the acts and omissions complained about, I 
think Mr S should reasonably have known that something might have gone wrong as a result 
of the suppliers acts and/or omissions before that. But, I accept this is not the same as Mr S 
knowing that he had cause for complaint against BPF. And, whilst Mr S may have known 
that something might have gone wrong with the supplier, I dont think its reasonable to 
assume that he would have realised that this might have made the relationship between him 
and BPF unfair  or that he had grounds to complain about BPF.
For that to be the case, I think Mr S would have needed to know there was a problem that 
caused him to lose out because of something BPF did (or didnt do). Im not persuaded that 
Mr S knew (or ought to have known) that he had cause for complaint against BPF before 
2017. Im satisfied he brought his complaint to us within three years of that and I find this 
part of the complaint comes within our jurisdiction as well.
Was it unfair or unreasonable of BPF to decline Mr Ss claims?
Mr S brings claims against BPF under sections 75 and 140A of the CCA. Our investigator 
thinks any right he has to do so is probably out of time under the LA. If thats correct, then I 
think its something BPF could reasonably take into account when considering Mr Ss claims. 
I should make it clear at the outset however that Im not deciding if any right that Mr S may 
have to bring a claim has expired under the LA - thats a matter for the courts. In this 
decision, Im considering whether I think BPF should reasonably have accepted Mr Ss 
claims.
Section 75 CCA
Under section 75 a borrower has an equal right to claim against a credit provider and a 
supplier if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier, in certain 
circumstances. One of these requirements is the presence of a debtor-creditor-supplier 
relationship. I havent considered that here because Im not minded to uphold Mr Ss 
complaint for other reasons, as set out below.
Mr S claims misrepresentations were made and I think sections 2, and 9 of the LA are 
relevant. Section 2 applies to a claim (founded in tort) for damages under section 2(1) of the 
Misrepresentation Act 1967 and section 9 applies to causes of action for sums recoverable 
under statute. Im satisfied that both sections impose a limitation period of six years from the 
date that a cause of action accrues. And I think the date on which the cause of action 
accrued in this case will be the same as the date upon which the misrepresentation alleged 
under section 75 became actionable  thats the date the damage is suffered.
I say this because Im satisfied that any relevant damage would have been incurred when Mr 
S purchased the timeshare and took out the finance  in September 2009. Amongst other 
things, it was at this stage he paid for the benefits which he says were misrepresented and 
incurred liability for any financial losses. In light of the this, I think Mr S would have needed 
to bring any claim under section 75 within six years of the date of the timeshare transaction itself. And Im satisfied that more than six years had passed since that date before Mr S 
contacted BPF in August 2018. I think the period within which Mr S had to bring an action 
under section 75 had likely run out by this point. And I cant reasonably conclude that its 
wrong of BPF to decline Mr Ss section 75 claim in these circumstances.
Section 140A CCA
Under this section a court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and the creditor arising out 
of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a determination but I 
think this is relevant law so I have taken it into account.
Im satisfied that the time limit within which Mr S had to bring such a claim is six years from 
the date the debtor-creditor relationship ended. Evidence Ive seen shows that this loan was 
repaid in June 2010. I think this means Mr S needed to bring any claim under section 140A 
no later than June 2016. Mr S didnt contact BPF until August 2018 - more than two years 
later. Im minded to conclude that any right he had to bring a claim under section 140A had 
likely expired by that stage. And Im not persuaded its unreasonable for BPF to decline this 
claim, in the circumstances.
Should the time limits for bringing claims be extended? 
Section 32 LA
I appreciate Mr S may say he didnt know about these time limits but Im afraid thats not 
generally accepted as grounds for extending the limitation period. I have considered 
submissions made by his representatives about the impact of section 32 of the LA. This 
section provides for the extension of time for starting an action if fraud, mistake or 
concealment are found - or could with reasonable diligence have been discovered.
For the reasons Ill explain, Im not persuaded this section assists Mr S - in these particular 
circumstances. As far as I can see, from the somewhat limited information available, Mr S 
used the product not long after purchase. And, given the nature of the product and the 
misrepresentations made, I think hes likely to have realised fairly early on that he wasnt 
receiving what he says he was told at the outset would be provided. On balance, I am 
minded to find its more likely than not Mr S would have had enough information within a 
year of buying the product to realise that misrepresentations might have been made. I 
consider that would probably have been sufficient enable him to bring relevant claims here. 
And I dont think its unreasonable to expect him to have done so within the time limits 
referred to.
I have also considered the submissions that Mr Ss representatives have made about the 
payment of commission by BPF to the supplier for arranging the loan. They say BPF should 
have told Mr S about any such commission and its wrong that this still hasnt been 
disclosed. BPF hasnt told us what, if any, commission was paid to the supplier. From the 
evidence Ive seen, I think if any commission was paid (which is not certain) this probably 
didnt exceed 10%.
I cant see that BPF would have breached any duty in making such a payment. And Im not 
persuaded that BPF was under an obligation to disclose the amount of any commission paid 
in these circumstances. As far as I can see, the levels of commission that were normally 
paid in this sort of situation (at the relevant time) werent high enough to mean that BPF 
should have appreciated not telling Mr S about commission risked the debtor-creditor 
relationship being unfair under section 140A. I dont think the supplier was required to 
disclose that it might have received a commission to Mr S either. Im satisfied the suppliers role wasnt to make an impartial or dis-interested recommendation and Im not persuaded it 
was acting as agent to Mr S or owed him a fiduciary duty.
In light of my provisional findings, I dont think section 32 helps Mr S. But, in any event, even 
if commission was paid I think its unlikely to have exceeded 10% and I consider it is unlikely 
that a court would find such a commission payment created an unfair debtor-creditor 
relationship.
Section 14A LA
Section 14A provides for a second period in which a claim for negligence can be made. This 
hasnt been raised specifically by the parties but Ive considered it in order to see if it takes 
matters any further. Ive reviewed what happened when Mr S purchased the timeshare 
product and took out the loan and the associated paperwork. I accept there was an 
obligation here to give Mr S sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable him to 
make an informed choice about whether to take out the finance. But Im not persuaded a 
duty of care arose or advice was provided that could give rise to a claim to which this section 
could apply. And I cant reasonably conclude that this assists Mr S in these particular 
circumstances.
unaffordable lending
Mr S says proper credit checks were not carried out before he was given this loan and his 
representatives consider the loan had all the hallmarks of unaffordable credit. They 
highlight the APR of just over 17%, when mortgage rates were much lower at the relevant 
time, and they say no affordability checks were undertaken. 
I accept BPF was required to undertake checks to satisfy itself that Mr S was likely to be 
able to afford to repay the borrowing here without too much trouble. But, even if I were to 
find BPF didnt do all it should have when it agreed to lend, I would still need to be satisfied 
that this loan was actually unaffordable for Mr S - in order to reasonably uphold this part of 
his complaint.
I havent got much information about Mr Ss circumstances at the relevant time. But (in a 
statement he provided) he says he could have paid for the product outright in September 
2009. I think that suggests he had sufficient disposable funds at the time to pay for the 
product and he didnt have any financial difficulties at that time. Mr S hasnt said that he had 
trouble meeting the loan payments or otherwise struggled financially and I can see he 
purchased additional points (for over £8,000) in 2010. I understand he paid for this outright 
using his own funds. On balance, Im not persuaded its likely this loan was unaffordable for 
Mr S when he took it out. It follows, I cant reasonably uphold this part of his complaint.
Conclusion
As our investigator has explained, its for the courts to decide if any claim that Mr S may 
have has expired under the LA. But, on the current evidence, Im satisfied that any such 
claims here have most likely exceeded the time limits set out in the LA. And I think it is 
reasonable to take that into account in this situation.
For the reasons Ive given, Im not presently persuaded that there are sufficient fair and 
reasonable grounds to uphold this complaint. I dont think BPF has treated Mr S unfairly or 
acted unreasonably and I cant properly require BPF to compensate Mr S or do anything 
else.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited the parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have any additional 
comments or new evidence by 1 July 2022. One party asked for a little more time and I 
thought it was fair to allow a short extension. Both parties have now responded and 
confirmed they have nothing further to add. I see no reasonable grounds to depart from my 
provisional conclusions in the circumstances. For the reasons Ive given, Im not persuaded 
that there are sufficient fair and reasonable grounds to uphold this complaint. I dont think 
BPF has treated Mr S unfairly or acted unreasonably. And Im unable to fairly find BPF 
should compensate Mr S or provide a refund or do anything else. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is that this service is able to consider Mr Ss 
complaint and, having done so, I do not uphold it.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman