DRN-2981768
The complaint
Mr A complained because Santander UK Plc closed his account and recorded a CIFAS 
fraud marker against his name.
What happened
On 3 December 2018, £450 credited Mr As Santander basic banking account.
Mr A carried out a balance enquiry on 5 December 2018, and made a £50 payment the next 
day. During the next few days, he checked his balance at a cash machine and made further 
withdrawals, spending all the money.
In June 2019, Santander contacted Mr A about the £450 credit. Mr A told Santander he had 
no knowledge of where the credit had come from, or why. He said he hadnt known the credit 
was in his account, which was why hed spent the money.
Santander decided to withdraw banking facilities from Mr A. It closed his account on 21 June 
and told Mr A he could collect his £1.44 balance from a branch within the next 30 days if he 
took suitable photo identification.
Santander also recorded a fraud marker on the CIFAS anti-fraud database.
In September 2019, Mr A complained to Santander. He said hed had difficulties being 
accepted for accounts elsewhere. In its final response letter, Santander refused to change its 
decision. It also said that Santander had no jurisdiction over other financial organisations 
decisions, and Mr A would have to contact the organisations which had turned him down.
Mr A complained to this service. He said hed told Santander he didnt know anything about 
the credit, but it had closed his account, and he had no job or account as a result.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr As complaint. He explained that Santander had recorded 
the CIFAS marker against Mr A because fraudulent credits had been made into his account, 
which hed spent. Having looked at Mr As actions after the credit, he believed Mr A had 
been aware of the credit into his account  and that he knowingly spent it. So the 
investigator considered Santander had acted correctly when it had closed Mr As account 
and recorded a CIFAS fraud marker against his name.
Mr A didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman decision. He said Santander had assumed 
he knew about the £450 credit because hed made balance enquiries at cash machines. But 
Mr A said that when checking a balance at a cash machine, it didnt give much information, 
for example about the origin of the funds. Mr A also said that the time when it happened 
would have been very close to when hed been paid by the firm hed then been working for. 
Mr A said that hed planned to get a mortgage and open an account for his son, and wouldnt 
have jeopardised that for the amount of money which came into his account. He said his 
mistake was not having set up online banking with Santander.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the transactions after the fraudulent £450 funds arrived in Mr As account on 3 
December 2018.  Starting on 5 December, there were multiple balance enquiries and then 
withdrawals spending all the money, and Mr A told Santander that no-one else had had 
access to his card or PIN.  He did report his card missing about a month later, but that was 
in relation to two further transactions, which dont form part of this complaint.
When Santander asked Mr A about the money in June 2019, he said he didnt know 
anything about the incoming fraudulent payment. But hed made multiple balance enquiries  
which leads me to think he was expecting a credit. When it arrived, he then spent the money 
within a week of receiving it. He hadnt contacted Santander to ask why there was more 
money in his account than hed expected. 
When Mr A complained to this service, he said hed checked his account because hed been 
expecting his pay. But Ive looked at Mr As statements both before and after the £450 credit, 
and theres no sign of any pay coming into his account. And Ive also borne in mind that 
when Santander contacted Mr A in June 2019 to ask him about the fraudulent credit, Mr A 
didnt mention that hed been expecting his pay. 
After the investigators view, Mr A said that his mistake was not having online banking. But I 
dont consider it makes any difference whether Mr A checked his balance at a cash machine, 
or online. Either would have shown there was significantly more money in his account than 
there had been before. The balance of Mr As account was generally low, so an extra £450 
would have been noticeable. Ive looked at the pattern of Mr As account from when hed 
opened it, and the balance had generally been low, with occasional irregular credits from a 
number of different sources. So I think its more likely than not that Mr A checked his balance 
because he was expecting the credit  and was aware when it came. And he didnt tell 
Santander at the time that hed had an unexpected credit, but spent the money.
Ive looked at what Santander did in response to these events. 
Santanders terms and conditions, sections 17.2 and 17.3, state that if a customer is in 
significant breach of the terms and conditions, it can close the account with immediate 
notice.  One condition is that the account holder must not act in any way to give rise to 
reasonable suspicion of fraud or other criminal activities. Here, I accept that Santander 
considered Mr A had acted fraudulently and was entitled to close his account.
Santander also recorded a CIFAS fraud marker against Mr As name. CIFAS is a fraud 
prevention membership organisation. Members, such as Santander, register markers 
against individuals.  Theres a high standard of proof required, and set standards of proof, 
before a marker can be recorded. These standards include a requirement that there are 
reasonable grounds to believe that a fraud or financial crime has been committed or 
attempted. And that evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member 
could confidently report the conduct to the police.
Ive looked at the evidence Santander has provided to this service. Having done so, I 
consider Santander carried out sufficient checks to satisfy the requirements for a CIFAS 
marker. So I find that it was recorded correctly and I do not require Santander to remove it.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman