DRN-4251919
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy that AWP P&C SA declined a claim they made on their travel 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs C cut short their trip when Mrs C and her daughter tested positive for Covid-19. 
They were on holiday in the UK and made their way back to the mainland. They claimed for 
various costs including their unused accommodation costs. 
AWP declined the claim as Mrs C didnt provide evidence of logged lateral flow tests. 
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy with the service they received and because their claim has been 
declined. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld the complaint. She didnt think it 
was fair for AWP to decline the claim, based on the policy terms. She recommended AWP 
reassess the claim and pay £150 for service issues. 
Mr and Mrs C accepted the investigators findings. AWP didnt agree and asked an 
ombudsman to review the complaint. They referred to the policy terms and said it was 
reasonable to request medical confirmation of a diagnosis to support a claim for curtailment 
due to illness.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say AWP has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Cs complaint because: 
Theres no requirement in the policy terms for Mrs C to provide AWP with evidence of 
a positive Covid-19 test result by logging a lateral flow test. If that was a requirement, 
it should be made clear in the policy terms. 
Theres independent testimony, which I find persuasive, which confirms Mrs C and 
her daughter tested positive for Covid-19 and that it prompted them to cut short their 
trip. 
Mrs C has explained why she didnt take a photo of the lateral flow test  she and her 
daughter were unwell. I also note she was also trying to sort out how to leave where 
she was staying. Mrs C explained that shed obtained the lateral flow tests from the 
place where she was staying. 
In the specific circumstances of this case I dont think it would be fair and reasonable 
to expect Mrs C to provide other evidence, such as a medical certificate, in support of 
the fact that she and her daughter had Covid-19. She was in a remote location and, 
in any event, wouldnt have been able to see a medical practitioner face to face. So, 
it's unlikely that shed have got more persuasive evidence even if shed been able to 
speak to a medical professional. 
Even if I agreed with AWP that the curtailment of the trip wasnt medically necessary 
I think it would be fair and reasonable to step outside the policy terms in the 
individual circumstances of this case. The holiday was a community-based holiday 
and Mr and Mrs C would have been confined to a single room with their young 
daughter. So, Im still persuaded their decision to cut the trip short was fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Taking all of the above into account I dont think it was fair for AWP to reject the 
claim. I think they should reassess it in line with the remaining terms and conditions. 
AWP didnt dispute our investigators findings about the service Mr and Mrs C 
received. I think they experienced distress and inconvenience by not receiving 
responses within the timeframes they were given and having to chase AWP. I also 
think they were caused inconvenience by their claim being unfairly declined. This had 
an impact on Mr and Mrs C because it worried them and took up their time 
unnecessarily. So, I think AWP should pay them £150 compensation to reflect this. 
Putting things right
Within 28 days of the date that AWP are told that Mr and Mrs C have accepted my decision 
they need to put things right by: 
Reassessing Mr and Mrs Cs claim in line with the remaining policy terms and 
conditions
Paying them £150 compensation.   
My final decision
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Cs complaint about AWP P&C SA and direct them to put things 
right in the way Ive outlined above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman