DRN-2940210
The complaint
Ms T complains that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) acted irresponsibly when they provided her 
with a debit card which enabled her to use it to carry out online gambling transactions. 
What happened
Ms T says that around six years ago her sister contacted Lloyds on her behalf, to inform 
them of her severe mental health condition, which at certain low points resulted in her 
gambling excessively. Lloyds have confirmed that they were made aware of Ms Ts mental 
health vulnerability in August or September of 2014. In March 2015 Ms T spent around 
£1,555 through online gambling transactions. Ms T complained to Lloyds at the time and 
Lloyds refunded her the full amount. Lloyds confirmed this in their final response to her 
complaint in April 2015. Ms T says in 2015 Lloyds had assured her sister that theyd placed 
a permanent block on Ms Ts account, which would prevent her from making any online 
gambling transactions. 
Lloyds said that in 2015 they placed a 12-month flag on Ms Ts account which prevented 
some lending products being offered to her. Lloyds also say that they offered Ms T the 
option of having an indicator applied to her account which would further restrict certain 
transactions. Lloyds say that Ms T declined this offer, advising that at that point she was 
okay and didnt need it. Lloyds however cancelled Ms Ts debit card and replaced it with a 
cash point card, which prevented her from making online transactions.  
In December 2019, Ms T contacted Lloyds to advise that as she was going on holiday the 
following month, she needed the use of a debit card. Lloyds arranged this for her. In May 
2020, over the course of a few days Ms T used her debit card to make a series of online 
gambling transactions to the value of around £3,000. 
Ms T complained to Lloyds about the money that she was able to spend on gambling. Ms T 
says she was assured that a permanent block had been placed on her account in 2015 that 
would prevent any online gambling transactions. In June 2020 Lloyds sent their final 
response to Ms Ts complaint. They sent two further responses in July and August 2020 
addressing the same concerns. Lloyds didnt uphold Ms Ts complaint, they advised that 
they didnt place a permanent block, but a flag, on Ms Ts account in March 2015, which 
expired after twelve months. They said the flag could only be extended by instruction from 
Ms T. They pointed out that since then there had been no gambling transactions on the 
account until in 2020.
Unhappy with their response Ms T brought her complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into her concerns but didnt uphold her complaint. They felt in the circumstances 
Lloyds had acted fairly in how they treated Ms T, particularly as Ms T gave no indication to 
Lloyds of her mental health vulnerability after 2015.
Ms T disagreed with our investigator and reasserted that she was under the impression that 
Lloyds had told her sister that a block would be permanently placed on her account. 
As our investigators view remained unchanged, Ms T asked that her complaint be referred 
to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published guidance for businesses on supporting 
vulnerable consumers. Among other things the guidance says that businesses should 
provide their customers with a level of care that is appropriate given the characteristics of the 
customer themselves. So, Ive thought about this when considering whether Lloyds have 
acted fairly in the circumstances.
Ms T says that Lloyds shouldnt have allowed her to have a debit card. Ms T says that by 
allowing her to have a debit card, Lloyds were responsible for her spending around £3000 on 
gambling transactions. In her complaint form, in subsequent emails to us and during a phone 
call with Lloyds, Ms T has said that she believed Lloyds had placed a permanent marker on 
her account from 2015 which prevented gambling transactions from being made on her 
account. 
From the evidence provided its clear to me that Lloyds hadnt placed a permanent marker or 
block on Ms Ts account. Lloyds have confirmed this to us, and it also forms the basis of why 
the gambling transactions were able to go through. So, although Ive considered all the 
information provided, my decision focuses mainly on whether it was reasonable for Ms T to 
expect that Lloyds had placed a permanent marker or block that prevented her from carrying 
out online gambling transactions.
Ive also considered however whether Lloyds should have been aware of Ms Ts mental 
health vulnerability when she ordered the debit card in May 2020.
Lloyds confirmed to us that in March 2015 they placed a flag on Ms Ts account that 
restricted the offering of some lending products. Lloyds explained that this flag was in place 
for twelve months and could only be extended by Ms T advising them to do so. Ms T says 
that her sister was told by Lloyds, most likely during a phone call that they had placed a 
permanent marker on her account to prevent online gambling transactions. Lloyds have 
been unable to provide phone calls from 2015 to verify what had been said. However, Lloyds 
explained that in addition to the twelve month flag they replaced her account debit card with 
a cashpoint card, to prevent online transactions, and asked Ms T if she wanted to have an 
indicator applied to her account that would restrict certain transactions. Lloyds said Ms T 
declined the indicator, advising she was okay at the moment as she had her cashpoint card.
In an email to us in May 2021 Ms T acknowledges that she may have said she didnt need 
support in 2015, but that was because she believed there to be a marker on the account. 
Having considered all the evidence, I dont think Lloyds acted unfairly by not applying a 
permanent marker or block on Ms Ts account. Lloyds have explained that they have 
different procedures in place now, than they did in 2015, to support customers with 
gambling. The gambling freeze is what Ms T currently has applied to her account. Lloyds 
however has said the gambling freeze wasnt available in 2015. Im satisfied that Ms T was 
given the opportunity to have a restrictive indicator on her account in 2015 but declined it at the time. I think its likely that had she accepted the restriction, there would have been a 
greater opportunity for Lloyds and Ms T to communicate with each other regarding her 
account management, mainly because many of her transactions would have been blocked, 
or referred to the systems customer notes as a result of it. 
I acknowledge that Ms T says her sister had been assured of the permanent block, however 
I havent seen any evidence besides what Ms T has said to support this. Lloyds system 
notes and testimony have confirmed that they were informed of Ms Ts mental health 
vulnerability in 2015 and also confirms the actions they took and offered. 
So, from the information provided Im satisfied that Lloyds hadnt acted unfairly by not 
applying a permanent marker or block on Ms Ts account in 2015; and I dont think its 
reasonably fair to expect Lloyds to have done so in the circumstances.
Based on the evidence provided, Im not persuaded that it was reasonable to expect Lloyds 
to have been aware of Ms Ts vulnerable mental health when she ordered her debit card in 
2019. Ms T says she provided medical information to Lloyds in 2015 and Ive seen Lloyds 
system notes in 2015 referring to her vulnerable situation. So, Im satisfied that Lloyds were 
made aware at that time. However, in their response to Ms T in June 2020 Lloyds pointed 
out that March 2015 was the last time they spoke to Ms T about a block on her card; and 
there was no indication of gambling on her account until May 2020. 
Lloyds have said the flag lasts for twelve months and that Ms T would need to notify them if 
she wanted it extended. Ive no evidence to say whether this was explained to Ms T at the 
time. Lloyds said they were unable to retrieve any phone recordings from that time. 
However, from the evidence that has been provided Im persuaded that Ms T gave no further 
indication to Lloyds, after 2015 and prior to the gambling transactions in May 2020, of her 
mental health vulnerability. 
Having listened to a call recording from December 2019, when Ms T ordered her debit card, 
Im satisfied that Ms T gave no indication or update of her mental health situation when she 
requested the card. Ive reviewed the statements on Ms Ts account which showed no signs 
of gambling. I dont think its reasonable to expect Lloyds to have checked all of Ms Ts 
customer notes entries to ascertain whether Ms T required additional support. Particularly as 
there were no obvious signs of gambling or vulnerability since 2015. 
Ms T said in an email to us that at the time of ordering her card she was mentally well. Ms T 
also said in her complaint form that she ordered the card on the advice from two branch 
staff, with the awareness that shed not be able to gamble due to the block she thought was 
on her account. In consideration that this was the first time shed ordered a debit card on her 
account since the problems she experienced in 2015, I think it would have been reasonable 
for Ms T to discuss this when her card was being ordered, particularly as Ms T referenced 
that she was aware there should have been an existing block on her account. 
So, Im not persuaded that Lloyds should have known there was a potential problem at the 
time of ordering her debit card, without any indication from Ms T, that she was vulnerable or 
susceptible to gambling because of her mental health. I think Lloyds have done everything 
that would have been expected of them which included discussing Ms Ts vulnerability with 
her in 2015 and offering her the appropriate support. In the circumstances of this complaint, 
Im satisfied that Lloyds have acted fairly, so I wont be instructing them to do anything in 
relation to this complaint.
In her emails to us, Ms T has told us about the difficulties shes experienced as a result of 
her mental health. She also told us how the COVID-19 government enforced lockdown had 
affected her. Having reviewed the information provided I recognise Ms Ts strength of feeling 
about her complaint and the vulnerable position she sometimes finds herself in. Organisations like Gamcare and Gambling commission offer additional support to 
consumers who find themselves in difficult situations related to gambling. Ms T may find 
some of their information helpful. 
My final decision
Having thought about everything above, along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, I dont uphold Ms Ts complaint about Lloyds Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2022.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman