DRN-2194326
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc trading as Bristol & West wont pay him the 
balance of an old passbook account.
Mr W is being represented by his mother who was the signatory on the account. For ease I 
will refer to all actions as being those of Mr W.
What happened
Mr W found an old passbook for account which had last been updated in 1992 with a 
balance of £32.08. He asked Bristol & West about the account as he thought it was still 
open. Bristol & West was able to show that the account was closed on 21 October 1997, but 
due to the time that had passed were unable to say where the money had gone.
Mr W said that neither he, or his mother who was the signatory on the account at the time, 
had ever received the funds and so brought his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into what happened. He thought that due to the time which 
had passed there was no way to be certain of what happened. He explained that banks 
werent obliged to keep data for such a long period of time, and he was satisfied with the 
checks that had been done. Mr W remained unhappy, so the complaint has come to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bristol & West has been able to show that the account was closed on 21 October 1997. This 
is more than we usually see on a lot of complaints like this. Frustratingly the information 
doesnt show where the money went  just that the account was closed. This lack of 
information is understandable due to the time that has passed  over 20 years. 
A passbook isnt necessarily required to close an account. This can sometimes cause 
confusion when they are discovered years later, which appears to be what has happened 
here. I recognise what the terms and conditions say about the passbook needing to be 
produced to make transactions, but in practice customers sometimes lose passbooks, and 
are given replacements. In the same way, a bank would allow an account to be closed 
without the passbook as long as they are satisfied of the identity of the customer.
Due to the passage of time we can never be certain what happened to the money. What we 
do know is that the account was closed, and there is no outstanding balance to be paid. 
Bristol & West has explained that at the time they did not operate a dormant account policy. 
This means they didnt close accounts through lack of use. So Mr Ws account wouldve 
been closed upon request, and not because it hadnt been used in some time. 
The role of this service is to look at what checks Bristol & West has done to try and trace 
what happened. Im satisfied they have done all the checks they can. This doesnt mean I 
know where the money went, and after more than 20 years we most likely never will. But Im 
satisfied Bristol and West has done all they can.
Having looked at everything Im satisfied Bristol & West has acted fairly and reasonably 
when searching their records to determine what happened when the account was closed. Its 
unfortunate, but not unexpected after over 20 years, that Bristol & West has been unable to 
say where the money went, but I dont think theyve made any errors in their actions.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2020.
 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman