DRN-2311771
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) has refused to deal with her
claim for the theft of her car.
What happened
Mrs S has told us and Ageas that her car was stolen when she was arranging for work to be
carried out on it.
Mrs Ss car was suffering from engine issues and required an engine replacement, so she
approached her warranty provider to arrange for the work to be carried out. The warranty
provider couldnt recommend a garage to carry out the work but did say they usually
recommend customers use a specific website to search for an appropriate garage.
Mrs S asked several garages to complete the work but was told the job was either too big, or
that they wouldnt work with the warranty provider. Mrs S eventually found a garage via an
online selling site that agreed to do the work, and work with the warranty provider.
Mrs S arranged for the car to be collected by the garage. It was collected on the back of a
truck and Mrs S paid a cash deposit. She received a hand-written receipt for the deposit.
Mrs S later contacted the garage on the details provided and was given a further invoice on
headed paper for an increased price which included further work. After an exchange of
messages between Mrs S and the garage communication ceased between the two and Mrs
Ss car was not returned.
Mrs S contacted the police to report her car as stolen and attempted to make a claim
through her motor insurance provider Ageas.
Ageas looked at the circumstances of the claim and decided it wouldnt look to pay it. It said
the car wasnt taken by force and therefore wasnt considered to be a theft. Mrs S didnt
agree so she brought her complaint to this service to be reviewed.
Our Investigator considered Mrs Ss complaint and didnt think Ageas had acted fairly. After
looking at the terms and conditions of the policy he was unable to find that Ageas had
defined theft and there was also no clause in the policy that limited cover for theft by
deception. He asked Ageas to reconsider the claim.
Ageas looked at the claim again and again decided to decline it. It said that Mrs S hadnt
taken proper care to keep her car safe. It pointed to the term in Mrs Ss policy that states:
You must make sure that you do all you can to keep your car and its contents safe".
Our Investigator considered what Ageas said and thought that this time it had acted fairly
and reasonably by relying on the above term to decline Mrs Ss claim.
In my provisional decision sent in October 2020 I said:
It has already been found that there are no exclusions in Mrs Ss policy for the theft of a car
by deception, and that nowhere in the policy does it state that for Mrs S to claim for the theft
of her car that it would have to be taken by force. So, it is clear to me that Ageas would not
be able to use either of these reasons to decline Mrs Ss claim.
Ageas appear to have accepted this finding and instead are relying on a term in Mrs Ss
policy to say they wont pay her claim as she didnt take reasonable care to keep her car
safe.
It has said:
Mrs S didnt use the website suggested by her warranty provider to select a garage 
to carry out the work
Mrs S paid a £1,000 cash deposit for the work to be carried out
An online search shows similar scams which could have brought the issue to Mrs Ss 
attention
A company by the same name was dissolved in 2018
Details on the invoice not being correct
I have considered these individual points before reaching my findings.
website suggested by warranty provider
Whilst Mrs S didnt arrange for the work to be carried out by a garage on the website
suggested by the warranty provider I havent seen anything to suggest she had to do this. I
can see that Mrs S initially approached her warranty provider before arranging the work and
was told it couldnt recommend a garage.
Mrs S then approached several garages to carry out the work to her car before searching
online for an appropriate garage. Mrs S found a garage via a popular online selling site and
after enquiring if the garage carried out warranty work agreed to have the work carried out
through them.
The approach Mrs S took to find a garage that could complete the work on her car sounds
reasonable.
paying a cash deposit
Mrs S paid a deposit in cash when her car was collected rather than paying by another
method. Cash is a generally accepted form of paying for goods and services and Mrs S paid
the deposit when she saw someone in person to collect the car on the back of a truck. This
could be considered a way that Mrs S ensured she was dealing with a garage rather than an
online scam requesting her bank details.
In any event, while there are other forms of payment available, I dont think Mrs Ss decision
to pay the deposit in cash was unreasonable.
an online search showed similar scams
While an online search may have identified similar scams experienced by other people, as I
said above, I dont think Mrs S took an unreasonable approach to arranging the necessary
work to be carried out to her car.Mrs S could have carried out an online search before handing her car over, but it appears
the garage seemed legitimate and that she took reasonable care before parting with it.
A company with the same name had previously been dissolved
I appreciate this may well be the case, but I dont think most people would have checked the
details of registered companies before arranging for a garage to carry out work to their car.
So, I wouldnt have expected Mrs S to necessarily carry out this check either.
Incorrect details on the invoice
Ageas has explained that the invoice didnt have VAT details and the business address
didnt match that of an existing garage. I have looked over the invoice myself, it has a
company name and telephone number as well as a description of the work and a breakdown
of the costs.
Again, I dont think it was unreasonable that Mrs S didnt check the address on the invoice
physically matched that of an existing garage. I dont think this is something the average
customer would do. And in my experience not all invoices include a separate VAT section,
for example those that arent VAT registered. I wouldnt expect Mrs S to know she had to
look for this on the invoice.
I didnt think Ageas had acted reasonably in declining Mrs Ss claim and thought that to put 
things right it should pay Mrs Ss claim inline with the remaining terms and conditions of her 
policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S responded to my provisional decision accepting the outcome. Ageas explained that it 
thought Mrs Ss claim wasnt covered by her motor insurance policy and that it was a civil 
matter.
Ageas hasnt provided any further evidence to support its view, and I still think Mrs Ss car 
was stolen, which is covered by the policy.
I require Ageas Insurance Limited to pay Mrs Ss claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of her policy.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Ageas Insurance Limited to pay Mrs Ss claim in line with 
the remaining terms and conditions of her policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman