DRN-3787167
The complaint
Mrs P complains Aviva Insurance Limited charged her more than it said it would for a new 
boiler, and that it cancelled her boiler and central heating cover without explaining what this 
meant for her.
Mrs P is represented by her husband. But for ease Ill refer to both their actions as Mrs Ps.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, I will focus on the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs P had boiler and central heating cover with Aviva. In early 2021 the boiler broke down. 
Aviva considered the boiler beyond economical repair, and it was agreed a new one would 
be installed. This left Mrs P (and her household) without heating for a period. But I dont 
consider Aviva responsible for that as it wasnt to blame for the boiler failing and a new one 
was installed within a reasonable timeframe. 
During the installation process it was recommended a central heating pump should also be 
replaced. This came at an extra cost. Mrs P considers this extra cost unfair as Aviva had 
quoted for the new boiler and she didnt see why she should have to pay more than the 
amount quoted. While I accept Mrs Ps point of view here, sometimes when work starts 
things change. I find it reasonable for Aviva to charge extra for work which wasnt known to 
be needed when the original quote was provided. 
When it was decided a new boiler was needed Aviva considered the underlying policy. As 
the new boiler came with a warranty it wouldnt have been fair for Aviva to continue to 
provide (and charge for) boiler cover. Because of the type of cover Mrs P needed, Aviva 
didnt have another suitable policy. So, it cancelled Mrs Ps cover. The policy terms allow for 
this, and I find this was a reasonable action to take in the circumstances. 
Later in 2021 Mrs P had problems with her heating system. This wasnt covered by the new 
boilers warranty as it wasnt because of an issue with the boiler. Mrs P says Aviva wasnt 
clear enough about what the warranty would cover, wasnt clear enough about why previous 
repairs by Aviva wouldnt be covered and didnt explain why it couldnt continue to provide 
cover. Mrs P says this led to her not exploring alternative cover and meant her household 
was without heating during a cold period and meant she needed to arrange (and pay for) 
alternative support.
While I accept Mrs P feels let down by Aviva, Im not persuaded its done anything wrong. It 
was fair for Aviva to cancel the cover and Mrs P knew her cover had been cancelled. The 
new boilers warranty sets out the boiler and associated parts would be covered and says 
the wider central heating and plumbing system is not covered. Thats not unusual. And I 
dont consider I can fairly conclude Aviva had a duty to proactively explain the difference 
between a boiler warranty and a boiler and central heating insurance contract to Mrs P.
When cover is cancelled, I wouldnt expect further repairs to be completed. Mrs P has 
suggested previous repairs are also not covered. While a repair being needed again 
wouldnt be covered, I would expect Aviva to consider whether action should be taken if it 
can be shown a previous repair (which was covered at the time) wasnt completed to a 
satisfactory standard. Im not aware thats the case here. 
While Aviva likely could have better explained why it wouldnt provide further cover, Im not 
persuaded it needed to. In any case, I dont consider a better explanation would have made 
a material difference. I say this because Mrs P knew her cover had been cancelled, ought 
reasonably to have known the boilers warranty would be limited to the boiler and associated 
parts, and therefore ought reasonably to have known to seek alternative cover for the wider 
central heating and plumbing system elsewhere, if shed wanted to.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman