DRN-3820208
The complaint
Mr W complains that Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited (AAISL) recorded a 
default on his credit file when his motor insurance policy was cancelled. He wants the default 
removed. 
What happened
Mr W moved house and he said he called AAISL to tell it of the change in his address and 
bank details. But AAISL said it had no record of this. When it didnt receive Mr Ws monthly 
payments for his premium, AAISL cancelled the policy for non-payment in line with the terms 
and conditions and recorded the default. Mr W said this was now causing problems with his 
mortgage and he wanted the default removed from his credit file. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought there 
was no evidence that Mr W had contacted AAISL about the change in address or bank 
details. And she thought Mr W should have followed this up with AAISL if his direct debit 
wasnt being taken. So she thought AAISL had cancelled the policy in keeping with the terms 
and conditions and correctly recorded the default.
Mr W replied that he thought the onus was on him to prove he had contacted AAISL. He said 
he was 100% sure that he had, and he hadnt received anything further from it. He thought it 
was unfair that AAISL wanted him to pay the balance of his annual premium when it 
cancelled the policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W explained that the default on his record had affected his ability to change his 
mortgage. I can understand that this must be frustrating for him. But from what I can see, the 
default should now have expired and so this will no longer have an effect on him. So Ive 
looked to see whether AAISL acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and 
fairly and reasonably when it recorded the default.
AAISL said it cancelled the policy due to non-payment. I can see from its records that it 
couldnt collect Mr Ws monthly direct debit, and it wrote to tell him that it would try again. But 
this too failed. It then told Mr W that it wanted payment of the balance of the full annual 
premium or else the policy would cancel. It couldnt collect this amount, and so the policy 
was cancelled with 14 days notice. I think this was fair and reasonable and in keeping with 
the policys terms and conditions. 
Mr W said hed called AAISL to tell it of the change in his address. But it had no record of 
this. And its too long ago for Mr W to obtain phone records. I can see that AAISL sent its 
letters to Mr Ws old address, but I cant see that Mr W had his mail redirected. And he 
hasnt explained why he didnt contact AAISL when his direct debits werent taken. 
The policy terms state:
You must tell AAIS, as soon as possible, and in any event within 7 days, if you change your 
address. Failure to do so may result in your insurance being cancelled.
Mr W said he didnt receive any letters from AAISL. But Mr W told us that he took out a new 
policy with another provider in the same month AAISL cancelled his policy. This doesnt 
seem consistent with Mr W not being aware that his policy was cancelled. So Im persuaded 
that he must have been aware his direct debits had failed, and the cancellation of the policy 
was likely. 
AAISL sent Mr W notice of the default and, when it hadnt been paid within 90 days, it 
recorded this on Mr Ws credit file. I think this was in keeping with the policys terms and 
conditions. So I cant say that AAISL did anything wrong in this. AAISL is obliged to report an 
accurate credit history for Mr W. And I think it did this as he clearly missed his repayments 
and defaulted on his credit agreement. So I dont require AAISL to do anything further. 
If Mr W remains unhappy that AAISL sought an incorrect balance for his remaining premium, 
he would need to raise this as a new complaint to give AAISL a chance to respond before 
we can consider this further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman