DRN-1623885
 
The complaint
Mr S has complained that a hire car his wife was driving broke down while his car was being 
repaired after making a claim under his car insurance policy.
 What happened
Mr Ss wife is a named driver under his car insurance policy with the insurer, Advantage.
Mr S made a claim following an incident in April 2019. While his car was being repaired, he 
was provided with a hire car. 
Unfortunately while Mrs S was driving the hire car it broke down. Mr S said this 
caused Mrs S considerable stress and anxiety as it was her first time driving since the 
incident.
Mr S complained to Advantage. Mr S said there was a delay in repairing his car. He said if 
his car had been repaired sooner, the incident in the hire car wouldnt have happened. He 
said they had to use their personal breakdown cover. The patrol agent told Mr S it was a 
gear linkage problem which shouldnt have happened to a nearly new car. 
Advantage and its agents didnt reply to Mr Ss complaint about the breakdown for several 
months and apologised for this delay. But Advantage said the breakdown was an 
unfortunate event that couldnt have been prevented or foreseen. 
Advantage said it dealt with Mr Ss complaint about the delay repairing his car separately 
and paid compensation for this. 
Our investigator explained that we cant consider the delay Advantage caused in replying to 
Mr Ss complaint as it isnt a regulated activity. He thought the breakdown couldnt have 
been foreseen and therefore didnt think Advantage was responsible for it. 
Mr S didnt agree. He doesnt think its fair that he had to wait so long for Advantage to reply 
to his complaint. And he isnt satisfied with its reply. So the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
There are some types of complaints that we cannot consider. A complaint about complaint 
handling falls outside of our jurisdiction as it isnt a complaint about a financial service. 
Part of Mr Ss complaint is that if there hadnt been a delay repairing his car, Mrs S wouldnt 
have been driving the hire car and the incident wouldnt have happened. But Advantage has replied to Mr Ss complaint about the delay in repairing his car 
separately. So this doesnt form part of my decision. 
The complaint we can consider here is that Advantage is responsible for the breakdown 
which happened. Advantage explained that its agents carry out a visual check on the car 
before handing it over to a customer. The cause of the breakdown isnt something that would 
have been visible to Advantage. Advantage says that the fault appears to be more likely to 
have been a manufacturing issue. 
I appreciate that the breakdown caused Mrs S stress and upset. But I cant safely conclude 
that Advantage is responsible for that. I think its very unfortunate that the hire car broke 
down. But I think it was something that wasnt preventable or foreseeable. 
So based on what Ive seen, I dont think Advantage is responsible for the distress and upset 
caused by the breakdown. This means I dont think it needs to pay compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman