DRN-3723838
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) unfairly 
declined their buildings insurance claim after a storm. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs J had buildings insurance with LV. They contacted LV on 7 December 2021 to 
tell it their outbuildings had recently been damaged during a storm. Corrugated roof panels 
had been blown off and had caused a section of the block wall to collapse. The damage 
occurred on 27 November 2021.
Mr and Mrs J wanted to arrange the repair work themselves, so called LV back with a quote 
on 10 December 2021. LV said that due to the cost of the quote, it would send a surveyor to 
validate the damage. On 14 December 2021, the surveyor reported that the storm conditions 
had highlighted the longstanding wear and tear, and the poor condition, of the outbuildings. 
He recommended that the claim should be declined. LV declined the claim on that basis.
Mr and Mrs J felt that LV had unfairly declined their claim. They didnt agree that their 
outbuildings were in poor condition. They also felt that the outbuildings had previously 
survived high winds. They felt this was evidence of a sturdy construction. And that the only 
reason for the damage was the strength of the storm in November 2021. So they complained 
to LV.
LV issued their final response to the complaint on 7 January 2022. It didnt think itd done 
anything wrong. It said that when it looked at claims for damage caused by a storm, it 
considered the following three questions:
1. If storm conditions had been present on or around the date the damage was said to 
have happened. 
- LV felt that they had been present. 
2. If the damage being claimed for was consistent with damage a storm typically 
causes. 
- LV said it didnt feel that the damage was consistent. It felt that the winds 
wouldnt have caused that much damage if the property hadnt already been 
showing signs wear and tear.
3. If the storm conditions were the main cause of damage.
- LV felt that the storm had merely highlighted the pre-existing issues with the 
outbuildings.
The answer to all three of these questions had to be yes for the claim to be covered under 
the storm section of the policy. 
LV referred Mr and Mrs J to their policy documents, noting that on page 9, under General 
exceptions, it stated:
We will not pay for:
 anything which happens gradually including deterioration or wear
It said it had declined the claim as it felt that the damage had been caused over time due to 
wear and tear, which wasnt covered under the policy.
Mr and Mrs J didnt agree with LV. They felt if there hadnt been a storm, there wouldnt have 
been any damage. They brought their complaint to this service. They wanted LV to cover the 
repair costs under their buildings insurance. Both LV and Mr and Mrs J provided photos of 
the damage to this service. 
Mr and Mrs J also told this service that the force of the wind that had ripped off the roof had 
also lifted and twisted an outbuilding that had been built in the last year. They said the 
building was so substantial that they hadnt been able to reposition it without taking it apart. 
They felt this showed how strong the winds had been. They also said that they replaced the 
corrugated sheets and timbers on the damaged outbuildings about five years ago. 
Mr and Mrs J also provided a short report from the builder who had provided the initial quote 
for the repair work. This said hed attended the property the day after the storm. And that he 
felt that the wind mustve been really strong to have curled so much of the corrugated steel 
roof back in on itself. 
Our investigator reviewed the information provided by Mr and Mrs J and LV and provided his 
first view. He felt the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think LV had fairly applied the 
exclusion for wear and tear. He considered that the answers to all three of the storm 
questions LV had considered was yes. That is, there was a storm, the damage was 
consistent with storm damage, and the storm conditions were the main cause of the 
damage. He also noted that the surveyors report had stated that the answer to all three of 
these questions was yes, despite repudiating the claim. 
Our investigator recommended that LV reviewed the claim without applying the wear and 
tear policy exclusion. And that it also paid Mr and Mrs J £150 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience itd caused. 
LV didnt agree with our investigator. It provided further photos taken at the time of the 
surveyors report, which it felt showed that the outbuildings were in poor condition before the 
storm. It also said that the outbuildings appeared to be poorly and simply constructed. It felt 
that if the outbuildings had been well maintained and better constructed, they wouldnt have 
been damaged by the storm. LV also said that given the notes the surveyor had written at 
the time of his report, it was clear that hed made a mistake when hed answered yes to all 
three of the storm questions. It said his notes clearly recorded the poor condition of the 
outbuildings.
Our investigator considered LVs further submissions. He issued his second view on the 
complaint. He didnt uphold it. Based on the new evidence, he now felt that the storm 
conditions werent the main cause of the damage. He felt the storm had highlighted a long-
standing weakness within the structure of the outbuilding, due to its construction. Therefore 
he didnt think LV had done anything wrong when itd declined the claim. 
Mr and Mrs J didnt agree with our investigator. So the complaint has come to me for a final 
review. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I agree with our investigator that the storm wasnt 
the primary cause of the damage. I know my decision will be disappointing to Mr and Mrs J. 
Ill explain the reasons for it. 
Mr and Mrs Js policy provided cover for damage caused to their property by a range of 
insured events. The events were listed in the policy and are commonly found in most policies 
on the market. Examples included flood, fire and storm. Mr and Mrs J feel strongly that they 
were insured for the peril of a storm. They said that if there hadnt been a storm, their 
building would still be intact. Mr and Mrs J provided this service with more photos of their 
outbuilding to illustrate their points. 
But the cost of repairing the damage isnt covered by the policy simply because the damage 
occurred whilst the policy was in existence. Its only covered if Mr and Mrs J can show that it 
was damaged by an insured event. 
LVs position, which our investigator supported, is that the outbuilding wouldve been 
expected to survive the storm conditions if it had been well maintained and appropriately 
constructed. 
Mr and Mrs Js position is that the damage occurred because of the storm conditions. LV 
agreed that storm conditions had been present. They sent their surveyor to assess whether 
the storm conditions had been the main cause of the damage reported under the claim.
In his 14 December 2021 report, the surveyor stated that the damage was due to wear and 
tear and a lack of recent maintenance. He wrote:
On inspection of the outbuilding, the roof covering is missing, some of the timber wall plates 
are missing and some of the wall covering is missing. There are clear signs of wear and tear 
and lack of any recent maintenance.
The condition of the metal corrugated sheets that are still on the outbuilding is in a poor 
condition. The block wall has multiple cracks which the PH claims are from the storm. The 
building is in a poor condition and suffering from heavy wear and tear issues. The storm has 
highlighted the wear and tear of the outbuilding.
I consider that the surveyors report clearly shows that there were significant issues with the 
outbuildings before the storm. While I acknowledge that his report did include the answer 
yes to all three storm damage questions, Im satisfied that this was a mistake, given the 
contents of the rest of the report. And the fact that the surveyor felt that the claim should be 
repudiated. 
The policys terms and conditions state the following under General exceptions:
We will not pay for
Any claim arising from:
-anything which happens gradually including deterioration or wear and tear, 
--faulty design, materials or workmanship.
These are common exclusions that Id expect to see in most, if not all, insurance policies of 
this type. I consider the exclusions to be both clear and reasonable. 
Based on the additional photos both parties have provided, I cant fairly say that the primary 
reason the structure collapsed was due to the storm conditions  I think it was due to the 
construction of the structure. I say this because the photos show that the roof beams used in 
the construction werent single complete pieces, but two shorter beams loosely connected. 
The photos show that the connection had broken after the storm. I wouldve expected single 
beams to be used as these wouldve been considerably stronger than the shorter beams that 
were actually used. Im also persuaded  based on the contents of the surveyors report - 
that there were also significant maintenance issues with the outbuildings before the storm.
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs J said that if someone wanted to check the rest of the 
outbuildings for structural integrity they could. But Im not persuaded that such a check 
would reveal anything we dont already know about the damage. I also acknowledge that 
theyve offered to send more photos. While I appreciate this offer, I consider that theyve 
already submitted two sets of photos, which I assume they felt fairly reflected the condition of 
their outbuildings. Therefore I dont feel that any further photos would change my decision.  
I know my decision will disappoint Mr and Mrs J. But I dont uphold the complaint. Taking all 
of the evidence into account, Im not persuaded LV acted unfairly or unreasonably when it 
declined the claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman