DRN-2469552
The complaint
Mr R complained about a number of loans he took out through a company called PDL 
Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender. Mr R says he was lent to irresponsibly and the loans 
caused him financial problems.
Ill refer mainly to Mr Lender to keep things simple.
 
What happened
We now know that Mr R took out 3 loans from Mr Lender between August 2017 and October 
2018. Ive enclosed a summary of his borrowing, based on the information provided to us:
 
Loan Date Taken Out Date Repaid Type of Loan Amount Highest 
Repayment
1 01/08/2017 26/01/2018 Instalment - 6 £300 £118
2 26/04/2018 26/10/2018 Instalment - 6 £750 £299
3 31/10/2018 28/10/2019 Instalment - 12 £1,000 £206.93
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint and said they thought it should be upheld 
in respect of loan number 3 only. Mr Lender didnt agree so Ive been asked to make an 
ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, on our website. Ive followed this 
approach when thinking about Mr Rs complaint.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr 
R could repay all the loans he was given in a sustainable manner. These checks ought to 
have taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amounts being lent, the total 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. However, certain factors might point to the fact that 
Mr Lender should have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history or pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. So, Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr R could sustainably repay the loans; not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loans being affordable on this basis might be an indication that Mr R could 
sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. So, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought to have fairly and 
reasonably realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
they are unlikely to be able to make them without borrowing further.
Mr Lender told us it carried out certain affordability and credit checks before agreeing to lend 
to Mr R including assessing his income and expenditure. It says that at the time, this showed 
that he would be able to make the loan repayments he was committing to. 
Having looked carefully over all the evidence we have, I dont think its clear enough that 
what Mr Lender would have seen, from its checks, would have suggested loan numbers 1 or 
2 were either unaffordable for Mr R or that the information from the checks it carried out 
undermined the income / outgoings Mr R had himself declared. For these early loans, as Ive 
said above, proportionate checks would have been at the less detailed end of the spectrum 
and I think Mr Lender was entitled to rely on what it was being told, together with checks that 
would have exposed some, but certainly not all, of Mr Rs financial profile. 
He had declared his income (after tax) as around £2,900 per month and given the amount 
he was asking to borrow, I think both the loans would have looked sustainable. Im therefore 
not upholding the complaint in respect of loan 1 or 2.
However, I think from the point of loan number 3, the situation was different. Whilst he was 
still in a situation where the lending relationship was at an early stage, loan 3 was applied for 
directly after loan 2 had ended, and importantly, it was for a much higher amount. And 
despite being a high-cost loan designed for mainly short-term use, Mr Lender extended out 
the repayment term to 12 months. Whilst this reduced his monthly repayments, it meant Mr 
R was indebted for a considerable time.  On that basis, I think Mr Lender should have done 
more to understand Mr Rs financial profile by verifying his outgoings and his ability to take 
on further lending for so long.
Theres no evidence Mr Lender did this, but if it had, there was an abundance of evidence 
showing Mr R was having substantial financial difficulties elsewhere. His bank statements, 
for example, would have easily shown he had numerous short-term loans outstanding at the 
same time with other lenders. In short, he was clearly having difficulty in managing his 
money.
Loan 3 was therefore unsustainable in the way Ive described at the beginning of this 
decision. Im therefore upholding the loan 3 complaint.
  
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mr R, Mr Lender should:refund all interest and charges Mr R paid on loan 3;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
it was paid to the date of settlement
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Rs credit file in relation to loan 3;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr R a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I partially uphold Mr Rs complaint and I direct PDL Finance Limited to put things right as set 
out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman