DRN-2577605
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Barclays mis-sold her an interest only mortgage in 2008 and failed to 
review her position later. She wants matters put right.
What happened
Mrs C said that in 2008 she owned a property with a repayment mortgage with Barclays, but 
was struggling financially. She said that Barclays offered her an interest only mortgage, but 
didnt later review the position or keep in touch. Mrs C added that she didnt have any 
savings and wasnt given advice in 2008, but shed been desperate to keep her home. She 
didnt think that Barclays shouldve offered her the interest only mortgage.
Mrs C complained to Barclays. It said that the mortgage had been taken out more than six 
years ago and Mrs C ought to have reasonably known that she had cause to complain 
earlier, so Mrs C mightve brought her complaint too late. But Barclays said that the change 
of mortgage type was because Mrs C had lost her job and all the details of the new 
mortgage had been set out to her in writing, as well as annual statements telling her she 
needed a plan to repay the mortgage when it ended.
Mrs C complained to us. Barclays said that the documents from when the mortgage type 
was changed in 2008 werent available, but it had happened at Mrs Cs request as she 
couldnt pay the repayment mortgage due to redundancy. Mrs C said that she called 
Barclays to explain the situation and it offered to put her onto an interest only mortgage to 
help. Her repayment plan might be to sell her property.
The investigators view was that a complaint about mis-selling the interest only mortgage in 
2008 had been brought outside the six year time limit, but Mrs C didnt know that Barclays 
hadnt checked her repayment plan in 2008 until she contacted it in February 2020 after 
being advised by an independent financial adviser. This meant that in the investigators view, 
Mrs C had complained within three years of becoming aware of the cause to complain and 
her complaint could be considered.
The investigators view of the merits of Mrs Cs complaint was that Barclays wasnt at fault. 
Due to the passage of time, there was no information about what the repayment plan was 
believed to be in 2008, but the evidence showed that the change to interest only was done 
without Barclays formally advising Mrs C. The investigator also noted that the annual 
statements each year told Mrs C that her mortgage was interest only and she needed to 
have a repayment plan to pay the mortgage when it ended. The investigator said that the 
change happened as Mrs Cs financial circumstances had changed significantly and to stay 
in her home  the new payments were affordable while the repayment mortgage wasnt. The 
investigator thought that Barclays had ensured the new mortgage was affordable. She 
added that there was no duty on lenders to contact a customer on an interest only mortgage 
to ask if theyd like to change to repayment and it was for Mrs C to sort out a repayment 
plan, not Barclays.
Barclays accepted the investigators view, including the view about jurisdiction, but Mrs C 
disagreed. She said that Barclays had lent money to her irresponsibly and didnt 
communicate properly over the following years.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the parties have accepted the investigators view about this services ability to consider 
this complaint, I will focus on the merits of the core of Mrs Cs complaint.
While Mrs C has talked about the earlier repayment mortgage, her complaint to Barclays and 
this service has been about the interest only mortgage she switched to in December 2008. In 
essence, she complains that Barclays acted unreasonably in letting her change the 
mortgage type (as it didnt formally advise her), in not making her put a repayment plan in 
place, and in not contacting her later to see if she wanted to change back to repayment.
Its relevant to point that that theres little information from the switch available to me. But the 
parties agree that Mrs Cs financial situation worsened significantly after she took out the 
repayment mortgage as she was made redundant. This meant she couldnt afford the 
repayment mortgage. Lenders are required to treat borrowers in financial difficulties fairly, 
and Mrs C wanted to stay in her home with her family. Its difficult to see what else Barclays 
couldve offered Mrs C, other than an interest only mortgage, so I cant say it was unfair for it 
to suggest this. Moving from a repayment mortgage to interest only was likely to be 
affordable as the monthly payments were significantly lower, and this appears to be the case 
in reality as Mrs C generally seems to have paid on time after 2008.
Barclays didnt advise Mrs C; it was her choice to accept the change of mortgage type after 
being given the information about the switch and deciding to pay the fee to do so. Mrs C 
says Barclays didnt check her savings or repayment vehicle. But in 2008, Barclays only had 
to tell Mrs C she needed to ensure she could pay the mortgage when it ended, and a 
possible sale of the property was then acceptable as a repayment plan. It was for Mrs C to 
ensure she had a plan, not Barclays. 
And Mrs C was reminded repeatedly through the mortgage documents and statements that 
her mortgage was interest only and had to be repaid when it ended. Theres no duty on 
lenders to contact customers on an interest only mortgage and see if theyd like to change 
the mortgage type; indeed, some customers might find such an approach upsetting.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or reject my decision before 
5 April 2021.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman