DRN-2101875
The complaint
Mr R complains Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc trading as More Th>n (RSA) unfairly 
declined a claim for storm damage under his buildings insurance policy. 
All references to RSA include its agents. 
What happened
Mr R returned home to storm conditions in February 2020. He said high winds and heavy 
rainfall were present at the time. He walked around the perimeter of his home and found felt 
material in his garden, but at this point he couldnt be sure if the felt material had come off 
his own roof, or from a neighbouring property. 
Several days later, Mr R found water damage in a bedroom he said was used for storage 
and not entered daily. So, Mr R made a claim to RSA for damage caused by a storm to the 
roof, the internal parts of the bedroom and its contents. 
RSA agreed to cover the damage to contents in the bedroom during the initial call Mr R 
made to report the claim. It then appointed a surveyor to attend and inspect the damage. 
The surveyor reported that damage was due to wear and tear rather than a one-off storm. 
So, RSA declined to cover the costs of the roof and internal damage in the bedroom. It 
covered the costs of Mr Rs contents given it said it would do so during the initial call. 
Mr R disputed this. He didnt think RSAs surveyor carried out a thorough inspection of the 
damage. He said the surveyor used a pole and camera at ground level, rather than going to 
visually inspect the damaged section of the roof. Mr R also provided RSA with an opinion 
from two local contractors who said they thought the damage was caused by a storm. 
Mr R also gave RSA quotes he obtained to repair the roof. RSA considered these and said it 
showed both the left and right side of the roof required a repair, meaning not just the affected 
area where the felt material had blown off was showing signs of fatigue. Therefore, Mr Rs 
further information didnt change RSAs decision to decline the claim for storm damage. It 
also said Mr R didnt have accidental damage cover with his buildings and therefore the 
damage to the bedroom also wouldnt be covered. As Mr R disagreed, he brought a 
complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into this complaint. He was more persuaded by the opinion 
reached by RSAs surveyor, that damage was due to wear and tear and a storm wasnt the 
main cause. He didnt go onto consider the damage caused to Mr Rs bedroom given he 
didnt have accidental damage cover for his buildings in place. So, he didnt recommend that 
the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr R disagreed with our investigator. He said his policy provides cover in the event of a 
storm  and its not disputed storm conditions were present in February 2020. Mr R said he 
thought RSA should cover 50% of the repair costs from the quote he provided as other areas 
of his roof require reinstatement works. He also said given there was no water ingress in the 
bedroom prior to the storm conditions in February 2020, this evidenced damage only 
occurred as a result of a one-off storm event. 
Mr R was also unhappy RSA failed to provide him with a copy of the surveyors report. Our 
investigator responded to say he didnt think the further points changed his opinion. He 
remained of the view the storm wasnt the main cause of the damage  rather it only 
highlighted issues due to wear and tear. He did ask RSA to provide Mr R with a copy of the 
surveyors report. 
Mr R responded to our investigator to ask for an ombudsman to decide the complaint. And 
so the case has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My starting point here is Mr Rs home insurance policy. This covers his buildings and 
contents for, amongst other things, loss of damage caused by a storm. But the policy also 
says under general conditions and exclusions that: 
No cover is provided for wear and tear, maintenance or anything that happens 
gradually. 
When we look at claims for storm damage, our approach is to ask three questions: 
Was there a storm? 
Is the damage claimed for consistent with a storm? 
Was the storm likely to be the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to all three questions is yes, then its likely Id uphold the complaint. But, if the 
answer to any of these questions is no, then I wouldnt usually expect such a claim to 
succeed. 
Its not disputed storm conditions were present at the time Mr R said damage occurred. This 
was a few weeks before he made the claim when he travelled home, in February 2020, to 
find felt material in his back garden. I also think felt lifting and blowing off the roof during the 
wind speed recorded in February 2020 is consistent with damage a storm can cause. 
Because of this, Im satisfied the answer to questions one and two is yes. So, Ive turned to 
question three which is in dispute. 
RSA says the storm wasnt the main cause of the damage. In reaching this view, it relied on 
the report given by the surveyor it appointed in March 2020. The surveyor also gave photos 
of the damaged area and surrounding parts of the roof. The report said: 
it is evident the bitumen felt is in a very poor state. This has caused extensive 
debonding and fatigue cracking all along the drip edge. An area of 2 sure metres has 
now become dislodged but it is clear the whole roof has come to the end of its life 
span. Previous repairs have been carried out to the roof such as new felt being 
bonded onto old felt, so evidence of previous issues. The damage has been the 
result of ongoing disintegration and is not the result of a one off storm event. Mr R argued the surveyor didnt carry out an adequate inspection. He said the surveyor 
didnt go up to visually inspect the damage  rather, they took photos from the ground level 
using a pole and camera. This isnt uncommon practice, and so I dont agree with Mr R it 
was unfair for RSA to place weight on the report, due to the method the surveyor used to 
compile the report and provide photos.  
Mr R provided an opinion from his own contractor which said: 
On the flat roof dormers in various areas there has been wind damaged resulting 
into part of the felt to blow off from the roof resulting in water ingress in that area. You 
can not repair the affected areas because the felt has perished away and you will not 
get a decent effort bond to create a long lasting seal. The roofing deck is sunken in-
between joists this indicates it is chipboard and this has to be removed. The main 
cause of this is lack of roof space ventilation. 
Mr R also provided an opinion from a second local contractor who in turn gave a quote to 
repair the damage. The contractor said: 
An inspection of the roof covering on the Dormer Roof revealed areas of felt that had 
been lifted and torn from a section of the roof, directly above a Bedroom on the 1st 
floor of the Property, at the side. In my opinion this damage arose following storm 
conditions prevailing in the area. 
The contractor goes onto say: 
With the extent of the damage and given the condition of the Boards, a localised 
repair was not feasible and I explained to [Mr R] that the entire half of the Dormer, 
part of which was affected by the weather event, would require renewal [Mr R] 
authorised me to proceed with the work, but beyond that, also to reinstate the other 
side of the Dormer not affected by the specific damage.
I can further comment that, a number of months previously [anonymised], also a 
Roofing Contractor, whilst attending [Mr Rs] home to complete some work on the 
adjoining garage roof, conducted a walking inspection to the Double Dormers, 
advising [Mr R] that no attention was required at the time. 
Given conflicting opinions are present here, I must make my decision based on what Im 
most persuaded by. And having taken everything available to me into account, on balance 
Im more persuaded the main cause of the damage was due to gradual wear and tear, and 
the storm only highlighted issues. Ill explain why. 
RSAs surveyor carried out their inspection for the specific purpose of assessing the 
damage. Whereas, the contractors Mr R appointed were primarily for repair quotes. Mr Rs 
own contractors give more detail on how to conduct an effective and long-lasting repair, and 
this doesnt persuade me to agree the main cause was a storm, rather than issues with the 
roof set out by RSAs surveyor.  
I think its important to note here RSAs surveyors report provides more detail into what the 
underlying issues were and gives a view that they said showed other parts of the roof also 
required repair. This is also consistent with the opinions given by Mr Rs own contractors that 
other unaffected sections of the roof require reinstatement works too. Mr Rs contractors do 
say storm conditions were a factor here, which isnt disputed, but RSAs surveyor gives more 
detail around the underlying issues that were highlighted by storm conditions. The photos Ive seen of Mr Rs roof are consistent in my view with the report given by RSAs 
surveyor, that the roof is in a poor state and suffering fatigue. I can see cracks, debonding 
and felt has lifted at other edges of the roof away from where Mr Rs own contractor says the 
storm damage occurred. Based on these photos, along with the detailed reasoning given in 
RSAs surveyors report, I dont find it unreasonable for RSA to have relied on this to decline 
the claim. 
The second contractor Mr R employed said one of their colleagues had carried out work to 
the adjoining roof and did an inspection to the dormers some 12 to 18 months prior to 
February 2020. Whilst the contractor said no issues were reported at that time, I must also 
note this inspection took place quite some time prior to the date the loss is said to have 
occurred. I accept the comments from the contractor that the roof didnt need attention at 
that time, but based on everything Ive seen, I think RSA has reasonably demonstrated Mr 
Rs roof showed clear signs of wear and tear and storm conditions highlighted these issues.  
Its my understanding RSA settled Mr Rs claim for damaged contents. It said this decision 
was made prior to the inspection taking place. Its agreed to honour this and so its not 
something I need to comment on further. I can also see from the policy schedule that Mr R 
had standard buildings cover in place and not buildings cover with extended accidental 
damage. As Mr R didnt have accidental damage cover in place for his buildings at the time 
of loss, I havent gone onto consider the damage to the bedroom in this decision.
Overall, Im more persuaded the main cause of damage to Mr Rs home was as a result of 
wear and tear over time and the storm only highlighted these issues. The policy excludes 
cover for this as set out above. And so, I find RSA acted fairly and reasonably by declining 
the claim. It follows that Im not requiring RSA to do anything more to resolve this complaint. 
I appreciate this will come to disappoint Mr R. But my decision ends what we  in trying to 
resolve his dispute with RSA  can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman