DRN-4188239
The complaint
Mr C complains that a car acquired under a hire purchase agreement with Secure Trust 
Bank Plc trading as Moneyway (Moneyway) wasnt of satisfactory quality.
Mr C has been represented throughout this complaint by his partner. But for ease of reading 
Ill refer to Mr C only within this decision. 
What happened
In May 2022 Mr C acquired a used car from Moneyway under a hire purchase agreement. 
The car was collected by Mr C from a dealership, who Ill refer to as V. The car was around 
six years old and had covered almost 95,000 miles when the agreement started. The 
agreement was for 60 months, and the cash price of the car £20,500. The car came with a 
three-month warranty from V. 
A few days after collecting the car Mr C noticed a problem with it. He took it to a garage, and 
it was found that the front suspension arm needed to be replaced. He got in touch with V, 
and they agreed to pay for the replacement under warranty. 
A couple of months later Mr C noticed more problems with the car. The dashboard was 
showing the car had incorrect fluid. Mr C took the car to a garage again, and this time the 
AdBlue tank had to be drained, refilled, and reset. V covered this under warranty too. 
A day or two after the tank repair, the engine management light (EML) came on. Again, Mr C 
took the car to a garage and a diagnostic report identified various fault codes with the car. 
The car had covered approximately 100,500 miles at this point. 
At this point Mr C got in touch with V as he was concerned the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality. V referred Mr C to Moneyway, so he got in contact with them to discuss his options. 
In early October 2022 Moneyway confirmed to Mr C that they would be allowing him to reject 
the car, and they would be unwinding the agreement. Mr C stopped using the car at this 
point. 
Because Mr C and his partner needed a car to transport their young family around, and Mr C 
only had a work van, him and his partner decided they needed to try and acquire another 
car, in anticipation of the car acquired in May 2022 being collected by Moneyway. As Mr C 
had one live finance agreement in his name, he couldnt arrange an agreement for another 
car  so his partner arranged one for them to use. The new car and agreement came into 
force shortly after Moneyway had confirmed the vehicle that was subject to their hire 
purchase agreement would be collected. 
However, a month after telling Mr C that the car would be rejected Moneyway confirmed this 
wouldnt now be the case. They couldnt agree a collection with V and decided they wanted 
an independent report to confirm if the faults with the car would have been present at the 
point it was supplied. Mr C didnt agree to this and raised a complaint with Moneyway. At this 
point he also complained that a late payment marker had been recorded on his credit file, 
and he thought the APR on the original agreement was too high.
Moneyway responded. They continued to say they had reversed their decision to allow the 
car to be rejected as they couldnt come to an arrangement with V. They confirmed that Mr C 
had made his August 2022 payment late, so the late payment marker had been added to his 
credit file correctly, and they said the APR was confirmed on all the pre-contract information 
provided to Mr C before he entered the agreement, and it had been agreed to. 
Mr C brought his complaint to our service. After a lot of investigation and more evidence was 
provided, our investigator upheld it. He said he was satisfied the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to Mr C, and he was satisfied Moneyway had accepted the car 
could be rejected. He also said Mr C and his partner acted reasonably by arranging a new 
finance agreement for another car once Moneyway had confirmed the original car was being 
rejected. He said Moneyway were the owners of the car under the agreement so its for them 
to accept rejection, irrespective of any communication theyre having with the dealership, 
and he didnt think theyd acted fairly by rescinding their offer and asking Mr C for an 
independent inspection. He told Moneyway to:
End the agreement with nothing further for Mr C to pay.
Arrange to collect the car at no further cost to Mr C. 
Refund Mr Cs deposit contribution of £500.
Refund any monthly repayments Mr C had made from October 2022 to the date of 
settlement.
Refund Mr Cs road tax payments of £28.95 from October 2022 to the date of 
settlement. 
Refund any insurance premiums Mr C had paid (subject to proof of insurance and 
payment) from October 2022 to the date of settlement. 
Pay Mr C £350 compensation for the distress caused by the car not being of 
satisfactory quality and the miscommunication about rejection of it. 
Remove any adverse information from Mr Cs credit file from October 2022 in relation 
to this agreement. 
Mr C accepted this. Moneyway havent responded. 
As Moneyway havent responded, its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Let me start by addressing Mr Cs complaint points about the APR charged on the 
agreement and the late payment marker recorded on his credit file. In both respects, Im 
satisfied Moneyway have acted reasonably here. The APR was confirmed to Mr C prior to 
accepting and entering the agreement in May 2022  so I cant say he wasnt aware of it or 
didnt have the opportunity to discuss it with Moneyway prior to the agreement starting. In 
respect of the late payment marker, Mr C made his August 2022 repayment late. At the time, 
the repayment date had been set for the first of every month, but in August 2022 Mr C didnt 
repay it until later in the month. Moneyway have a responsibility to report fair and accurate 
information to the credit reference agencies, confirming how Mr C has adhered to the 
agreement. In this case, although the repayment had been made in the same month it was 
due, it had been made late in line with the agreement  so Im satisfied Moneyway have 
acted fairly by reporting it to the credit reference agencies on this occasion. As the hire purchase agreement entered by Mr C is a regulated consumer credit agreement 
this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. Moneyway are also the supplier of 
the goods under this type of agreement and are responsible for a complaint about their 
quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) covers agreements like the one Mr C entered. 
Because Moneyway supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied 
term that it is of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Cars are of satisfactory quality if 
they are of a standard that a reasonable person would find acceptable, taking into account 
factors such as  amongst other things  the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. 
The CRA also says that the quality of goods includes their general state and condition, and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects 
and safety can be aspects of the quality of the goods. 
But on the other hand, satisfactory quality also covers durability. For cars, this means the 
components must last a reasonable amount of time. Of course, durability will depend on 
various factors. In Mr Cs case, the car was used and had covered approximately 95,000 
miles when he acquired it. So, Id have different expectations of it compared to a brand-new 
car. Having said that, the cars condition should have met the standard a reasonable person 
would consider satisfactory, given its age, mileage and price. 
Our investigator has said that he doesnt think the car was of satisfactory quality at the point 
it was supplied to Mr C. I agree with him here. Ill explain why. 
The evidence provided clearly shows there have been some significant faults with the car 
from very soon after it was supplied. The front suspension arm had to be replaced within a 
few days of the cars collection  at a cost in excess of £700. Shortly after that, the AdBlue 
tank needed draining, refilling and resetting, and the EML came on a few days later. This 
remained on until Moneyway agreed to allow Mr C to reject the vehicle in early October 
2022. Whilst it might be expected that a car of this age and mileage will show some faults 
sooner than a brand-new car, Im not satisfied the magnitude of these faults should have 
been expected  and certainly not within a couple of months of the car being supplied. 
Moneyway havent explicitly said they agree the car was of unsatisfactory quality. But, 
importantly, they have agreed to allow Mr C to reject the car, which implies that they accept 
the goods werent of satisfactory quality. And they were given an opportunity to repair the 
car, and it didnt conform to the contract after those repairs. Because of that, Im satisfied the 
option to reject the car is a valid right Mr C has. It follows that Moneyway should now move 
forward with the rejection and collection of the car and bring the agreement to a close with 
nothing further for Mr C to pay. 
The other main issue here is Moneyways decision to rescind their offer of rejection over a 
month after it had originally been agreed with Mr C and whether it was reasonable of them to 
do so. Im not satisfied it was. Ive listened to telephone conversations between Mr Cs 
partner and Moneyway in October 2022. Those telephone calls were all to do with the 
rejection of the car and when it could be expected to happen  and at no point during those 
conversations did Moneyway explain that the offer might be rescinded. More so, Moneyway 
are the owner of the car under the agreement and its a decision for them to make about 
rejection and is their responsibility. Im not satisfied with the reason they gave to rescind the 
offer  they said that V werent willing to arrange a collection date and there was a 
disagreement over the price of the car. That isnt anything to do with Mr C in this case  
Moneyway had already explained that the car could be rejected, and Im satisfied they 
should have taken care of that. By not doing so, I think they put Mr C in an awkward position. As Mr C and his partner needed a reliable car to enable them to transport their young family 
around, they arranged a new hire purchase agreement in October 2022 following 
Moneyways confirmation that the original agreement would be unwound, and the car would 
be collected. Im satisfied that was a reasonable thing to do. The only other method of 
transport they had was Mr Cs work van, which wasnt suitable for them and their young 
family to take journeys in. Im also satisfied that Mr C stopped using the original car at this 
point. The mileage in October 2022 was 102,386. When Mr C took the car in for an MOT in 
February 2023, it had covered a further three miles  and that was travelling to the garage 
for the MOT to take place. 
By not following through with their commitment to allow rejection, Moneyway have placed 
Mr C under severe financial burden, and he has had to maintain two agreements for several 
months. Not only that, he has also continued to make sure the car remained taxed and 
insured, alongside his ongoing commitments under the new agreement. Im satisfied its fair 
that Moneyway reimburse Mr C for the payments hes had to make since October 2022 to 
keep the car taxed and insured. In order for Moneyway to consider the insurance payments, 
Mr C will need to provide the proof of insurance and payment history to them. 
Im also awarding Mr C compensation of £350 for the distress hes been caused by 
Moneyways decision not to progress with the rejection of the car and the ending of the 
agreement. As a family they have had to maintain two finance agreements, and the 
communication and indecision from Moneyway has put Mr C in an undesirable position 
financially.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Secure Trust Bank Plc trading as Moneyway 
must:
End this agreement with nothing further for Mr C to pay.
Arrange to collect the car at no further cost to Mr C.
Refund the deposit/part exchange contribution of £500.
Refund all monthly repayments made by Mr C from 7 October 2022 to now. If Mr C 
hasnt made some or all of those payments, Moneyway shouldnt ask for them.
Pay 8% simple interest on any monthly repayments refunded to Mr C, from the date 
they were paid until the date they are settled*.
Refund £28.95 per month from October 2022 to the date of settlement to cover the 
road tax payments Mr C has continued to make.
Refund all insurance premiums paid by Mr C from October 2022 to now (subject to 
Mr C providing proof of that insurance and the payments made to Moneyway).
Pay Mr C £350 for the distress hes been caused due to the unsatisfactory quality of 
the car and the communication hes had with Moneyway about rejecting it. 
Remove any adverse information from Mr Cs credit file in relation to the agreement 
from 7 October 2022 onwards.
*If Secure Trust Bank Plc trading as Moneyway consider that theyre required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Mr C how much 
theyve taken off. They should also give Mr C a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, 
so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman