DRN-1569972
The complaint
Mr I says TSB Bank plc hasnt addressed his complaint regarding poor customer service.
What happened
In June 2018, Mr I complained to TSB concerning issues with using his debit card. Mr I said 
he couldnt use the card online to make charity payments as his card had been blocked. Mr I 
was also unhappy with the amount of time hed spent on the phone discussing the matter 
with TSB, and the time it took to respond to his complaint.
TSB issued its final response to Mr I in December 2018. It acknowledged the problems he 
had with the card, and offered £100 for the trouble and upset caused. TSB also offered £50 
to cover Mr Is phone expenses, making a total settlement offer of £150.
In September 2019, Mr I contacted TSB again as he was concerned it hadnt addressed his 
concerns about poor customer service, which he had raised as a separate complaint. Mr I 
also said he was misinformed about the complaint handling process and had wasted a lot of 
time with the matter so far. 
TSB issued a further final response letter in which it said it had voided Mr Is second 
complaint as the points raised were relating to the complaint he initially made. It considered 
the matter closed.
Mr I didnt accept TSBs response and referred the matter to our service. Our investigator 
looked at everything and recommended TSB pay Mr I an additional £100 compensation. She 
said TSB should have been clearer in its explanation to Mr I that all the issues were being 
dealt with in one complaint response. And she said it could have done this sooner.
TSB disagreed with our investigators findings. It said the additional £100 compensation 
recommended was in relation to its complaint handling process, which wasnt a regulated 
activity our service could consider. TSB said it had first referred Mr I to our service in 
December 2018 and he could have referred his complaint to us any time after that.
Our investigator reviewed the complaint again and didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. She concluded the issues Mr I raised were related to TSBs complaint handling 
process and as such couldnt be considered by our service. She thought TSBs offer of 
compensation for Mr I not being able to make charity payments was reasonable, so she 
didnt think it needed to do any more.
Mr I disagreed with our investigators findings and requested an ombudsmans decision. He 
said TSB had behaved dishonourably and dishonestly, and wanted an apology for this.
The complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint, and for broadly the same reasons as 
our investigator. Ill explain why below.
Ive considered the issues Mr I raised to our service, and I agree these relate to TSBs 
handling of his initial complaint. Whilst I dont have any reason to doubt Mr I experienced 
some delays here, a businesss complaint handling process is not a regulated activity which 
our service can consider. So I wont be making any further comment on it here.
What I will consider is if TSB fairly considered the remaining issues Mr I raised, and whether 
its offer of compensation was reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Ive considered TSBs contact notes and its final response to Mr I. There is a note from 
October 2018 that states Mr I called for an update on his complaints. The note says he was 
advised all of his concerns, which included the delays and poor service, would be addressed 
in a resolution letter. So I am persuaded TSB was aware of all Mr Is concerns at this point 
and was investigating them.
Having reviewed TSBs final response, I think it does cover the remaining issues Mr I raised. 
I also think that TSBs offer of £150 total compensation is reasonable for the impact caused 
by having his card blocked.
So having considered everything, I am satisfied TSB investigated Mr Is concerns and its 
offer of compensation was fair. So I wont be requiring it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2020.
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman