DRN-3667175
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain about the settlement offered by National House-Building Council 
(NHBC) under a building warranty claim. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ts property had a ten-year building warranty. They notified NHBC of water 
ingress through their roof at the front of their property. NHBC accepted the claim under 
section three of the warranty.
NHBC offered a final cash settlement of £1,330 (plus VAT on receipt of a VAT invoice) in 
respect of the roof repairs. This was based on the quote Mr and Mrs T had obtained from 
their contractor.
Mr and Mrs Ts contractor carried out the repairs to the front section of the roof. They also 
identified further damage to the roof at the rear of the property, which was repaired at the 
same time. Mr and Mrs T asked NHBC to pay the total cost of the roof repairs, which 
amounted to £4,187.
NHBC said the additional repairs had not been included in the quote, and no further 
information had been given to it about this. It therefore refused to increase the cash 
settlement. Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs T brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be partly upheld. She thought Mr and Mrs T 
hadnt shown that the damage to the rear of the roof was covered under the warranty. 
However, she thought NHBC should pay the full cost of the repairs to the front section of the 
roof (as well as the other repairs NHBC had agreed to cover), plus VAT if Mr and Mrs T had 
paid this.
NHBC didnt agree to our investigators recommendations, and so the matter has been 
passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy explains it will pay the full cost of putting right any physical damage caused by a 
defect. Cost is defined in the policy as:
The cost we would have had to pay if we had arranged for relevant work to be done.
Mr and Mrs T provided NHBC with a quote for the repairs, which was broken down into three 
sections. These were:
- Roof repairs £1,030 for scaffolding plus £3,320 if the roof needed to be replaced. 
Total £4,260 (plus £300 per day for repairs plus materials)
- Solar panel inspection £290
- Water damage to interior £3,830
NHBC told Mr and Mrs T that it would cover the cost of the solar panel inspection and the 
water damage repairs in full. In respect of the roof it said it would pay the £1,030 cost of 
access plus £300 for an initial repair. NHBC confirmed the total settlement would be £4,360.
Mr and Mrs T explained to NHBC that the £300 repair cost quoted was a daily cost, and the 
actual cost would depend on the number of days needed to carry out the repair. They said 
their contractor didnt know how long the repair would take until they could access the roof.
I note that the total cost of the solar panel inspection and the water damage repairs 
amounted to £4,120. Taking into account the £1,330 cost that NHBC said it was willing to 
pay towards the roof, this would bring the total settlement to £5,450 and not £4,360. 
After carrying out the repairs, Mr and Mrs Ts contractor provided four invoices. These were 
for:
- Front roof repairs £2,837 (scaffolding and repairs)
- Rear roof repairs £1,350
- Solar panel inspection £290
- Water damage to interior £3,970
NHBC accepted Mr and Mrs Ts claim in respect of the roof repairs needed to the front of the 
house because the defect with the roof was allowing water ingress. This met the policy terms 
of a defect causing damage. However, Mr and Mrs T have not shown that the issue with the 
rear of the roof was causing any damage to the property. I therefore agree with our 
investigator that NHBC does not need to cover the cos of the rear roof repairs.
NHBC already confirmed it would cover the full cost of the solar panel inspection and the 
repairs for the water damage to the interior. This totalled £4,260. 
Turning to the front roof repairs. It was up to NHBC to decide how it settled the claim. As 
NHBC had no availability for a contractor to carry out the repairs, it decided to offer Mr and 
Mrs T a cash settlement. Although the policy says this would be the amount NHBC would 
have to pay if it arranged the work, where an insurer has opted to pay a cash settlement, Id 
expect it to pay the cost of the repairs to the consumer. Given that Mr and Mrs T paid £2,837 
for the front roof repairs, I find that NHBC should cover this cost. 
NHBC told this service that the total cost to the repairs increased by £1,507 from the quote, 
and that it requires confirmation from the contractor of the reason for this. I dont think its 
correct to say that the total cost increased by £1,507. Although NHBC initially offered £1,330 
in respect of the roof repairs, it was made clear by Mr and Mrs T that the £300 quoted by the 
contractor was based on one day of labour, and that it was not known how long the repair 
would take until the scaffolding was put up. I dont think it was reasonable for NHBC to base 
its settlement offer on the assumption that the repair would only take one day.
Therefore, the total amount NHBC should pay for all the repairs is £7,097 (plus any VAT 
paid by Mr and Mrs T). 
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. I require National House-Building 
Council to pay £7,097 for all the repairs (less £4,360 if this settlement has already been 
paid). 
If Mr and Mrs T paid VAT, this should be paid by NHBC upon receipt of a VAT invoice.Interest should be added at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date the invoice/s 
were paid to the date of settlement. If NHBC considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs T how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs T a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so 
they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman