DRN-3266791
Complaint
Mrs B has complained about the overdraft charges TSB UK Bank Plc (TSB) applied to her 
current account. Shes said the charges were unfair as she was in financial difficulty.
Background
Mrs Bs complaint was looked at by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think that TSB had 
done anything wrong as it didnt have reason to suspect she may have been in financial 
difficulty. So she didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicator and 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im not upholding Mrs Bs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts TSB charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in 
comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a bank charges for 
services is a commercial decision and this isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at TSBs charging structure per se, it wont have acted fairly 
and reasonably towards Mrs B if it applied these interest, fees and charges to Mrs Bs 
account in circumstances where it was unfair to do so. Mrs B says it was unfair for TSB to 
charge her the fees it did here because it ought to have seen she was experiencing financial 
difficulty. 
So Ive considered whether there were periods where TSB continued charging Mrs B even 
though it ought to have known she was in financial difficulty or it ought to have realised this 
was the case. Ive looked through Mrs Bs statements throughout the period concerned. And 
I cant see that TSB ought to have been aware that Mrs B might have been struggling during 
the period weve looked at. 
Its fair to say that Mrs B did use her overdraft regularly. But Mrs B also spent a significant 
proportion of the time with a credit balance too. And while Im not seeking to make 
retrospective value judgements over Mrs B expenditure, nonetheless there are significant 
amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions account going 
from the account. So I dont think its fair to say that it was the interest, fees and charges 
which unfairly prevented Mrs B from exiting her overdraft, when it appears to be case that 
she had the disposable income to repay her overdraft within a reasonable period of time.
I accept neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) mean that Mrs B wasnt 
experiencing financial difficulty. And I know Mrs B says that these charges did cause her to 
miss payments elsewhere. Im sorry to hear that this was the case and I sympathise with 
what must have been a difficult time. But there isnt anything in Mrs Bs transactions on this 
account, in themselves, which ought to have alerted TSB to the fact that this might have 
been the case and which meant that it would have been fair and reasonable to step in here. 
I say this while especially mindful that corrective action in relation to Mrs Bs overdraft facility 
is likely to have resulted in adverse information being recorded on her credit file, which I 
think would have been disproportionate considering Mrs B appeared able to repay what she 
owed within a reasonable period of time. 
So, in these circumstances and in the absence of being told anything by Mrs B, I dont think 
that it was unreasonable for TSB to have proceeded adding the charges that it did. And I 
dont think TSB unfairly charged Mrs B in circumstances where it ought to have realised that 
she may have been experiencing financial difficulty. This means that I dont think that TSB 
needs to refund any interest, fees and charges and Im not upholding Mrs Bs complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mrs B. But I hope shell understand the 
reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman