DRN-3790112
The complaint
Ms Hs representative has complained, on her behalf, about the advice given to her by 
Andrew Bourne & Co Independent Financial Advisers Ltd to establish a free standing 
additional voluntary contribution (FSAVC) policy, saying that the in house alternatives 
offered by her employer werent discussed. 
What happened
Upon the advice of Andrew Bourne & Co, Ms H started contributions to an FSAVC policy in 
early 1993. At the time, she was 29 and, I understand, employed as a teacher. Ms Hs 
representative has said that she intended to remain in that employment and wished to 
maximise her pension provision.
Andrew Bourne & Co has been unable to locate documentation relating specifically to Ms H, 
but in response to the complaint it said that Ms H had complained too late, the matter having 
been raised with it more than six years after the event complained of (in 2022), and more 
than three years after she either was, or ought reasonably to have been, aware of cause for 
complaint (by virtue of likely conversations with colleagues and advertisements about mis-
selling).
Ms Hs representative referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators 
assessed the matter and concluded that the complaint had been raised in time, saying in 
summary that it was speculative and hypothetical to assume that Ms H would have had 
conversations about her pension arrangement with colleagues. Further, he said, Ms H had in 
fact raised her complaint as a result of seeing an advert about potential mis-selling on social 
media.
Andrew Bourne & Co responded to say that that the independent financial adviser (IFA) who 
advised Ms H was fully qualified and in fact an ex teacher who had a good understanding of 
all the options available at the time. In every case there was a discussion about how the 
added years scheme worked, but as with many young teachers, Ms H didnt wish to make 
the commitment of paying a fixed percentage of her likely increasing salary, and preferred 
the less expensive option of the FSAVC policy.
Ms H would then have been in control of her monthly payments and had the flexibility of 
stopping at any time. It was also established with one of the leading providers at the time, 
which had an excellent track record, Andrew Bourne & Co added.
It therefore considered that the plan was suitable for Ms H. 
Although there was the option of the in house AVC, its advisers research had 
demonstrated that the chosen FSAVC policy provider had better long term results. It was 
possible that the annual management charge in the in house AVC was lower, but this could 
easily have been compensated for by better fund performance over 30 years or longer, 
Andrew Bourne & Co said.
Andrew Bourne & Co did, however, after further correspondence with the investigator, 
accept the latters view on jurisdiction.
And so the investigator issued his view on the merits of the case, saying that he thought it 
should be upheld for the following reasons:
Although he didnt think that Ms H would have starting buying added years due to the 
associated expense and commitment, he wasnt persuaded that the fund 
performance of the FSAVC policy would have outweighed the effect of the higher 
charges compared to the AVC.
The available evidence didnt support the position that a detailed discussion took 
place about Ms Hs options.
Under the FIMBRA rules in place at the time, an IFA needed to recommend products 
which would likely achieve the customers objectives, and this would have involved 
consideration of all the options available to Ms H.
The investigator recommended that Andrew Bourne & Co undertake a loss calculation in 
accordance with the regulators FSAVC review guidance.
Ms Hs representative accepted the investigators recommendation.
Andrew Bourne & Co responded to say that it didnt think the proposed redress methodology 
was correct, in that this would reflect fund performance rather than a difference in charges 
only.
The investigator clarified that the recommended redress proposal was correct, saying that 
our guidance mirrored that of the regulator in its review of FSAVC policies in 2004.
He further said that, when the charges were applied against the FSAVC policy, they were 
done by way of a yearly management charges. These charges were placed against the fund 
and units in which the FSAVC policy was invested. And to ensure a uniform approach, the 
regulator provided a benchmark which could be used to offset the difference in investment 
performance between the FSAVC policy and AVCs. 
He explained that this service wouldnt expect a business such as Andrew Bourne & Co to 
compensate a consumer for investment performance, but rather that the charges are based 
on a comparable benchmark on how the funds were invested.
The investigator further said that, if Ms H had missed out on matched contributions, this 
would need to be factored into the loss calculation.
Andrew Bourne & Co responded to say that it understood the point relating to the complaint 
being upheld on the basis of the charges, but it said that it couldnt at that stage accept the 
investigators conclusions as it had no information on Ms Hs current pension, holdings, 
historic charges or contributions, or confirmation as to what the AVC charges would have 
been.
It requested Ms Hs authority to be able to gather the required information, and it enquired as 
to whether this service held any information on the in house AVC and the charges which 
would have been applied, or the AVC scheme charge which it would be expected to use in a 
comparative calculation.
It also noted that there would have been no matched employer contribution, so this wouldnt 
be included in the calculation.The investigator said that he wasnt able to provide information on the in house AVC and 
that it would usually be up to the business to liaise with the consumer regarding redress 
calculations and then liaise with the necessary pension provider/s. And he further said that it 
wouldnt be expected that a business would calculate redress until the settlement has been 
agreed by both parties.
As such, whist the investigator said he understood the reasons as to why Andrew Bourne & 
Co had requested the information, he didnt think that this would affect the reasons as to why 
the complaint should be upheld.
But Andrew Bourne & Co remained of the view that it was difficult to understand how the 
complaint could be upheld if this service didnt have the information in respect of the charges 
which would have been applicable on the in house AVC, compared to those in the FSAVC 
policy. Both of these would have been dependent upon fund selection, it added.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the investigator confirmed that the matter would be 
referred to an ombudsman for review.
Andrew Bourne & Co then submitted information relating to the in house AVC, which it 
considered showed that, if Ms H had invested in a unit linked fund, the charges wouldnt 
have been particularly low cost as, it said, was generalised by this service.
It also then submitted further information relating to the FSAVC policy charges, saying that a 
calculation of the difference in charges was difficult because the policy stopped and 
restarted, and then ceased receiving contributions for over 21 years. But it noted that there 
would have been a cash injection on the FSAVC policy, which equated to a refund of some 
of the charges when a client reached their selected retirement age.
Given the difficulties in establishing the differences between the two types of plan, it 
maintained that it couldnt see how it could be concluded that the in house AVC was better 
value that the FSAVC policy. It also thought that the cash injection meant that it would have 
been the case that the overall FSAVC policy charges would have been cheaper. But the 
calculation to determine this would be almost impossible to undertake.
As such, it said it was prepared to offer Ms H £250 for the time and inconvenience in 
bringing this matter to this service, in full and final settlement of her complaint.
The investigator noted the comments, but said that they didnt persuade him to alter his view 
on the matter. He did, however, say that he would refer the offer to Ms H.
But Ms Hs representative rejected the offer on her behalf. And so, as confirmed by the 
investigator, the matters now been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as the investigator, and for 
similar reasons. I think in general terms (but see further below regarding the specific details 
of this case), the costs associated with in house AVCs are likely to be lower than those 
applicable to FSAVC policies. This formed the basis of past business reviews and, as a 
general principle, Im satisfied that this remains the case.
As background to the advice given in 1993, in 1988 FIMBRA said that an adviser should: Not make a recommendation unless it believed, having carried out reasonable care 
in forming its belief, that no transaction in any other such investment (of which it 
ought reasonably to be aware) would be likely to secure the objectives of the 
consumer more advantageously, and;
 Take reasonable care to include in any recommendation to a person, other than a 
professional investor, sufficient information to provide that person with an adequate 
and reasonable basis for deciding whether to accept the recommendation.
So this means that an IFA should have found out how all of these issues applied to the 
FSAVC policy and the various in house options  typically AVCs and added years - and 
anything else that might have been relevant to a consumers situation, such as the sorts of 
funds within the AVC which may have been available for investment. 
The IFA would then have needed to explicitly compare what the in house options were and 
what the FSAVC policy had to offer. So, this meant an IFA should have looked into all of the 
in house options and positively recommending the suitable option. So, they would actively 
make a recommendation in the best interests of the consumer.
And although Ive noted Andrew Bourne & Cos comments that its adviser would always 
have discussed the options available, Ms H has a different recollection, and I agree with the 
investigator that the available documentary evidence doesnt support the position that the in 
house options were in fact discussed. And so, on balance, I dont think I can conclude  as I 
would need to, to be able to determine that Ms H made an informed choice - that its more 
likely than not that they were and that the requirements of an IFA at the time were met.
And my view is that, had Ms H been made aware of the in house AVC option and it had 
been recommended to her as the suitable, likely lower cost option, she would have accepted 
that advice.
But I think the central remaining issue here is Andrew Bourne & Cos view that it cant 
reasonably be concluded that the costs associated with the FSAVC policy were in fact higher 
 and on that basis, it doesnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
I have carefully noted its comments on that particular point. And there may sometimes be 
situations where were satisfied that there might have been shortcomings in the advisory 
process, but that it hasnt resulted in financial loss. And we can then incorporate that 
outcome in our conclusions. 
But as Andrew Bourne & Co itself says, although it considers it likely that the FSAVC policy 
charges were in fact lower, in large part due to the refund in charges at the retirement date, it 
hasnt yet been able to conclusively determine this. 
And so, in the absence of persuasive evidence as to whether a consumer has suffered 
financial loss, we assess complaints on the basis of whether something has gone wrong. If it 
has, and we uphold the complaint, as Im satisfied should be the case here on the basis of 
whats been set out above, we would then direct the business to conduct a loss assessment.
Its then up to the business to determine, by way of that loss calculation, as to whether this 
has caused the consumer financial loss.Putting things right
For the reasons given, Im satisfied that the complaint should be upheld.
My aim is to put Ms H in the position she would have been in, had she opted to begin in 
house AVCs. Andrew Bourne & Co Independent Financial Advisers Ltd should therefore 
undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators FSAVC review guidance, 
incorporating the amendment below to take into account that the data for the CAPS mixed 
with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005.
As set out above, the FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers 
for losses arising solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a 
benchmark index is used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of 
employer matching contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So, where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, Andrew Bourne & Co Independent Financial Advisers Ltd should use the CAPS mixed 
with property index up to 1 January 2005 and the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total 
Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid 
into Ms H pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Ms H as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
In closing, I have noted what Andrew Bourne & Co Independent Financial Advisers Ltd has 
said about the difficulties its experienced in trying to determine the difference in charges 
between the in house AVC arrangement and the FSAVC policy. Im sympathetic to this, 
and also understand that it might have limited resources to undertake such a calculation 
itself. And so, whilst this service is unable to help with the calculation, it would be open to 
Andrew Bourne & Co Independent Financial Advisers Ltd to engage the services of an 
actuarial firm which should be able to assist. 
 My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Andrew Bourne & Co Independent 
Financial Advisers Ltd to undertake the above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman