DRN-3226093
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D have complained about the cash settlement they received, after they made a 
claim on their buildings insurance policy with Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes), 
following an escape of water. They are also unhappy with the time it took to receive the 
settlement.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, and were set out in my
provisional decision, so I am not going to describe them again here.
My provisional decision
I thought that Great Lakes had acted fairly in the offer they had made to Mr and Mrs D to put 
things right. I set out my reasons why. I said:
Mr and Mrs Ds policy explains that following loss or damage such as Mr and Mrs Ds 
escape of water, they will pay the cost of repair or replacement. 
In this case, Mr and Mrs D were represented and a calculation of the loss was put forward by 
them to Great Lakes. In return Great Lakes offered as settlement, the amount that they had 
calculated it would cost them to repair the damage (rounded down and less excess). 
Following discussions between Mr and Mrs D and their representative, it appears the offer 
was accepted on their behalf and it was noted that it was preferred as it would be quicker. 
Mr and Mrs D have subsequently complained some months later that this settlement that 
was accepted by them through their representative, was greatly insufficient to get all the 
work done that was needed. I would usually expect that a settlement does what its 
supposed to do and put the consumer back in the position they were in prior to the damage. 
In this case, I am satisfied it hasnt done that. 
However, Mr and Mrs D chose to accept this figure through their representative. Great Lakes 
hadnt implied that Mr and Mrs D would be able to get the work done for this amount, but it 
was still accepted and the amount paid to them. They had the benefit of that money and I 
dont think it would be fair to now ask Great Lakes to pay a higher figure, many months after 
acceptance. 
Great Lakes have however agreed to pay Mr and Mrs D the £226.40 that it deducted with no 
apparent reason apart from rounding down. They have also made it clear to Mr and Mrs D 
that if they provide proof of VAT paid within this scope of works, they will refund that. That is 
because their original settlement offer was net of VAT. 
I think that this offer is fair and takes into account that whilst the original settlement was not 
enough to put Mr and Mrs D back in the position they were in prior to the damage, it was still 
accepted despite this in the hope of a quicker settlement. 
Mr and Mrs D have also complained about how long it took them to receive settlement. 
There was a period of about three weeks before the settlement was paid after the 
acceptance and payment details were given. Great Lakes have apologised and explained 
that payments are usually raised within 5 days of the confirmation. I think in the 
circumstances and considering the payment was eventually sent as BACS faster payment, 
the apology is sufficient. 
Great Lakes responded to say that they had nothing further to add. 
Mr and Mrs D responded to say that they didnt agree with the provisional findings. They said 
that the award meant that they were still considerably short of the amount it cost to repair the 
damage. They didnt think it was fair and felt that Great Lakes had made a profit from the 
estimated costs compared to the amount paid.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my position remains as set out in my provisional findings and I think what 
Great Lakes has offered to do, is fair. 
I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Ds position that they have ended up having paid out more to 
repair the damage than has been paid to them. However, I cant find that Great Lakes are 
responsible for that. 
The higher figure that Mr and Mrs D are comparing their position to, was an initial estimate of 
costs from their representative. When Great Lakes made an offer, it was clear that it was 
below this and that Mr and Mrs D would need to get the work done for less or face a shortfall 
in funds. Mr and Mrs D and their representative chose to accept this amount, while fully 
aware of this and made it clear that this was so they could ensure a quicker settlement. I 
dont think it is fair to come back some months later, with the benefit of that earlier payment, 
and say that they are no longer happy with the amount offered. 
Great Lakes has now offered what they estimated it would cost Mr and Mrs D to get the 
works done, including VAT and the previous reduction. I appreciate Mr and Mrs D didnt get 
the work done for this amount but they accepted that risk when they chose the earlier 
settlement.   
Putting things rightFor the reasons given above, my final decision is that Great Lakes Insurance SE should pay 
Mr and Mrs D £226.40 that they deducted from the settlement amount. 
They should also refund Mr and Mrs D any amounts that they paid as VAT within this scope 
of works, further to proof of payments. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that Great Lakes Insurance SE should deal 
with the case as set out in the putting things right section above.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 January 2022.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman