DRN-3225103
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited (Markerstudy) declined 
his claim and avoided his private motor insurance policy, following the total loss of his 
vehicle.
  
What happened
Mr S submitted a claim following the total loss of his vehicle. During the process of validating 
the claim, Mr S mentioned that hed changed the wheels on his car. Markerstudy said if it 
had known about the modification it wouldnt have accepted him on this policy. So, it 
declined Mr Ss claim and avoided his policy.
Mr S says this is unfair. He said he needed new tyres and the manufacturing dealership sold 
him a complete alloy wheel set (tyre and alloy) at a discounted price. He says they are 
genuine manufacturer wheels from a manufacturing dealership and not what he would 
consider a modification to his vehicle.  
An investigator from our service looked at this complaint. The investigator thought 
Markerstudy had acted fairly. The investigator said that in the circumstances they didnt think 
Markerstudy hadnt done anything wrong. 
But Mr S doesnt agree, and hes asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
I issued a provisional decision upholding this case on 9 December 2021. That provisional 
decision is below and forms part of my final decision.
 What Ive provisionally decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im planning on 
upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a 
qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Markerstudy said Mr S failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
he took out the policy.
So, Ive looked at what happened. Mr S said that in 2018 he needed new tyres. The garage 
offered him a complete new set of alloy rims with tyres fitted at a discounted cost. Mr S 
originally had 19 alloy rims on his car. The new set of rims he was offered were 20 alloy 
rims. They were genuine rims for his vehicle with an identical design to what he already had 
fitted. But they were one inch bigger. Given how attractive the deal was Mr S agreed to 
purchase the complete 20 wheel set for £1,486.00 inclusive of VAT. In May 2020, Mr S 
replaced the tyres again. This time he replaced the tyres only.
The onus is on the Markerstudy to ensure that information it deems important is obtained 
through a clear question. And the onus is on the consumer to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation when answering that question. So, I need to consider if Mr S took 
reasonable care with his answer, specifically taking into consideration what a reasonable 
consumer would have said in the circumstances.
When Mr S took out the policy with Markerstudy, he took it out via telephone using a broker. 
Ive listened to the sales call and I note when Mr S was asked can you please describe all 
modifications on the car.  Mr S replied none. During the call the advisor hasnt provided 
any context about a modification to help Mr S answer it. Nor is there a definition in the policy 
terms and conditions.
We can only base the reasonableness test on what a normal consumer would think when 
answering the question Mr S was asked during the call. Mr S says he doesnt consider 
replacing alloy wheel rims to be a modification. He says in his mind a modification is 
something that would impact vehicle performance. And he says he specifically asked the 
garage about this at the time. He says the garage told him the new rims wouldnt improve 
the performance of the car. So, when Mr S was asked to describe all modifications, telling 
Markerstudy about the changed alloy rims didnt even cross his mind, as he didnt consider 
them to be a modification. 
And I agree. In the absence of anything to define a modification during the call or in the 
policy terms and conditions, its hard for Mr S to know what Markerstudy is looking for here. 
And the onus is on Markerstudy to make sure its being clear about what it wants. If Mr S 
was actively looking to enhance the performance of his vehicle or deliberately improve the 
aesthetic look of his vehicle by deliberately changing the wheels, I might look at this 
differently. But, looking at the notes from Markerstudy it seems clear that the manufacturer 
had an oversupply of this particular alloy rim, and it discounted this particular rim at the time 
to make it more attractive to customers. Mr S didnt go in to a garage specifically looking for 
this alloy rim. He needed new tyres and this particular discounted offer was in place at the 
time. So, it made sense to replace his rims along with the tyres at such a discounted price. 
As such Mr S didnt think hed modified his car. And in the absence of anything to make him 
think otherwise, such as an explanation during the sale, I think based on the question he 
was asked Mr S gave the answer that any reasonable consumer would have given in the 
circumstances. As such Im not persuaded he failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation. 
Conclusion
As Im not persuaded that in this particular case Mr S failed to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation, then CIDRA doesnt allow for Markerstudy to take any action.
So, it follows that cover needs to be provided for the claim, and the claim for the total loss 
needs to be paid in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. The payment should be made less any excess and less any premium thats been returned. Simple interest 
of 8% needs to be added to any amount that is paid from the date of claim to date of 
payment. Markerstudy should also ensure that any voidance marker is removed from all 
internal and external websites, and it should provide Mr S with a letter stating that the 
voidance was placed on his record in error and has now been removed.  
Im also conscious that Mr S has complained about the mental anguish and inconvenience 
hes suffered, and he says he been left out of pocket. As Im planning to uphold as Ive found 
that Markerstudy handled this claim incorrectly, Mr S should be compensated for the distress 
and inconvenience hes suffered because of Markerstudys actions. So, I going to 
recommend that Markerstudy pays Mr S £400 compensation for any distress and 
inconvenience he suffered.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sent my provisional decision on 9 December 2021 as set out above. Both parties have now 
replied.
Mr S has raised two points. The first one concerns the salvage of his vehicle. The second 
one concerns the higher premiums hes now paying because of the voidance on his driving 
record.
Markerstudy has also responded with a number of points. It says that Mr S initially searched 
for a quotation online, and the inception call provided was just a follow up call which took 
place afterwards. Markerstudy has provided a screenshot of what Mr S wouldve seen whilst 
taking out the policy online on an aggregator site and it says modifications is defined online. 
Markerstudy has also provided a note from an engineer stating that the wheels Mr S put on 
his vehicle were not an optional extra for this specific model. Markerstudy says the definition 
is clear, and Mr S didnt take reasonable care. 
So, lets deal with the salvage issue first. When we issued our view on this case in August 
2021, Mr S asked why his salvage hadnt been returned. Markerstudy advised that the 
salvage had been sold and proceeds used to offset the third-party claim. Markerstudy 
suggested if Mr S was unhappy, he could make a further complaint.
When I issued my provisional decision Mr S replied again. He said this vehicle had specific 
sentimental value as it had been paid for by his grandmother. He said Markerstudy had 
called him and apologised for salvaging the vehicle and said it owed him the salvage value. 
Its good to see that Markerstudy has been in contact with Mr S about this issue. But as 
explained to Mr S in August, this part of the complaint was raised after the issue came to our 
service. So, I cant deal with it in this final decision. If Mr S remains unhappy with how 
Markerstudy has dealt with this part of his complaint, he needs to raise a further separate 
complaint.
Im going to move to Markerstudy now, and its reply. In my provisional decision I said Mr S 
didnt specifically go looking to modify his vehicle. He needed to replace his tyres and he 
was sold a full alloy wheel set at a discounted price. Under CIDRA the test is what a 
reasonable consumer would disclose after he changed his wheels. 
If Mr S purposefully set out to upgrade his wheels I can see where the argument could be 
made for a misrepresentation. But in this specific circumstance I believe Mr S just bought a new set of alloy wheels with tyres as they were offered to him at a discounted price. He says 
it wouldnt even have crossed his mind to declare this as a modification. And in my 
provisional decision I said that Markerstudy didnt define modification in either the call or its 
terms and conditions. So, Mr S wouldnt have known what to declare.
But Markerstudy now say that Mr S obtained a quote online first, and that there was a 
definition set out online. The online definition says a vehicle is considered modified if it has 
changed in any way since it was first supplied by the vehicle manufacturer. This would 
include changes to body work, suspension or brakes, cosmetic changes and changes to the 
engine management system or exhaust system. If you are unsure of whether changes are 
classed as a modification, please check with your chosen provider before purchasing
I note that alloy wheels are not mentioned in this definition. So, while Mr S had changed his 
wheels, Im not satisfied that this explanation was clear enough to let him know Markerstudy 
wanted to know specifically about wheels. It follows that its not persuaded me Mr S failed to 
take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation.  
The test in this instance is what a reasonable consumer would do. And I think, in this specific 
circumstance, where a consumer was offered manufacturer branded wheels, from a genuine 
dealership, that were identical to what he already had in every way bar size, that consumer 
would not deem that a modification, and therefore would not declare it to his/her insurer. I 
appreciate what Markerstudy has said the alloys are not an optional extra for this particular 
model. But Mr S wasnt to know this. He was offered an alloy wheel set that was similar in 
almost every single way to what he already had on his vehicle. In his eyes he was just 
replacing the wheels on his car with a new set. 
And looking at what Markerstudy has provided, its clear its not the wheels specifically that 
are the problem, but the cost. If the wheels had cost a little less than they did, its highly 
likely they wouldve been acceptable to Markerstudy and its likely that Mr S wouldve been 
on cover at the time of the claim even with the new set of alloy wheels. 
So Im satisfied, in this specific instance that Mr S presents under CIDRA as a reasonable 
consumer and acted accordingly. As such, nothing further has been provided that has 
changed my mind on this, so the fair and reasonable decision is to uphold the complaint as 
set out above in my provisional decision.
Finally, Mr S has expressed a concern over additional premiums hes paid since this 
voidance has been placed on his driving record. As set out in my provisional decision Im 
asking Markerstudy to remove any voidance marker from all internal and external websites, 
and it should provide Mr S with a letter stating that the voidance was placed on his record in 
error and has now been removed.  Mr S can then use this letter to show his current insurer 
and any previous insurers that there was an error and they can deal with this appropriately.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Markerstudy Insurance Company 
Limited to:
Pay the claim less any excess and premium owed plus 8% simple interest on the 
amount owing from date of claim to date of settlement.
Pay £400 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr S has suffered.
Remove any voidance recorded against Mr Ss record from any internal and external 
websites.
Provide a letter to Mr S explaining this voidance was placed on his record in errorUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman