DRN-2796477
The complaint
Mr B complains that the changes to 123 Account incentives by Santander UK Plc 
(Santander) are discriminatory.
What happened
Mr B had a Santander 123 Lite account. In July 2020 Santander gave two months notice 
that some of the cashback incentives on the account were to change. The changes took 
place in October 2020. The changes included increasing the monthly charge from £1 to £2. 
The cashback scheme changed from paying 1% on council tax and on water bills  to paying 
1% on council tax bills and an increased 3% on water bills.
Mr B complained. He lived in Scotland. He said that there, water charges are paid as part of 
council tax. Therefore, he only received only 1% on water bills  whereas Santander 
customers in England benefitted by getting 3% on water charges. He said this discriminated 
against Santanders customers in Scotland.
Santander said that in Scotland, water was included in council tax bills. So, Mr B would 
continue to earn 1% cashback on his water bills  as before. But if he chose to switch to 
another named water supplier in Scotland he could get 3% cashback. 
Mr B brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator said Santander could change the 
cashback terms  its right to do this was contained in its terms and conditions of the 123 
account. The changes were commercial decisions for Santander to take. So, he couldnt see 
that Santander had acted unreasonably.
Mr B disagreed and asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at Mr Bs arguments here. He didnt dispute that Santander had the right to 
change its cashback incentives  this was included in its terms and conditions. So  I wont 
look at those aspects.
But  Mr B argues that Santander werent treating all customers fairly  because many of its 
Scottish customers were at a disadvantage compared to others. 
Looking at what happened  up to October 2020, as part of Santanders cashback incentive 
on its 123 Lite account  its customers got 1% cashback on direct debits paid for council tax, 
and water bills (among other utilities). Then, after that time, this changed so that 1% was still 
paid on council tax bills, but 3% was paid on water bills. Mr B argues that this discriminated 
against Santanders Scottish customers  because their water charges are amalgamated 
with their council tax  unlike say in England, where water bills are paid separately.
Let me say that this service exists to resolve, informally, disputes between financial 
businesses and their customers about customers individual circumstances. In this case, the 
changes in its the cashback programme was a commercial policy decision taken by 
Santander  for its customers and its business in the UK. This is the same, for example, as 
Santander taking decisions on the pricing of its mortgages or its savings accounts. This 
service doesnt regulate Santander and so our role isnt to challenge its commercial 
decisions. Santanders regulator is the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
So  in this case, Im afraid theres little more I can add  Santander has made its decision 
and implemented it. Some customers will benefit from the changes, and others wont  that 
would no doubt have been part of Santanders own decision-making process. But Mr B 
complaint isnt one I can take any further for the reasons I have given.
And so  I wont be asking Santander to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman