DRN-3955705
The complaint
Ms D and Ms G have complained about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) 
dealt with a claim under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Ms D and Ms G contacted RSA when they found damage to outbuildings in their garden 
following a storm. RSA sent a surveyor to assess the damage. After some chasing, RSA 
explained that although some of the damage was storm related, once the excess was 
deducted, there was no settlement payable. It said the rest of the damage was due to wear 
and tear.
Ms D and Ms G complained to RSA about the settlement and poor customer service. When 
RSA replied, it said it had reassessed the claim and that the majority of the outbuildings had 
been correctly assessed, including applying the wear and tear exclusion for various parts of 
the damage. However, RSA said some of the damage was to non-permanent structures and 
so should be dealt with under the contents cover, rather than buildings cover. So, it had 
calculated as settlement that included some additional items. RSA then offered £1,858.49 to 
settle the claim, which was subject to the excess being deducted from it. It also accepted 
there were customer service issues, including delays in giving the outcome of the survey and 
not providing a written explanation as promised. It offered £150 compensation.
When Ms D and Ms G complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold it. She said 
there had been issues with how the claim had initially been assessed and with customer 
service. However, she said RSA had dealt with this fairly when it looked at the complaint. So, 
she said RSA didnt need to do anything further.
As Ms D and Ms G didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
Ive checked the weather conditions around the time of the damage and can see there are 
wind speeds that would be considered storm strength. I also think a storm could cause 
damage to outbuildings. So, I think the answer to the first two questions is yes.
So, Ive thought about the third question, which is whether the storm was the main cause of 
the damage. RSA accepted the claim for some of the damage. So, to start with Ive focussed 
on the items that were declined. This included a stone outhouse, polytunnel and a shed. 
Looking at the surveyors findings and photos, these identified issues such as rotten timbers, 
signs of corrosion and vegetation penetrating some of the structures. So, based on what Ive 
seen, I think it was reasonable for RSA to decline these parts of the claim on the basis that 
wear and tear was the main cause of the damage, rather than the storm. The policy didnt 
provide cover for gradually operating causes such as wear and tear.
When Ms D and Ms G complained, RSA reviewed the claim again and identified some parts 
of the claim that could be covered as contents, whereas the initial settlement offer was only 
for items covered by the buildings part of the policy. This meant it agreed to cover items 
including a plastic shed, marquee and some fountains. Having looked at this, I think that was 
fair. I havent seen anything that persuades me more items should have been covered or 
that RSAs revised settlement offer was unreasonable.
Ms D and Ms G also complained about the customer service, which was mainly related to 
the actions of a company working on RSAs behalf. RSA identified a few issues, including 
delays in Ms D and Ms G being provided with the outcome of the claim and them not being 
provided with the written response they had been promised. As a result, RSA offered £150 
compensation. Looking at everything that happened as part of this claim, I think that was 
reasonable and I dont require RSA to pay anything further.
As a result, I dont uphold this complaint or require RSA to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D and Ms G to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman