DRN-2262727
The complaint
Mr W complains Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) unfairly declined his pet insurance claim.
What happened
Mr W has a pet insurance policy for his dog  Ill refer to as L. The policy is underwritten by 
Allianz. 
Mr W initially took out the policy in December 2016 and its been renewed each year since.
In September 2017, Ls rear right leg was diagnosed as having patella luxation  meaning 
her kneecap was dislocating. A claim was made, and Allianz agreed to cover the treatment 
costs up to the policy limit. But Ls condition improved, and Mr W decided treatment was no 
longer necessary. 
Allianz told Mr W that should he decide to go ahead with treatment, it would have to be done 
within six months of the claim being pre-authorised. An exclusion for patella luxation and 
arthritis/degenerative joint disease of the stile joints from August 2018 was subsequently 
added to Mr Ws policy.
In January 2020, Mr W noticed a problem with Ls left hind leg and a diagnosis of patella 
luxation was made. Mr W made a claim to Allianz for the necessary treatment. 
Allianz declined the claim. It said the condition was bi-lateral - affecting both of Ls legs  and 
that as it had been more than 12 months since it was noticed, the claim wasnt covered.
Mr M disagreed. He said Ls medial history shows a diagnosis of patella luxation hadnt 
been in respect of her left leg and so was a new condition.
The investigator was satisfied the condition was first noticed in August 2017. He said 
irrespective of it being in one or both legs, the policy excluded future claims resulting from 
the same problem 12 months after it was first noticed. And he was satisfied Allianz had 
brought the exclusion to Mr Ws attention. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why.
 
The policy covers each injury or illness for 12 months from the first date injury, illness or 
clinical signs are noticed, or up to the maximum benefit of £3,000 per condition  whichever 
is reached first.
Allianz has said it wont cover treatment for Ls left hind leg because the diagnosis is the 
same as the right hind leg. It says its a bilateral condition - not a new one. And, as its been 
more than 12 months since the first clinical signs were noticed, its not covered.
The parties disagree as to when Ls left hind leg first showed clinical signs of patella luxation. 
Mr W says in January 2020; Allianz says September 2017 and March 2018. The policy says:
If your pet has suffered from the same clinical signs or has been diagnosed with the 
same illness in the past, the 12 months cover and the maximum benefit starts from the 
very first time the clinical signs were seen.  This applies in all cases regardless or 
whether [] the clinical sign presents in the same or different part of your pets body.
From the information Ive been given, Im not persuaded the condition was noticed in both 
legs in September 2017. I say this because the claim notes from 2017 states the left pelvic 
limb was stable. However, right patella was very unstable and readily moved in and out. 
However, Ive looked at Ls veterinary medical notes and can see in March 2018, Mr W took 
L to the vet as he was worried about her left hind leg. In reference to this leg, the vet noted 
this side hardly luxates at present. In my opinion, hardly luxates suggests there is a 
degree of luxation. So, it seems there were clinical signs in the left hind leg prior to               
January 2020.
I acknowledge that subsequently, in April 2019, the vet has recorded cant palpate left hind 
luxation. But I havent seen any evidence to persuade me that what was recorded prior, in 
March 2018, wasnt the onset of patella luxation. Especially as, the evidence suggests, flare 
ups  where the condition worsens before improving  appears to be symptomatic of patella 
luxation. 
But irrespective of which leg it appeared in, the first clinical sign was in 2017  and so when 
Mr W went to claim in 2020, it was more than 12 months since it was first noticed.
Allianz applied an exclusion to the policy which meant future claims for patella luxation 
wouldnt be covered. The policy states:
 As your policy covers an illness or injury for only 12 months, when we find out your 
pet has been unwell, we can place exclusions on your policy which show the date we 
will stop covering the injury/illness and what we will no longer cover when your 12-
month time limit has been reached.
So, Im satisfied Allianz has acted fairly by placing an exclusion for patella luxation to the 
policy. 
Mr W has mentioned he thought the applicable terms and conditions were from the time the 
policy was taken out. But each renewal is a contract in its own right  and its the consumers 
responsibility to correct any information in the renewal. The exclusion made it clear that 
patella luxation wouldnt be covered and so I cant say UKI has acted unfairly by declining 
Mr Ws claim. 
While I appreciate Mr Ws frustration that treatment was previously approved  albeit for the 
right hind leg - and he didnt utilise the benefit at the time, I dont think it would be fair to 
attribute that to Allianz having done something wrong. 
For the reasons, set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman