DRN-3465274
The complaint
A company which Ill call F complains that Starling Bank Limited treated them unfairly by 
recalling their Bounce Back Loan (BBL).
The complaint is brought on Fs behalf by their director, Mr A.
What happened
In 2020, F successfully applied for a £11,500 Bounce Back Loan (BBL) with Starling, 
all of which had been used.
In July 2021, the British Business Bank (BBB) notified Starling that F had filed 
dormant accounts for the period up to 31 March 2020 on Companies House  which 
was the time they needed to have been trading to be eligible for the BBL Scheme.
Starling contacted F to say this was an event of default under the BBL Scheme and 
asked that they forward accounts to Companies House if the dormancy record was 
incorrect. The bank also a applied a restriction to Fs account. 
F didnt update Companies House and therefore in September 2021, Starling issued 
a default notice saying it was cancelling Fs BBL agreement and requesting they 
repay the outstanding loan balance in full. 
Mr A told us:
F was trading before 1 March 2020 and Starling held their business account so it 
could see transactions of around £50,000 going through the account. Hed also sent 
the bank a copy of Fs tax return for the required period. 
 
He didnt think it was fair that Starling was only using the Companies House records 
to determine if a business was trading prior to 1 March 2020.
Hed explained to Starling when it had contacted him that there had been an error 
when registering Fs accounts with Companies House. Hed been trying 
unsuccessfully to get this resolved as Companies House would only accept postal 
information due to the Coronavirus pandemic and hed sent this several times.
His credit rating had been affected which meant F couldnt obtain credit to trade 
causing financial difficult. This had impacted his mental health. 
Starling told us:
It didnt think it was reasonable that Fs accounts for 1 March 2020 were still showing 
them as a dormant business in 2022, having been submitted in August 2020.
It used Companies House as a primary source of data for the dormancy of 
businesses as any errors can be amended quickly and the data is generally accurate.
The supporting documents provided by Mr A cannot override the Companies House 
status, and that Mr A was given sufficient opportunity to correct Fs dormancy status 
if this was incorrect.
It had recalled the BBL in line with the agreement terms and conditions.    
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld as he didnt think Starling had 
made an error. He thought it was reasonable for the bank to rely on the information from 
Companies House as limited companies need to ensure the information is correct. He said 
Starling was able to review an account at any point during the life of the agreement and ask 
for any information it felt was needed. He also thought it was reasonable for Starling to 
default Fs loan as the bank had asked the business if there was an error and given them 
sufficient time to update Companies House before calling an event of default  but F hadnt 
responded, and no update had been made.
F didnt agree. They said theyd sent requests to Companies House on several occasions to 
update their account status, but this hadnt been done. They also didnt agree that 
Companies House should override the trading status of their business as Starling could see 
transactions going through the account for the period needed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Applicants had to meet certain criteria to be eligible for a BBL, which included the 
requirement to have been carrying on business on or before 1 March 2020. When F 
submitted its BBL application, it self-declared that it was trading on the requisite date and 
this was accepted by Starling at face value, in line with the Scheme rules.
Fs BBL agreement terms say that Starling can cancel the agreement and demand 
immediate repayment in an event of default. An event of default included if a borrower made 
an untrue or misleading representation such as their eligibility under the BBL Scheme rules.  
In this case, after F had already received the BBL, Starling received notification from the 
BBB that F had submitted accounts showing it was a dormant company as of 1 March 2020. 
So the bank carried out a review of Fs application and asked the company to confirm if there 
had been an error in their accounting submission and requested that Companies House was 
updated to reflect this. After around six weeks without a response, the bank decided that it 
wasnt satisfied that F had met the Scheme eligibility criteria. It therefore withdrew the facility 
under an event of default in line with the agreement terms on the basis that Fs declaration 
that it was trading at the requisite time was incorrect - I think it was reasonable. 
I acknowledge Mr As comment that the Scheme doesnt say Companies House would be 
used to check if a business was trading on or before 1 March 2020. However, Companies 
House is the official record for limited companies to evidence their status, so I think its 
reasonable for Starling to place a heavier weight on this information as evidence when 
making its decision as to whether or not F met the BBL Scheme eligibility criteria. 
I also recognise Mr A has told us that the initial six weeks F was given by the bank to update 
its trading status wasnt enough. However, even if I thought Starling should have given F 
longer than six weeks from July 2021, its now over sixteen months later and Fs dormant account status for the period 1 March 2020 hasnt been updated. And despite requests from 
the bank and this service, F hasnt evidenced any contact with Companies House or that 
they made any attempt to rectify the accounting status which they say was incorrect. 
F has provided bank statements, invoices, and a tax return to show that it was trading prior 
to 1 March 2020. However, Starling had discretion under the BBL Scheme to decide what 
documents it would accept as evidence and how much weight it placed upon that evidence 
to satisfy itself that a borrower met the eligibility criteria. I acknowledge Mr As frustration that 
Starling has used Fs Companies House dormant account status for 1 March 2020 to make 
its decision, rather than the information he has provided. However, my role here is to decide 
whether based on the information available, Starling made a reasonable decision to cancel 
Fs BBL agreement, and based on what Ive seen, I think it did. 
I recognise that Mr A feels strongly about this, and hell be disappointed with my decision. 
But based on everything Ive seen I dont think Starling did anything wrong in cancelling Fs 
BBL agreement when it was made aware the business didnt meet the Scheme eligibility 
criteria. Mr A has told us that F has been caused financial difficulty and I would encourage 
him to contact Starling about this if Fs unable to make the required repayments on the BBL.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman