DRN-3458094
The complaint
Mr M complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim he 
made under sections 56, 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in 
relation to a solar panel system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr M is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around January 2019, Mr M was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P 
to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Mr M decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a ten year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In December 2020 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr Ms behalf under section 75 
of the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations 
about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that 
had induced Mr M to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the total cost of the system was documented as £8,000 to mislead Mr M, as when the 
interest was added the total cost was actually £11,589.80;
the system would generate free electricity;
the system would be self-funding;
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on his electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the monthly loan payments;
one of the optional extras Mr M chose to have, a battery, would provide further 
savings of £12,000, but this was never installed; and
the system would not require maintenance (but in fact the inverter would have to be 
replaced during the systems 25 year lifespan, at a cost of £1,500).
In August 2021 Shawbrook issued a final response, and said that it didnt agree the system 
had been misrepresented to Mr M or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be 
upheld. However it offered £200 compensation for its delay in responding to the complaint.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr M and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
the adjudicator had focused too much on certain aspects of the sales documentation 
(in particular Ps quote), and had not given enough weight to other parts;
the finance figures in the quote are simply not accurate, with the result that all of the 
estimates in the quote are wrong;
one of the optional extras  a battery  had not been purchased, but the estimated 
savings had been calculated based on the battery being bought;
a revised quote, without the battery cost, should have been provided, but was not;
consequently the quote which was actually provided should not be relied on, and had 
been grossly misleading.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr M paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr M could claim against Shawbrook (the 
creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could have 
claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr M and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system, and also 
(speculatively and without evidence) on the possibility that Shawbrook paid P commission or 
gave P some other financial incentive to broker the loan (which Shawbrook denies).
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing him loss.
Key documents
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr M says that during a sales meeting he was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by the parties. These include the 
credit agreement, MCS certificate, FIT statements, and two versions of the solar quote, one 
titled Getting Started (which includes the contract), and one titled Just For You: Your 
Personal Solar Quotation. Both are dated 24 January 2019. Ive considered these, along 
with Mr Ms testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to decide on balance what is 
most likely to have happened. I have also seen an email from P to Mr M, dated 13 June 2019, in which P explains why the battery was not installed, and agrees to refund the £100 
deposit he had paid for that item.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments. It is clear that only the basic system was paid for on credit, and the 
battery was to be paid for separately (by debit card, according to the contract).
The two quotes are detailed documents that set out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with Mr M, explaining any benefits of the system, prior 
to him agreeing to enter into the contract.
I have compared both versions of the quote with each other, and it is clear that one of them 
incorporates the battery and one does not. (I will show this later on in this decision, in the 
section titled Self-funding, and the battery.)
Both versions of the quote were provided to our service by the CMC, so Im satisfied that 
Mr M saw both of them at the meeting and was sent copies of both of them afterwards.
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quotes did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through them during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with Mr Ms 
version of events, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact.
The fact that one quote included the battery (Getting Started) and the other did not (Just 
For You: Your Personal Solar Quotation), and both had the same date, leads me to 
conclude that the costs and benefits of the system both with and without the battery were 
discussed at the meeting. The result was that Mr M chose to purchase the system with the 
battery.
It appears from the June 2019 email that the battery was never installed. The reason for that 
is given in the email, which in summary says that the battery was not suitable because 
Mr Ms energy usage had turned out to be higher than P had expected, which meant that the 
battery would not receive enough surplus energy to operate correctly.
Since the quote which included the battery is the version which induced Mr M to enter into 
the contract for the purchase of the system as a whole, I have mainly focused on that 
version to see if any misrepresentation was made. But I have still considered the other quote 
as well, since this one sets out how the system was expected to perform without the battery, 
which is the system Mr M has ended up with.
Cost of the system
On balance, Im satisfied that Mr M was told that the overall cost of the system was 
£11,589.60. The credit agreement makes it clear that the cash price of the system is £8,000. 
It sets out a clear breakdown of the deposit, the amount of credit provided, the total charge 
for credit, the monthly payments, and the total amount repayable, £11,589.60.
Having considered all the evidence, including Mr Ms recollections, Im satisfied that they 
were told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this clear, as 
set out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the 
credit agreement, made it clear that it would cost Mr M more than the cash price as he had 
decided to pay for it with an interest-bearing loan.FIT payments and savings
Mr M has said that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and the savings on his energy bills. Ive considered the quotes 
that were provided by P as well as Mr Ms recollections of his meeting with Ps 
representative to decide what is most likely to have been said.
Both versions of the quote set out the estimated income Mr M could expect to receive by 
way of FIT payments from the system, and from savings on his bills, in the first year.
From Getting Started, section titled System analysis, page 23:
From Just For You, page titled Impact of solar:
I think that both quotes show clearly that Mr M could expect to receive a total FIT income in 
year one of £172.09, which results in an average monthly income of £14.34. Im satisfied 
that the Getting Started quote set out that there would be a monthly loan repayment due of 
£144.26. In the other quote, the repayment figure is £94.19.1 As a result, Im not able to 
conclude that Mr M was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT 
payments alone.
The quotes both go on to look at the electricity savings Mr M could expect from the system. 
The expected year one electricity savings in both quotes is £312.50.
The Getting Started quote then takes into account two of the optional extras chosen by 
Mr M  the Volt Doctor and the Boiler Doctor  and the combined income and savings in 
year one is shown as £762.75. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
1 It is not clear why these loan repayment figures are different, unless it is because the Getting 
Started quote envisaged that the battery was to be paid for on credit. Since P and Mr M had agreed 
that the battery was to be paid for separately, and not with the Shawbrook loan, this may indicate that 
the Getting Started quote actually overstated the monthly cost of the system by about £50 a month. 
If so, this would not have worked to Mr Ms disadvantage, and so would not be a misrepresentation.
However, this figure still does not include the battery (as I will show later); nor does it include 
a fourth optional extra called Social Energy (which was related to the battery, rather than a 
free-standing option). These two options are included later on in the Getting Started quote, 
but they are not in the Just For You quote at all.
Meanwhile, the Just For You quote gives the same figure for the total income and savings 
in year one, £762.75, on the corresponding page (which is titled Your Savings Summary).
That figure, £762.75, given in both quotes, results in a monthly figure of £63.56. That is less 
than the monthly loan repayment figure given in each quote (see above). So I cannot 
conclude that Mr M was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT 
income and savings alone (disregarding the battery for now).
Theres another section with three tables showing repayments over 60 months, 120 months 
and 180 months. In the Getting Started quote, this section is called Finance repayments; 
in Just For You its called Your Agreement. Ive focused on the table for 120 months as 
this is the length of the loan that Mr M entered into with Shawbrook. 
As Ive said already, in Getting Started this table shows the loan as repayable in 120 
monthly payments of £144.26. This is obviously incorrect, since the loan agreement gives 
the correct monthly figure of £96.58. I expect that Mr M knew the correct figure at the time, 
but if he really thought it was £144 and he still chose to buy the system, then I am sure that 
he would certainly have bought it if hed known it was only £96, and so this figure would not 
be a misrepresentation.
In Just For You, the table gives the monthly repayment figure as £94.19. That is also 
incorrect, but I think the difference  £2.39  is too small to be misleading. 
For each year of the ten year loan, each table shows the expected grand total return from 
the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, and subtracts the monthly loan 
repayment of £144.26 or £94.19, to give an average difference between the monthly return 
from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. In both quotes, this gives a 
negative figure for the first seven years of the loan, meaning that the system would not begin 
to make enough money to cover the loan payments until after seven years.
This is shown very clearly in the Getting Started version, where the shortfall is highlighted 
in red, and the profitable years are in green.
From Getting Started:
From Just For You:
I think both quotes clearly set out the income Mr M could expect to receive from the system, 
as well as his expected contractual monthly loan repayments. Whilst I accept that the tables 
dont simply compare the FIT income and savings to the monthly loan repayments, they do 
clearly set out that the overall income he could expect to receive by way of FIT income and 
any additional savings would not be immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan 
repayments. (This supports my finding above that Mr M wasnt told that the FIT payments 
alone would cover the loan repayments.)
Ive carefully thought about Mr Ms version of events. However, as Ive found that the quotes 
did form a central part of the sales process which the salesperson went through at the 
meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that he was told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT income and savings.
The table in Getting Started includes not only Mr Ms FIT income and savings, but also the 
additional income he would receive from the battery and Social Energy optional extras. This 
can be seen in the column headed Acc. grand total, where the figure for year 1 is 
£1,265.84 (instead of the figure of £762.75 which was given earlier in that same quote, and 
which is still given in the 120 months table in the Just For You quote).
I shall show in the next section that the Getting Started quote gives a detailed breakdown 
of that figure in another table.
Self-funding, and the battery
Ill now consider whether P told Mr M that the system would be self-funding from the outset. 
In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have 
happened.
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quotes played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the tables above which set out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the tables are clear and easy to understand (notwithstanding the differences 
between the monthly payments in the tables and in the loan agreement, as discussed 
above). In both quotes, the section containing each table has been signed by Mr M, so Im 
satisfied that P did enough to bring both tables to his attention. On balance Im also satisfied 
that the salesperson referred to the tables at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quotes 
at the meeting which set out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start. 
I think the quotes are clear that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and monthly loan repayments, whether or not the battery was included.
That said, I do accept that Mr M was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain period of time.
Another page of the quotes has a table detailing the estimated performance over 25 years. 
In both quotes, this table is headed What will you earn and save per year? The middle part 
of the top of the table in the Just For You quote looks like this:
And in the Getting Started quote it looks like this:
Here it can clearly be seen that the Getting Started table includes the battery and the 
Social Energy extras, giving a total income in the first year of £1,265.84, and the other quote 
does not, instead giving a total of £762.75. In Getting Started, the difference between the 
two totals can be seen to be split into £78.12 from the battery itself, and £424.96 from the 
related Social Energy feature.
What both tables still have in common, however, is that they both show that it would take 
nine years for the overall benefits that Mr M could expect to receive to reach the cash price 
of the system.
For reasons of space, I will only show the first nine rows of each table.
From Getting Started, in which the cash price of the system including the battery is 
£12,200:
From Just For You, in which the cash price of the system without the battery is £8,000:
I think the nine-year estimated payback time is clear and prominent. Again, the eight years of 
deficit are highlighted in red, and the ninth and subsequent years are in green.
This nine year timescale also appears in the Putting it all together section of Getting 
Started, and in the Your Savings Summary section of Just For You.
So Mr M was told that the panels would begin to pay for themselves in about the same 
amount of time whether the battery was included or not. For that reason, I am not persuaded 
that, if he had been told at the point of sale that the battery would not be suitable for him, he 
would never have bought the system at all.
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr M that the system would pay for its cash 
price in nine years, as supported by the tables above, which were included in the quotes. If 
that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced him to 
enter into the contract, and he subsequently suffered a loss, then that could amount to a 
misrepresentation.
The CMC says it is untrue because it will actually take 53 years for the system to pay for 
itself. So Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line 
with the contract between P and Mr M.
Performance
The MCS certificate and both quotes each set out that the system is expected to produce 
2,684 kWh a year. I have looked at Mr Ms FIT statements and can see that his system, on 
average, has generated 3,149 kWh a year. This is somewhat more than estimated by P at 
the point of sale (117%), so Im satisfied that the system is performing better than expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2017 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Mr M hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr M could have 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions or wrong figures being used by P at the time Mr M entered into 
the contract.
The inverter
I dont think it is likely that the salesman would have told Mr M that the system would require 
no maintenance over its estimated lifespan of 25 years. It is possible that the salesman did 
not tell him during the meeting that the inverter would need to be replaced, but that is not the 
same thing as a misrepresentation.
I also note that the quote says, in a section titled Frequently asked questions, under the 
sub-heading The Inverter:
The Inverter is the one part of PV system that has a higher chance of failure and may require 
your attention within the 25 years.
So I dont uphold this complaint point.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr M to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
I leave it to Mr M to decide whether to accept Shawbrooks offer of £200 compensation for its 
delay in responding to his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman