DRN-3616370
The complaint
Mr T complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) continued charging interest on a credit 
card in his name, after he had made it clear that the card was taken out without his 
knowledge or consent.
What happened
Mr Ts complaint about the fraudulent application (in 2006) has already been determined by 
an ombudsman at this service. They concluded that Mr T was likely aware of the credit 
cards existence and had financially benefitted from the credit facility. 
Since bringing that complaint to us, Mr T also raised concerns about the interest rate 
charged on the credit card which he said was excessive. He also complained that Santander 
continued charging interest despite him asking not to be held responsible for the debt.
 
I issued a decision earlier this month and explained that I couldnt consider Mr Ts concerns 
about the rate of interest charged on the credit card  hed complained about this too late. 
But I could consider his concerns about Santanders actions after hed disputed liability for 
the outstanding balance. 
I gave both parties an opportunity to provide any final submissions in relation to what I could 
consider. Santander didnt respond. Mr T reiterated that he had no knowledge of the card 
and never saw any statements. In relation to the interest charged from March 2020 onwards 
(when he disputed liability), Mr T said that he made it very clear to Santander that he thought 
hed been a victim of fraud. And that its staff seemed to agree with him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by saying that while I acknowledge Mr T maintains that he shouldnt be held 
responsible for the outstanding debt, the matter has previously been considered by our 
service and a final decision was issued. I cant comment any further on the merits of a 
complaint which has already had a final decision. 
So, Mr Ts awareness of the credit card, or liability for the outstanding debt, isnt something 
Ive considered in this decision. Ive only looked at whether it was fair for Santander to have 
continued charging interest beyond March 2020 when he disputed liability.
According to Santanders system notes, on 15 April 2020, Santander spoke to Mr T and he 
mentioned receiving a letter that day which said that Santander didnt believe any fraud had 
occurred. The system notes go on to say that a basic affordability check was completed, 
but no payment or promise to pay was made. Mr Ts personal circumstances were also 
noted.
A note from 22 April 2020 states that a complaint was logged as Mr T wanted the fraud 
matter to be looked at again and he didnt want to enter into a payment arrangement as he 
thought it would look like he was accepting responsibility. The agent informed Mr T that a 
default could be applied to the credit card account if a payment wasnt received. 
Santander sent its final response on 5 May 2020 which said that its position remained 
unchanged. Following this, several letters were sent to Mr T informing him that an 
operational block had been applied to the card. 
In August 2020, Mr T referred the fraud complaint to our service. 
I understand that the credit card account was passed to a debt collector in early October 
2020 and that interest and charges were stopped at that point. At our services request. 
Santander placed any debt collection activity on hold while the matter was being investigated 
by us. 
Ive carefully considered the above timeline in conjunction with the available information. 
Having done so, I havent seen anything that suggests Santander, or our service, told Mr T 
that he didnt need to make any payments while his fraud/liability complaint was ongoing. In 
fact, in its final response Santander recommended Mr T to speak to its collections team to 
discuss options to repay the outstanding balance. 
Like the investigator explained, banks have a duty to treat their customers with due 
consideration and forbearance if they are struggling to make repayments. Had it been the 
case that Mr T was struggling to repay the outstanding balance and had made Santander 
aware of this, I would have expected it to have reviewed his financial circumstances and 
considered accepting reduced payments. 
But that isnt what happened here. Mr T chose not to make payments. I appreciate that he 
had his reasons for doing so. But that doesnt mean a payment wasnt due. Mr T knew as 
early as April 2020 that Santander was holding him responsible for the outstanding balance, 
and that the account was in arrears. Although he remained dissatisfied with Santanders 
response and referred his complaint to us, there were no guarantees that the outcome was 
going to be in Mr Ts favour. 
Mr T has said that Santanders staff agreed with him that fraud was committed. But he hasnt 
provided any evidence to support this. And I havent seen anything in Santanders 
submission that makes me think this is what happened. 
Ultimately, the terms and conditions of the credit card set out when interest and charges can 
be applied. Im not persuaded that Santander acted unfairly in continuing to add interest to 
the card in the circumstances. As Id expect it to, Santander stopped this when it employed 
the services of a debt collector.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr T as I know this isnt the answer he wanted. And I do recognise 
that his complaint has been with us for some time. But for the reasons given, I wont be 
telling Santander to take any action in relation to this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman