DRN-4450619
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain Financial & Legal Insurance Company Ltd turned down a claim they 
made under their after the event (ATE) legal expenses insurance and cancelled the policy 
from the start. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S bought a property in November 2016. In May 2019 they became aware of the 
presence of Japanese knotweed. They entered into a conditional fee agreement with 
solicitors (C) to claim against the vendor of the property. Mr and Mrs S took out an ATE 
policy with Financial & Legal to cover costs in the event their claim wasnt successful. 
Proceedings were issued against the vendor in September 2020. They made a drop hands 
offer to settle the claim. Financial & Legal agreed that offer should be rejected. The following 
month C sent Financial & Legal a copy of the defence to the claim made by the vendor. A 
further drop hands offer was made in August 2021. C says it didnt tell Financial & Legal 
about this because nothing had changed from the previous offer. In October 2021 Financial 
& Legal agreed an increase in the limit of indemnity for the policy.  A further increase was 
agreed in February 2022. 
C continued to provide Financial & Legal with progress updates and confirmed at the start of 
October 2022 the case had been scheduled for trial (in December). Later that month 
Financial & Legal queried why the claim had been raised against the vendor of the property 
and not the surveyor who acted for Mr and Mrs S (and didnt find knotweed). C explained its 
reasoning which included that an expert opinion didnt identify negligence on the part of the 
surveyor. 
On 8 November Financial & Legal said it thought it likely the defence of the case would 
succeed given the surveyor hadnt found knotweed at the premises. And it said it hadnt 
been provided with the advice C had given Mr and Mrs S as to why a claim had been 
pursued against the vendor and not the surveyor. It said it only found out the day before 
about the further drop hands offer which it hadnt been told about earlier and this was a 
breach of the policy terms. It said it would be cancelling the policy from the outset. I 
understand the case subsequently progressed to trial where Mr and Mrs S were 
unsuccessful. Costs were awarded against them in March 2023. 
Our investigator noted Financial & Legal had cited four grounds for turning down the claim 
and cancelling the policy. Having considered those, she didnt think it had acted fairly. In 
summary she said:
Financial & Legal said Mr and Mrs S hadnt made a fair presentation of risk because they 
didnt tell it when taking the policy out legal action had been considered against the 
surveyor rather than the vendor. And it wouldnt have agreed cover if it had known this. 
However, as this was a consumer contract the relevant law wasnt the Insurance Act 
2015 (which refers to a fair presentation of risk) but the Consumer Insurance Disclosure 
and Representations Act 2012 (CIDRA). She didnt think there had been a qualifying 
misrepresentation under its provisions and so didnt think Financial & Legal could avoid 
the policy or turn down the claim.
She accepted the terms of business with Mr and Mrs Ss solicitor included a requirement 
for a claim to have 60% prosects of success. But that didnt form part of the contract with 
Mr and Mrs S which referred to it being more likely than not it would win. There was legal 
advice to say that was the case and Financial & Legal hadnt provided a contrary legal 
opinion from someone qualified to do so. 
She agreed Financial & Legal wasnt told about the second drop hands offer until some 
time after it had been made. That was a breach of the policy terms. However, she didnt 
think Financial & Legal had been prejudiced as a result. C said there had been no 
change in the circumstances of the case between the first and second offers. She 
thought it likely Financial & Legal would also have agreed to reject the second offer. 
C hadnt provided its full file to Financial & Legal when it requested it but they were only 
days away from the trial starting at that point and said they would send the information 
they could. Subsequent requests from Financial & Legal were some time after it had 
made the decision to decline the claim and cancel the policy. Financial & Legal shouldnt 
have cancelled the policy if it didnt have the information it needed to do so. 
She said Financial & Legal should reinstate cover and consider the claim as if that hadnt 
taken place. Financial & Legal didnt agree. It made detailed comments which Ive 
summarised as follows:
It drew attention to points in the court judgment which showed Mr and Mrs S had initially 
sought to pursue a claim against the surveyor which was unsuccessful. It said C had 
accepted in another case it was involved with this would provide the vendors with a 
defence. It said it wouldnt have agreed to issue the ATE policy if it had been told about 
the surveyor claim when the policy was applied for. So it thought it was entitled to avoid 
this from the outset. 
It said the policy didnt require a legal opinion in order to decide a claim didnt have 
reasonable prospects of success and decline cover. It was only the decision of the 
insurer that was relevant here. It said that decision had been taken by an FCA 
authorised person and managing director of its claims handler who had wide experience. 
It didnt accept he was unqualified to review the prospects of success and said the 
subsequent outcome at trial supported the concerns hed raised, in particular the issue of 
why the claim had been pursued against the vendor and not the surveyor. It thought it 
had reasonably concluded the chances of failure at trial were greater than the chances of 
success. It provided correspondence in which it set out concerns about this.
It didnt accept the legal opinions provided by C or a barrister should be preferred to this. 
It argued they had a vested interest in the case and were not providing objective advice. 
And it said C had given positive legal opinions on previous legal cases that hadnt been 
successful at trial. 
It thought it had formed a reasonable view that Mr and Mrs S were likely to lose at trial 
which was in line with policy requirements. And the policy didnt cover claims where an 
insurer informed an insured of that and they continued with the claim without approval. 
The requirement for a claim to have 60% prospects of success was the common 
benchmark in the ATE industry and was specified in the terms of business. If an insurer 
didnt have the power to withdraw cover from a policy that had been issued the industry couldnt survive. It didnt accept Mr and Mrs S werent aware of the requirement for their 
claim to meet that requirement as they thought C would have told them about it. 
Even on the basis of advice from counsel (which didnt identify the weakness in the case 
it believed it had identified) prospects of success were at 55% which didnt meet the 
requirements in the terms of business. So the case shouldnt have been progressed as a 
result. 
It was a policy requirement that it was informed of all offers so it had the opportunity to 
withdraw cover where the prospects of success were insufficient to continue to trial. It 
drew attention to the policy wording in relation to this. It also disputed Cs reasons for not 
letting it know about this. 
It didnt accept it hadnt been prejudiced by the failure to notify it of the second offer and 
said if it had been able to review the file it might show that offer should have been 
accepted. It also said there had been a key change between receipt of the first and 
second offers which was that a defence to the claim had been filed. 
If the second offer had been presented with a copy of that (which showed the surveyor 
hadnt found evidence of knotweed) it said it would have insisted on acceptance of the 
offer which would have prevented the adverse costs that were subsequently awarded 
against Mr and Mrs S.
In relation to access to Cs file it said it was entitled to request this and quoted relevant 
sections of the policy. It queried what reason C would have for not providing this. It said it 
needed this to establish why the claim against the surveyor hadnt been pursued and 
whether the non-disclosure was reckless. And it said Mr S had been evasive in response 
to its requests for this information. 
It said our outcome had been unfairly influenced by what Mr and Mrs S had told us about 
their financial circumstances. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Financial & Legal has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably
First, I note Financial & Legal has suggested Mr and Mrs Ss financial circumstances have 
influenced our decision making. While Im naturally sympathetic to what I understand is their 
difficult situation I want to be clear that has played absolutely no part in my decision on this 
complaint. Ive explained my thinking in this decision and its those reasons that provide the 
rationale for the outcome Ive reached. 
Misrepresentation
Financial & Legal say there was a misrepresentation when Mr and Mrs S took out this policy 
because it wasnt told a claim against the surveyor had been considered and not pursued. 
Their policy says the the Insured must make a fair presentation of the risk in proposing for, 
or proposing to vary, this Policy. And it sets out remedies available to the insurer depending 
on whether the breach is deliberate or reckless or not. That wording reflects the approach 
set out in the Insurance Act 2015. However, while Ive taken that into account, Ive also taken into account that this was a 
consumer contract and so the relevant law which applies here isnt the Insurance Act but 
CIDRA. And the duty of fair presentation isnt one that applies under CIDRA. Instead, it says 
a consumer has a duty to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. When 
deciding whether they failed to do so a relevant consideration is how clear and specific an 
insurers questions were. So in this case Financial & Legal would need to evidence what 
question was asked, what answer was given and that the answer given was incorrect. 
But it doesnt appear Mr and Mrs S were asked any questions by Financial & Legal when 
taking out this policy. Ive reviewed the information provided at the time which consists of an 
application form (signed by Mr and Mrs S and C) and a brief assessment of its merits along 
with supporting information. 
I appreciate that form does contain a declaration which says we declare that all the 
information submitted in this form and any accompanying evidence is true and correct to the 
best of our knowledge and we have not missed out any facts which are likely to affect your 
decision to provide cover.
However, Financial & Legal hasnt provided any evidence to show Mr and Mrs S were asked 
questions which informed their response to that. I dont think it was reasonable to expect Mr 
and Mrs S to have knowledge of what criteria Financial & Legal would apply when deciding 
whether to provide cover unless they were given further information about this. I think in 
particular if it had wanted to know about whether a claim could be brought against any other 
party it could have asked about this. 
So I dont think Financial & Legal has shown there was a failure to take reasonable care by 
Mr and Mrs S and hasnt demonstrated there was a qualifying misrepresentation. That 
means I dont need to consider whether Financial & Legal would have entered into the 
contract if it had known about the surveyors report. Because theres no qualifying 
misrepresentation it has no remedy against them and wasnt entitled to cancel their policy. 
Prospects of success  what threshold should apply?
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ss policy say If the Insurer reasonably forms the 
view that the Insured is more likely than not to lose the Dispute it shall inform the 
Representative and provide reasons for their view. If, following receipt of that opinion from 
Insurer the Insured wants to continue the Dispute the Insured must obtain Insurers Approval 
to do so. So, on the basis of the policy terms, the assessment should be based on whether 
the claim is more likely than not to be successful. 
I appreciate that Schedule 3 of the terms of business agreement between Financial & Legal, 
C and the broker says that prospects of success must be 60% or above based on [Cs] due 
diligence process. I also accept its common for ATE policies to contain a prospects of 
success requirement at that level. And in principle I dont think its unreasonable for an 
insurer to withdraw cover for a claim if it becomes clear it doesnt meet the policy 
requirements as they relate to prospects of success. 
The difficulty for Financial & Legal is that Mr and Mrs Ss policy doesnt contain the 
requirement for prospects of success to be 60% and theres no clear reference to them 
incorporating any separate agreement with their representative. And its those terms which 
form the basis of the contract between Mr and Mrs S and Financial &t Legal. I dont know 
whether C passed on information about the terms of business to Mr and Mrs S but I dont 
think thats the issue here. I dont think its fair or reasonable of Financial & Legal to seek to 
apply wording to the insurance contract it doesnt contain. And I think the assessment of 
prospects should therefore be based on the more likely than not test the policy contains. Prospects of success  how should this be assessed?
I appreciate Financial & Legal believes its claims handler was qualified to assess whether 
the claim had prospects of success. It also says theres no requirement in the policy to 
obtain a legal opinion in relation to this and its not within our remit to insert words into the 
contract it doesnt contain. 
However, under our rules (and in particular DISP 3.6.1) Im required to determine a 
complaint by reference to what, in my opinion, is fair and reasonable in all of the 
circumstances of the case. And while I appreciate the policy doesnt specifically say an 
insurer should obtain a legal opinion on a claims prospects of success it does say it needs 
to reasonably form the view that a claim doesnt have prospects. 
Its our long-standing approach (which is clearly set out on our website - and has been for 
many years) that, because an insurer isnt a legal expert, a claims prospects of success 
should be considered by a qualified lawyer who has suitable experience in the relevant area 
of law. I appreciate Financial & Legal says the managing director of its claims handler has 
wide experience of ATE policies but Ive reviewed the CV it provided and its clear hes not a 
qualified lawyer. So I agree with our investigator that he isnt in a position to review whether 
this claim has prospects of success or not. 
I also dont agree with the reasons Financial and Legal gave for not relying on the legal 
opinions provided by C or the barrister in this case. We often see consumers arguing that 
because a legal opinion has been provided by a solicitor paid for by an insurer it shouldnt be 
relied upon. But although the insurer will have paid for the advice the solicitor (or barrister) is 
independent and acts in line with their professional duties. I dont see why the same logic 
shouldnt apply to the opinions produced by C and the barrister involved in this case. 
If Financial & Legal nevertheless had genuine concerns as to whether the opinion on 
prospects from C was properly written and reasoned (or conflicted with advice theyd 
previously given) it might have been reasonable for it to seek its own legal advice. What I 
dont think it was entitled to do was to turn down the claim on the basis of a view from a 
claims handler who, whatever other experience he might have, isnt legally qualified, has no 
listed experience of property litigation and whose background is in finance and accountancy. 
The fact his concerns might, to some extent, have been reflected in the subsequent 
judgment on the case doesnt make a difference to my thinking about the way the claim 
should have been handled prior to that outcome being reached. At that point the available 
legal opinions were from C which assessed prospects at 60% and from a barrister who 
assessed them at 55% both of which met the requirements of Mr and Mrs Ss policy. 
It follows that I dont agree Financial & Legal was entitled to turn the claim down on the basis 
the policy terms as they relate to prospects of success hadnt been met. And as I think 
Financial & Legal wrongly turned down the claim on the basis of insufficient prospects it cant 
fairly apply the exclusion for not providing cover where an insured continues with a claim 
after being told that. 
The settlement offer 
I dont think its in dispute that although a drop hands offer was made on 24 August 2021 
Financial & Legal only appears to have found out about that when C provided a spreadsheet 
in November 2022 containing a list of offers made on this and other cases. C says it wasnt 
previously passed on because nothing had changed between the first offer being made 
(which Financial & Legal agreed could be rejected) and the second. But the policy says The Insured agrees that throughout the Dispute the Insurer shall be 
allowed direct access to the Representative and that the Insured will instruct the 
Representative to report as soon as reasonably practicable all settlement offers made by 
the Opponent to the Insurer. And it also says under exclusions The Insurer shall not, 
unless stated otherwise in this Policy, pay any claim under this Policy directly caused by or 
attributable to the Insureds decision to reject an offer of settlement without Insurers 
Approval. The policy says Insured has the meaning set out in the policy schedule which is 
Mr and Mrs S. 
Ive not seen evidence to show Mr and Mrs S didnt instruct their representative to report 
settlement offers to Financial & Legal in line with the policy terms. As a result Im not 
persuaded they didnt comply with that condition of their policy. But I accept the decision to 
reject the second settlement offer wasnt done with the approval of Financial & Legal. So I 
agree there has been a breach of the policy terms here. 
However, in considering whats fair and reasonable I think its also relevant to take into 
account whether Financial & Legal has been adversely affected (prejudiced) as a result of 
that. And whether it would have done anything different if it had been notified of the offer at 
the time it was made.  Financial & Legal argues it would. It says while it agreed the first drop 
hands offer could be rejected, by the time the second offer was made was the vendor had 
filed a defence which showed the surveyor hadnt found evidence of knotweed. If that had 
been provided with the second offer it would have insisted on acceptance of this. 
Ive considered that point. I accept its possible Financial & Legal would have acted 
differently if told about the second offer but I dont think its likely. I say that because the key 
piece of evidence its referenced (the defence to the claim) was provided to it on 12 October 
2020 which is 10 months prior to the second offer being made. And receipt of that 
information didnt make any difference to its decision to continue providing cover for the 
claim. In fact it went on to agree two requests from Mr and Mrs S for an increase to the 
policy indemnity limit. 
Financial & Legal also says a key reason why the policy requires it to be notified of offers is 
so it can withdraw cover if the prospects of success are insufficient to continue to trial. But 
Ive already found that assessment is one which should be carried out by a qualified lawyer. 
And the legal opinions available on this claim were supportive of its prospects (as defined in 
the policy) throughout. So I dont think a proper consideration of prospects would have given 
Financial & Legal grounds to withdraw cover even if had been notified of the offer as it 
should have been. It follows that I dont think it can fairly turn down the claim on the basis of 
this exclusion. 
Access to Cs file
Financial & Legal says under the terms of the policy it was entitled to see Cs file. And the 
policy does say the Insured will instruct the Representative to comply with all requests by 
the Insurer for information and documents reasonably required by Insurer in connection with 
the Dispute. It allows the insurer to cancel the policy if the Insured fails without good reason 
to meet one of its obligations under this section. 
 
However, the comments Financial & Legal has made primarily focus on Cs reasons for not 
providing information. That isnt the test in the policy. The question is whether Mr and Mrs S 
have complied with the requirement in the policy which is to instruct C to provide information 
Financial & Legal reasonably requires. 
I dont think its evidenced that didnt happen. Financial & Legal has highlighted an email in 
which it says Mr S was evasive but I dont agree. In fact in that email Mr S confirmed he would continue to instruct C in in line with the obligations set out in the policy and suggested 
Financial & Legal contact it for the information it needed; he suggested it set out exactly 
what it needed which I dont think was unreasonable. 
In any event the key issue raised at the time of policy cancellation was why the claim hadnt 
been pursued against the surveyor. I can see C provided a detailed explanation on 11 
November and the supporting evidence included the advice it provided to Mr and Mrs S in 
relation to this. It explained why it didnt think a claim against the surveyor would be 
successful but that a claim against the vendor could still be pursued. 
So I dont think Financial & Legal has shown C didnt provide the information it asked for in 
November 2022 or that Mr and Mrs S were in breach of the term of their policy relating to 
this. And I dont think it can use that as a reason for turning down their claim or cancelling 
the policy. In addition, I dont see any issues it had in obtaining information from C in 
response to the complaint Mr and Mrs S made can be relevant here. By that stage it had 
cancelled the policy (and presumably thought it already had the evidence to do so). 
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained I dont agree Financial & Legal was entitled to cancel 
Mr and Mrs Ss policy or to turn down their claim for the reasons its given. Financial & Legal 
will therefore need to reinstate the policy from the date it was cancelled and consider Mr and 
Mrs Ss claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions (as if cover hadnt been 
cancelled). 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Financial & Legal Insurance Company Ltd will need to 
put things right by doing what Ive said in this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman