DRN-3515220
The complaint
Mr G complains Fairmead Insurance Limited (previously known as Legal & General 
Insurance Limited) unfairly turned down his claim and cancelled his policy. 
What happened
Mr G held an income protection policy underwritten by Fairmead. In April 2020, he made a 
claim when he was too unwell to work. Fairmead declined the claim as it said there was no 
cover, due to Mr G being an agency worker. Mr G had changed his job and became an 
agency worker in late 2019. 
Mr G said hed previously called Fairmead to discuss his policy, and had been told that he 
would be covered whilst he was an agency worker. And he complained.
Fairmead said it thought it had been correct to decline the claim.  However it accepted it had 
caused delays in handling it. It apologised for this and offered £75 in compensation, which 
was later increased to £100. 
Unhappy with Fairmeads response, Mr G brought his complaint to this service. An 
investigator here looked into what had happened and said they thought Fairmead needed to 
do more to put things right. In addition to the £100 compensation, and refunding premiums, 
they thought Fairmead should also pay interest at 8% on the premium payments. 
Fairmead accepted the investigators view. However Mr G disagreed. In summary he said 
hed experienced severe ill health and got into financial difficulty due to the claim not being 
paid. And he said Fairmead had misinformed him, caused delays and treated him unfairly. 
As Mr G disagreed, the case has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say Fairmead has a 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Fairmead turned down Mr Gs claim as it said he was an agency worker, so his 
circumstances were not covered by his policy. The eligibility criteria is set out in the policy as 
follows. 
You need to continue to meet all the following conditions or we will not cover you:
 you must be employed, self-employed or a contract worker, working for at least 16 
hours
a week within the UK, Channel Islands or Isle of Man; or working for at least 16 hours 
a week
The policy also defines the term contract worker and Im satisfied by the evidence Ive seen 
of Mr Gs employment, that he didnt meet that definition, which is set out below. And Im 
persuaded the agency role Mr G was working in is caught by the listed exclusions. So it 
follows that I dont think Fairmeads decision to decline the claim was unfair or unreasonable. 
A policyholder who works for at least 16 hours per week under an employment 
contract that has a specified end date or ends when a specific task is completed. You 
must be receiving a salary or
wages and paying income tax and National Insurance.
 This includes working as a sub contractor, for example where you have agreed to 
perform part or all of the obligations of anothers contract.
 This excludes casual and temporary workers, for example agency workers who are 
contracted to an employment agency rather than the company theyre working for.
 This excludes zero hours contracts, for example where the employer is not obliged 
to provide
you with any minimum working hours, and you are not obliged to accept any of the 
hours offered
Delays
Mr G submitted his claim form and evidence to Fairmead in May 2020. However Fairmead 
said it made a mistake and didnt review the claim form until August 2020, after Mr G made 
further contact to chase progress. And when it reviewed the claim, it noted Mr G was an 
agency worker, which led to the claim being declined. 
Fairmead accepted it had caused an unnecessary delay and apologised for this. And it also 
offered £100 in compensation.  Ive considered whether this compensation is fair. And I think 
in these circumstances, it is. I can appreciate it was frustrating to wait for an answer, and Mr 
G had to chase Fairmead in July 2020 and again in August before it reviewed his claim. 
However I think the £100 already paid fairly reflects the level of distress and inconvenience 
caused by this. Ive thought about Mr Gs points around his financial situation and difficulties, 
however I think this is more related to the fact that his claim was declined, rather than the 
delay itself.
Incorrect information 
Fairmead identified that the policy was no longer suitable for Mr G after the point at which he 
became an agency worker, as this meant he would be unable to make a valid claim. And 
because of this, it agreed to refund the premiums paid from that point on. I think this is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. 
However, Mr G has said he was given incorrect information in a call with Fairmead in 
November 2019, in which he advised he was an agency worker, and said he was told he 
would still be covered under the policy.  Fairmead has been unable to provide a recording or 
any notes of this call, so Ive relied on Mr Gs testimony about what was said. And based on this, Im persuaded there was an error or miscommunication on Fairmeads part. I say this 
because, had it advised Mr G that he would no longer be able to benefit from the policy, due 
to the change in his employment circumstances, I think its most likely he would have 
cancelled or changed his policy at that time. 
Whilst I accept Fairmead is most likely to have miscommunicated with Mr G during the call in 
November 2019, it doesnt automatically follow that the claim should be paid. Mr Gs claim 
still didnt meet the terms and conditions of his policy, due to the type of work he was doing 
at the time he became unwell. To put things right, Fairmead should refund the premiums Mr 
G paid for his policy after the point at which he would no longer be able to make a valid 
claim. And thats what it did. However as Ive been persuaded that Mr G told Fairmead he 
was an agency worker in November 2019, and I think he wasnt clearly told this would mean 
he could no longer claim under the policy, Fairmead should pay Mr G interest on the 
refunded premium payments, due to the time he was without that money. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. Im aware 
Fairmead Insurance Limited has already refunded the policy premiums paid since November 
2019 and has paid £100 in compensation. And I direct Fairmead Insurance Limited to pay Mr 
G interest at 8% a year simple, on the premiums refunded, from the date each payment was 
originally made, to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman