DRN-3896529
The complaint
Mrs O complains that Clear Score Technology Limited allowed an unauthorised third party to 
access her personal information which resulted in identity theft. 
What happened
A third party was able to open a Clear Score account in Mrs Os name. Mrs O has explained 
that she was the victim of identity theft with a fraudster being able to open credit cards and 
loans in her name. Mrs O has confirmed that when she after she found she was able to deal 
with the businesses involved and the accounts were closed. 
Mrs O complained that Clear Score had allowed someone to open an account in her name. 
Clear Score said the fraudster had used Mrs Ms private information to open an account and 
that theyd answered security questions to complete the verification process. Clear Score 
didnt agree it made mistakes that led the fraudulent account being opened. 
Last year, Mrs O contacted Clear Score again after noticing soft credit searches she hadnt 
authorised on her credit file. Mrs O had to chase Clear Score for a response over the course 
of several months. Clear Scores told us there was a technical issue with its email system 
which meant Mrs Os emails werent added to her account. Mrs O also said her account was 
locked. 
Mrs O referred her concerns to this service and they were passed to an investigator. They 
didnt think Clear Score had made mistakes when someone was able to fraudulently open an 
account in Mrs Os name as the fraudster was able to answer the security questions and 
pass the verification process using her personal information. But the investigator thought 
Clear Score had taken too long to acknowledge and respond to Mrs Os follow up emails. 
The investigator asked Clear Score to pay Mrs O £150 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
Clear Score didnt agree so Mrs Os complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs O was a victim of identity theft and, as a result, experienced a significant 
amount of trouble and upset. I dont doubt how serious the situation was. But Clear Score 
has given us a lot of information about its verification process when setting up a new 
account. And Im satisfied that the process involved providing personal information and 
answering security questions based on Mrs Os existing credit file. The fraudster appears to 
have been able to provide personal information about Mrs O in order to open the account.  
So whilst I understand the fall out for Mrs O was significant, I havent found evidence that 
shows Clear Score made mistakes or acted unfairly. 
With that being said, given how upsetting being a victim of identity theft was, I can 
understand why Mrs O contacted Clear Score after she noticed unusual activity on her 
account. Mrs O forwarded copies of her emails to Clear Score and Im satisfied they were 
correctly addressed and sent as claimed. Clear Scores told us it had a technical problem 
with its email system around this time and has suggested this is why it didnt receive Mrs Os 
emails. On balance, I think thats a likely explanation. 
Clear Scores also told us it incorrectly advised Mrs O that a new fraudulent account had 
been created using her details when she raised the issue with it. But Clear Scores 
confirmed the fraudulent account was opened first and Mrs O later opened a genuine 
account. As a result, Mrs Os account was initially blocked. Mrs O was only able to access 
her account once it was unblocked by Clear Score in October 2022. In my view, the issue 
together with the problems receiving emails from Mrs O caused a reasonable amount of 
inconvenience for Mrs O over an extended period. 
Whilst I understand this was likely a systems issue, Im satisfied the delay in responding to 
Mrs O did cause an unreasonable level of trouble and upset over several months. In my 
view, the fairest way to resolve Mrs Os complaint is for Clear Score to pay her £150 in 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs Os complaint and direct Clear Score Technology Limited to 
pay her £150. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman