DRN-3448898
The complaint
Mr G complains about Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) who cancelled his policy, due to the 
condition of his home, under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G after taking out a home insurance policy, contacted Ageas to advise that some of the 
information on the application required updating. During the call he told the handler of a 
previous declined escape of water claim. He further explained that the ceiling had yet to be 
repaired. The call handler suggested that his property might not be in a good state of repair 
and informed Mr G that this information would need to be referred to the underwriters. 
A short time later, Mr G received a letter from Ageas advising him to fix and repair the ceiling 
within seven days or the policy would be cancelled. Mr G was alarmed by the way the matter 
was handled and the short time frame given. He also felt that his property wasnt in a poor 
state of repair and the damage was merely cosmetic. 
Mr G had several conversations with Ageas and subsequently had an expert attend his 
property. The expert wrote a report that concluded that the works amounted to minor 
cosmetic decorative works and that the property was structurally sound. 
Mr G sent the report to Ageas who didnt respond. But he went ahead and had his ceiling re-
plastered. Following on from the work being completed, Mr G contacted Ageas and asked 
them to reimburse his costs. But Ageas believed that the work that had been completed 
(mainly the re-plastering of the ceiling) was more than what Mr Gs expert had advised 
needed to be done. So, it only offered a contribution of £175 towards the redecoration and 
compensation of £250 for the poor service received. 
Mr G felt that Ageas actions were unreasonable throughout and didnt think this was a fair 
resolution. He wanted Ageas to reimburse the costs he incurred (around £2,000) and he 
wanted an increase in the compensation offered. So, he referred a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said that it was clear that the property was in a good state of repair and only needed minor 
re-decoration. But, until Ageas were given the report, there was no evidence to support this. 
In addition, he agreed with Ageas and Mr Gs expert who both said that the re-plastering of 
the ceiling wasnt required. 
Our investigator accepted that at times Ageas shouldve responded sooner to Mr Gs 
queries. But he couldnt agree that because of this, Ageas should be responsible for the cost 
of re-plastering the ceiling. He concluded that the offer of £250 compensation for the poor 
level of service and £175 towards the re-decoration costs was fair. And there was nothing 
further he could reasonably ask Ageas to do. 
Ageas accepted the view, Mr G did not. He said that the work was only completed because 
of Ageas instruction. And that Ageas couldnt absent from its responsibility, by accusing him 
of doing more than was required in the report. He said that at a minimum he wanted £1,000 
to settle, as this would be the easiest way out of further steps, he might take to achieve 
justice. He asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to Mr G, 
but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
Mr G has complained that the amount of compensation Ageas offered wasnt enough, and 
that at a minimum Ageas should reimburse him £1,000, towards the costs of the repairs that 
he said he didnt have to carry out. I have addressed these two issues, in this decision.  
I have been provided with several call recordings, which I have considered. In the call when 
Mr G contacted Ageas to amend his policy, he discloses that there was a previous declined 
escape of water claim. And the damage that was caused to his property hadnt yet been 
repaired. 
I understand that Mr G is unhappy about the questions that the call handler asked about the 
previous declined claim. But I dont think it was unreasonable for the call handler to try to 
ascertain the level of damage and for this information to be passed on to the underwriters. I 
say this, as its the insurers who assess the risk that it wants to take when offering 
insurance. 
As it was Mr G who provided the information that the damage hadnt been fixed, I think its 
reasonable for Ageas to want to assess the damage before cover was continued. But I do 
agree that Ageas couldve handled telling Mr G that his cover might be withdrawn far better. 
Mr G explained that he received a letter notifying him to the potential withdrawing of cover 
unless he repaired the damage within seven days. I think it wouldve been better for Ageas 
to have phoned and explained its position to Mr G, which it didnt do. But Im satisfied that it 
recognised that this was one of the areas in which the level of service wasnt up to its usual 
standard. 
I note that Ageas did extend the time frame for Mr G to obtain an assessment of the damage 
and Mr G did instruct an expert to assess the damage. The expert agreed with Mr G that the 
damage wasnt structural and that it would benefit from re-decoration. Mr G said that he 
opted to have the ceiling re-plastered. But having read the report from his expert, I dont 
think his expert was advising that Mr G have the ceiling re-plastered. He did though state 
that the area would benefit from re-decoration. So, I do think that by Mr G opting for the 
ceiling to be re-plastered, this was contrary to the advice from his own expert. 
Ageas was given a copy of the report but before it responded to Mr G, Mr G went ahead and 
re-plastered the ceiling. Ageas didnt agree to cover the cost of the re-plaster of the ceiling. It 
said that there was no requirement for Mr G to have the ceiling re-plastered, as this was 
more work than originally indicated by Mr Gs expert. And given the evidence that I have 
read, I agree. I say this as it was Mr Gs choice to re-plaster the ceiling, despite only being 
advised to re-decorate. Accordingly, I dont think its fair or reasonable for me to direct Ageas to cover the entire costs that Mr G seeks. And as Ageas offered £175 towards the re-
decoration costs, I think this is fair.
Ive next considered the poor level of service that Mr G received. This amounted to Ageas 
failing to contact Mr G by phone before the letter advising that his policy might be cancelled 
was sent to him. And failing to respond to Mr Gs expert report sooner. 
Mr G has said that he would like a far greater amount than the £250 offered by Ageas by 
way of compensation. He explained that the inconvenience he suffered had been 
understated. But assessing the impact (which I think was minimal) on Mr G and the offer of 
£250 compensation made, I think it was fair and reasonable, as it reflects the errors made by 
Ageas. Also, Ageas apologised to Mr G and as soon as it assessed Mr Gs experts report it 
quickly confirmed that cover would continue. So, I wont be asking Ageas to increase its offer 
of compensation. 
Taking all of this into consideration, Im satisfied that Ageas was fair and reasonable in its 
offer of £175 towards the cost of re-decoration. I also think it was fair and reasonable in its 
offer of £250 compensation for the poor level of service it provided. Although I understand 
that this is not the outcome Mr G wouldve liked, I wont be asking Ageas to do anything 
more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I direct Ageas Insurance Limited to pay Mr G £250 compensation 
for the trouble and upset caused (if it hasnt already done so).
I also direct Ageas Insurance Limited to reimburse (on production of an invoice) £175 
towards Mr Gs re-decoration costs (if it hasnt already done so). 
Ageas Insurance Limited must pay the amounts within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Mr G accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
amounts from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman