DRN-3661759
The complaint
Mr B complains that eToro (UK) Ltd allowed him to open a CFD trading account without 
sufficient checks and to continue trading despite large losses and signs he had a gambling 
problem.
What happened
Mr B opened his trading account with eToro in February 2021. He contacted it some months 
later, in October 2021, to tell it he had a gambling addiction and complain that he shouldnt 
have been allowed to trade in leveraged products and incur significant losses. eToro 
explained that it was satisfied it had acted incorrectly in opening and operating the account. 
But, considering the information it now had about his circumstances, it would close the 
account. 
Mr B referred the complaint to this service, but our investigator didnt think it should be 
upheld as he wasnt persuaded eToro had done anything wrong. He noted what Mr B had 
said about various activities he felt shouldve alerted eToro to a potential problem  such as 
large losses and frequent reversals of withdrawal requests  but he didnt think these alone 
were sufficient to have put eToro on notice that Mr B might have a problem. The investigator 
was satisfied eToro had acted reasonably in opening the account and providing appropriate 
warnings about the risks involved.  
Mr B didnt accept the investigators opinion and reiterated a number of points - that he felt 
eToro shouldve offered more support, carried out more regular checks to determine the 
source of invested funds and not offered promotions that encouraged further trading.
As no agreement could be reached, the matters been referred to me to review.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate this must have a been a very difficult experience for Mr B and I can understand 
why he feels eToro shouldve done more to prevent his trading leading him into financial 
difficulties. But having carefully considered the process that eToro adopted when opening 
the account and how it then went on to operate the account, Ive not been persuaded that it 
did anything wrong. Although there may have been occasions where it could have done 
more, I dont think there was any requirement that it should have done. 
When Mr B opened his account, he was taken through an appropriateness test with a series 
of questions to determine his knowledge and experience of this type of trading. As a result of 
his answers he was given a specific warning that CFD trading might not be appropriate for 
him, that it carried a very high level of risk and he was advised to consider training material 
to help his understanding. 
Despite this warning, Mr B decided to proceed with the account. Ive looked at what eToro 
wouldve known of his wider circumstances at the time, in terms of his employment and how 
he proposed to fund his investment, and I dont think there was anything that shouldve 
prompted it to not let him go ahead and trade. 
He was employed and had said he wanted to trade for short term returns, with a high-risk 
tolerance and with an amount of money that tallied with what hed told eToro about his 
circumstances. Hes mentioned that he feels eToro should have asked for documentation to 
support what he had told it or how he was managing to make large deposits to the account.  
But there was no requirement for it to do so. It was entitled to take the information he told it 
about his circumstances at face value.   
Once the account was operating and Mr B had started to trade frequently, as an execution-
only service there wouldve been very little opportunity for intervention. I appreciate Mr B 
feels that his volume of trading, size of losses and in particular the number of reversed 
withdrawals requests shouldve alerted eToro and prompted it to take action. But theres no 
requirement for it to have such mechanisms in place. In respect of the withdrawal requests, 
many were cancelled, but quite a large proportion did complete. So, I dont think there was 
anything on an ongoing basis that shouldve led to eToro intervening.
And once it was made aware of Mr Bs situation, when he contacted it in October 2021, it 
immediately took steps to close the account so he could no longer trade. This is what I would 
expect it to have done and Ive no reason to think that had it become aware of Mr Bs 
circumstances sooner by way of a phone call or email, it wouldnt have done the same thing. 
I note Mr B had registered himself with GAMSTOP  the gambling self-exclusion scheme  
but as eToro doesnt operate a gambling website or app this wouldnt have prevented Mr B 
trading with it. And, again, if it had been aware sooner of Mr B having done this, I think it 
wouldve acted. 
In summary, I recognise that trading with eToro has worsened Mr Bs gambling-related 
financial problems, but to uphold a complaint against it I would need to be satisfied it had 
acted incorrectly or unfairly in respect of its provision of its service to him. And while I 
understand Mr B will be very disappointed, I dont think the evidence supports such a finding. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2023.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman