DRN-1598381
 
The complaint
Mrs G is unhappy that The Protection Specialist Limited (trading as The Fair Trade Practice) 
failed to send her payment protection insurance (PPI) claims to her lenders before the 
deadline. 
What happened
Mrs G contacted FTP in February 2019 to find out more about making a claim for mis-sold 
PPI. Mrs G was sent claim packs with letters of authority (LOA) to sign and return. FTP 
chased for return of these packs. Mrs G contacted FTP in August 2019. 
During a call with an FTP representative on 27 August, the claim handler explained well 
need it back by tomorrow weve got all your details the ones with [ex-partners details] 
just dont sign them letters of authority
Following the call, the FTP claim handler emailed Mrs G LOAs for the lenders she had 
provided details for. The email also explained:
Please do NOT amend the Letter of Authority forms in anyway, as the banks wont accept 
them if you do Once we have received your documents, we will endeavour to get you in 
the process ASAP so you dont miss out due to the deadline. All returns must be received by 
4:30pm on Thursday 29th August to ensure their best chance of being submitted before the 
deadline.
Mrs G signed the LOAs dated 28 August and returned these to FTP the same day. 
On 4 September FTP emailed Mrs G saying as she hadnt sent information back on time, her 
claims had been closed. On 10 September FTP informed Mrs G that her signed forms were 
received on 28 August, but as the terms and conditions were crossed through they couldnt 
be used to send to the lenders.
Mrs G complained to FTP, saying that because theyd failed to send her claims to the 
lenders, shed missed out on the compensation that may have been paid. FTP apologised 
for what had happened, and but also explained that there was no guarantee the claims 
would be sent, and that the LOAs had been crossed through when shed been told not to 
amend them, so the lenders wouldnt have accepted these anyway. 
Mrs G referred her complaint to the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial 
Ombudsman Service) for us to investigate. The investigator found that FTP hadnt acted 
fairly, and asked them to pay £250 in recognition of the upset caused to Mrs G because 
shed now never know the outcome of her claims. 
Mrs G accepted the investigators findings. FTP didnt agree, saying that Mrs G had been 
made aware that there was no guarantee of the claims being sent because of it being so 
close to the PPI deadline, and although the LOAs were received, they wouldnt have been accepted by the lenders because of the markings made by Mrs G. As the complaint couldnt 
be resolved, its been passed to me for decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having reviewed the evidence I agree 
with the investigators outcome on this complaint for broadly the same reasons. 
Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Ive seen that FTP chased return of the claims pack for several months before Mrs G got in 
touch to say shed like to take her claims forward. During the call with the FTP claims 
handler, Mrs G was provided with more information about the steps shed need to take for 
FTP to act for her in making the clams. 
FTP say that in the claims pack that followed the call on 27 August, Mrs G was provided with 
information that explained there was no guarantee that the claims would be sent on time. I 
agree that the paperwork did include a statement saying that FTP would endeavour to get 
[the claims] in the process ASAP to ensure their best chance of being submitted before 
the deadline. Ive considered this information alongside the circumstances of the claim.
Mrs G says she relied on the information provided to her by the FTP claims handler. I think 
this was fair. Although FTP have relied on the disclaimer in the claims pack sent to Mrs G 
after the call, I cant say that Mrs G was provided any information about the risk of FTP not 
being able to send the claim on time when speaking to the FTP claims handler. 
Mrs G returned the LOAs to ensure her claim could be sent on time. Its not disputed that 
the LOAs returned were received by FTP before the deadline. Considering the conversation 
Mrs G had with the claims hander the day before, I think it was fair for her to believe that 
shed done all that was required to ensure the claims would be sent to her lenders on time.
FTP say that the lenders wouldnt have accepted the LOAs because Mrs G had crossed 
through the documents. I understand FTPs comments that theyve had many years of 
experience in dealing with claims and lenders. I also accept that in usual circumstances 
FTPs comments about the lenders not accepting the LOAs wouldve been fair. But with the 
deadline fast approaching I think its reasonable to say that the lenders may have taken a 
more flexible approach. The risk of this is a reason to say that FTP shouldve sent the claims 
to the lenders, for the lenders to decide whether to accept or reject them. As the claims were 
not sent on time, well never know what the outcome wouldve been.
Theres now no way of knowing whether Mrs Gs claims wouldve found PPI, and been 
successful. But I dont think it would be fair for FTP to pay compensation that reflects what 
may have happened. We wouldnt speculate on the likely outcome of any claim. I think any 
compensation amount should be in reflection of the trouble and upset experienced by Mrs G 
because of this lost opportunity. 
The investigator recommended £250 in recognition of what went wrong, and Mrs G not 
knowing what the outcome of her claims wouldve been. This amount is broadly in line with 
what wed say is fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Gs complaint. The Protection Specialist Limited (trading as The Fair Trade Practice) should pay Mrs G 
£250 to compensate her for the trouble and upset shes experienced as a result of missing 
out on the opportunity to have her claims considered by her lenders. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2020.
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman