DRN-1688908
Complaint
Mrs S complains that, as a result of HSBC UK Bank Plcs online transfer process, shes lost 
out when transferring money from her currency account.
Background
On 4 June 2019 Mrs S sent a payment of $15,000 from her US Dollar currency account, to 
her foreign currency broker.
The broker got in touch, and explained theyd received the money but had only received 
$14,230. Mrs S says the broker told her HSBC had converted her original transfer from 
dollars to pound sterling, this transfer was then converted back into dollars when it reached 
her currency account  because this was a dollar account only.
Mrs S says she contacted HSBC on the phone, and went to the branch, but was told they 
couldnt help as if the funds were recalled then shed incur further exchange costs.
Mrs S complained to HSBC and set out eight separate reasons why their systems werent 
clear enough when she was making the transfer. And she summed it up by saying HSBC 
provided misleading, unclear functionality without a checking process. There was also no 
warning the account the money was being sent to was a currency account  and she says 
as a result, shes lost $770 so would like to be compensated for this.
HSBC replied and said that whenever youre sending money the currency will default to the 
same as the country youre sending it to. In Mrs Ss situation, because the currency account 
was held in the UK, the default currency was pound sterling. They added Mrs S confirmed 
the exchange rate before the payment was sent, so they hadnt made an error.
Mrs S didnt agree with this, so asked our service to look into things. One of our investigators 
did so but felt HSBC didnt need to refund Mrs S the money shed asked for. He explained 
this was because, in short, the final screenshot asked Mrs S to confirm she agreed to 
exchanging the currency into pound sterling before sending, and shed agreed to that.
Mrs S didnt accept this though. She argued that the law of red hand rule meant HSBC had 
a duty to highlight these issues more. And that our investigator hadnt addressed their 
concerns with all of the preceding screens.
Our investigator reconsidered things  but explained the law Mrs S referred to didnt apply  
because it related to contracts, and this was a transaction. And he added even if the broad 
principles of the law did apply here, he didnt think it unusual to know Mrs S had to pay 
attention when making the payment. He said he sympathises that she made a genuine error, 
but hes seen the final screen and HSBC do make it very clear the money is being 
exchanged. And that HSBC do say to double check to make sure the payment is correct 
before sending.
Mrs S remained unhappy though, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findingsIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Itll help to explain that the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service isnt to review a 
financial businesses system or to suggest improvements if there were issues with that 
system. Our role is consider whether the financial business has made an error, which has 
led to an individual losing out financially. If that individual has lost out then I can, amongst 
other things, tell the financial business to put the person back in the position they would have 
been in  had the error not occurred.
If Mrs S wishes to pursue her concerns about HSBCs systems, she may wish to get in touch 
with the Financial Conduct Authority to discuss that issue.
So, in this complaint Ill be considering whether HSBC have made some kind of error, that 
led Mrs S to incorrectly transferring money in pound sterling, rather than dollar. Having 
considered all the facts, I dont think they have. Ill explain.
When Mrs S contacted us to complain, she provided all of the screens of the transfer 
process bar the final confirmation screen. Its unclear why she didnt also provide the last 
one. But when HSBC sent us their information, they provided all of the screen shots, 
including the final confirmation screen.
All of the screen shots Mrs S and HSBC both provided match, so Ive seen no reason to say 
that Mrs S wouldnt have seen this final confirmation screen sent by HSBC.
In this final confirmation screen, the sample documents given to me show Mrs S would have 
needed to confirm the payment she was making. The sample shows the currency would be 
converted into pound sterling and asks the customer to check all the payment details are 
correct in two separate places.
Mrs S has argued the screen isnt clear, and the writing may have been small, so she may 
not have been paying attention. But the screen Ive seen shows the payment quite clearly 
and says in two places  once at the top of the screen, and once at the bottom, to confirm 
the transactions. Mrs S has also been given a copy of this screen and hasnt argued she 
didnt see it.
So, taking everything into account, Im satisfied Mrs S was presented with the correct 
payment screen, and HSBC didnt make a mistake leading her to make the payment in error.
Mrs S has argued that the red hand rule law applies in this case. But, as our investigator 
explained, even if the broad principles of the law did apply  and Im not saying they do  our 
service operates on a fair and reasonable basis. This allows me to depart from the law, if I 
think it fair and reasonable to do so. And, in this case, for the reasons Ive explained above I 
dont think HSBC have done anything wrong, which led to Mrs S making the payment in 
pound sterling in error. So, I dont think itd be fair or reasonable for HSBC to have to cover 
the losses Mrs S has claimed for.
My decision
It follows I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2020.
Jon PearceOmbudsman