DRN-4324292
The complaint
Ms G complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund her after she lost money to a scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In January 2023, Ms G made payments from her Revolut account to a number of different 
payees and merchants. In total this amounted to a sum of £4,400.43, of which £908.29 has 
since been returned to her. She made these payments in the belief that she had been 
recruited to a job working for a travel website. The job was to help inflate specific hotels 
rankings on the travel website  to make it appear as though there was more interest in that 
hotel than there actually was. 
She was told that for an hours work each day she would earn significant sums, paid in 
cryptocurrency. However, she was required to pay in cryptocurrency to carry out the work.
Ms G set up a wallet with a major cryptocurrency exchange (which Ill call B). She initially 
bought cryptocurrency peer to peer (P2P), which the sellers transferred to her wallet with B. 
From there Ms G sent the cryptocurrency on to the address shed been given by the job 
website.
After a few P2P purchases, Ms G switched to directly funding her wallet with B through 
payments she made from her Revolut account. That enabled her to purchase further 
cryptocurrency, and then once again send it on to the website.
However, after the payments she was being required to make escalated, Ms G began to 
suspect something wasnt right. She contacted the Police and the scam was uncovered. 
Ms G reported the matter to Revolut through its chat facility. Revolut attempted to recover 
her funds, but was only able to retrieve a nominal sum. It refunded one of the card payments 
Ms G had made as a gesture of goodwill. But it said it wasnt liable to refund her for her 
overall losses  she had instructed Revolut to make these payments and it had done so.
Unhappy with this outcome and significantly out of pocket, Ms G referred her complaint to 
this service for an impartial review. She also raised concerns that Revolut had 
communicated with her about the scam by chat rather than having a phone number to 
discuss it with, as well as other service issues shed found.
Our Investigator sympathised with what had happened to Ms G. But she didnt think Revolut 
needed to repay Ms G the money lost to this scam. She thought the payments wouldnt have 
appeared significantly unusual or out of character for Ms G, such that Revolut should have 
intervened rather than carry out her instructions. Ms G had been paying multiple payees so 
the pattern of payments wouldnt have been apparent to Revolut, and shed made the 
payments online without any direct interaction with Revolut. 
The Investigator also considered Ms Gs comments about how Revolut had handled her 
claim and the use of chat for communication but didnt find it was at fault or needed to pay 
Ms G compensation for it. 
Ms G didnt accept this. She thought Revolut should have noticed these payments. Some 
had been made at night which wasnt usual for her. Shed made some payments using 
Revoluts revtag function which she hadnt done before. She hadnt made payments to B 
before either.
In light of this disagreement, I have been asked to review everything afresh and to reach a 
final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the impact this scam had on Ms G. Shes explained how difficult this 
has been for her. Ms G was the victim of a crime here. She was deceived by a scam that led 
her to believe she would earn a significant income working from home, but in reality she had 
to pay out her own money. Shes been left out of pocket by a significant sum as a result.
However, the main cause of these losses were the scammers who deceived Ms G. For me 
to say Revolut is liable in this type of situation, I would need to find that it could and should 
have acted to prevent the eventual loss, or that it failed to meet its obligations in some other 
way.
Under the relevant regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and 
conditions, Revolut has a primary obligation to execute an authorised payment instruction 
without undue delay. As a consequence, the starting position is that liability for an authorised 
payment rests with the payer, even if they made that payment as the consequence of a fraud 
or scam - for example as part of an employment scam such as this was. 
Theres no dispute that Ms G made the disputed payments using her security credentials, 
and so they were all authorised payments. In the first instance therefore, Ms G is liable for 
those payments.
However, I consider that as a matter of good industry practice a payment service provider, 
such as Revolut, should have been looking out for payments or payment patterns that were 
significantly out of character or unusual and that might therefore be indicative of the potential 
for financial detriment to its customer through fraud or a scam. So Ive thought carefully 
about whether the available evidence demonstrates that Revolut did enough given the 
specific circumstances here.
Having said that, I must take into consideration that Ms Gs account was held with an 
electronic money institution (EMI). EMIs operate within a different regulatory framework and 
have different FCA permissions to those of a bank or a building society. An EMI such as 
Revolut isnt subject to the same expectations as a bank. 
Ive looked at the disputed payments here and considered these against the prior history for 
Ms Gs Revolut account. Having done so, Im not satisfied Revolut shouldve been 
concerned or identified her as the potential victim of a scam. 
I say this for a number of reasons. Individually, the payments were all for sums below 
£2,000. These were being made to several different apparently unconnected payees. So, while Ms G would later move cryptocurrency to a single destination (and that destination 
being the scammer) Revolut could not have known this from the payment instructions Ms G 
gave it. And while the P2P transactions were payments to purchase cryptocurrency, its not 
obvious that this would have been apparent to Revolut at the time. 
Ive thought about Ms Gs point that shed not previously used Revoluts revtag payment 
identifier  but I dont think in itself that would have been so unusual  this is a feature that is 
presumably intended for primarily legitimate payments, and there was nothing else here to 
cause suspicion that these might not be.
By the point of the payments direct to B, with the exception of one payment these were 
under £30. The larger payment was less than £2,000 and again I simply dont think this 
would have appeared significantly unusual or remarkable compared to Ms Gs usage of her 
account. Shed made similar sized (and larger) payments in the months leading up to the 
disputed payment. 
Given all of this, and taking all the circumstances into account, I dont find that the 
transactions were that remarkable that Revolut was at fault for not intervening before 
carrying out Ms Gs instructions.
I appreciate that this represents a lot of money for Ms G and that shes been seriously 
impacted by the loss of the funds. But while Ive carefully considered all of the points Ms G 
has made, I do not find there was enough here for me to say that Revolut needed to 
intervene rather than fulfil its primary obligation to carry out her payment instructions. It had 
no sufficient grounds to do otherwise. I do not find it at fault in making the payments in line 
with Ms Gs requests at the time and I cant fairly tell Revolut to reimburse Ms G.
Ms G is unhappy with how Revolut handled her fraud claim. Amongst other things she has 
highlighted the use of chat to communicate. I appreciate the distress this whole episode 
caused Ms G, she was the innocent victim of a cruel scam. But the principal cause of that 
distress were the scammers who deceived her. 
Ive also considered whether Revolut did enough to try and recover the funds after the fraud 
was reported. However, there wouldnt have been any successful prospect of a chargeback 
for the card payments, as Ms G received the services she paid for from B in the form of 
credits to her wallet with B and the use of those funds to purchase cryptocurrency. In terms 
of the bank transfers, Revolut attempted to recover the money Ms G had sent but only a 
small sum was available to recover at that point. Im not persuaded Revolut could have 
reasonably done more to recover Ms Gs funds. 
Aside from this Ive thought about how Revolut treated Ms G after she reported what had 
happened. But I dont find it was unfair or Revolut was otherwise at fault here and dont 
require it to pay Ms G compensation.
In summary then, I cant fairly say that Revolut was wrong to have carried out Ms Gs 
instructions. Neither do I find it was otherwise liable to her. 
I am sorry to have to disappoint Ms G and I understand this will be a significant 
disappointment to her. She has lost out through no fault of her own. She was cynically 
deceived by scammers who have deprived her of her money under false pretences. But 
Revolut was not responsible for the scammers actions, and I dont find it could reasonably 
have stopped what happened or done more after the scam came to light.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Revolut Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman