DRN-3181456
The complaint
W, a property development company, complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has
declined its property owners buildings insurance claim for accidental damage to an
underground drain.
What happened
W is the landlord of a newly constructed block of flats on the site of a former bungalow. In
December 2020 a tenant of one of the flats informed W that the drains had been overflowing
for about a week. W engaged the services of a drainage company that pressure water jetted
downstream towards the mains to try and clear the blockage but without success. It told W
that the main sewer was blocked.
Shortly after, Ws broker reported a claim to UKI for accidental damage to underground
services.
UKI appointed its specialist drainage contractor (A) to inspect the damage and validate the
claim. A attended the site in early January 2021 and was told by Ws building contractor that
the problem appeared to be a collapsed drain downstream of an external manhole. A
removed the waste from the drain using a vac tanker. Once the drain was clear, it was able
to survey the downstream pipework.
A reported to UKI that the survey showed the entire drainage system upstream from
manhole 2 (MH2) consisted of plastic pipework whereas downstream of MH2 the pipework
was made of clay which ran for approximately 5.5m before reaching a stoppage. A told UKI
that its survey didnt reveal any evidence of any downstream pipework beyond the stoppage.
A said that it appeared that when the flats were constructed the newly installed plastic
drainage had been connected onto the original clay drainage from the bungalow. A thought
that the damage potentially occurred pre-inception.
A told Ws broker that the claim was being declined and that it may be worthwhile contacting
the construction company as the works may still be under warranty. W disagreed with the
decision not to accept the claim and said that the damage didnt pre-date the policys
inception because it only became an issue in December 2020 (the policy incepted in June
2020). A asked W to provide it with evidence to show that the water was free flowing to the
mains drainage when MH2 was installed as it felt this would show that the old clay pipework
had been in working order.
UKI also asked W if it had any proof that water had been free flowing prior to MH2 being
installed but W said it didnt. W said that maybe the multiple attempts itd made to remove
the blockage (prior to making the claim) couldve removed parts of the pipe that were broken
in that area. And W said that building control had noted that the blocks new water
connection was running correctly (although it was later discovered that building control
hadnt inspected past MH2). At the end of January 2021, W complained to UKI about its
decision not to accept the claim. It said the drainage system had been working up until the
tenant reported the blockage. W also complained about the lack of contact itd had from A.
As a result of Ws complaint, UKI asked A to carry out some additional investigations to see
if any accidental damage was present on site. UKI told W that further investigations were
going to be carried out and it was agreed that Ws complaint could be closed.
A returned to the site to carry out a further inspection and survey and reported its findings to
UKI in late February 2021. It said itd completed multiple excavation works to a depth of 3m
in an attempt to discover the destination of the pipework and any downstream pipework it
may connect onto. On exposing the drainage pipework downstream of MH2, A found that it
connected to a partly demolished chamber. It said that when the property had been
redeveloped the drainage system hadnt been connected to the mains sewer on the road
outside as detailed on the construction plans W had provided.
A told UKI that its investigations confirmed that there were no issues which were covered
under the policy terms. It said there had been a poor installation on site and the damage itd
observed wasnt consistent with the accidental damage cover under the policy.
UKI told W that its claim remained declined. As W was unhappy about UKIs decision, its
complaint was reopened and UKI issued W with a final response letter at the end of March
2021. UKI said the evidence indicated that the defect was to the drainage pipework that was
in place before the policy incepted. In addition, it said that the drainage system for the new
flats hadnt been correctly installed by the contractors. So UKI said that the damage was the
result of faulty workmanship which was excluded from cover under the policy terms. UKI
agreed that A couldve done more to keep W better informed and said that itd provided A
with feedback so it could improve its service in the future. Finally, UKI said that if W could
obtain a report from an independent drainage company, along with any additional evidence it
might be able to find, then it would review it to determine whether its decision to decline the
claim could be overturned.
In late April 2021, W sent UKI some new information about the drainage pipework. This
included a report from building control relating to the construction of the flats, an image of a
drain and an invoice and some emails from a drainage contractor thatd recently rectified the
issue at the property.
Unfortunately the information was incorrectly logged so it wasnt reviewed by UKI or A until
mid-May, by which time W had lodged a complaint with this service. UKI contacted Ws
drainage contractor to discuss the recent repair and he told UKI that hed diverted the
drainage pipework onto the neighbouring propertys line as W owned this property as well.
He said that that line then fed into the mains drainage. UKI asked the contractor if hed seen
a viable chamber where the drainage pipework had originally been connected and he
reported that he hadnt excavated, hed simply diverted it because hed been told there was
no connection there anymore anyway.
A commented that itd reviewed the building control report and noted that its comments
about the compliance of the proposed works were based on a partial discussion and a partial
inspection. A said it would like building control to confirm that the drainage was suitably
connected.
A also reviewed some emails between W and its drainage contractor in which the contractor
commented that it was likely that the system wouldve backed up in a matter of days if itd
been incorrectly installed so the pipework mustve been flowing freely in the months before
then. The contractor said the image W had provided clearly showed the existing clay pipe
intact to which W connected the manhole chamber so it looked like the builder had carried
out the works correctly. He also thought building control would have images to back that up
after the first flat became occupied. And he thought that a drain running into a redundant
system underground wouldnt have lasted more than a week before it backed up so theissue mustve been caused by a collapse.
A reviewed the image provided but said it didnt show a suitable connection between the
outlet of the plastic chamber and the existing clay pipework. A said that the drainage system
was large with several manholes around the property. It said that because only one flat was
occupied for 6-8 months, the system wasnt operating at full capacity. It said it thought that
the waste from the flat that was occupied would disperse into the soil and fill the collapsed
chamber until the ground became too saturated. A thought this could take several months to
manifest. A said the fact Ws drainage contractor connected the line into the neighbouring
property supported its conclusion that there was no suitable connection to the road outside
the flats.
UKI told W that its decision about the claim remained the same.
As a complaint had already been referred to this service, our investigator looked into it for W.
She said that the complaint should be upheld because she thought it likely that if thered
been a poor installation of the drains by the original building contractor then this wouldve
manifested itself much sooner than 7 months after the tenant moved in. She thought it was
plausible that the collapse to the drainage chamber occurred after the construction of the
flats thereby causing the connections to fail. Our investigator thought there was insufficient
evidence to support the damage being the result of poor workmanship. So she thought UKI
should reimburse W the cost itd incurred in redirecting the drain together with interest.
W accepted our investigators findings but UKI didnt. It referred to the images of the
drainage run provided by A after itd excavated. It said they showed the pipe was directed
into a void and the pipework downstream of MH2 was found to be clay pipework that
reached a stoppage after which there was no evidence of any pipework.
UKI also said there was no evidence of any debris in the area that would suggest a
collapsed pipe. It said the pipe led into a large void where there was a partially demolished
chamber. So, UKI said it disagreed that an issue wouldve manifested itself within 7 days of
the first tenant moving in as suggested by Ws contractor. It said it stood by the view that
wastewater wouldve soaked into the soil and waste wouldve filled the void where the
stoppage was. It said that given the size of the void where the stoppage was, that wouldve
taken some time to fill and only became an issue as more of the flats became occupied.
The complaint was referred to me and I issued a provisional decision in November 2021; I 
didnt recommend that the complaint was upheld. I made the following provisional findings:
With regret for any disappointment this will cause W, I dont think this complaint should be
upheld; Ill explain why.
Not all damage a property sustains is covered by insurance. Only damage thats caused by
one of the insured perils (events)  such as fire, theft, flood, storm etc.  listed in the policy
terms is covered. Ws claim is one for accidental damage to underground services. The
policy covers:
15 Any Accidental Cause excluding: 
b Damage to the Property insured caused by or consisting of: 
ii faulty or defective workmanship..
The policy also covers:
Extensions
The insurance provided by this Section is extended to include the following:1. Underground Services
Damage for which You are legally liable, by any of the Contingencies 1-15
inclusive to underground pipes, cables, drainssupplying services to and carrying
waste from the premises to the point of junction with the public supply lines, mains
and sewers.
The policy also contains a number of definitions of certain words. Many insurance policies
include a definition for accidental damage but theres no such definition within Ws policy.
Where the policy is silent on what is meant by accident this service has long said it means
something thats unforeseen or unintentional.
Its generally the case that the policyholder needs to show that their claim is covered by the
one of the insured perils listed in the policy terms. If they can do this then the insurer must
pay the claim unless it can rely on one of the exclusions contained in the policy to defeat it.
The policy provides cover to underground services that are damaged by any of the
contingencies (perils, or events) numbered 1-15 listed in the policy terms. Damage caused
accidentally is one of those contingencies so Im satisfied that the policy provides cover for
accidental damage caused to underground services. Unfortunately for W though, UKI has
relied on a specific exclusion in order to decline Ws claim; it relies on the exclusion that says
that damage caused accidentally isnt covered if its the result of faulty or defective
workmanship.
Its my role to decide whether UKI has fairly and reasonably relied on this exclusion and I
have to say that I think it has.
UKIs drainage expert A has provided several detailed reports as to how the damage was
caused along with a number of images. I can see that A excavated the site to find out why
the drains were blocked  findings Ive referred to extensively above  but, in summary, it
discovered that when the property was developed the drainage system hadnt been
reconnected to the main sewer.
In support of its claim, W has provided an image of the existing clay pipe with a manhole
chamber above, invoices from the contractor that first attended to jet wash the run and the
contractor that ultimately rectified the issue, a copy of the drainage plan for the flats, and a
copy of building controls progress report and some emails from its drainage contractor
providing comment.
Part H of building controls report says, from partial discussion and partial inspection, it
appears that the proposed details will be compliantnew runs to existing drains confirmed. I
dont think these comments prove that the drainage run was ever connected to the mains or
that waste and water were free flowing on completion of the construction. Also I dont think
that they show the works were completed satisfactorily so that the collapse of the drainage
chamber mustve happened afterwards. Unfortunately for W it hasnt provided any sign off
from building control in respect of the drainage run that could show it had all been properly
connected to the main sewer. And, in any event, I understand that building control didnt
inspect past MH2 as it didnt believe it was necessary.
The comments from Ws first contractor on its invoice merely report there was a blockage.
There are no comments as to the potential cause. He also alludes to the mains sewer being
blocked but as it is now known the drainage run was never connected to it I dont consider
this comment of much relevance.
The invoice from the contractor that attended to rectify the issue merely comments that he
redirected the drain to a manhole on the neighbouring property. I can see though that UKIcontacted him to discuss if hed seen a viable chamber where the drainage pipework had
originally been connected. But he told UKI that he hadnt carried out any excavation, hed
simply diverted the run because hed been told there was no connection there anymore
anyway.
I can see too that W provided three emails between it and its contractor discussing the issue.
And whilst I note that he thought the drain wouldve backed up sooner (than 7 months) if the
damage was the result of faulty workmanship, he doesnt provide any detailed analysis as to
why he thought that nor, unlike A, had he excavated and surveyed the site. Theres no
reference within his comments either to the collapsed chamber, nor to the lack of any
pipework downstream beyond the collapse that A had found.
So I dont find Ws contractors comments as persuasive as As regarding the speed at which
the drains backed up. And whilst he says hes reviewed all the information and that the
builder connected the new drain to the existing operative one belonging to the bungalow, it
remains the case that his comments arent based on his own survey or inspection of the
pipework. A is the only party to have excavated the site and located the collapsed chamber.
Its explained in detail how the wastewater wouldve dispersed and how the waste wouldve
filled the large collapsed chamber until it was full. And its shown that the drainage system
hadnt been connected to the mains sewer.
Nor am I persuaded by Ws contractors comments about the image provided showing that
there was a suitable connection between the outlet of the plastic chamber and the existing
clay pipework. I dont think the image concerned does show that such a connection had
been made.
Ive seen no evidence that the chamber, or any pipework, accidentally collapsed after the
flats were completed thereby causing the drainage connections to fail such that I could
reasonably conclude that UKI had unfairly declined Ws claim. And I dont find UKIs
comments unreasonable that if there had been a collapsed pipe thered be evidence of
debris from that collapse.
So I dont think UKI unreasonably relied on the conclusions reached by A as to how the
drainage system became damaged. Nor do I think UKI unreasonably considered As findings
to be more conclusive than the evidence put forward by W about how the damage was
caused. Taking all the evidence and circumstances into account, I think UKI reasonably
concluded that the building contractor had connected the new drainage pipework to the
existing clay pipework assuming it was connected to the mains when, in fact, it wasnt. It
follows that I dont think it unreasonably declined Ws claim by relying on the policy exclusion 
for faulty or defective workmanship.
UKI replied to my provisional decision to say it had no further information to provide or 
comments to make. 
W replied and made the following comments: 
that the water company maps show there was a connection to the main drainage on the 
road outside. The bungalow that was on the site previously had working drainage. 
If sewage had been seeping in the ground for months the foul smell wouldve been 
evident but it wasnt.
That when the vac tanker was clearing the drains rubble could be heard being suctioned 
which contradicts UKIs statement that there was no evidence of debris to suggest a 
collapsed pipeThat W wanted to see evidence that its contractor had told UKI that hed diverted the run 
because there was no connection there anymore. W said it had never told the contractor 
that. W thinks the contractor should be contacted to expand on what he meant. The 
contractor said to W that he believed there was a live drain run that had failed over 6/7 
months of use.
Its not the case that there was no pipework downstream, just that the front garden would 
need to be dug up to find it. The cost of doing that was illogical when W could just 
connect the drainage to the drains in the property next door. The fact it wasnt found, 
doesnt mean it doesnt exist.
The fact that suctioning needed to happen every two weeks speaks for itself.
That the comments that the drain run wasnt connected are disturbing. Even A said it 
was like looking for a needle in a haystack. Not finding the needle isnt evidence of the 
lack of a connection.
That in the months leading up to the blockage three of the flats were occupied, not one. 
Ws drainage expert believes it would take a week or two for the drains to back up and 
need suctioning. 
I should use the evidence to decide which expert opinion carries more weight. 
It took 7 months between the property first having some occupants for the system to 
back up. Once the system backed up, W had to have it cleared by suctioning every two 
weeks.
Objectively, this means the sewage system takes two weeks to back up. 
Building control was aware that the former property had existing functioning connections 
and thus it wasnt necessary to inspect existing known working pipes.
Building control sign-off is documented evidence from a third party that an adequate 
system of drainage was in situ and that it met all the requirements set by government 
and was of good workmanship.
That building control signed off the drainage is evidence that the faulty workmanship 
exclusion shouldnt be used to defeat the claim.
That by the time A attended the drains had been suctioned and jetted numerous times so 
it was unsurprising A found no debris to be present  that it didnt was to be expected. 
There is a vast amount of evidence to prove that the flats were built with new drains 
correctly constructed to run into an existing and known to be working clay sewage run. 
Waste pipes did exist prior to the policys inception and they were free of any defaults or 
defective workmanship. 
UKI has provided no evidence either that the pipes didnt exist or that they were faulty or 
defective. As conclusion is based on the premise that several months worth of sewage 
can seep into the soil without detection which W has shown to be untrue as the system 
needed suctioning every 2 weeks. A has also been unable to find the end of the 
collapsed/missing pipe but this isnt evidence it doesnt exist. 
The complaint was returned to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful for the time that W has taken to provide me with such a comprehensive 
response to my provisional decision. Ive thought carefully about all the points its made but 
Im afraid they havent persuaded me to alter the conclusions I reached provisionally. Im still 
of the view that this isnt a complaint that can fairly or reasonably be upheld. I say that 
because the policy provides cover for damage caused accidentally to underground pipes but 
not where the damage is caused by faulty workmanship or defective design. UKI has 
declined the claim by relying on this policy exclusion. That being the case, it has to show that the exclusion can be successfully applied. I have to decide if, taking everything into account, 
it has been able to show it was more likely than not that the damage was caused by poor 
workmanship or defective design and I still think that UKI has been able to show that. 
I explained provisionally why I thought it was reasonable of UKI to have relied on the 
conclusions drawn by A as to how the drainage system became damaged and Im afraid that 
nothing W has said in response has persuaded me that that was an unfair conclusion to 
have drawn. I took all the circumstances into account  referring to them in detail  when 
reaching my provisional decision. And it remains the case that Ive seen no evidence that the 
chamber, or any pipework, accidentally collapsed after the flats were completed thereby 
causing the drainage connections to fail such that I could reasonably conclude that UKI had 
unfairly declined Ws claim. And I dont find UKIs comments unreasonable that if there had 
been a collapsed pipe thered be evidence of debris from that collapse. Ive thought about 
Ws comments about the numerous fortnightly suctioning that was required. But I can see 
from Ws own timeline that there were, in fact, only two suctions (carried out in December 
2020) undertaken before A attended in late December and declared the system to be 
completely surcharged, vacuuming it itself about a week later. 
So whilst I have noted that W has said that rubble could be heard being vacuumed, Ive seen 
no documentary evidence of such. And it is purely speculative to suggest that if there was 
any rubble from an accidentally collapsed drain then all traces of it were removed during the 
two suction sessions that preceded As attendance on site. 
Similarly I can see that the first flat was occupied in May 2020 and the second in July 2020. 
The next flat wasnt occupied until the first week of November 2020. So Im unable to agree 
that 3 flats had been occupied for months before the first blockage was notified by the tenant 
to W, and thus the system wouldve backed up much sooner meaning the damage mustve 
been caused by something sudden and accidental. The third flat was occupied a little over a 
month before the tenants first notified W about the issue and a little under two months before 
the claim was first made. I understand there were 5 flats in all in the block. So the drainage 
system wasnt operating at full capacity before the claim was made.
It remains the case that A is the only party to have carried out a survey of the drains and I 
cant reasonably ignore the conclusions it reached, the most significant of which was that the 
survey failed to detect any evidence of downstream pipework beyond the stoppage 5.5m 
downstream of MH2. And theres still no evidence that building control inspected beyond 
MH2. 
That there was a connection to the main drainage on the road outside when the former 
property was on the site doesnt prove that the new drains were properly connected when 
the flats were built. 
I presume that whether raw sewage seeping into the ground would have caused a smell 
would depend at what depth underground the seepage was occurring. I have no specific 
evidence about this so am unable to reach a conclusive finding on this point. And in any 
event I note As comments that waste form the occupied flat(s) would fill the collapsed 
chamber and disperse into the soil until saturation was reached. 
The reference to Ws contractor telling UKI that hed diverted the drain run because hed 
been told there was no connection any more was taken from UKIs system notes where a 
call between UKI and Ws contractor is noted and the contents of the conversation logged. 
Its not the role of this service to cross examine witnesses or gather evidence on behalf of 
one party or another. If W thought that the contractor shouldve been contacted to expand on 
what hed said then that was up to W to undertake. And I commented provisionally on why I found As expert evidence to be more persuasive than that put forward by Ws expert and 
nothing W has said in response to that has caused me to change my mind
If the drains had been properly connected I wouldve expected to see evidence of the same. 
Whilst it is the case that no downstream pipework being found after the 5.5m mark doesnt 
mean it doesnt exist, if the connection had been made properly I wouldve expected 
evidence of it to have been found even if it was accidentally damaged.
I commented provisionally on the evidence relating to building control sign off. Ive thought 
about Ws comments in response but I think its fair to say they are about the generic 
purpose of building control and arent claim specific. And the fact it mightve been aware the 
former property had functioning connections doesnt prove the new drains were properly 
connected. 
So it follows that I remain of the view that Ive seen no evidence that the chamber, or any 
pipework, accidentally collapsed after the flats were completed thereby causing the drainage 
connections to fail such that I could reasonably conclude that UKI had unfairly declined Ws 
claim. With regret for the disappointment this decision will cause W, Im afraid that Im 
unable to fairly or reasonably uphold its complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman