DRN-3354746
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy Barclays Bank UK PLC recorded adverse information on his credit file 
including a default. Unfortunately, he experienced financial difficulties due to the Covid-
19 pandemic and now believes Barclays should have done more to help.
What happened
In 2018, Mr Ks overdraft was converted into a Resolve Loan as he was experiencing 
financial difficulties and was struggling to clear it. Mr K then maintained all the 
contractual monthly loan payments up until February 2020.
In March 2020, Mr K has said he called Barclays to let them know he was struggling due 
to Covid-19 and they agreed he didnt need to make a payment. Barclays havent been 
able to provide a record of this conversation, but they dont dispute it may have 
happened.
In May 2020, Mr K called Barclays in response to a text message which said hed missed 
Aprils payment. He therefore talked with an adviser and explained his circumstances. He 
said he ran a business with his wife, and neither of them currently had an income. He also 
discussed the fact their business was struggling as it related to the travel and theatre 
industries, but said he was managing to pay his priority bills and his staff wages by using 
his personal savings. The Barclays adviser then offered Mr K a two month informal 
arrangement, during which time he wouldnt be asked to make any payments. Mr K 
agreed to this and thanked the adviser for their help. He was also encouraged to call 
back, if he needed any further assistance once the arrangement ended in July 2020.
Following the call, Barclays sent Mr K a letter to confirm what theyd agreed. They 
also warned him, it was likely he would receive a default notice in September 2020, 
if his payments hadnt resumed. Mr K denies receiving this letter.
In August 2020, Barclays sent Mr K an arrears notice. This said hed missed five contractual 
payments amounting to over £3,000. The letter also said Barclays intended on defaulting the 
account, if Mr K didnt clear the arrears.
In September 2020, Mr K called Barclays to ask why he hadnt been put on a formal 
payment holiday when hed previously requested help. He also said he was upset the 
agreed two month arrangement had impacted his credit file and said he would have 
continued to make payments, if he knew this was going to happen. In response, the 
adviser explained that they didnt offer payment holidays for his type of loan, and said 
they'd log his concerns as a complaint.
The notes also suggest Mr K explained that his circumstances unfortunately remained the 
same. So, the adviser suggested he contact a debt advice charity for help, before calling 
them again to agree a way forward. Mr K also said he intended on making a manual 
payment to stop the account defaulting. However, based on the account statements he 
doesnt appear to have done so.
A few days later Barclays sent Mr K a final response. The letter said the implications for
Mr Ks credit file were made sufficiently clear to him when it was agreed. And the 
information theyd shared with the credit reference agencies was an accurate reflection of 
his payment history. Mr K then escalated his complaint to our service and stopped 
engaging with Barclays about his account.
In December 2020, Barclays sent Mr K a default notice. This notice explained he would 
need to clear the arrears balance of £5,780.40 or alternatively contact them to arrange a 
plan before the notice expired. As Mr K didnt satisfy the terms of this notice, a default was 
registered in January 2021 and the account was passed to a debt collections agency.
In May 2021, Mr K started making reduced payments. He paid £500 a month instead of 
the contractual payment which was £671.67. Hes said he didnt make payments before 
this time, as the agency told him to wait until the complaint was resolved.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ks complaint in part, as she thought Barclays should 
reasonably have applied a back dated three month payment holiday in May 2020. She 
said this would have been appropriate as it complied with the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys ( FCA) guidance from the time. In which case, no missed payments would 
have been recorded on Mr Ks credit file for the duration of the plan. She also said 
Barclays should pay Mr K £100 compensation for the upset this issue caused him.
Our adjudicator didnt think Barclays should remove the missed payments they reported 
to the credit reference agencies after June 2020, or the default they applied in January 
2021. As she said Mr K should reasonably have contacted Barclays to request further 
help, after the agreed two month arrangement had ended. Although, she did 
acknowledge the fact Barclays didnt reach out to him either and said they reasonably 
should have done.
In any event, she thought Barclays were still likely to have recorded missed payments and 
defaulted the account. This was due to the severity of Mr Ks financial difficulties and the 
fact he didnt resume making even partial payments until May 2021.
Barclays accepted our adjudicators opinion, but Mr K didnt. In summary, he said :
He didnt think it was fair our adjudicator assumed his account would still have 
defaulted regardless of any additional help from Barclays. Protecting his credit file 
was his biggest priority and none of his other creditors recorded adverse information 
about his accounts, despite the difficult circumstances.
He wasnt sure why he didnt contact Barclays until September for further help, 
and he intended on contacting his phone provider to check he didnt. However, 
assuming Barclays records were correct, he understands why they may have 
reported missed payments for July and August. But feels his credit file should not 
reasonably have been impacted beyond that time.

He thought he was doing the right thing by not contacting Barclays again or 
making payments until after his complaint was resolved. However, he started 
making partial payments in May 2021 due to the amount of time the complaint 
was taking.
If Barclays had contacted him after the arrangement ended, he would have 
agreed a payment holiday with them or a reduced payment plan for up to twelve 
months. If this wasnt acceptable, he would have made all the contractual payments using his savings as a last result. Hes convinced he would have been 
able to do this, as he maintained all the payments for his other accounts, where 
he wasnt offered any help from the finance providers.
Discussing his account with Barclays in 2020 was very difficult as their 
telephone waiting times were excessive, and he was sometimes left on hold 
for several hours. So, this should reasonably be taken into consideration.
In October 2020, £50,000 was deposited into his Barclays current account. 
However, Barclays then restricted his account and later closed it. So, he 
couldnt access his funds.
Our adjudicator considered Mr Ks response, but her opinion remained the same. In 
summary she said, Mr K may have been able to make some contractual payments using 
his savings, but she didnt think this would have been sustainable in the long term. She 
also acknowledged his comments that a reduced payment plan may have stopped the 
account from defaulting. However, as Mr K didnt contact Barclays to arrange this, she 
didnt think this was enough grounds for removing the default. She didnt respond to Mr 
Ks comments about his current account.
Provisional decision  
On 14 February 2022 I issued a provisional decision. I said: 
Both sides have accepted a three month back dated payment holiday should 
reasonably have been added to Mr Ks account in May 2020. As this point is no longer 
in dispute, I wont comment on it any further, other than to say Im satisfied this would 
have been an appropriate action for Barclays to have taken, as it complies with the 
FCAs Covid-19 guidance from the time. I also think £100 compensation is a fair amount 
to reflect the distress and inconvenience this issue caused Mr K given the overall 
impact.
Mr K hasnt provided any evidence from his phone provider to show he contacted 
Barclays between May and September. Hes also accepted that without this, it wouldnt 
be reasonable to ask Barclays to remove the missed payment markers from July and 
August 2020, as he didnt make any payments during that time and no plan was in 
place.
So, Ill now consider whether I think Barclays should reasonably remove any adverse 
information they reported about Mr Ks account from September 2020 onwards. I 
note   Mr Ks strength of feeling in relation to this matter. I appreciate hes been 
strongly impacted by the pandemic and has worked hard to try and stay on top of his 
financial affairs. However, for the reasons Ill now explain, Im not currently satisfied 
any further changes to his credit file would be appropriate.
Mr K has said he didnt attempt to make any payments or discuss his account with 
Barclays after hed raised his complaint, based on the debt collection agencys advice. 
However, as    Mr K had an obligation to make payments towards his account, Id 
reasonably have expected him to have done so, provided he could afford it.
I also note that by the time Mr Ks account had been passed to the debt collections 
agency, hed already been sent the default notice and his account was in considerable 
arrears. So, I dont think its likely any guidance he received from the agency, would 
reasonably have impacted his ability to discharge the default notice. I also appreciate 
Mr Ks comments about how busy Barclays phone lines were due to the pandemic. But 
I dont think this means, he didnt reasonably have any way of discussing his account with them.
Im satisfied Barclays acted reasonably by sending Mr K a default notice in December 
2020. As by that time, no arrangement had been made and the account had fallen into 
considerable arrears. Guidance from the Information Commissioners Office is relevant 
here, as it says a default would normally be registered when an account is between 
three and six months in arrears. As Mr Ks account met this criteria, despite the three 
month payment holiday, Im therefore satisfied Barclays acted fairly by proceeding to 
default the account in the way that they did.
Mr K has said he could have avoided the default by making payments from his 
savings. He hasnt provided any documentary evidence to support this. However, if Mr 
K could have afforded to maintain his contractual payments without jeopardising his 
priority bills, I would reasonably have expected him to have done so. There were also 
many opportunities for
Mr K to have discussed this possibility or carried out this action, before his account 
defaulted in January 2021.
In any event, Im not convinced Mr K would reasonably have been able to maintain his 
contractual payments by using his savings. I say this as he told Barclays he wasnt 
receiving any income. He also said he had many creditors to pay and he was relying on 
savings to pay his priority bills. This therefore suggests, Mr Ks financial difficulties were 
unfortunately wide ranging and unlikely to be temporary. I also note that before our 
adjudicator issued her view, Mr K said he thought he would only have been able to 
resume making partial payments in July and not the full contractual amounts. When Mr 
K completed our complaint form in September 2020, he also said:
At the moment I'm without income (After being a high earner for many years 
until covid.) I am managing my bills as best I can to make sure priority bills 
are paid. I can't pay this and meet my priority bills, but the outcome of ruining 
my credit report will cause other credit line closures and make it even harder 
to pay.
So, even if Mr K could have made a few contractual payments, I dont think its likely he 
would have been able to maintain this, given the size of the monthly payments and his 
other financial commitments. This is also supported by the fact, Mr K has yet to resume 
making his full contractual payments as far as Im aware.
Ive also carefully considered Mr Ks argument that Barclays should reasonably have 
agreed a repayment holiday or reduced payment plan after the first arrangement 
ended. Its difficult to know for certain what would have happened in this scenario 
because Mr K didnt ask for additional help until September. As mentioned above, it 
also doesnt appear that Barclays reached out to him.                                                                                                      
However, Im satisfied Barclays acted reasonably by encouraging Mr K to contact a 
debt charity for financial advice when he called them in September. As based on the 
contact notes, he told Barclays his situation hadnt improved, he was trying to find a 
new job and he was still relying on his savings to pay his priority bills. I havent seen 
anything which suggests Barclays should reasonably have thought Mr K could maintain 
a reduced payment plan or that his savings were significant. So, under the 
circumstances, encouraging Mr K to get some financial advice is what Id reasonably 
have expected them to have done. As a debt charity would have been in a much better 
position, to help Mr K review his entire financial circumstances, maximise his income 
and consider his options.
I also wouldnt reasonably have expected Barclays to have explored a reduced payment plan with Mr K, if they thought (as I suspect they did) making any payments would 
jeopardise his ability to maintain his priority bills. Im also unconvinced that a further 
three month payment holiday would ultimately have stopped the account from 
defaulting, as it appears Mr Ks financial difficulties were unfortunately long lasting.
Finally, Mr K has said he received £50,000 into his Barclays current account in 
October 2020. However, Barclays then put a restriction on his account, and stopped 
him from accessing the funds. I wont comment on the reasons Barclays decided to 
restrict and close Mr Ks current account here, as it doesnt form part of this complaint.
However, Barclays have confirmed they restricted Mr Ks access to his current 
account on 29 October 2020 and closed it on 16 November 2020. So, this suggests 
Mr K should reasonably have been able to access any funds in the account, before 
the default notice expired in January 2021. Ive also reviewed the current account 
statements for this period, and they dont indicate Mr K received a £50,000 credit into 
his account as hes suggested.
Barclays didnt reply to the provisional decision. So, Ive no reason to think they didnt accept 
it. 
Mr K acknowledged receipt of the decision and said he was going to contact Barclays as he 
didnt think it was fair. He also said the £50,000 hed previously mentioned was paid into his 
business bank account. Our adjudicator therefore said wed ask Barclays to confirm this 
information directly. Mr K was also invited to provide any final comments by an extended 
deadline. However, as we didnt hear from him, the case has now been passed back to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, the overall conclusions I reached in my provisional decision remain the 
same. Ill now explain why. 
Barclays have shown Mr K held an account with them as part of his role as director of a 
limited company. This company received £50,000 into their bank account on 22 October 
2020. On the same day, £21,500 of this money was transferred to Mr Ks personal bank 
account. However, as a lot of money also left Mr Ks current account that day, it left him with 
an account balance of less than £500.
On 29 October 2020, Barclays restricted the business bank account and told Mr K he could 
only withdraw money from it which related to wages. By mid-November 2020, the account 
was closed. Once again, I havent investigated the reasons this account was restricted or 
closed. But Im satisfied this issue shouldnt reasonably have impacted Mr Ks ability to stop 
his loan defaulting. As based on the timescales involved, regardless of the account 
restriction, there was enough time for Mr K to use any appropriate account funds to settle the 
default notice.
I appreciate this decision will come as a disappointment to Mr K. I know he feels very 
strongly that the default should be removed. But for the reasons Ive explained here and in 
my provisional decision, Im satisfied that wouldnt be fair.Putting things right
To resolve this complaint, Barclays Bank UK Plc should therefore :
Remove any adverse information they recorded on Mr Ks credit file about this 
loan between April 2020 and June 2020.
Pay Mr K £100 compensation to reflect the trouble and upset he experienced 
due to Barclays decision not to offer him a payment holiday in May 2020.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partially uphold this complaint and direct Barclays 
Bank UK Plc to carry out the above  if they havent already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman