DRN-2837253
The complaint
Mr K complains that IG Index Limiteds platform issues on 9 March 2020 prevented him from 
logging in to his account and adding more cash. As a result, his open positions were closed 
due to insufficient margin. Mr K says that this caused him a financial loss for which he should 
be compensated. 
What happened
On 9 March 2020 Mr K had a number of spreadbets open on Rockrose Energy, JKX Oil & 
Gas and Regal Petroleum. Shortly after market open on 9 March 2020 Mr Ks account 
showed that his cash balance was £29,154.84, but his running loss amounted to £30,152.15. 
The margin requirements for the positions he had meant that Mr K required £8,939.77 
additional funds to be able to keep all his trades open.
Unfortunately, IG experienced system issues on the day which prevented Mr K from logging 
in  and it experienced significantly increased call volumes on that day which meant it was 
taking longer for customers to reach the helpdesk over the phone. As a result, Mr K was 
unable to add the funds required to keep his trades open, and IG closed them in line with its 
terms. As Mr K had a small negative balance it credited his account to clear it in line with its 
regulatory obligations for retail customers. 
On 24 March 2020 Mr K raised his complaint with IG. He said that he had been exercising 
risk management in the days and weeks before, by selling positions and depositing funds. 
However, on the morning of 9 March 2020 he said it was impossible to login to the platform, 
and the telephone system was unavailable and not taking calls. He said he couldnt close his 
positions to free up additional equity, or to deposit more funds. As a result, he said that all 
his positions were closed at around 8.17am, but he had been unable to login until shortly 
after 8.25am. He said that he felt strongly that IG had acted inappropriately, and complained 
that within an hour prices bounced, and he wouldnt have been in the same situation. He 
complained that he ended up losing £30,000 but only needed around £7,000 to cover his 
positions  and even once everything had been sold, he still owed around £950. 
IG looked into his complaint. It agreed that its system issues had impacted his ability to 
manage his account, and acknowledged this caused him distress and inconvenience. It 
offered compensation for that. However, it didnt agree that he should be compensated for 
his perceived financial losses. It said that Mr Ks behaviour at the time had essentially meant 
that it was no longer possible, two weeks later, to reinstate the trades or take any other 
action. It said that the appropriate course of action for Mr K at the time wouldve been to 
remain on the phone and email his relationship manager on the day, and it may then have 
been possible to reinstate the trades that had been closed. 
It said that two weeks later it was no longer possible to quantify how Mr K wouldve managed 
his trades, nor what that would involve financially. It said that on balance, it was likely that 
Mr K wouldve required even further funds in the following days thereby increasing his 
losses. 
Mr K referred his complaint to this service, and one of our investigators looked into it. In 
short, she agreed that it wasnt possible to establish what financial loss, if any, was in fact 
caused to Mr K. She thought that given the amount of margin he required he may have 
taken different actions rather than deposit the full amount. And she agreed with IG that his 
failure to get in touch with IG soon after the event meant that it was no longer possible to 
quantify whether Mr K was in a worse financial position overall, given that it was possible 
that his losses couldve continued to increase. 
Mr K didnt agree. In summary, he said that it was unfair to look at how much he had 
previously deposited on his account because this was an unprecedented situation given the 
volatility that had been caused by the start of the pandemic. He said that some of his 
positions he had kept open for a long time, and he wouldve taken whatever steps were 
necessary to ensure that he funded his account or freed up some equity in order to ensure 
that his trades werent completely liquidated. He felt that it was unfair that he was essentially 
being penalised for not previously having to deposit such large amounts, and felt that the 
investigator had acknowledged it wasnt possible to say precisely what wouldve happened, 
yet he was still having to bear the financial consequences of the events of the day. 
Mr K didnt think getting through to IG on the day wouldve made any difference. He said that 
when talking about reinstating the trades, IG was referring to opening new trades/positions 
with new cash at current market levels (which I was not willing to do as the market was 
volatile) not reinstating my previous positions that had been closed. He said in his call with 
his relationship manager it wasnt clear at all what, if anything, IG couldve done differently to 
what he did himself later in the day. Mr K said that as a minimum he ought to receive the 
equity that was in his account on the morning of 9 March which he said was £8.835.68. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important that I highlight very clearly that I understand and sympathise with the 
position Mr K found himself in on 9 March 2020. Its clear to me that, through no fault of his 
own, he was denied the opportunity of being able to manage his account at a time of 
significant volatility. And I can understand that given the length of time he had kept some of 
those trades open, he feels that IG has caused him a financial loss for which he should be 
compensated. 
I should also say that Im persuaded by his testimony about the actions he wouldve taken 
that morning had he been able to login to his account. I believe him when he says he 
wouldve either added the additional margin, or found ways to close some of his positions so 
as to free up enough equity to avoid his account being liquidated. 
However, and I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr K, Im not persuaded that 
overall his losses were caused by IG  and I dont agree that it would be fair for IG to 
compensate for those in the way he has asked, although I do agree he should receive some 
compensation for the obvious distress and inconvenience the events that morning caused 
him. 
I understand there is some doubt over precisely how much Mr K wouldve needed to fund his 
account that morning  his phone call with the relationship manager a few weeks later 
suggested a figure of around £6,500, whilst the final response letter from IG places that 
figure at around £9,000. Having considered the evidence, Im persuaded by IGs final 
response letter and consider the figures it has quoted in that letter to represent the value of Mr Ks account on the morning of 9 March 2020 at 8.17am. Ive seen a screenshot from IGs 
system which corroborates these figures at the exact time that his account was liquidated  
and so Im satisfied that Mr K wouldve needed almost £9,000 at 8.17am in order to keep his 
positions from being closed. 
At that point in time, as Ive said, Mr K did not have any equity in the account  overall, his 
running losses exceeded the cash balance in his account by almost £1,000. This wasnt 
anything to do with the system issues IG was experiencing  and to refund him these losses 
would be to ask IG to compensate him for trading decisions which had gone against him. I 
dont agree that since those losses were unrealised, crystallising them meant that Mr K 
suffered a financial loss that he otherwise wouldnt have suffered. His account was already 
negative  and I accept IGs evidence that in the coming days, the overall position of his 
account wouldve likely worsened had none of his positions closed, potentially requiring him 
to add further funds, on top of the £9,000 he already needed to add. 
From his submission, Mr K accepts that he couldve immediately reopened his positions at 
the time  but given the volatility, he chose not to do so. Im sorry to say that I find this to be 
a definitive reason for why compensation for financial loss would not be fair in this case. 
Ultimately, Mr K is focused on the number of trades and the overall size of his account  but 
what matters is his net financial position at that moment in time. And at that moment in time, 
his net financial position was such that he had no equity left, unless he added more funds. 
This means that if Mr K had added more funds once he was able to log into his account, and 
opened the same trades, he wouldve been able to replicate his net financial position. And it 
is this aspect which IG wouldve been able to facilitate, potentially reopening trades without a 
spread, or at an earlier price, if he had persisted in trying to get through to IG on the phone, 
or had contacted his relationship manager sooner. 
Mr K is right that this wouldve required new cash  but this was a requirement for him to 
keep his trades open anyway. And the fact that he viewed that option as unfavourable 
because of the volatility the markets were experiencing means that it wouldnt be fair and 
reasonable to now offer him compensation for financial loss  when, in essence, his account 
was already funning at a loss, and it is likely that but for the closure of his trades, his losses 
wouldve been even higher. Ultimately, the position Mr K says he didnt want to take 
(opening new positions with new cash) is materially identical to the position he says he 
wanted to be in, namely keeping the positions open with additional cash. His account open 
profit and loss and cash balances wouldve been different, but the value of the account itself 
 the difference between what his trades were worth and the cash he had on deposit  
wouldve been the same. So Im not persuaded its fair to conclude that IGs issues 
prevented him from mitigating these trading losses once he was able to log in shortly after 
the closure of his positions. 
I acknowledge Mr Ks points that it might have been possible to close only some, and not all, 
of his trades in order to release sufficient equity in order to keep them open. On this point, I 
note that section 17(2)(a) of his agreement with IG does allow it the option of closing all or 
some of the bets on an account in an event of default. But here too, Im not persuaded this 
means Mr K is entitled to compensation. Ultimately, given the size of the unrealised loss on 
his account, the number of open trades, and the volatility in the market at the time, it 
wouldnt have been reasonable for IG to have spent time identifying individual trades on his 
account and selected specific ones to close. 
IG could not have known at the time how the market would continue to perform, and its clear 
to me that this was a particularly volatile situation. Not closing all of his trades immediately 
may have caused Mr K further losses, which ultimately IG wouldve needed to cover given 
that he already had a negative balance. In my view, given the size of the unrealised loss on the account, it was reasonable for IG to have liquidated all open positions  and at that point, 
it was reasonable to expect Mr K to decide whether he wanted to take on the risk of opening 
those trades again, or not. And I say this bearing in mind that Mr K was in fact able to log in 
to his account only a short time after. 
All that being said, I note that IG offered Mr K £1,000 for the issues he experienced and the 
obvious distress and inconvenience he was caused. In my view this offer is substantial, but I 
consider it fair and reasonable. Its clear that Mr K had a long running strategy which he was 
meticulous about managing  and being deprived of the opportunity to do that, especially 
given the market volatility on the day, undoubtedly caused him significant distress. So I 
award that amount and will ask IG to pay it to him within 28 days of his acceptance of this 
decision. 
I know that this is not the outcome Mr K was seeking, and I acknowledge this will come as a 
disappointment. However, I hope he can understand the reasons why Ive concluded that IG 
is not responsible for the financial losses he has suffered. 
My final decision
IG Index Limited must pay Mr K £1,000 within 28 days of when we tell it Mr K has accepted 
this final decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman