DRN-3342765
The complaint
Mr K complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) provided poor service after he made a 
claim on his motor insurance policy. Mr K is represented by Mr K2.
What happened
Mr K2 told us that a claim Mr K made in 2019 (after an accident which he believes wasnt his 
fault) is still open. He said UKI hadnt contacted witnesses or obtained a police report, which 
had delayed the claims closure. He said the open claim has had an impact on Mr Ks 
premiums for the last two years. And he said although Mr K had complained to UKI about 
that at renewal in 2020, hed been unable to get through to it to discuss the issue since then. 
UKI said there was no record of Mr K trying to contact it after it issued a final response letter 
to him in September 2020. It said it was now too late for him to refer a complaint about the 
issue to us. But UKI accepted that there had been some delay in progressing the claim. It 
issued a final response letter to Mr K about that in October 2021 with £100 compensation.
As Mr K remained unhappy, one of our investigators assessed his concerns. She said she 
couldnt deal with the complaint Mr K made in 2020, as more than six months had elapsed 
after UKI issued its final response letter when he contacted us. She said that (without 
evidence of exceptional circumstances that had prevented Mr K from contacting us sooner) 
the 2020 complaint was time-barred. 
The investigator noted that UKI had obtained a police report, but there were no details of a 
witness in it. She also noted that Mr K had made UKIs agent aware of another witness (his 
passenger) in March 2020, so she thought it should have contacted her. As a result of that 
failure, she said UKI should allow Mr Ks no claims discount (NCD). She thought the £100 
compensation UKI had offered Mr K previously was reasonable. 
UKI accepted the investigators proposal. Mr K said he didnt follow why his initial complaint 
was time-barred. He said he was expecting more than £100 compensation from UKI. He 
wanted to know what refund hed get when his NCD was allowed  plus confirmation of the 
further refund should liability be established in his favour. UKI agreed to check what the NCD 
refund would be, but it hasnt done so. And it said it doesnt discuss potential refunds on 
non-fault claims until liability is established and it has made a full recovery of its outlay.
As Mr K remained unhappy, the complaint was passed to me for review.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Financial Conduct Authoritys complaints resolution rules, a consumer must 
contact us within six months of receiving a final response letter from an insurer if the 
consumer wants us to review their complaint. We can review the complaint if the insurer 
doesnt object to the consumer raising the complaint with us outside the set time-limit. But 
that doesnt apply here. Otherwise, a consumer must show that exceptional circumstances 
prevented them from contacting us. The investigator asked Mr K about that, and it seems 
there werent any. So we cant look at the 2020 issue set out in his complaint.
Claims in which liability for an accident is disputed can often drag on for many months. UKI 
isnt in control of the other insurers response times, or for the way it deals with a claim. But I 
can understand why Mr K is frustrated by the claim remaining open for so long. He thought 
the matter was an open and shut case, especially given the unknown witness mentioned to 
him by the police. So I think its clear why he thought UKI must have failed to contact them. 
In fact, UKI obtained the police report in a reasonable time. Unfortunately, its basic, with few 
details recorded - and theres no reference to a witness. The police officer told UKI he 
couldnt recall one. Thats unfortunate, as I think evidence from a witness who knew neither 
of the parties could have made a significant difference to the claim and to the timeline.
Mr K didnt tell UKI initially that he had a passenger in the car. When that emerged later on, 
Id have expected it to contact her. UKI hasnt explained why it didnt do so. Its possible the 
witnesss account may have made a difference. But the other driver also had a passenger in 
his car, so the testimony of the passengers may well have cancelled each other out. 
Mr K is disappointed with UKIs lack of contact with him. He says he tried to chase it but 
couldnt get through. But UKI has no record of telephone or email contact from him or from 
Mr K2. And Mr K and Mr K2 havent provided any record of attempted contact with UKI.
When Mr K2 contacted us, he said Mr Ks main concern was the rise in his premium. UKI 
has assured Mr K that if liability is decided in his favour, his premium will be adjusted. Thats 
standard industry practice  and if it doesnt happen, Mr K will be able to complain to UKI 
(and later on, to us). In 2021, Mr K didnt renew the policy with UKI. But the open claim 
means hed have paid more for cover elsewhere. So that premium should also be adjusted.
Mr K says  a court hearing will take place in August 2022, which shows that it hasnt been 
possible for UKI and the other insurer to settle the claim. Both insurers would have wanted to 
do that - to avoid the cost of court proceedings. I think the failure to reach an agreement 
largely explains why the matter has dragged on for so long. Hopefully, Mr K will be found not 
to have been at fault for the accident, in which case hell get refunds from his insurers. 
 
In the meantime, I think it was reasonable for UKI to pay Mr K £100 compensation. The 
claim was strongly disputed from the start by the other insurer. So unless UKI was prepared 
to accept liability, the process was always going to take much longer to resolve than a claim 
where a settlement was possible. But UKI should have ensured that there were no avoidable 
delays. UKI has also agreed to allow Mr Ks NCD, as it accepts that it should have contacted 
his passenger. Although it hasnt said what difference that will make, if the full NCD Mr K has 
earned remains intact, it will have a positive financial effect on his premiums.
It must be galling for Mr K to have had to pay more for his insurance when hes sure he 
wasnt responsible for the 2019 accident, but that often happens. UKI has accepted his 
account of events and is contesting liability. But I think it would be fair and reasonable to 
uphold his complaint in part. UKI has already sent Mr K a cheque for £100 (which it will have 
to reissue if it wasnt cashed) and it should now also allow his NCD.              
 My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require U K Insurance Limited to 
allow Mr Ks NCD (as it has already agreed to do).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman