DRN-2608173
The complaint
Its agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (as the insurer) should accept responsibility 
for the complaint. To keep things simpler, Ill just refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
Mrs M says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
In February 2003 Mrs M opened a store card account. 
In June 2003 PPI was added to her account following a telephone call.
Its likely that the policy cost no more than £1 per £100 Mrs M owed on her store card and it 
protected Mrs Ms store card monthly repayments if she couldnt work. 
Ms M complained that when shed taken out her store card, whilst shopping in the store, she 
wasnt told about the insurance and that there wasnt time to go into the small print. 
Our adjudicator explained that Mrs M had taken out the PPI during a phone call a few 
months after shed opened her store card account and didnt uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Mrs M still felt that the policy was mis-sold to her.  
Mrs M mainly said she had no recollection of a call months after opening the store card. She 
told us she would have been extremely unlikely to have signed up for any extra costs unless 
she was misled about the cost and/or purpose of the policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain my reasons for saying this.
Its unsurprising that Mrs M doesnt recall the phone call when AXAs records indicate it sold 
her PPI. This happened a long time ago and it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mrs M to 
remember details of a phone conversation from so many years ago. This means that what 
Mrs M says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold her complaint. I have to look 
at all the available information and decide what I think is most likely.
AXA hasnt been able to provide a call recording  but I wouldnt expect it to still have call 
recordings from 2003. Destroying old information helps to keep customers private details 
secure. Data protection laws set out rules about this. I can appreciate that Mrs M feels 
frustrated by the lack of evidence of the call. But the fact that AXA cant now produce more 
information about this isnt a reason for me to uphold her complaint. 
I also havent seen a copy of the call script used at the time and I dont know what AXA said 
to Mrs M when the policy was sold. 
But based on what this service knows about the sales process, the purpose of the call was 
to sell PPI. So it seems likely that AXA wouldve taken the opportunity to explain the main 
features of the policy to see if Mrs M wanted to take it out. 
Given that the policy was taken out when shed already had her store card for several 
months without PPI, I think Mrs M wouldve been aware that the policy was optional. 
And looking at Mrs Ms circumstances at the time, I can see that she mightve had a use for 
the policy. 
After taking carefully into account all the available information, I think its reasonable to rely 
on AXAs electronic record of the sale which indicates this was a phone sale. I havent seen 
anything that shows Mrs M was paying for PPI before this phone call. 
Looked at overall, I think, on balance, its likely that the PPI was added to Mrs Ms account 
during the phone call when Mrs M chose to buy the policy offered after hearing about the 
benefits and deciding she wanted PPI to protect her card monthly repayments. 
I havent seen anything to make me think that AXA advised Mrs M to take out the PPI so 
AXA didnt have to check if the policy was suitable for her. But it still should have provided 
Mrs M with clear information about the policy so she could decide if she wanted to take it 
out. If this didnt happen, I've also thought about whether this makes any overall difference to 
the outcome of this complaint.
Looking at the sort of policy that its likely Mrs M had it appears that she was eligible for the 
cover it offered. 
The policy paid out a benefit if Mrs M couldnt work as a result of accident or sickness or 
unemployment. It couldve covered her monthly repayments on the card until the outstanding 
balance was cleared if she wasnt able to go back to work. 
Thinking about everything Mrs M told us about her financial situation at the time, it doesnt 
appear to me that Mrs M had any significant other means she couldve used to cover the 
store card monthly repayments if she wasnt working. She wasnt entitled to any sick pay 
through her work. And relying on other people to help out in the event of money problems 
isnt as dependable as taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change 
unexpectedly. 
So I think Mrs M couldve benefitted from having the policy. 
Its possible some of the information AXA gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. There were some things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look as if there 
wouldve been any reason why Mrs M couldnt have taken advantage of all the main policy 
benefits. So, I dont think that knowing more about policy exclusions and limitations that 
didnt affect her wouldve put Mrs M off taking the policy out.  
I dont know if AXA explained the cost of the policy clearly enough for Mrs M to understand 
what the real cost of the policy was for her. But, taking everything into account, I think its 
likely that if Mrs M had properly understood the cost and benefit provided she still wouldve 
thought the policy potentially useful given the benefits it offered in her particular 
circumstances. Ive seen nothing to suggest that paying for the policy was a problem for Mrs M when she 
signed up to have it  so thats not a reason for me to uphold her complaint. And she took 
out PPI when she didnt have to, so it seems she wanted the cover. 
In coming to my decision I've taken into account everything Mrs M told us, including what 
shes said about the problems she had trying to cancel the policy. I can see that our 
adjudicator has responded on that point. And it doesnt affect what I think about her mis-sale 
complaint. I've looked at the circumstances of this sale in 2003, and for the reasons I've 
explained, I havent seen enough to be able to uphold Mrs Ms complaint that this PPI was 
mis-sold to her. 
Overall, I dont think having clearer information wouldve put Mrs M off taking out this policy, 
given her situation at the time. And even if AXA didnt give Mrs M all the information it 
shouldve done when it sold her the policy, I dont find that Mrs M is worse off as a result of 
anything that AXA did wrong. So theres nothing AXA needs to do to put things right. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021. 
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman