DRN-3030898
Complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
June 2003. Mr F says Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax mis-sold him the PPI.
Background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Fs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr Fs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Fs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Fs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think BoS made it clear that Mr F didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it 
out. Ill explain why. 
The credit card and PPI were sold during a meeting. BoS has provided a copy of the 
application form that was completed at the time of sale. Within this application form I can 
see there is a separate section for additional products, one of which his PPI. On Mrs Fs 
form a cross has been placed in the relevant box to indicate he wanted the PPI. I dont 
know what was discussed at the time Mr F took out the card, but I wouldve expected the 
discussions to reflect the application form. I also think Mr F wouldve had an opportunity 
to read over the form and to raise any questions he had at the time before signing it. 
Taking everything into account, I think its more likely that Mr F knew the policy was 
optional and he agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr F so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. The 
evidence about Mr Fs circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. Mr F was eligible for the cover and although 
he says he had employee benefits which provided redundancy pay and a death in 
service benefit, he still seems to have had a need for cover. I say this because the PPI 
wouldve paid out alongside any redundancy pay Mr F wouldve received and probably 
for longer. The policy also covered different situations to the death in service benefit. 
There was nothing about Mr Fs employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. Although Mr F says he had a medical condition when the PPI 
was taken, no specific details have been provided. Without these further details I cant 
say it was wrong for BoS to have recommended the PPI.
Its possible the information BoS gave Mr F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr F as I concluded above, or too 
dissimilar to what he reasonably thought he was buying from the information he was 
given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for 
him if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr F would have declined the 
cover had BoS done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr Fs circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations, 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. So, I think he would have 
still thought he had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mr F would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Fs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant BoS should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But Mr Fs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Fs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in BoSs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This means BoS doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My decisionOverall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman