DRN-3235335
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt make the terms of its ISA clear when 
she reinvested funds. As a result, Mrs J says she was unaware Nationwide would charge a 
penalty for withdrawing funds during the fixed rate period.
What happened
In 2016 Mrs J placed savings into a three year fixed rate ISA with Nationwide. In 2019, 
shortly before the existing fixed rate maturity date, Mrs J completed an ISA reinvestment 
form. Mrs J has told us this was done in branch. Mrs Js form requested her savings be 
reinvested on another three year fixed rate ISA product. Mrs J has told us she wasnt given 
any documents by the branch. 
Last years, Mrs J contacted Nationwide and asked to make a withdrawal. Mrs J later 
complained that Nationwide intended to charge a penalty for withdrawing funds from her ISA 
and that the terms of the fixed rate werent made clear. Nationwide didnt uphold Mrs Js 
complaint and said shed signed to confirm the terms and conditions of the new ISA product 
were understood in 2019. Nationwide offered Mrs J £75. But Nationwide later said the offer 
had been made in error and withdrew it. 
Mrs J referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Nationwide had dealt with Mrs Js complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything 
else. Mrs J said Nationwide had promised to send her the product information and 
associated terms after she completed the reinvestment request but didnt. Mrs J asked to 
appeal, so her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide has sent us a copy of the reinvestment form Mrs J signed and completed in 
2019. It confirms Mrs J request to reinvest her funds into a second three year fixed rate 
product. The reinvestment form is signed by Mrs J to confirm she agreed to the terms and 
copies of the key product information had been given to her by Nationwide. Mrs J has told us 
she completed the reinvestment instructions in branch with help of staff and that they 
promised to forward the ISA terms and product literature at a later point. Nationwide says the 
information was given at the time Mrs J completed her reinvestment instruction. 
Where information is incomplete or disputed Ill base my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. That is, what I consider most likely to have happened based on all the available 
information. In my view, its more likely that Nationwide provided the terms and product 
information to Mrs J at the time she visited the branch. I cant see any reason why 
Nationwide would decide to send Mrs J reinvestment information after she had visited its 
branch for that purpose. I think its more likely Mrs J was given the terms and associated 
product details when she completed the reinvestment form, as she signed to confirm. 
Mrs J says she wasnt made aware of the penalties involved in making early withdrawals. 
But the details about how much Nationwide charges for withdrawals made prior to the end of 
the fixed rate period is all contained in the product information. I havent found that 
Nationwide misled Mrs J or provided unclear information about its charges. 
Nationwide has confirmed it initially offered Mrs J £75 in error when it responded to her 
complaint. Im satisfied thats the case as Nationwide didnt agree it had made mistakes or 
uphold Mrs Js complaint. I wouldnt expect a business to be bound by a genuine error and 
Nationwide has confirmed it isnt offering Mrs J any compensation in this case. As I havent 
found Nationwide treated Mrs J unfairly or made mistakes in this case Im not telling it to pay 
compensation or take any further action.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman