DRN-3639215
The complaint
Mr J complains that the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement with Honda 
Finance Europe Plc (HFE) was mis-sold. He has also said the agreement wasnt affordable 
in the first instance.  
What happened
In December 2016, Mr J acquired a new car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
HFE.  A deposit of just under £1,400 was paid and Mr J was required to make 47 monthly 
repayments of just over £300 with a final optional payment of around £7,394. The total 
repayable under the agreement was around £23,193.
Mr J says that the dealer reduced the annual mileage allowance on the agreement from 
10,000 miles to 6,000 miles without telling him. He says this was done to reduce the monthly 
payments. Mr J says that the dealer was aware of his use of the car and that he would be 
travelling more than 6,000 miles a year. Mr J settled the agreement in June 2018.
Mr Js complaint form also said the agreement wasnt affordable in the first instance.
HFE said that it wasnt present when the finance was arranged and so couldnt comment on 
what was discussed. It said its terms and conditions were based on the paperwork that Mr J 
had been asked to review and sign before entering the agreement. It said the dealer had 
said the mileage wasnt reduced on the agreement in order to reduce the monthly payments. 
HFE said that the agreement was settled early and the right to return the car wasnt 
exercised and so no excess mileage charges were applied.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She didnt think she could fairly say the finance 
agreement was mis-sold, or that HFE treated Mr J unfairly by approving the finance.
Mr J didnt agree and said the agreement was mis-sold and he wanted a refund of the 
interest he had paid.
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J says that his agreement was mis-sold due the mileage allowance being reduced 
without his knowledge. 
While I take all relevant rules and regulations into account, I make my decision based on the 
individual merits of the case. Where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, I make my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I consider most likely to have 
happened given the individual information provided and the wider circumstances of the 
complaint.
In this case, Mr J had a previous agreement with HFE and so he should have been 
reasonably aware of how the finance would work. He has mentioned that the dealer would 
have been aware of his mileage and I note that he made a call in 2014 about the mileage 
allowance on his agreement at that time not being enough. Therefore, I accept he was 
aware of his usage and the impact a mileage allowance would have.
Mr J has said the mileage allowance on his 2016 agreement was reduced without his 
knowledge. He said the mileage allowance was reduced to reduce his monthly repayments. 
The dealer disputes this. I cannot say what was discussed at the time of the agreement but 
had the mileage allowance been important to Mr J (and I accept he was aware of the 
inclusion of a mileage allowance and the impact of this) then I think it would have been 
reasonable for him to check this point before signing the agreement. Or, in the event he had 
checked this after he had signed the agreement, he could have exercised his right to 
withdraw had this been an issue. I am not aware of this issue being raised until after the 
agreement had been settled. I also havent received evidence showing different proposals 
with different mileage allowances and monthly payments. Had the mileage allowance been 
reduced to reduce the monthly payments I would have expected Mr J to have been aware 
that his monthly repayments had fallen, and he could have asked about this at the time.
On balance, while I am not disputing that Mr J had thought the mileage allowance would be 
higher, the mileage allowance was included in the agreement that Mr J signed and I cannot 
see that he raised this issue until after the agreement had been settled. I also note that the 
agreement was settled early and no excess mileage was charged. So I do not find I can say 
this issue has caused Mr J a financial detriment. Therefore, on balance, based on the 
evidence provided I do not find I have enough to say the agreement was mis-sold due to the 
mileage allowance.
Additional to the above complaint, Mr J also said in his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service that the agreement wasnt affordable in the first instance. Mr J has 
since said that the agreement didnt cause him financial difficulties and has reiterated that 
his complaint is about the mis-sale. As the issue of affordability was raised, I have 
considered the checks carried out before the finance was provided and whether it was 
reasonable for HFE to provide the finance on the terms agreed.
HFE will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
HFE has said that it carried out a credit check. The full report isnt available, but it provided 
an extract from its system notes. It says Mr J had a high credit score and a low level of debt. 
It said he didnt have any accounts in arrears and although there was a historic default this 
had been satisfied and a notice of correction was recorded on this. Mr J had a previous 
agreement and there hadnt been issues on the previous agreement that would raise 
concerns and so the 2016 agreement was approved. 
Having considered the information gathered and in the absence of any other information I 
agree that the credit check didnt raise concerns about Mr Js financial situation and based 
on his previous payment history and the repayments involved in the new agreement, I do not 
find it unreasonable that the 2016 was considered affordable. I note Mr Js comments about 
the mileage allowance being reduced to reduce the monthly repayments, but I do not have 
anything to support this. Therefore, I have assessed the agreement based on the terms it 
was provided and I do not find I can say I have evidence to show this was unaffordable.  
In conclusion, Mr Js complaint is that his agreement was mis-sold. While I note his comments about the mileage allowance being reduced, I do not find that I have enough 
evidence to say what was discussed at the time and as Mr J signed the agreement with the 
mileage allowance included, I do not find I have enough to say that he didnt have the 
information available to him to make an informed decision at that time. I also do not find that 
the checks undertaken before the agreement was provided raised any concerns about the 
agreements affordability. Therefore, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman