DRN-2765832
Complaint
Mr Z says MBNA Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
The policy was sold to him during a telephone call in 2000, a couple of weeks after Mr Z 
applied for his credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr Z disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Zs case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Zs complaint. I will now explain my reasons.
Mr Z has said the sale took place by post. But MBNA says the PPI was sold to Mr Z during a 
telephone call and it would have gained his consent before adding it to Mr Zs credit card. In 
support of what its said, MBNA has provided us with a copy of a screenshot from its internal 
system. It says this shows the PPI was applied to Mr Zs credit card account after a 
telephone conversation. Looking at the information MBNA has sent in, including that the sale 
occurred after Mr Zs credit card was opened, Im satisfied that its more likely than not that 
the policy was sold to Mr Z during a telephone call.
When contacting Mr Z to sell him the PPI, MBNA had to make it clear that the policy was 
optional, and it had to gain his consent before applying the PPI to his account. MBNA has 
sent us a copy of the sales script it says its sales staff would have used in 2000, when 
selling Mr Z the PPI. Looking at the sales script, I can see that a consumer would have been 
given the option to decline the PPI. I can also see that they would have had to agree to the 
PPI, before the sales person added it to their credit card.
Based on what Ive seen, I havent seen anything persuasive to show the script wasnt 
followed and that MBNA deviated from its usual sales practices in Mr Zs case. Overall, I 
think its more likely than not MBNA made it clear to Mr Z that the PPI was optional and that 
Mr Z agreed to take it  although I can understand why Mr Z can no longer recall this over 20 
years after the sale took place.
MBNA didnt recommend the PPI to Mr Z, so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But 
it did have to make sure Mr Z got the information he needed to decide if it was right for him.
Its possible the information MBNA gave Mr Z about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Mr Z was eligible for the policy and he doesnt appear to have been affected 
by any of the main things the policy didnt cover  such as pre-existing medical conditions. I 
also havent seen anything to suggest the policy wasnt affordable for Mr Z.
Mr Z has told us he was entitled to statutory sick pay if he was too unwell to work and his job 
may have come with a redundancy package Having thought about this, I dont think this 
means Mr Z wouldnt have found the policy useful. The PPI would have paid out in addition 
to the statutory sick pay Mr Z would have received  until he returned to work or the 
outstanding balance was cleared. It also would have paid a benefit if he was ever made 
redundant for up to twelve months, in addition to any redundancy payment he may have 
received from his employer. And it would have paid out in the unfortunate event of death. 
Hes also told us he didnt have any savings or other means he could have used to cover his 
credit card payments if he ever fell on hard times.
So overall, I think Mr Z could have found the policy useful if he ever fell on hard times and I 
dont think that any better information would have put him off from taking out the policy.  
Ive taken into account Mr Zs comments, including what he has said about a family member 
receiving a refund for PPI. But this isnt relevant to Mr Zs complaint - I am only able to 
consider all of the information about the PPI taken out with his credit card in 2000 and so this 
point doesnt change my conclusion. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Zs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Donna Parsons
Ombudsman