DRN-3450878
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) has 
unreasonably refused their critical illness claim. To resolve the complaint, they seek payment 
of the claim, with interest. They also consider that L&G ought to amend its sales literature to 
remove the deceptive language it uses regarding the definitions of critical illness.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out their term assurance policy through their building society in 
December 2015. It offers them life and critical illness cover of £50,727 for a ten-year term.  
In February 2019, Mr and Mrs M made a claim to L&G after Mrs M sadly became seriously 
unwell with a complex type of pneumonia causing sepsis. She was transferred from her local 
hospitals intensive care unit to another unit at a specialist hospital. In total, Mrs M was in 
intensive care for a period of 40 days. 
A claim was made under the listed condition of Respiratory Failure and a claim form was 
issued to Mr and Mrs M in April 2019. However, it was suggested to Mr M at that time that a 
claim would not likely succeed unless it was known if Mrs M required oxygen permanently.  
In July 2019, Mr M had to chase L&G as the claim form hadnt arrived. A further form was 
issued by post. L&G then chased Mr and Mrs M on 20 August and 14 November 2019 as 
this time it had not received any reply. The form was then returned on 27 November 2019.  
Following receipt of the completed form, L&G wrote to Mrs Ms treating specialist and GP in 
December 2019. In February 2020 it also asked Mr and Mrs M for identification 
documentation  this was returned in May 2020.  
At that time, L&G wrote to Mr and Mrs M to explain that the treating consultant had not 
replied with any supporting medical information, so it had written to the two hospitals directly. 
L&G said the information received previously from the GP was not sufficient to allow it to 
assess the claim. One hospital replied in July 2020, but the other did not provide the relevant 
evidence until November 2020. 
In December 2020, the claim was declined. L&G said there was no indication from the 
medical information that Mrs M required regular oxygen treatment on a permanent basis or 
that her lung function was impaired to the level required by the policy wording.
Mr and Mrs M complained. Mr M sent L&G information from its website which said that for a 
claim of respiratory failure, the condition must be advanced  and this applied to Mrs M, 
since nothing in their view was more advanced than needing life support in intensive care. 
The website did not set out that respiratory failure needed to be permanent. 
He also said that critical Illness was a medical term which did not mean a patient cannot 
make a full recovery. Nonetheless, Mr M took the view that if the claim had been dealt with 
promptly in early 2020 then a payment could have been made then; because at that time 
Mrs Ms treating doctors would have said that she would not recover.
However, in February 2021, L&G rejected the complaint. It was unwilling to change its view 
on the claim and said it had fairly refused it. Whilst it was sorry that the claim took the 
amount of time it did, it had to obtain medical evidence to see if the claim was valid. In 
respect of the sale of the policy, it explained that it was sold by a different business.   
Mr and Mrs M therefore brought the complaint to this service. Mr M said that he had required 
the claim to be processed right away whilst Mrs M was critically ill. As it was, she had gone 
on to make a general recovery after 18 months, though she was still having ongoing 
breathing difficulties and post-traumatic mental health concerns. 
Mr M believed that L&G had refused the claim because Mrs M had survived. He said that he 
and Mrs M felt the policy had been mis-sold to them, as they had used the information about 
respiratory conditions on L&Gs website before deciding to take it out. 
Their view was that multiple critical care consultants had found Mrs M to be seriously ill, and 
L&G had simply moved the goalposts to avoid a claim. It had misled them and other 
customers by hiding behind policy wording which any lay person wouldnt understand. 
Because of L&Gs failure to pay a claim, Mr and Mrs M were in severe financial difficulties. 
The complaint was reviewed by one of our investigators but he did not think it should 
succeed. He said the definition being claimed under required evidence of permanent 
impairment in relation to lung function and the need for regular oxygen treatment. And Mrs 
Ms GP had only referenced Mrs Ms hospital attendance and short-term impact. So he did 
not think L&G had been unfair in seeking further information.  
The information that was eventually issued by the second hospital confirmed how Mrs M 
does not require regular oxygen treatment and therefore the policy wording had not been 
met. Though he was mindful that Mr and Mrs M said that respiratory failure was an important 
area of cover when they took out the policy, L&Gs key features documentation from 2015 
had set out what the cover was for advanced stage lung diseases. Though he had no doubt 
of the severity of Mrs Ms circumstances, he said L&G had reasonably refused the claim.  
Mr M said he and Mrs M did not accept the investigators findings on the complaint. They 
said that their view remained that L&G ought to have complied with the terms of their 
insurance on the basis it was sold to them, which is that respiratory conditions would be 
covered without the need for them to be either permanent or irreversible. They said this was 
made clear on L&Gs website  both now, and in 2015. L&G had not disputed this 
information either. They therefore asked that the complaint be passed to an ombudsman.  
L&G said it had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to learn of the particularly difficult financial circumstances that Mr and Mrs M have 
faced since Mrs M became unwell. Despite my sympathy for them, I cannot merely order 
L&G to pay their claim because I need to be fair and impartial to both parties in a complaint. 
Having looked at everything carefully, I am also of the view that L&G fairly refused the claim. 
Ill set out my reasons for that below.  Mr M feels strongly that he and Mrs M took this policy out to cover them in circumstances 
akin to the position they are in now. And I dont doubt that. But, this is not a complaint about 
the sale of the policy  if Mr and Mrs M are unhappy about what was put to them by their 
adviser in 2015 then concerns regarding the sale of the policy would need to be lodged with 
their building society as a fresh complaint. I note they also make comments about what L&G 
told them when the policy came into force, and Ill address that later in this decision.  
I also understand that Mr and Mrs M find the label of critical illness to be misleading. I 
accept they feel that way, but I dont agree. The wording of such policies is not the choice of 
L&G alone  it is a wider name across the insurance industry for cover against a number of 
specifically defined serious illnesses and events, as provided for within the insurance terms.  
To explain for Mr and Mrs M, the Association of British Insurers (ABI) provides a framework 
for this type of cover in guidance documents it issues every few years (going back to 1999), 
and these are known as Statement(s) of Best Practice for Critical Illness Cover. 
The objective of these codes of practice is to help consumers understand and compare 
critical illness policies by having a common format for the way critical illness cover is 
described to potential buyers at the point of purchase. This is achieved through the use of 
model wordings and model exclusions, set out by the ABI for all insurers to follow.  
If an insurer chooses to offer a policy of this type, it must include three core conditions of 
cancer, heart attack and stroke. Beyond this it can choose which illnesses or events to 
include, but if it provides cover for any of the ABI conditions it ought to adopt the model 
wording as a minimum standard. 
However, respiratory failure is not a model wording provided for by the ABI statement in 
force at the time Mr and Mrs M took out their policy (dated February 2011) or in the next 
statement issued in December 2014, which came into force at the end of December 2015. It 
is right to look at the statements closest to the time the policy began, as they are modified 
from time to time based on medical advancements and best practice. 
To be fair to both parties in a complaint, I need to look at the policy itself and decide if L&G 
has acted within the policy terms. It is those terms which form the contract of insurance. In 
respect of the critical illness of respiratory failure, the policy wording says:
Respiratory failure  of advanced stage
Advanced stage emphysema or other chronic lung disease, resulting in all of the 
following:
 The need for regular oxygen treatment on a permanent basis, and
 The permanent impairment of lung function tests as follows:
 Forced Vital Capacity (FVC) and Forced Expiratory Volume at 1 second (FEV1) 
being less than 50% of normal.
Mrs M has not needed any regular oxygen treatment nor does she have any permanent 
impairment of her lung function, such that the definition above could be satisfied. So L&G is 
correct when it says a claim cant be paid. I dont think its unfair to reach that conclusion as 
L&G is only contractually obliged to pay a claim when policy wording has been met; and I 
dont think the policy wording itself is unjust.
I note that Mrs M was reviewed in the critical care recovery clinic at the first hospital in both 
July and September 2019. At the first review, ten ongoing problems were identified as a 
result of the traumatic incident she had been through. It was recorded how Mrs M is 
progressing well on a global level in just 6 weeks since discharge after severe critical illness [and] the duration of recovery may well exceed a year. At the next review, these ongoing 
issues had reduced to three health problems. 
I fully appreciate why Mr M takes the view that Mrs M has suffered a critical illness. I agree 
that she has been through a life-threatening event that has taken over a year to recover from 
in part, which was referred to as a critical illness by the hospital. But, that doesnt mean I can 
order L&G to pay a claim. A claim must be for a listed condition or event as defined by the 
specific policy wording. And Mrs Ms respiratory failure has not resulted in any permanent 
deficit, which is the measure for a valid claim as set out in the definition above. 
It simply isnt possible for an insurer to provide insurance for every conceivable critical illness 
a person may suffer from or every type of procedure as a listed event, because the cost 
would be inherently unaffordable for most people or businesses taking out the insurance. 
What critical illness policies provide is insurance against being diagnosed with the most 
common instances of severe illnesses and the most commonly occurring serious events.
That an illness may present as more severe at the start doesnt oblige a claim to be paid at 
that time. The correct position is for a business to assess a claim on the medical evidence, 
against the agreed wording. As the wording determined a severity level including permanent 
deficit and consequential oxygen treatment, L&G needed to establish this once her medical 
professionals had established Mrs Ms prognosis at the critical care recovery clinics.
Mr M also complained to L&G that the sales literature should have stated that breathing 
conditions must be permanent. But it did do so. It has provided us clear evidence that the 
policy terms were issued to Mr and Mrs M on 2 December 2015, containing the wording Ive 
set out above which requires permanent deficit. This is the case with a number of conditions 
on the policy, and similarly with a number of other conditions in the ABI model wording.  
Finally, I have also considered what Mr M says about the sales information on L&Gs 
website  and though it has suggested otherwise, Mr M says the same information was 
reviewed by himself and Mrs M in 2015. 
I have no reason to doubt Mr Ms submissions about the website. But, I do not believe it 
shows any contradictory information such that a claim should be paid. What it does is give a 
list of covered conditions  one of which is Respiratory failure  of advanced stage.
That the website doesnt go further and give the full definition including permanency does 
not alter or supersede the terms and conditions of the policy issued to Mr and Mrs M on 2 
December 2015. Those are the basis of the contract of insurance. The website guidance 
also goes on to state:
Please remember that the heading of each critical illness is only a guide to what is
covered. Further details of how we will consider your claim, including the full 
definitions we will use and the evidence we will need, are given in the policy terms 
and conditions, which will be sent to you when your policy starts.
I dont accept that the website sets out an assumed agreement to cover any advanced stage 
respiratory failure by the absence of the full definition. It is a guide as to the headline nature 
of the insurance in terms of the number of conditions it covers; particularly as respiratory 
failure is not a model condition set out by the ABI and is a condition L&G chooses to offer 
over and above the minimum accepted standard. So, L&G was free to provide a full 
definition as to what severity applies to the advanced cases in order for a valid claim, and it 
told Mr and Mrs M that in a clear way by directing them to the policy terms and conditions. My final decision
I know my decision isnt what Mr and Mrs M have hoped for but I do not uphold their 
complaint. L&G has assessed their critical illness claim fairly, and it does not meet the 
definition required by their policy so no payment can be made.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman