DRN-2533466
The complaint
Mr E says the advice given by Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited, 
trading as Sun Life Financial of Canada, to transfer his deferred Occupational Pension 
Scheme (OPS) benefits into a personal pension was unsuitable.
Mr E is represented by Fair Return Legal Services Limited (FR).
What happened
Mr E says he was visited at his workplace by a Sun Life representative in February 2000. He 
was advised to increase contributions into his existing Sun Life personal pension plan. At the 
same time, he was told he should consider whether it would be beneficial to transfer the 
deferred OPS benefits hed accrued with a former employer over 10 years, into a personal 
pension plan.
Mr E met with the adviser again on 19 July 2000 to discuss his retirement arrangements. 
The personal financial profile Sun Life prepared for him was dated 24 July 2000, it 
identified his objectives and situation in the following terms:
Your objective is to provide yourself with retirement income at your anticipated 
retirement age of 65 years. The anticipated level of income that you feel you will require 
based on todays levels is 100% of todays net incomeYour existing arrangements will 
provide you with approximately 30% of what you require. I have recommended and you 
have agreed that a single premium personal pension plan will help to realise this 
objective by building up a fund of money in a tax-efficient manner, which can be used to 
purchase the most appropriate pension benefits for you at retirement.
Ultimately Mr E was persuaded to transfer his OPS benefits worth around £46,000 into a 
personal pension. Sun Life noted that having discussed with him the investment options, he 
decided to split the proceeds 50/50 between its Equity and International funds.
FR, on behalf of Mr E, raised a complaint with Sun Life in December 2019. It set-out 
several concerns about what had happened to him in 2000. For example, he hadnt been 
properly informed about the risks he was taking on and the valuable benefits his was giving 
up. It said Sun Life hadnt been compliant with the regulations and it shouldnt have 
recommended the transaction.
Sun Life sent Mr E its final response on 21 February 2020. It set out the process that its 
adviser followed and said this had been compliant with requirements at the time. It stood 
by the advice it had provided and said this had been suitable given Mr Es circumstances 
and objectives.
The Investigator upheld Mr Es complaint. She didnt think Sun Life had done enough to 
show its assessment of Mr Es attitude to risk was correct, especially given his capacity for 
loss. She found the lack of a transfer value analysis report (TVAS) was a significant 
weakness in its position. And she couldnt see that Sun Life had clearly set out the 
disadvantages of transferring his deferred OPS benefits.
Sun Life disagreed with the Investigator and so Mr Es complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Wheres theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, 
my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats 
deliberate; ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial 
businesses and their customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive 
concentrated my findings on what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Es complaint. Ill explain why.
how does the regulatory framework inform the consideration of Mr Es case?
The first thing Ive considered is the regulation around transactions like those performed by 
Sun Life for Mr E. Of course, I must be mindful that law, regulation and industry best 
practice have evolved over the past twenty years. Whats required of firms now, wasnt 
necessarily the case in 2000 when Sun Life gave Mr E its advice.
Nevertheless, a good starting point for my consideration is the FCA Handbook. This 
contains eleven Principles for businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms 
must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care 
and diligence.
- Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems. 
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7  which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of it s 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
While the Principles were formalised in 2001 - shortly after Mr E received advice - they 
were nevertheless built upon existing regulations and accepted practice. And I dont think 
any firm would argue that it wouldnt have tried to adhere to such standards prior to 2001. 
As such, they provide a useful framework for thinking about Mr Es complaint.
At the time of the advice I can see that Sun Life was a member of the Investment 
Management Regulatory Organisation (IMRO). And it has also noted the importance of 
the Personal Investment Authority (PIA) rulebook.
The PIA rulebook: Adopted IMRO Rules set out important requirements of firms 
regarding pension transfers. These were established prior to 2000 and Sun Life needed 
to adhere to these when advising individuals about transferring benefits from OPS into 
personal pension arrangements.It was established that in advising customers who were existing or prospective members 
of OPS, the starting point for firms would be that it wasnt suitable to recommend opting 
out of schemes into a personal pension. In relation to deferred members, like Mr E, the 
rules said (bolding is my emphasis):
The position is more finely balanced when a prospective investor currently has deferred 
benefits from an [OPS] and is considering transferring those benefits to a personal 
pension scheme.
Advice on whether to transfer deferred benefits should be preceded by a detailed 
consideration of the ceding scheme compared with the personal pension scheme, 
and the personal circumstances and objectives of the investor. A fact find designed 
with pension transfers in mind will be needed. A properly established process is 
necessary to ensure the suitability of the advice provided.
The rulebook went on to detail the procedures to be followed, this included the following 
extracts:
To assess the prospective investors attitude to risk and security, this is relevant 
not merely to the choice of contract or fund, but also (and more fundamentally) to 
the choice between an [OPS] and a personal pension scheme in the first place.
enabling the prospective investor to receive sufficient, clear information to 
make an informed investment decision based on a firm understanding of the risks 
involved and knowledge of what protection, rights, expectations and options they may be 
giving up
a Transfer Value Analysis must be undertaken or obtained. The analysis should 
be based on a proper consideration of all the relevant factors. It should be documented 
and recorded before firm investment advice is offered to the prospective investor. The 
results of this analysis should be discussed with the latter in simple clear language.
Relevant items of information for the prospective investor include: the different 
character of the risks associated with personal pension scheme and [OPS] 
provision; the impact of fluctuations in annuity rates on the size of the eventual 
pension;changes to tax-free cash;the transfer value analysis including an 
indication of the rate of growth needed to ensure the investor is no worse off.
The section of the PIA/IMRO rulebook about the transfer of deferred benefits to personal 
pension arrangements concluded:
Members may find it difficult to demonstrate compliance with the relevant rules if 
the process outlined above has not been completed and fully documented, 
including the collection of the relevant information from the ceding scheme and the 
prospective investor, and a clear provision of the necessary information to the latter. The 
records should be kept indefinitely.
The process will by no means point to all customers being confirmed as prospects for 
the sale of personal pensions or section 32 contracts. It will confirm that many customers 
would be better advised to remain in their [OPS]
did Sun Life adhere to the regulatory requirements placed on it?
On balance, Sun Life hasnt done enough to satisfy me that it met the regulatory 
requirements placed on it at the time it gave advice to Mr E. Ill explain why.There are several documents relating to Sun Lifes transaction with Mr E that are 
important to my consideration, these include the personal financial profile and its 
complaint investigation notes. Unfortunately, its been unable to provide a TVAS report, 
relevant illustrations or what might be described as a reasons why letter (certainly in 
terms of what such a communication was supposed to incorporate).
At the time of the advice Mr E was 43 years old. He was single but lived with his mother who 
relied on him financially. He didnt hold any investments or savings. His only pension 
provisions were his Sun Life plans and his deferred OPS benefits. The latter had a transfer 
value of around £46,000. Mr Es was also recorded as wanting to retire early, at 60.
Sun Life assessed Mr Es attitude to risk as being Moderate. And it told him that if he were 
to transfer his OPS benefits to one of its plans, it would only need to achieve 6.51% growth 
per annum to exceed the benefits available from his scheme. It recommended that he 
proceed with the transfer.
My first consideration is to revisit what was recorded about Mr Es retirement objectives 
(bolding is my emphasis):
The anticipated level of income that you feel you will requireis 100% of todays net 
incomeYour existing arrangements will provide you with approximately 30% of 
what you require. I have recommended and you have agreed that a single premium 
personal pension plan will help to realise this objective by building up a fund of 
money in a tax-efficient mannerHowever, you should be aware that based upon 
growth projections the illustration I have provided may only produce 
approximately 30% of todays net income
What Sun Life seemed to be telling Mr E here was that he should take a major decision to 
transfer his deferred OPS benefits into a personal pension plan, with the net result likely 
being no improvement in his retirement prospects. And this outlook was based on him taking 
more risk. This isnt a strong foundation for a recommendation to transfer.
Turning to the assessment of Mr Es risk appetite, I have similar concerns to those identified 
by the Investigator. I can see that he was issued with a guide Your Attitude to Risk and 
Reward. Its recorded that his attitude to risk was 3 (moderate) on a scale of 1-4.
Id make the following observations. I dont know how Mr Es risk assessment was carried 
out. Theres no risk questionnaire. Theres no record of the of the discussion with the 
adviser. And the guide Sun Life has provided is generic and product focussed  it doesnt 
address the choice he was making between his OPS benefits and a personal pension 
arrangement.
The main written communication Sun Life had with Mr E was a letter it sent him with a copy 
of his personal financial profile (which was completed in July 2000). The letter said:
Thank you for your recent decision to transact business with us. The necessary formalities 
involved in the processing of your application are now being completedFor your personal 
records. I am enclosing a copy of the completed Personal Financial Profile prepared during 
our Sales Consultants interview with you, which includes their reason for making the 
recommendations they have.
Curiously, Sun Lifes letter isnt dated. Its of note the information seems to have been 
provided after Mr E had taken his decision to transfer his OPS benefits. So, theres an open 
question about when he received the information to reflect on.As I mentioned, I havent seen a copy of a separate reasons why letter and so assume it 
was Sun Lifes intention that its cover letter and copy of the financial profile report served the 
same purpose. That was allowable, so long as it still met the same requirements.
For example, Sun Lifes communication needed to make clear to Mr E why its advice was 
suitable, taking explicit account of the alternative of remaining with his OPS. The 
communication had to demonstrate a real link between his circumstances, objectives and 
risk profile and the recommendations made to him. It had to be specific to Mr E, and not be a 
mechanistic recitation of stock motives applicable to any and every transaction.
There are several problems with Sun Lifes communication. The personal financial profile is 
essentially a form that was used to collect information from Mr E during the advice process. 
And while it does record some decisions arrived at, theres very little by way of structured 
analysis. It didnt meet the requirements of a reasons why letter, and I dont think it provided 
clear and fair information to him about the implications of the transfer of his OPS benefits.
It didnt give an effective explanation of the advantages, disadvantages and risks 
associated with the decision about whether to transfer his OPS benefits. Ive seen no 
comparison of the benefits and protections available under Mr Es OPS or an illustration of 
what couldve been available under the new arrangements.
Further, while Mr E mayve been given a guide to read about risks associated with his 
investment decision, Id have expected to see evidence of the matters weighed that led him 
to opt for the funds he did.
Its true that Mr E still had around 20 years until he retired and at that time didnt have any 
dependents. But conversely, he had no savings or assets. His only pension provisions were 
his Sun Life and deferred OPS benefits. And we know planning for his retirement was 
important to him. His capacity for loss was limited, and I cant see how this was taken into 
account.
Theres no evidence that Mr E was knowledgeable or experienced in matters of pensions 
or investments. And Sun Life hasnt done enough to satisfy me that it made him properly 
aware of the risks he was taking on as a result of its recommendations.
Taking all these matters together, on balance the evidence doesnt show that an effective 
risk assessment exercise was undertaken by Sun Life in 2000. So, Im not satisfied its 
assessment of Mr Es appetite was accurate, given the contemporaneous evidence we have. 
This inevitably undermines other elements of its advice which had a strong link to this area.
As the requirements of the time made clear, Sun Life had to retain a copy of the TVAS 
indefinitely. The rationale for this was the very long-term nature of retirement planning. It 
hasnt managed to locate the document and I dont know if Mr E ever received the report.
The TVAS report wouldve shown in detail how Sun Life arrived at a critical yield figure for Mr 
Es OPS benefits transfer. This is essentially the average annual investment return required 
on the transfer value from the time of advice until retirement before the provider applies its 
charges, to meet the same annuity income as his deferred benefits wouldve done.
The investment return required to match the OPS at retirement was quoted as 6.51% per 
year. However, without the TVAS report I cant see what inputs were used or whether future 
charges were taken into account when making the calculation. 
Sun Lifes advice was given during the period in which this Service published 'discount rates' 
for use in loss assessments resulting from the industry-wide Pensions Review. While firms weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates wouldve been considered 
reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this case. The discount rate would be 
6.9% per year for 21 years to retirement if Mr E stopped working at 65. We know that he 
wanted to retire at 60, and the equivalent discount rate in this case wouldve been 6.7%.
On the face of it, as the discount rate exceeds the critical yield by a few tenths of a percent, 
theres an argument that over time the accumulated benefit to Mr E might have been a 
worthwhile consideration. Actually, it seems to me the figures demonstrate a finely balanced 
decision, which then begs the question, why transfer and take on risk previously borne by his 
former employer for providing an income in retirement?
There are two further matters on which Sun Life hasnt been able to respond satisfactorily, 
which undermines its position further.
Firstly, in its investigation of Mr Es complaint, Sun Lifes file note identified issues around 
calculation of the reduction in investment yield (how to account for the effect of charges). It 
stated:
We do not know what the reduction in yield was as we cannot locate the illustration 
provided to the client at the time of the sale [or] the transfer analysis that would have gone 
alongside it.
The illustration for the regular contributions had a reduction in yield of 1.6% (from 7% to 
5.3%). This would not have negatively impacted on the suitability of the advice as it was 
expected that the plan would perform in line with the min-rate used on the illustrations and 
this was more than was needed to provide higher benefits than [Mr Es OPS] scheme.
At the time of the advice the assumed growth rates used for illustrations were 5%, 7%, and 
9%. So, if Mr Es personal pension performed at the minimum rate, this wouldve been lower 
than both the critical yield and discount figures Ive set out. And that would indicate a clear 
reason for not proceeding with the transfer given Mr Es objective was to improve his 
retirement income prospects.
Secondly, given Mr Es investment knowledge, his limited capacity for loss and failings Ive 
identified in Sun Lifes risk assessment process, I think its more likely than not his appetite 
was overstated.
Mr Es funds were invested 50% in Sun Lifes Equity fund and 50% in its International fund. 
Leaving aside whether this meant he lacked diversification, placing all his money in these 
funds was more likely than not unsuitable for his risk appetite.
So, had Mr E been invested in appropriate funds, with a proportion of more cautious 
investments, then inevitably the returns he couldve anticipated wouldve been lower. And 
this wouldve further undermined the case for transferring his OPS benefits.
Mr Es OPS transfer was given effect from September 2000. I note an internal memo 
addressed to the compliance function at Sun Life, presumably in response to an enquiry 
about the transaction, dated 6 October 2000 states:
The transfer has been approved by us [pension operations] and our Reason Why Letter has 
been issued to the client (copy available on request).
For your information, the financial consultant is [Mr X] from [Y] Branch.We are satisfied that the sale is compliant and have passed the application form and transfer 
cheque to the administration area for processing. We would therefore appreciate your 
prompt action.
Sun Life hasnt elaborated on this communication, perhaps understandably given the 
passage of time. But I also note in its investigation of the Mr Es case, it analysed the 
performance of the individual who gave him advice. It found 20 complaints had been raised 
against Mr X, with 50% being upheld.
While I dont find this matter telling in terms of the circumstances and evidence of Mr Es 
case, it does suggest a significant problem has been identified by Sun Life with the adviser 
concerned. And perhaps it sheds light on some of the failings Ive identified.
Sun Life was in a good position to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Mr E 
about what was in his best interest for retirement planning. It knew pension pots built up 
over many years are to provide for retirement. And certainly, when the transfer of deferred 
benefits was being considered, there needed to be strong reasons to proceed. On balance, 
I dont think that was the case here.
It was Sun Lifes role to discern what Mr Es wants and needs were and why. Its role 
wasnt simply to facilitate what he wanted without any critical thinking. It had to use due 
care and skill. It had to do these things because it had to act in his best interests. I dont 
think it demonstrably met these obligations.
I think that if Sun Life had given Mr E appropriate and fully formed advice, it wouldnt have 
recommended that he transfer his OPS benefits. In that case I dont think hed have gone 
ahead. I say this because its unusual for a lay person to seek professional advice and 
then go against the recommendations received.
To conclude I dont think the transfer of Mr Es OPS benefits into a personal pension with 
Sun Life, with investments being made into its Equity and International funds, was fair to 
him. As such I think it failed to meet the requirements placed on it when providing him with 
advice and making the arrangements.
So, taking all the circumstances of the case into account, its reasonable for me to 
uphold this complaint against Sun Life and for it to put things right.
Putting things right
Im upholding Mr Es case. So, he needs to be returned to the position he wouldve been in 
now - or as close to that as reasonably possible  had it not been for the failures which I 
hold Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited responsible for.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs/ interest on costs that I think 
are appropriate. If I think that fair compensation may be more than £160,000, I can 
recommend that the business pays the balance.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be 
calculated as set out below. My decision is Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada 
(U.K.) Limited should pay Mr E the amount produced by that calculation  up to a 
maximum of £160,000.Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is 
more than £160,000, I recommend that Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) 
Limited pays Mr E the balance.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Sun Life doesnt have to do 
what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr E can accept my decision and go to court to ask for 
the balance. He may want to get independent legal advice before deciding whether to 
accept this decision.
I consider Mr E wouldve remained in his OPS. Sun Life Assurance Company of 
Canada (U.K.) Limited should therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the 
pension review methodology, as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in it s 
Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the 
most recent financial assumptions at that date. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Es acceptance of the decision.
Sun Life may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr 
Es contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, 
which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Es 
SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible 
be paid into Mr Es pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr E as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 
75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr E within 90 days of the date 
Sun Life receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must 
be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of 
my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes 
Sun Life to pay Mr E.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is 
data from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Es complaint. I require Sun Life 
Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited to pay compensation to him as Ive 
indicated above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman