DRN-4459838
The complaint
Miss K complains that WorldRemit Ltd did not refund a series of transactions she lost as part 
of a scam. 
What happened
Miss K met an individual on an online dating website who I will call X. After speaking with X 
for around a month, he began asking her for money. Miss K opened an account with 
WorldRemit on 22 September 2020 and began sending X payments of between £50 and 
£900 using her debit card. Miss K made 41 transactions over the course of a year which 
totalled £10,650. On 29 September 2021, she raised a fraud claim with WorldRemit as she 
realised she had been the victim of a scam. 
WorldRemit explained that Miss K had authorised the transactions using her debit card and 
none of the payments triggered as unusual or out of character on their system. So, they did 
not uphold the complaint. Miss K referred the complaint to our service and our Investigator 
looked into it. They explained that as Miss K authorised the payments, she was liable for 
them as a starting point. And they did not think the payments were so unusual that they 
warranted intervention by WorldRemit, so they didnt agree that the payments should be 
refunded. In addition, they didnt think WorldRemit had made an error when they didnt 
process chargebacks for the payments. 
Miss Ks representative disagreed with the outcome. They felt the receiving bank destination 
was high risk, so these payments should have flagged as unusual. And that organisations 
like WorldRemit did not do enough to carry out anti-money laundering checks or make an 
effort to understand their customers and why they are sending funds. In addition, they felt 
that Miss Ks vulnerabilities had not been taken into account and that WorldRemit should ask 
all customers when they open an account if they have any vulnerabilities.
As an informal agreement could not be reached by both parties, the case has been passed 
to me for a final decision.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that Miss K has been the victim of a cruel scam and I want to acknowledge 
that I understand this. Whats left to determine is if WorldRemit should have done more to 
intervene prior to the payments being processed or to recover the funds. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Miss K isnt liable for payments 
she didnt authorise, unless she failed with gross negligence or intent to comply with the 
terms of the account or keep her personalised security details safe. Accordingly, Ive 
considered whether Miss K authorised the payments in question here.
Having done so, I can see that it is not in dispute that Miss K authorised the payments to X 
using her debit card. So, while I recognise that Miss K did not intend the funds to go to a 
scammer, this doesnt change the fact that she authorised them and is therefore presumed 
liable for the loss in the first instance.
The regulatory landscape, along with good industry practice, also sets out a requirement for 
account providers to protect their customers from fraud and financial harm. And this includes 
monitoring accounts to look out for activity that might suggest a customer was at risk of 
financial harm, intervening in unusual or out of character transactions and trying to prevent 
customers falling victims to scams. So, Ive also thought about whether WorldRemit did 
enough to try to keep Miss Ks account safe.
Ive considered the account activity to determine if I think WorldRemit should reasonably 
have intervened prior to the payments being processed. Looking at the payments in 
question, the highest value of £900 is not significant enough to have appeared suspicious to 
WorldRemit, so I dont think this alone warranted intervention prior to them being processed. 
In addition, there are regular gaps between the payments, with a few occurring each month, 
so I dont think the pattern of spending when considered in line with the values of the 
payments was cause for concern at the time. Considering everything as a whole, I dont 
think WorldRemit missed an opportunity to intervene prior to the payments being made in 
order to reveal the scam.
As the payments were made with a debit card, the only recourse WorldRemit had to try and 
recover the funds once they were aware was by chargeback. It should be noted that the 
chargeback process is a voluntary scheme run by the card provider, in this case Visa. A 
chargeback is ordinarily for a dispute between a consumer and a merchant and for this 
reason, there would not be a suitable chargeback code for this situation. With this in mind, I 
dont think WorldRemit made an error when it did not initiate a chargeback claim in this case.
Miss Ks representatives have highlighted that she was a vulnerable consumer, due to her 
medical issues. Ive thought about this carefully but I cant see that WorldRemit were aware 
of her vulnerabilities. So, I dont think they could reasonably have taken them into 
consideration when processing the payments and dealing with the complaint. 
Miss Ks representative has also mentioned a number of points that are largely to do with the 
way in which organisation such as WorldRemit are set up to run. However, this is more 
suitable for the regulator of financial business, the Financial Conduct Authority. I say this 
because we are an alternative dispute resolution service that focuses on individual 
complaints between consumers and financial institutions, so I can only consider the 
individual merits of Miss Ks complaint. Having done so in this case, I dont think WorldRemit 
needs to provide Miss K with a refund of the transactions in question. So I dont direct it to 
take any further action in relation to Miss Ks complaint.    
My final decision
I do not uphold Miss Ks complaint against WorldRemit Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman