DRN-3206988
The complaint
Mr L complains that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AAUICL) unfairly
cancelled his motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to AAUICL, I include the broker and others insofar as I hold AAUICL
responsible for their acts and omissions. 
 
What happened
An insurer recorded a fault incident in about August 2019 against Mr Ls wife.
An insurer recorded a non-fault incident in about January 2020 against Mr L.
In June 2020, Mr L needed insurance for his car. On about 5 June 2020, he used a price
comparison website. Through the broker, he bought motor insurance with AAUICL. He was
the policyholder, and his wife was a named driver. Mr L didnt disclose the incidents in which
each of them had been involved.
On 16 June 2020, AAUICL said that  because of the two undisclosed incidents  it would
charge an additional premium of about £170.00. Reluctantly, Mr L paid that.
In January 2021, Mr L moved address and let the broker know. On 8 January 2021, the
broker cancelled the policy. The broker said that AAUICL was unwilling to provide further
cover following the change of address. The broker later made a pro-rata refund  after
deducting a cancellation fee of £30.00.
Mr L later complained. By a final response dated early February 2021, the broker said that it
would refund the cancellation fee. By a further letter on 19 February 2021, the broker
explained to Mr L that it was the undisclosed incidents, rather than the change of address,
that had meant AAUICL was no longer willing to provide cover. The broker said it was
sending Mr L a cheque for £40.00.
Mr L brought his complaint to us in April 2021.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator dealt separately with a complaint against the broker. He treated the
complaint about cancellation as a complaint against AAUICL.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint against AAUICL should be upheld in part.
He thought that when AAUICL found out about the incidents, it made an error in continuing
the policy. The investigator thought that the error meant Mr L had to spend more time in
establishing the true reason for the cancellation and this was at AAUICLs instruction. He
recommended that  in addition to the redress paid by the broker, AAUICL should pay Mr L
a further £50.00.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr L  
and to AAUICL on 3 November 2021. I summarise my findings:
As AAUICL had given the broker delegated authority, I found it fair and reasonable
to hold AAUICL responsible for the brokers application of the underwriting criteria to 
the information on the system.
I held AAUICL responsible for the cancellation of the policy without enough notice 
and for the unfair reason of a misrepresentation that it had led Mr L to believe he had 
put right.
I found it fair and reasonable to direct AAUICL to pay Mr L £50.00 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience. That was the same outcome as the investigator 
recommended. But my reasoning was somewhat different. So my decision was 
provisional.
Subject to any further information from Mr L or from AAUICL, my provisional decision was to 
uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct AAUICL to pay Mr L £50.00 for distress and 
inconvenience.
Mr L accepts the provisional decision . But he says, in summary, that the overall decision 
process to decline someone insurance needs reviewing / auditing on a wider scale.
AAUICL disagrees with the provisional decision. It says, in summary, that:
The broker has delegated authority to deal with complaints on AAUICLs 
behalf and the £40.00 is adequate resolution for the nature of this complaint. 
We shouldnt direct the payment of £40.00 to be increased by £50.00 or less.
  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read both the electronic files that we have for the complaints against respectively the
broker and AAUICL.
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with an individual consumers complaint against a 
regulated financial firm in connection with a regulated activity. In our final decision, we name 
that regulated firm, but we dont identify any other party.
Where we find that the firm has done something wrong, we look at the impact on the 
individual complainant and we consider whether to direct the firm to pay compensation or to 
take other steps to try to put things right.
We will take into account any offer or payment of compensation, whether by the firm that is 
being complained about or by any other party. We will consider whether that is fair and 
reasonable. If the offer is in the right ballpark, it may not be fair to direct a small increase  
but we may direct an increase if we find it fair and reasonable.
We dont direct wider reviews into issues such as when an insurer may decline to offer 
cover. The regulator is the Financial Conduct Authority.Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) obliges a
consumer to take reasonable care to avoid making a misrepresentation to his proposed
insurer.
From what Ive seen, the comparison website asked a question as follows:
Have you had any motor accidents, claims or losses in the last five years?
This is regardless of who / what was at fault or if a claim was made or not
This includes claims made by a named driver on your policy
The policy documents included a statement of fact that recorded a question as follows:
Have you or any person who will drive been involved in any accident or suffered
any loss (whether to blame or not) involving a motor vehicle - whether or not
the subject of an insurance claim - in the last five years?
So Im satisfied that AAUICL asked a clear question whether in the last five years Mr L or his
wife had been involved in any accident, whether or not they were at fault or whether or not a
claim was made.
Mr L answered no. I dont think that was correct. His wife had had an incident but no claim.
Mr L had had an incident but no fault.
Mr L has given an explanation that he didnt know his wife had notified her insurer about her
incident  and he didnt think his non-fault incident was relevant to his risk. Nevertheless, I
consider that his answer was not only incorrect but careless.
Whatever view Mr L took about his risk, he had made a careless misrepresentation to his
insurer. I accept that  like many insurers - AAUICL regarded a non-fault claim as an
increased risk of a fault claim.
And I accept that  but for his misrepresentation - AAUICL wouldnt have offered Mr L cover
on the terms it did. So the misrepresentation was a qualifying misrepresentation under
CIDRA.
The policy terms included the following:
The Insurer or [the broker] may cancel this insurance if there are grounds to do so
which may include but is not limited to: 
You have provided Your Insurer or [the broker] with incorrect information and/or
You have failed to provide correct information. Your Insurer or [the broker] will send,
at least 7 days written notice to Your last known address
AAUICL has said the broker had delegated authority. So I consider that the broker had
authority from AAUICL to cancel the policy on behalf of AAUICL.
When it found out about the misrepresentation, AAUICL couldve cancelled the policy. It
says it made a mistake by not cancelling it.
Yet it chose to charge an additional premium for the policy to continue. AAUICL had led Mr L
to believe that he had paid the additional premium to put right the misrepresentation. In my
view  even if it had made a mistake - it wouldnt be fair for AAUICL to go back on that.
From what it has said, AAUICL wouldve continued cover if - after the change of address -it had realised its mistake.
However, as AAUICL had given the broker delegated authority, I find it fair and reasonable
to hold AAUICL responsible for the brokers application of the underwriting criteria to the
information on the system. On 8 January 2021, the broker cancelled the policy by
telephone with effect from midnight that day albeit that it also wrote a seven-day notice to
cancel from 15 January 2021.
I dont hold AAUICL responsible for the broker leading Mr L to believe that the reason for the
cancellation was his change of address. So I dont hold AAUICL responsible for the impact
of that on Mr L. That included his bewilderment (having only moved home locally).
But I hold AAUICL responsible for the cancellation of the policy without enough notice and
for the unfair reason of a misrepresentation that it had led Mr L to believe he had put
right. Ive thought about the impact of that on Mr L.
Ive listened to the recording of the telephone call on 8 January 2021. And I note that Mr L
was bewildered but cool rather than upset. He was satisfied that he was getting a pro-rata
refund of premium for the remainder of the year to June 2021. And he had already arranged
alternative cover at less cost.
Nevertheless, I consider that AAUICL is responsible for causing Mr L frustration and 
annoyance beyond that which is to be expected in everyday life.
I bear in mind that the broker later refunded the cancellation fee and paid Mr L £40.00.  
Putting things right
But I dont consider that this was enough to put right the distress and inconvenience caused 
by the shortcomings Ive found on the part of AAUICL. 
£40.00 is less than half of what I find fair and reasonable in relation to AAUICL. So, whilst 
the brokers payment and my suggested figure are each in the range of less than £100.00, I 
find it fair and reasonable to direct AAUICL to pay Mr L (in addition to the brokers payment 
of £40.00) £50.00 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr L £50.00 for distress and 
inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman