DRN-2790813
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the end of contract charges applied by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited (MBFS), following the return of his car.
What happened
On 7 June 2016, Mr H was supplied with a new car through a hire purchase agreement with 
MBFS. The agreement was for 48 months; with monthly rental payments of £339.96, and an 
optional final payment of £16,050, if Mr H wanted to purchase the car.
When the agreement came to an end, Mr H arranged to return the car. The car was 
inspected on 19 October 2020 by the dealership whod originally supplied it  there was a 
visual inspection where Mr H was present, followed by an in-depth inspection, where he 
wasnt. After the second inspection, Mr H received an invoice for £440 for damage to the 
cars wheels that fell outside of the fair wear and tear guidelines, as defined in MBFSs 
Vehicle Return Standards (VRS).
Mr H was unhappy that, at the visual inspection, there seemed to be no issues. He said 
there was corrosion to the wheels, but the dealership had told him he wouldnt be charged 
for this. Hes also unhappy that the form he signed after the visual inspection was left blank  
there were no recorded faults with the car. He says this was filled in afterwards.
Mr H complained to MBFS, but they didnt uphold his complaint and held him liable for the 
cost of the damage to the wheels. Mr H was unhappy with MBFSs response, and he 
brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said it wasnt possible to know what happened when Mr H signed the form 
after the visual inspection, so shed considered all the surrounding evidence to decide what 
she thought had most likely happened.
The investigator said MBFS inspected the car in line with their VRS, and theyd provided a 
video of this inspection. This video shows damage to the rims of all of the wheels that 
exceeds whats acceptable under the VRS. So she thought MBFS had acted reasonably by 
charging Mr H for this. And she didnt think theyd done anything wrong.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigator. He said the investigators view didnt consider the 
blank document hed signed; that hed been told there was nothing wrong with the car after 
the visual inspection; that he hadnt been invited to be present at the in-depth inspection; 
that the people involved in the hand back were unreliable; that he was only provided with a 
copy of the video when he queried the invoice; and that the corrosion of the wheel was a 
known issue with this type of car. Because of this he thought the dealership had acted 
fraudulently and that applying the VRS wasnt valid in the circumstances.
The investigator responded to Mr H, addressing the issues hed raised. But she said her 
comments didnt alter her view that MBFS had acted reasonably. Mr H was still unhappy with 
the investigators view, and that MBFS were chasing him for payment of their invoice. So 
hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr H was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. 
This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into 
complaints about it. 
Before I address Mr Hs complaint, I think it would be beneficial for me to set out how I make 
my decision. Were an informal dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the 
courts. This means were impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more 
weight on one sides story because of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all the 
information were given. And where there is a different version of events, as is the case here 
with the form Mr H signed, my decision is based on what I think most likely happened.
Ive seen a copy of the hire purchase agreement, which Mr H signed on 7 June 2016. Under 
the heading Vehicle Condition Terms, the agreement says you will maintain the vehicle in a 
condition which is consistent with the attached [VRS] which form part of this agreement. 
And the VRS explained what damage is, and isnt, considered acceptable. MBFS also 
provided Mr H with another copy of their VRS, six months before the end of his agreement.
Given all of the above, Im satisfied Mr H had all of the information he needed to be aware of 
what level of damage would be acceptable to MBFS, and what he would be charged for. 
Because of this, I dont think MBFS did anything wrong by conducting a second in-depth 
inspection of the car after it was handed back. And I dont think a visual inspection taking 
place at the point of return, or Mr H not being invited to watch the second inspection take 
place, changes this.
Mr H has said that the form he signed after the visual inspection was blank  it didnt detail 
any damage to the car. And I dont doubt that, to the best of Mr Hs memory, that was the 
case. But the form Ive seen shows that all four wheels on the car had damage. And I 
appreciate Mr Hs view that this make the form fraudulent and it cant be relied upon.
Having considered matters, I dont think this form has any relevance or bearing. Mr H isnt 
being charged because of what was on the form, but because of what damage was found on 
the in-depth inspection. So, whether or not the form was completed when Mr H signed it has 
no impact on what hes being charged.
The in-depth inspection took place on the same day as the visual inspection. The VRS says 
scuff chips and scratches exceeding 25mm were unacceptable. MBFS have provided a 
copy of a video taken during the in-depth inspection, which clearly shows damage to each of 
the wheels that exceeds the acceptable levels of damage defined in the VRS. But the video 
doesnt show any underlying corrosion in the areas where the damage has been done.Because theres a reasonable amount of damage to all four wheels, I think its more likely 
than not this damage took place during the four years Mr H had possession of the car, rather 
than it all happening on the day of the inspections itself. So Im satisfied that MBFS have 
acted reasonably by charging Mr H for this. 
Mr H has said that corrosion was a known issue. But, as shown in the video, the damaged 
areas Mr H is being charged for dont show any signs of corrosion. So Im satisfied MBFS 
arent charging Mr H for any underlying corrosion issues.
And, while it wouldve been ideal for MBFS to have provided Mr H with a copy of the video 
when they invoiced him, this was provided to him later. MBFS couldve done better in this 
respect, but I dont think this changes the facts and I dont think that a delay in supplying the 
video means that MBFS should reduce or waive the damage charges. So I wont be asking 
them to amend their invoice.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman