DRN-2281667
The complaint
Miss A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt act responsibly when it opened a credit
card account for her and subsequently increased her credit limit on several occasions. The
bank trades in this case under its Barclaycard brand.
What happened
In November 2013 Miss A applied for a Barclaycard. Her application was accepted and she
was given a Forward Visa card with a credit limit of £800. The bank has explained that the
Forward Visa card is one offered to people with little or no credit history, so they can build up
the credit limit over time.
Barclaycard increased Miss As credit limit on three occasions: in November 2015 to £2,400;
in July 2016 to £4,100; and in March 2017 to £4,500.
Miss A used the credit card regularly and was able to make at least the minimum payments
each month, although Barclaycard waived interest in October and November 2017 and
between March and November 2018. An interest rate reduction was applied between April
2016 and March 2018.
Miss A says however that she didnt find it easy to keep up the repayments and complained
to Barclaycard that its decisions to provide her with the card and then to increase the credit
limit were irresponsible. In 2013 her income was only £15,500, amounting to a monthly
salary or around £1,100. The interest rate on the credit card was high, indicating that the
bank regarded her as a high-risk customer. She didnt think Barclaycard had properly
assessed her situation before making decisions about how much it was prepared to lend.
She didnt however want to enter into a payment plan if that meant her credit score would be
affected.
Miss A referred her case to this service and one of our investigators considered what had
happened. She took the view that the bank hadnt properly assessed whether the credit
facility was affordable and that it should therefore refund all interest and charges which Miss
A had incurred. Barclaycard didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman review the case.
I did that and, because I was likely to reach a different conclusion from that reached by the 
investigator, issued a provisional decision. In summary, I said in my provisional decision:
When making a lending decision, lenders should assess the customers ability to repay 
their borrowing without falling into financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences. What is required depends on the circumstances. 
In the case of a credit card account, similar assessments should be made when 
increasing a customers credit limit.
Its not enough for a borrower to assess that its likely to get its money back; thats not 
the same as assessing a borrowers ability to repay.
The relevant regulations say that, in the case of a credit card, the lender should assume 
that the customer will use the full amount of the available credit at the earliest 
opportunity and repaid over a reasonable period. The lender should consider the terms 
likely to be offered to someone borrowing that amount  including the interest rate and 
repayment term. That, rather than the proportion of the credit limit to income, for 
example, was the correct approach.  
I noted that Barclaycard had asked Miss A about her income when she took the credit 
card out, but not when it increased the limit. It did however carry out credit checks, told 
Miss A in advance that it was planning to increase her credit limit and gave her the 
option of declining the increase. 
Barclaycard said that it would probably have lent someone in Miss As position up to 
half their annual income. I thought it likely that other lenders would have agreed to 
something similar. 
Although Miss A had referred to the way she ran her account as an indication that the 
credit limit increases werent affordable, I thought that exceeding the credit limit at times 
and sometimes making only minimum payments were not, of themselves, indications 
that the credit limit was too high. 
Overall, I was satisfied that Barclaycard had carried out appropriate checks before 
setting and increasing Miss As credit limit. 
Miss A submitted further evidence and arguments for me to consider. She said shed had an 
application for a credit card balance transfer declined in 2019 and sent me bank statements 
from the same year showing her current account with an overdrawn balance. She said too 
that she owed money to a former landlord and was paying that debt by way of an attachment 
of earnings order, as had been the case for many years. She mentioned other debts she 
owed and provided evidence that shed been signed off work because of stress. She said 
shes more recently been able to repay debt because she is working from home and has 
saved on the cost of commuting. 
The bank accepted my provisional conclusions and had nothing to add.        
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, however, I havent altered my overall provisional conclusions here. I dont 
doubt that Miss A has, from time to time, found it difficult to make payments. Shes also 
described her overall financial situation, from which its clear that she is finding it difficult to 
make payments to at least some creditors. 
The main issue I have to consider, however, is whether Barclaycard carried out appropriate 
checks when setting her credit limit from time to time. I dont believe that the issues shes 
described now necessarily mean that the credit limits that the bank set were inappropriate at 
the time. And I dont believe  given the information that the bank had and the checks it was 
obliged to make  the bank acted inappropriately in setting them at the level it did.
I also noted in my provisional decision that it didnt appear that Miss As income had 
decreased after she took out the credit card, and she hasnt suggested otherwise. I observed 
too that she wasnt obliged to accept the increases  she was given notice of them and had 
the option to decline them.In all the circumstances, I dont believe that Barclaycard treated Miss A unfairly.        
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Barclays Bank UK PLC to take any further steps to 
resolve Miss As complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Miss A to accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman