DRN-2705847
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy about the terms of a loan agreement he entered into with Evolution Lending 
Limited, which is secured by way of a mortgage on his home, and believes it was mis-sold to 
him. To settle the complaint Mr D wants Evolution to rebate interest on the loan.
What happened
The events giving rise to the complaint took place in September 2018. At that time, Mr D 
already had a loan with Evolution of £10,000 (plus fees) taken out a year earlier on which he 
was paying £551 per month over a three-year term. Mr D has explained that he needed to 
buy a new car and so approached Evolution again for a further loan. 
Initially Mr D wanted to borrow £25,000 but Evolution was only able to offer him a loan of 
£20,000 (plus fees totalling £2,669). The loan of £22,699 was repayable over a 15-year term 
at a variable interest rate of 22.4% (APRC of 26.3%). The monthly repayment is 
approximately £405 per month and the total amount repayable under the loan is (on the 
current rate of interest) just under £73,000. After paying off his first loan with Evolution, Mr D 
received approximately £9,000.
In the summer of 2019 Mr D complained about the way overpayments had been applied to 
the account. Evolution issued a final response letter on 2 August 2019 in relation to that 
complaint, which explained to Mr D that he had six months from the date of that letter to refer 
his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Mr D made a further complaint after that, this time about the way the loan had been set up. 
He said that, during the call when the loan was arranged, hed made it clear that he was able 
to make monthly payments of £1,000, and so he thought that setting up the loan over a term 
of 15 years wasnt in his best interests. 
Evolution didnt uphold the complaint. In its final response letter dated 27 November 2019 
Evolution explained that it was satisfied that all aspects of the loan, including the term, had 
been discussed. After carrying out a stress test, Evolution explained that Mr D had 
disposable income of about £536 per month, notwithstanding Mr Ds belief he could afford 
£1,000 per month. 
Although this was less than the £551 Mr D was already paying on his existing Evolution loan 
arranged a year earlier, the affordability assessment took into account Mr Ds financial 
position as it was in September 2018, including his mortgage, various credit card and 
payday loan commitments, and his other outgoings.
Evolution was satisfied that Mr D had been asked several times whether he wanted to 
reduce the term of the loan but Mr Ds preference was to have the loan over 15 years. 
Evolution noted Mr D had made overpayments varying between £10 and £450 per month. 
Overall, Evolution didnt think it had done anything wrong in the way the loan was set up and 
so didnt uphold the complaint. Evolution explained to Mr D that he could refer this complaint 
to the Financial Ombudsman Service but had to do so within six months from the date of the 
letter.
Mr D referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service on 13 February 2020, 
submitting a complaint form dated 8 February 2020.
Evolution didnt consent to us looking at the issues contained in the final response letter 
dated 2 August 2019, as these had been referred to us more than six months from the date 
of the final response letter.
Our investigator was satisfied this part of the complaint had been brought to us too late and 
there were no exceptional circumstances to explain the delay. Mr D accepted that hed been 
too late with this part of the complaint.
The investigator looked at the complaint about the way the loan had been set up, but didnt 
think it should be upheld. He was satisfied that Evolution had properly assessed the 
application and had explained how the loan operated, including the ability to make 
overpayments. The investigator noted in particular that when Mr D first spoke to Evolution, 
Mr D was surprised that, after having paid £6,000 towards his existing loan over the past 
year, hed only paid about £1,000 off the capital of £10,000. Yet even with the awareness 
that the payments hed already made consisted largely of interest, Mr D still went ahead with 
a larger loan over a longer term.
Mr D didnt accept the investigators findings. Hes made some further points, which I 
summarise below.
he believes the underwriters at Evolution are on a commission-based scheme which 
leads him to believe they get paid extra for the contracts they set up. Mr D wants me to 
ask Evolution about this and find out how much commission was paid to the underwriter 
who set up his loan and cleverly steered him into a 15-year term;
Evolution is continuing to mis-manage his account and not applying overpayments made 
in October/November 2020 correctly;
incorrect information was recorded on his credit file in February 2021 which has had a 
huge impact on his credit score;
Mr D would like Evolution to be investigated and reprimanded for the way it operates.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im satisfied that we cant consider any of the issues referred to in the final response 
letter dated 2 August 2019. Evolution hasnt consented to us looking at those issues (and to 
be clear, it doesnt have to) and there are no exceptional circumstances to explain the delay 
in referring the complaint to us, which was outside the six-month time limit. I understand 
Mr D has accepted this so I will make no further comment on this part of the complaint.
I will explain that the Financial Ombudsman Service isnt a regulator, so we have no power 
to investigate the business practices of Evolution generally or to reprimand the business. 
Thats the role of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority.Ive noted the points Mr D has made in response to the adjudicators findings and which he 
would like me to take into account. These are all new issues which dont form part of this 
current complaint  which is about the way the loan was set up. If Mr D wants us to consider 
those issues, hell need to raise them first with Evolution and obtain a final response letter. If 
Mr D is still dissatisfied, he will be able to bring a fresh complaint to us about those matters, 
providing he does so within the requisite time limits.
The crux of this complaint is that Mr D is dissatisfied that the loan was set up over a 15-year 
term, which he says isnt what he wanted or needed. Mr D says he was side-tracked and 
dazzled by statements from the underwriter about how overpayments could reduce interest 
on the loan. As a result, Mr D says that it sounded like a good idea to take the loan over a 
15-year term and make overpayments. He now regrets this decision.
I confirm Ive listened to the call between Mr D and Evolution when the loan was set up. 
Mr D explained that he wasnt able to obtain a loan from a mainstream bank because of an 
outstanding county court judgment. Mr D also explained that, because of the problems with 
his current car, he was spending about £450 a month on repairs, recovery and hire cars, and 
had had to take out payday loans to pay for this. But because Mr D had a history with 
Evolution, he thought it would be a good idea to approach Evolution for a loan to enable him 
to buy a more reliable car.
From listening to the call, Im satisfied that Evolution properly assessed the application. After 
carrying out the required affordability and stress tests, Evolution assessed that Mr Ds 
available disposable income was £536 per month. Mr D says he disagrees with this and 
could comfortably afford to pay more. But Evolution is required to assess affordability 
according to its regulatory obligations, and isnt able to lend more than its assessment shows 
is affordable.
Mr D suggests he was dazzled by Evolution during the application process. There is 
nothing in the call to suggest Mr D was misled in any way by Evolution. Im satisfied that 
Evolution provided Mr D with clear, straightforward information, confirmed his understanding 
of how the loan worked and explained exactly how much the loan would cost. Mr Ds 
responses to questions, and the questions he himself asked, persuade me that Mr D fully 
understood what was discussed. 
Im also satisfied the 15-year term was discussed and that Mr D was asked several times 
whether he wanted the loan over a 15-year term, and he confirmed that this was what he 
wanted.
The details about the loan  the amount borrowed (including fees), the interest rate, the 
monthly payment and the full amount repayable  were set out in the documents Evolution 
sent to Mr D.  Evolution explained in its mortgage offer that Mr D should read through all the 
documentation before signing the legal charge. It was explained that Mr D had a reflection 
period of at least seven days from receiving the mortgage offer to decide whether or not he 
wanted to proceed. Given this, Im satisfied Mr D had sufficient time to decide whether or not 
he wanted to go ahead, with documentary evidence in front of him of the terms of the loan.
I appreciate Mr D now regrets taking out this loan, but this doesnt mean it was mis-sold to 
him. I know from what he told Evolution that Mr Ds options to raise credit were limited, but I 
find the terms of the loan were transparent. Given this, there is no basis on which I can 
reasonably conclude that the loan was mis-sold or that Mr D was misled by Evolution. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman