DRN-4212263
The complaint
Mr S complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) has not made clear 
to him what discount he has received on his pet insurance policy for having multiple policies 
with it.
References to LV include its policy administrators.
What happened
Mr S has home insurance, car insurance and pet insurance policies with LV. He was 
encouraged to take out these polices with LV because of the discounts it advertised for 
having multiple policies. His renewal confirmations for his home and car insurance both 
stated that the new premium included a discount for having multiple policies.
Mr S is concerned that hes not been receiving the correct amount of discount.  This came to 
his attention when renewing the insurance for his pet dog. At its renewal date of 23 March 
2022, his pet insurance premium increased from £484.92 to £703.08. Mr S was concerned 
that he may not have received the advertised level of discount. This was important for him as 
his dog has a condition that would not be covered if he were to switch to another insurer, so 
he says hes effectively locked into his pet insurance with LV.
Mr S complained to LV that he didnt feel he was receiving the multi-product discount it 
advertised. He also says that LV is not transparent as to what discount it has applied or how 
its been calculated.
LV responded to Mr S on 1 April 2022 in relation to his car and home insurance discount, 
and on 7 April 2022 in relation to his pet insurance discount.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with the response he received from LV and said he wanted to be given 
the discounts as advertised and expected these to be off the entire premiums. He 
complained to this service.
Our investigator made enquiries of LV and was provided with evidence from LV that in 
relation to his car insurance Mr S had received a 10% discount, and a 5% discount in 
relation to his home insurance. He couldnt share this evidence with Mr S because of its 
commercially sensitive nature. This evidence also confirmed that the advertised discount 
wasnt taken off the final premium as there were certain costs that couldnt be subject to the 
discount such as insurance premium tax.
On 7 March 2022 Mr S raised a query with LV about the 2022 renewal of his pet insurance 
and asked if a discount had been applied to his policy. He was told that the discount didnt 
reduce his premium further. He queried if the discount had been applied in previous years. 
LV looked into this and noted that Mr S had raised a complaint in 2021 which had been 
upheld in his favour as LV had failed to apply a discount for that policy year. This had 
subsequently been applied, resulting in a reduction in premium. 
On 23 March 2022 LV told Mr S that its pricing team had confirmed that a discount had been 
applied to his 2022 pet insurance premium, but it couldnt tell him the discount that had been 
applied as the breakdown of premiums is commercially sensitive information. LV didnt 
provide this service with evidence of the application of the advertised discount to his pet 
insurance premium in the same way that it has evidenced a discount applied to his car and 
home policies as these are handled by different policy administrators.
Our investigators view was that as Mr Ss main issue seemed to him to be about the way in 
which LV advertises its discounts, this wasnt something that this service could help with and 
advised that this was a matter which should be referred to Trading Standards. 
Mr S has asked that his complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it was referred to me 
for a final decision from this service.
I issued a provisional decision and told LV that I required further information from it. Having 
received further information from LV Im now in a position to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having seen the process by which Mr Ss car and home insurance premiums were 
calculated and that they include a 5% discount on his home insurance and a 10% discount 
on his car insurance, Im satisfied that LV has acted fairly towards Mr S in relation to these 
two products even though I cant provide evidence of this to him because of its commercially 
confidential nature. 
Mr S sought clarification from LV as to his entitlement to a multi-policy discount for pet 
insurance. The response was Yes, you will receive a 10% multi product discount if you 
already have a car or house insurance policy with us.
I asked LV to provide evidence to this service that it has applied the advertised discount to 
Mr Ss pet insurance policy to enable me to determine whether LV had acted fairly towards 
him. 
LV provided its records for policy years 2020, 2021 and 2022.
In policy year commencing 6 March 2020, the multi-policy discount was applied but because 
the underwriters set a minimum premium, the deduction of the multi-policy discount didnt 
reduce Mr Ss premiums any further.
In policy year commencing 6 March 2021 Mr Ss premium increased and he queried if the 
multi-policy discount had been applied. LV noted that as Mr S had applied for his policy on-
line, due to a system issue this discount has to be entered manually and isnt generated 
automatically. It hadnt applied the discount, but this was corrected and the discount was 
applied.
In policy year commencing 6 March 2022 Mr Ss premium increased again, and again he 
queried if the multi-policy discount had been applied. He was informed that it had, but the 
discount didnt reduce the premium as this was already at the minimum permitted by the 
underwriters given his rating details.
I cannot share Mr Ss rating details with him as these are commercially sensitive, but I have 
seen them. I see from LVs notes that it has explained to Mr S the various factors that can increase premiums over time and the fact that they are increasing is not due to the failure to 
apply his multi-policy discount. 
Im therefore satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that LV has applied the multi-policy 
discount although this may not have the effect of reducing Mr Ss premiums if they are 
already at a level below which no further reduction can be made. Where that level is set is a 
commercial matter for LV which this service isnt able to change.
My conclusion is that I dont consider that LV has acted unfairly towards Mr S. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman