DRN-4383816
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund the money he lost when he sent a 
payment to invest in a scheme which he now believes was fraudulent. 
He brings his complaint with the benefit of professional representation, but for readability in 
what follows I will predominantly refer to Mr M even where the arguments and evidence have 
been submitted on his behalf.
What happened
Mr M holds an account with Santander. In 2017, he recalls a friend, who worked in finance, 
suggesting an investment to him. This was a fixed term bond (or loan note) to a property 
development company (which Ill refer to as P). 
Mr M says hed never heard of a property development company failing. He carried out his 
own research and concluded that this appeared a good investment for him. He sent a single 
payment for £50,000 by Faster Payments transfer from his Santander account in October 
2017.
Mr M has told us that he received some returns from the investment but cannot now recall 
the amounts. However, he has since learned that the property development company has 
entered liquidation. While the liquidation is ongoing, Mr M has been unable to recoup his 
money. 
It appears he faces the loss of a significant amount of the capital he invested. He now 
suspects he may have invested in a fraudulent scheme, and so was the victim of an 
Authorised Push Payment Scam (APP scam). 
Mr M reported these concerns to Santander in 2023, alleging he had been the victim of a 
scam from which Santander had failed to protect him. He complained when the bank did not 
reimburse him. Amongst other points, he said Santander hadnt acted in accordance with 
rules and guidance by failing to question him about the original payment. Had Santander 
done so, it would have come to light the investment was not legitimate, and his apparent 
losses would have been prevented. 
Santander says it wasnt liable for any losses Mr M had incurred through this payment. It 
doesnt agree this has been established to have been an APP scam, but it notes an ongoing 
investigation into P in its home country. But the bank carried out the instructions Mr M had 
given it at the time - as it was obliged to. There was no reason for it not to have done so.
Dissatisfied, Mr M referred his complaint to our service for an independent review.
Our Investigator considered his complaint. But she didnt think Santander was liable for 
Mr Ms losses. She didnt think this payment stood out from Mr Ms usual transactions such 
that it should have prompted the bank to have had concerns. And even if Santander had 
asked Mr M for more information about the payment, she didnt think the bank (or Mr M) 
would have identified concerns about P sufficient that Mr M wouldnt have proceeded - given 
what the bank and Mr M could reasonably have uncovered at the time. 
In short, the Investigator didnt think Santander could have prevented Mr Ms loss and she 
didnt find any other reason to say Santander was now liable for Mr Ms losses.
Mr M didnt agree. He maintained that had Santander questioned him appropriately the bank 
would have been able to identify several concerning aspects of the investment, and 
therefore should have warned him about it. Mr M said the majority of the funding for P had 
come from private investors - often sold this investment by advisers receiving large 
commissions, and who may have made untrue claims about P. Santander should have had 
a duty of care to protect him from what he now believes to have been a fraudulent 
investment.
In light of this disagreement, Mr Ms complaint has been referred to me to reach a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the 
time. 
Where I find there to have been a fault or error, I have to consider what the consequences of 
this were. And where definitive evidence is unavailable, I must reach my findings on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words on what I consider most likely in all the 
circumstances, given the evidence available to me.
Upon reading all the available evidence and arguments, I have reached the same outcome 
as our Investigator and for broadly the same reasons. I consider the fair and reasonable 
outcome, in all the circumstances, is that Santander is not liable to refund Mr M for this 
payment. I am sorry to hear about what happened to Mr M and that he appears to have lost 
a significant sum. I appreciate this answer will be a disappointment to him. But I hope the 
following explanation will help him understand why I have reached this decision.
Mr M invested into P in 2017, and now has concerns that P was operating fraudulently. 
However, the complaint I am limited to deciding is the one Mr M brings against his bank, 
Santander. That means I must focus on whether I consider Santander was at fault in any 
way - and if so, what difference I think that fault likely made.
The starting position in law is that Mr M is responsible for transactions hes carried out 
himself. Both sides accept Mr M gave the payment instruction (albeit under the belief that he 
was making a genuine investment). Santanders primary obligation here was to carry out 
Mr Ms instructions without delay. 
However, taking into account regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, Id expect Santander to 
have been on the lookout for out of character or unusual transactions, as well as other 
indications that its customer might be at risk of financial harm from fraud or scam. 
In circumstances where such concerns arose, Id expect the bank, as a matter of good 
industry practice, to have intervened to a proportionate extent prior to processing the payment instruction - to reassure itself the payment wasnt likely part of a scam or fraud.
Here the payment doesnt look remarkable in the context of Mr Ms prior usage of his 
Santander account. Within the previous twelve months, I can see hed made several 
payments between £10,000 and £30,000. These included payments to what appear to have 
been higher risk investments, including peer-to-peer lending and spread-betting. So taken at 
face value, an investment in a property development bond wouldnt have necessarily 
appeared at odds with those prior payments.
Santander says it did not identify this payment as being unusual or out of character for Mr M 
at the time. I find that wasnt unjustified given Mr Ms typical account usage. 
But even if I were to accept that Santander ought to have intervened to a greater extent and 
taken the further step of questioning Mr M further before it processed his payment 
instruction, I consider it unlikely this would have prevented his eventual loss. 
I cannot rely on the benefit of hindsight  I must consider what Santander could reasonably 
have established in the course of proportionate enquiry to Mr M about his payment back in 
October 2017. While there may now be concerns about the legitimacy of Ps business, these 
began to surface several years after Mr Ms payment was made.
Mr M says Santander ought to have asked him to check the FCA register  his 
representatives argue that any adviser hed received advice from should have been FCA 
registered. However, by Mr Ms own explanation he made the investment without the benefit 
of advice. It was suggested to him by a friend and Mr M carried out his own research into its 
suitability as an investment. So, there was no adviser for Mr M to check against the register. 
If Santander had told him to do so, I think hed have explained hed carried out his own 
research and believed the investment was suitable for himself.
Santander didnt have any obligation to step in to protect its customers from potentially risky 
investments. And I find Santander couldnt have considered the suitability or unsuitability of a 
third-party investment product without itself assessing Mr Ms circumstances, investment 
needs and financial goals. Taking such steps to assess suitability without an explicit request 
from Mr M (which there was not here) would have gone far beyond the scope of what I could 
reasonably expect of Santander in any proportionate response to what, on the face of it, was 
a seemingly legitimate payment request from its customer.
All considered, I dont think it wouldve been readily apparent in 2017 that P might be 
fraudulent rather than simply a potentially risky investment (even if that is Mr Ps suspicion 
now). Im not persuaded sufficient information was readily and publicly available at the time 
which would have caused Santander (or Mr M) specific concerns about the risk of loss 
through fraud.
To summarise, I can only reasonably expect any enquiries by Santander to have been 
proportionate to the perceived level of risk. And while Ive carefully reviewed all of Mr Ms 
submissions, I dont find that significant concerns would (or could) have been uncovered by 
Santanders proportionate enquiries at the time. Neither do I think Mr M could have done so 
at the relevant time. All considered, I dont think it likely that Santander could reasonably 
have prevented this payment from being made, or otherwise caused Mr M not to proceed.
When Mr M later reported the matter to Santander I can see it attempted to recover his 
funds. However, from what I have seen these had long since been removed from the 
receiving account, which was merely the route through which funds were directed to the 
investment scheme. I dont think there was anything more Santander could reasonably have 
done at this point to recover Mr Ms money.Having carefully considered everything Mr M and Santander have submitted, I dont find 
Santander could have reasonably prevented the losses Mr M appears to have incurred here. 
Neither do I find the bank materially at fault otherwise. In saying this, I dont underestimate 
the impact on Mr M of the loss of such a significant sum. However, it is simply the case that I 
dont consider I can fairly and reasonably hold Santander liable for that loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint 
about Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman