DRN-2589020
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy about the way Zenith Insurance plc handled his claim on his motor 
insurance policy. He complains that:
they wrote his car off without properly considering the cost of repairing it
they moved it without his permission  so he was unable to get a quote for repairs 
they sent a threatening response when he asked about retaining the car
their valuation didnt cover the cost of replacing it with a similar vehicle
they sold the car - despite promising that it would be safeguarded while the matter 
remained in dispute.
What happened
Mr P took out motor insurance with Zenith on 18 April 2019  he declared the value of his 
car to be £6,995. On 20 January 2020, Mr P phoned Zenith to tell them the car had been 
involved in an accident. They advised him that it was probably a write-off  they sent him 
written confirmation of this the next day.
The following week Mr P phoned Zenith for an update - they confirmed that his car had been 
written off. They said it had been valued at £4,100 and a £250 policy excess would be 
deducted. Mr P disagreed with this valuation, so he asked whether he could bring someone 
in to give him a repair quote. But Zenith told him that the car had been moved to a new 
location - a long way from where Mr P lives. 
The following day Zenith wrote to Mr P, confirming their valuation and setting out the process 
hed need to follow if he wanted to retain the vehicle. Mr P says he found their email 
threatening and upsetting  he made a formal complaint.
On 6 February 2020 Zenith increased their offer to £4,547, minus the policy excess. Mr P 
didnt believe that hed be able to replace the car for that price - he sent them details of 
similar cars hed seen advertised for sale. In response to Mr Ps formal complaint, Zenith 
said their valuation was fair and reasonable, but they acknowledged that his claim hadnt 
been handled well. They awarded him £75 compensation. 
Mr P complained to us in March - Zenith agreed to safeguard his car whilst we looked into 
things for him. But in June 2020 they sent him a cheque for £4,297, which he refused. And a 
few months later Mr P found his car had been advertised for sale on the internet for £3,300. 
He believed this proved that it wouldve been economical to repair it. He again complained to 
Zenith. They explained that, as theyd paid out to him for the loss of the car, it had become 
their property. But they apologised for failing to safeguard the car until his complaint was 
resolved - they awarded him £200 compensation for the distress this had caused. 
Our investigator didnt think Zenith had acted unreasonably by writing the car off so quickly, 
or by moving it to another location to be assessed. She didnt think the tone of Zeniths letter 
to Mr P was threatening. She thought £75 was a fair and reasonable amount of 
compensation for the upset caused by Zeniths poor handling of the claim, and that £200 
was fair and reasonable compensation for the distress caused by the sale of the car. But she 
thought £4,717.67 was a more realistic pre-accident value.
Zenith accepted the investigators suggested valuation, but Mr P remained unhappy. He felt 
strongly that his insurer shouldnt be allowed to write off vehicles to keep their costs down. 
And he was upset that, by taking his car away, theyd deprived him of the ability to evaluate 
the cost of having it repaired. He didnt accept Zeniths repairs estimate  he believed it 
couldve been fixed more cheaply through a local repairer. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr P feels very strongly that his car shouldnt have been written off  and that 
Zenith made this decision without properly inspecting it. Zenith have provided their total loss 
report and repairs estimate, which detail extensive damage and required works estimated at 
more than £3,700. Having reviewed this information, Im satisfied that they considered 
whether it was cost-effective for them to repair the car. Mr P thinks he couldve got the car 
fixed locally for in the region of £2,000 - £2,100. But Ive seen no evidence to suggest 
Zeniths estimate of their expected repair costs was incorrect or unreliable. For this reason, 
Im not persuaded that they acted unfairly by declaring the car a total loss.
 
Zeniths policy booklet sets out the terms and conditions on which they provide insurance 
cover. This states that, in the event of a claim being made, they have the right to move 
vehicles at any time in order to keep the claim costs to a minimum. It also states that Zenith 
will choose where to store vehicles that are damaged beyond economical repair. I dont 
consider these terms to be unfair  insurers need to be able to move vehicles so they can 
progress claims quickly and cost-effectively. Ive seen that Zenith reminded Mr P of their 
right to move the vehicle in the letter they sent him the day after the accident. So I dont find 
them to have done anything wrong here.
Mr P feels very strongly that, by moving the car to a more distant storage location, Zenith 
deprived him of the opportunity to properly evaluate whether to have it repaired. Ive seen 
that Zenith wrote to Mr P in January following his enquiry about retaining the car. I dont 
consider that letter to be threatening or hostile - I find that it explained the process Mr P 
would need to follow if he chose to keep his car.
 
Mr P has told us that, when he took out his policy, he declared the value of the car to be 
£6,995  and Zenith accepted this. But the policy only promised to pay the market value in 
the event of a claim. Car values reduce over time, so we consider pre-accident valuations 
based on the current market value to be fair and reasonable. This is standard practice in the 
motor insurance industry.
We generally consider valuations given in industry guides to be a more reliable indication of 
market value, because theyre based on nationwide research and likely selling values. The 
guides also take into account regional variations. Our investigator thought £4,717.67 
represents a fair valuation of Mr Ps car  and Zenith have agreed. Mr P is concerned that 
this is the trade value, rather than retail value, so Ive checked how she came to this 
conclusion. I can see that she looked at the retail figures in the trade guides we use for cars 
of the same make, model, age, mileage and condition as Mr Ps car.  Having done that, Im 
satisfied that £4,717.67 represents a fair and reasonable valuation of the pre-accident retail 
value. I understand Mr Ps frustration that this is less than the prices of cars hes seen advertised. 
We wouldnt normally place as much weight on adverts to decide whether a valuation is fair, 
because vehicles may sell for a lower price than advertised. And I dont consider the adverts 
Mr P has provided to be directly comparable in this case, because the advertised cars are 
higher specification models. 
Zeniths records confirm that they promised to safeguard Mr Ps car until wed reviewed his 
complaint  and they didnt do this. Ive thought carefully about the impact this had on Mr P.   
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained, I consider £4,717.67 to be a fair and reasonable valuation of 
Mr Ps car. The policy has an excess of £250, which would be deducted from the settlement 
figure.
I accept that safeguarding the car while Mr Ps complaint was being reviewed would 
potentially have allowed him to retain the option of having it repaired himself. But Im not 
persuaded that this wouldve put him in a better financial position. I say this because Zenith 
wouldve reduced the settlement figure by a further £902 to reflect the salvage value. Mr P 
would then have had to pay a competent professional to have it repaired. And even after 
those repairs were completed, the car wouldve depreciated in value due to the Category S 
accident marker it now carries. 
That said, I can see that the removal of this option has upset Mr P. Zenith have apologised 
and awarded him £200 compensation for their failure to safeguard his car. This is in addition 
to their earlier award of £75 compensation for their initial delay in responding to his 
complaint. I think thats fair and reasonable, so I wont be asking them to do anything more.   
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ps complaint, and direct Zenith Insurance PLC to increase its settlement offer to 
Mr P to £4,717.67 for the loss of his car from which they are entitled to deduct the policy 
excess of £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman