DRN-3748549
The complaint
Mrs M complains about ERGO Versicherung Aktiengesellschafts decision to decline a claim 
made under her commercial insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs M has a commercial insurance policy underwritten by ERGO to cover her industrial 
laundry equipment business.
In March 2020, an attempted break-in at Mrs Ms rented business premises caused damage 
to the roof. The landlord couldnt find contractors to carry out repairs during a COVID 
lockdown, so temporary repairs were attempted using floor mats.
In June 2020, Mrs M made a claim after water damage to stock stored in the premises was 
discovered.
ERGO appointed a loss adjuster to carry out an inspection. And after receiving his report, 
they declined the claim. 
ERGO said stock was stored on the floor, contrary to the conditions of the policy. They said 
the temporary repairs were such that Mrs M hadnt taken reasonable measures to prevent 
the loss. And they noted that the damage was only reported several months after the break-
in damaged the roof.
Mrs M wasnt happy with this outcome and made a complaint to ERGO. And when they 
maintained their position, she brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think ERGO had done anything wrong. He thought 
they were entitled to decline the claim under the terms of the policy.
Mrs M disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the attempted break -in and the damage it caused to the property and 
to Mrs Ms stock. However, whilst I know this will be disappointing for Mrs M, Im not going to 
uphold her complaint. Ill explain why.
In essence, ERGO have given three reasons for the decision to decline the claim. And if any 
one of those reasons is persuasive, the decision to decline the claim is justified.
Im not therefore going to go into great detail about whether or not it might be justified to 
decline the claim solely on the basis that it was reported late or solely on the basis that the 
steps Mrs M took to mitigate her losses were sufficient and/or reasonable.
The policy has a condition set out as follows:
You must ensure that that all Stock stored on the Premises is stored on racks, 
shelves or stillage not less than 15 centimetres above floor level otherwise all 
Damage arising from or caused by the Defined Perils of escape of water from any 
tank, apparatus or pipe, storm and flood will be excluded.
Theres no dispute about the fact that the reported damage was caused by water entering 
the property through the damaged roof after heavy rainfall.
The loss adjuster reported that when he visited the premises, stock was stored directly on 
the floor and on shelves less than 15 centimetres above floor level. And he took photographs 
which show that this was indeed the case.
The reason for ERGO including that condition in the policy is reasonably obvious. Its very 
clear that they arent willing to cover the risk of water damage if stock is left on the floor or 
stored very close to floor level.
On the basis of the evidence available to them from the loss adjusters visit, ERGO were 
entitled to say that Mrs M hadnt met the terms of that particular condition. And so, I cant 
justifiably conclude that ERGO acted in any way unfairly or unreasonably in declining 
Mrs Ms claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman