DRN-3495129
The complaint
Mr H complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich) provided him with poor customer service 
when he enquired about the process that would be followed when he requested to release 
funds from his personal pension plan (PPP). He also complains about the process followed, 
and what he was told about this process by Zurich, in its calculation of the value of the funds 
to be released.
What happened
Mr H had a PPP with Zurich. On 1 January 2022 Mr H emailed Zurich explaining he wished 
to withdraw funds from his pension and asked if the process to do this had changed. Zurich 
responded on 4 January 2022 with an information pack but didnt answer his specific 
question.
Mr H emailed on 5 January 2022 asking Zurich to answer his question. Zurich responded the 
same day and confirmed its process had not changed.
The matter was recorded as a formal complaint, and Zurich sent Mr H its final response 
letter on 31 January 2022. In this it apologised. It agreed that the email response hed been 
sent had not been clear and said the information pack hed been sent was intended to 
provide him detailed information about his options. It confirmed that the process for him to 
withdraw funds had not changed.
Mr H completed the withdrawal request application and sent it to Zurich. This arrived on 4 
March 2022 at 3.40pm. 
On 14 March 2022 Zurich asked Mr H to confirm some details in the application, and he did 
so. He also asked Zurich to confirm the pension valuation of £5,228.07  it had given him was 
correct, because he thought it should be higher and reflect what had been previously shown 
online.
Zurich advised Mr H that the valuation had been taken on 8 March 2022. It said this was the 
case because it had received the application at 3.40pm on 4 March 2022, so the notification 
date was 7 March 2022 for a valuation date of 8 March 2022.
Mr H asked Zurich to explain to him why the date 8 March 2022 had been used, and not the 
current or previous working day value and asked when the claim forms had been changed. 
He did not receive a response to this. 
Zurich treated this as a formal complaint, and sent Mr H its final response letter on 24 March 
2022. It explained that it used a contact centre to respond to initial enquiries from customers, 
but whilst the staff were experienced and knowledgeable, there were occasions where they 
didnt know all the answers to questions, and when this was the case they would arrange a 
call back as soon as possible. It acknowledged and apologised that it hadnt done this on 
this occasion. It explained that it had received Mr Hs payment request on 7 March 2022 and 
in line with its current procedure, it valued his fund at the close of business that day.
Mr H was unhappy with this response, so asked our Service to review what had happened.
Our Investigator didnt think Zurich needed to do anything more to resolve Mr Hs 
complaints. He understood why Mr H found the whole process frustrating, contradictory and 
unprofessional and our Investigator  thought the information provided to Mr H from Zurich 
was unclear and frustrating. But he thought the explanation provided by Zurich as to the 
process it followed in coming to the plans valuation was, in the end, clear and accurate. And 
he went onto explain to Mr H that our Service was unable to require Zurich to improve its 
training and resourcing as we arent the regulator. 
Having considered everything that had happened, and considering that Mr H hadnt suffered 
any financial loss as a consequence of Zurichs customer service, he thought the apologies 
Zurich had given was a fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Hs complaints. 
But Mr H didnt agree. He said he had suffered a financial loss as Zurich had changed the 
process by which it had calculated the value of his pension. And the Investigator saying the 
process Zurich had followed was correct contradicted a previous finding by our Service.
As no agreement could be reached, the matter has come to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Zurich need to do anything more. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr H as I can see he is very frustrated by the overall service provided by 
Zurich, but I must stress that this outcome only relates to the particular circumstances of the 
complaints as detailed above  it does not reflect on any other complaints he has or has had 
against Zurich, and I have considered this issue on its own merits.
I must also confirm that our Service is not the regulator. We have no power to require 
businesses to change their working practices or training regimes for example. This power 
sits with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Our Service is a free and informal dispute 
resolution service, set up as an alternative to the courts, which looks to ascertain if a 
business has made an error(s). And if an error(s) is identified, we try and put consumers 
back, as closely as possible, into the position they wouldve been had an error(s) not been 
made. 
Mr Hs initial complaint was that when he emailed Zurich on 1 January 2022, he asked if the 
process that would be followed in him withdrawing cash from his pension fund had changed. 
But when Zurich replied to this on 4 January 2022, it didnt answer his question, it just sent 
him details of the process. And Mr H had to follow up his initial email asking Zurich to give 
him an answer to his question. Im pleased that Zurich responded to his second email the 
same day with the answer, but I can understand the frustration Mr H was caused by this. 
This complaint was dealt with by Zurich by way of an apology and a confirmation that the 
withdrawal process had not changed. I think that was a fair and reasonable way of resolving 
that complaint.
But Mr H had cause to make a further complaint in March 2022, when he received what 
appeared to be contradictory information about how Zurich had valued his withdrawal, and 
the process it had followed which Mr H thought had changed, contrary to what hed 
previously been told.I agree that the information provided by Zurich around the date it used for the valuation of his 
withdrawal was initially unclear. And I think it likely that had it provided a clear explanation 
earlier this matter probably wouldnt have necessitated a complaint. So this is, I agree, 
frustrating. However, having looked at the process Zurich has followed in valuing Mr Hs 
pension withdrawal, I cant see that hes been treated unfairly. His withdrawal request was 
received during the afternoon of Friday 4 March 2022. As this was after midday, Zurich used 
the next working day (7 March 2022) as the notification day, and the value was calculated at 
the close of business that day. This was then published the following morning (8 March 
2022). 
But whether this valuation process had changed or not is, in my opinion, irrelevant. I dont 
think it would likely have made any difference to what Mr H chose to do. Other than not 
clearly explaining this process to him earlier, I cant see that hes been treated unfairly, even 
if, as he asserts, the process Zurich followed in its calculation had changed. Whether or not 
it had changed is, as Ive said, immaterial. Mr H wanted to make the withdrawal, and even if 
hed known the details of how the valuation date was arrived at, Im satisfied that hed most 
likely have proceeded with the withdrawal anyway as that was his ultimate goal. 
As Ive said above, it is a decision for a business how it wishes to conduct itself and the 
processes it follows. And it is for the FCA, not our service, to decide whether it is doing 
anything wrong in this regard. 
What I need to decide, in my impartial investigation of this complaint, is whether Mr H has 
been treated unfairly by Zurich, and if he has lost out financially as a result. And as a result 
of all the above, Im satisfied he has not.
So other than the apology it has already given to Mr H for its failings in service in relation to 
these complaints, I am satisfied Zurich doesnt need to do anything more.
My final decision
In relation to the complaints within this decision, I do not require Zurich Assurance Ltd to do 
anything more in respect to their resolution. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman