DRN-3758432
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc didnt treat them fairly when they called 
to go through medical screening.
What happened
Mr and Mrs O had booked a package holiday abroad. Alongside the booking, they took out a 
single trip travel insurance policy to cover their holiday. In line with the policy terms, they 
called AXAs medical screening line to provide it with information about their health.
During the call, Mr O told AXA that Mrs O carried a gene which could make developing a 
serious illness much more likely. So shed undergone preventative surgery to reduce the 
chances of developing the illness and had had the first stage of reconstructive surgery. She 
was waiting for the second part of the reconstruction surgery to be booked. Mr O asked AXA 
whether, if the surgery was scheduled either before the trip departure date or while they 
were away, Mrs O would be covered.
Ultimately, AXA told Mr and Mrs O that they wouldnt be covered for cancellation or 
curtailment of the trip due to the scheduling of the second surgery. It said the potential 
surgery was a circumstance which could, at the time of booking the trip and taking out the 
policy, have been reasonably expected to lead to a cancellation or curtailment claim.  This 
was specifically excluded from cover. It let Mrs O know that if she suffered a complication of 
the surgery while abroad, this would be covered under the Emergency Medical Expenses 
section of the policy.
Mr and Mrs O were very unhappy with the service theyd received from AXAs screening line. 
They said that the language the call handlers had used was very upsetting and that theyd 
lacked compassion.  They said that AXA had treated Mrs Os previous surgery as being the 
same as cosmetic surgery, despite the fact that it had been carried out to prevent serious 
illness.
AXA didnt respond to Mr and Mrs Os complaint within the eight-week complaint response 
period set out in the regulators rules. So Mr and Mrs O asked us to look into their complaint.
Subsequently, AXA made an offer of settlement directly to us. It told us that its screening line 
had given Mr and Mrs O the wrong information. It said it would only have excluded the 
surgery had Mrs O been given a surgical date ahead of booking the trip and taking out the 
policy. And it added that a gene couldnt be classed as a pre-existing medical condition.  It 
offered to pay Mr and Mrs O £200 compensation.
Our investigator felt that AXAs offer was fair and reasonable. But Mr and Mrs O disagreed. 
So the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I contacted AXA and asked whether, in the specific circumstances of this complaint, it would 
be prepared to increase its offer of compensation to £400. AXA agreed with this proposal. 
However, Mr and Mrs O remained unhappy with AXAs offer. They said that AXA hadnt 
contacted them directly or apologised for its error. And they felt that the mistakes it had 
made were very serious. They also felt that Mr O had been paid only a small amount less 
compensation for a considerably less serious matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I dont think AXA has treated Mr and Mrs O fairly, I think its now 
made a fair offer of compensation to reflect this and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs O that Ive carefully considered all theyve said and sent 
us. Its clear that theyve found dealing with AXA very upsetting and Mrs O has told us this 
affected her sense of confidence and self-worth. I dont doubt how worrying it mustve been 
for Mr and Mrs O when AXA wrongly told them that they wouldnt be covered if they had to 
cancel or cut short their trip had Mrs Os second surgery been scheduled at the time of the 
trip.
Mrs O told us that the holiday had been the familys first holiday since shed been through 
the surgery and one that she and Mr O had promised their family as something to look 
forward to. It seems then that the holiday was a very important trip for Mr and Mrs O and 
their family. Mrs O has told us that AXAs mistake caused them worry and stress, which 
affected their ability to enjoy such an important holiday. 
It's clear Mr and Mrs O feel strongly that AXAs medical screening team used inappropriate 
terminology to discuss Mrs Os surgery and that the staff had lacked compassion. Ive 
listened very carefully to the calls between Mr O and AXA. I dont think there was any 
intention on AXAs part to use offensive or inappropriate terminology and I think, at times, 
they were simply reflecting wording that Mr O had used to describe Mrs Os previous and 
future surgery. I do acknowledge at one point though, one of AXAs team did say that Mrs 
Os surgery was the same as cosmetic surgery. Ive taken into account that this was set 
against a background of a call during which I think the call handler took pains to distinguish 
the surgery Mrs O had been through from general cosmetic surgery. But I appreciate that 
this was upsetting for both Mr and Mrs O, as I can understand it may have felt that it 
minimised Mrs Os experiences. So I think its fair for the compensation award to also reflect 
the impact of this part of the call. 
Ive thought carefully about what fair compensation should be here, to reflect both the upset 
the erroneous information caused Mr and Mrs O and the resulting impact on their holiday. I 
appreciate Mr and Mrs O are unhappy that AXA hasnt contacted them directly during this 
matter or that it hasnt apologised to them. As AXA didnt provide a complaint response 
within eight weeks, Mr and Mrs O had the right to bring their complaint to us without 
receiving a final response from AXA and they did so. Therefore, AXA responded directly to 
our request for information by making a settlement offer. 
In my view, a total amount of £400 compensation is a fair award to recognise the impact I 
think AXAs mistakes had on Mr and Mrs O and the worry it caused them during a special 
holiday. So Im pleased that AXA has now agreed to make such a payment. I also think it 
might bring some closure to Mr and Mrs O were AXA to send them a written apology for its 
mistakes directly to acknowledge that it didnt treat them fairly during the medical screening 
process, although this doesnt form part of my directed award.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mr and Mrs O £400 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman