DRN-1755586
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the settlement of her claim with U K Insurance Limited trading as 
Direct Line. 
What happened
In 2019 Mrs B's car was hit whilst stationary. A non fault claim was submitted and Direct Line 
settled the claim as a total loss. Mrs B says she agreed to the claim being settled this 
way but doesn't feel the amount offered is fair. Mrs B says she had four new tyres put on her 
car the morning of the accident - and she thinks she should get the £300 paid for them on 
top of the settlement amount. So she raised a complaint with Direct Line. 
Direct Line looked into the complaint but didn't uphold it. It said that tyres are a legal 
requirement on the car and would be classed as wear and tear items - so it wouldn't look to 
include the cost in addition to the overall settlement amount. It did agree to pay Mrs B £150 - 
half the cost - as a gesture of goodwill. Mrs B rejected the offer and brought a complaint to 
our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didn't think it should be upheld. He agreed 
with the business when it said that the tyres are a legal requirement and need to be in good 
repair to keep the car on the road. He went on to say that the terms and conditions of the 
policy state that the insurer will pay market value of the car - and road worthy tyres would be 
taken into account in this overall figure. The investigator also said that if the tyres hadn't 
been replaced and the car had been left with non road worthy tyres - the value could have 
been less than that offered by Direct Line. 
Mrs B didn't agree with the investigators view, so the complaints been passed to me to issue 
a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Overall I agree with the investigators findings for largely the same reasons. I'll explain why. 
Mrs B's policy stats that it will pay market value for her car in the event of a total loss. Mrs B 
hasn't said she is unhappy with the way in which Direct Line decided to settle the claim - so 
I'll only be looking into the value paid. 
When calculating market value, I wouldn't expect a business to tale into consideration the 
age of parts fitted to the car. The market value calculated by the industry guides used by 
insurers and our service will calculate the cars value as one amount - not broken down into 
individual parts. This in turn will give you an average across the car, as there may well be 
parts of the car that are alot older and in turn this wouldn't decrease the value.
Our service would on occasion consider performance enhancing modifications to a car, but 
I'd have to be satisfied it would increase the value of the car if it were to be sold - or make it 
more desirable to a buyer. In these circumstances, new tyres wouldn't enhance the 
performance. 
Good condition tyres are a legal requirement to keep the car on the road and I thinks its 
most likely they were replaced as the old tyres no longer met that requirement. 
Although I can understand Mrs B's frustration at having bought the new tyres so close to the 
accident - unfortunately this is a case of bad timing. 
Having considered all the information from both parties, I don't find Direct Line have acted 
unfairly when they have declined to include the tyre cost in addition to the settlement figure. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman