DRN-4256258
The complaint
Miss E complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited wouldnt provide her with a 
new quote or renew her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss E contacted Advantage to change her car on cover. But it wasnt able to offer her a 
quote for this or to renew her policy and it couldnt give a reason for this. This later turned 
out to be due to a possible system error. But Miss E said she thought she may have been 
the victim of fraud or had a marker placed on her record. After the complaint came to us 
Advantage offered Miss E £50 compensation for this, but Miss E remained unhappy. She 
said she had been caused stress and worry. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that Advantage should do anything further. He thought 
Advantage wasnt obliged to provide a quote for Miss E, whether due to an underwriting 
decision or system error. And he thought it didnt need to explain why it wouldnt insure her. 
He thought Advantage wasnt responsible for the effort Miss E put into trying to find out why 
it had declined cover. He thought Advantages apology and compensation offer was fair.  
Miss E replied that she thought Advantage hadnt treated her fairly and the error had caused 
her a great deal of worry and stress and taken her time to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Miss E was worried when she was told by Advantage that it couldnt 
quote for her new car and may not be able to quote at her renewal. I can see that she spent 
some time contacting agencies which she thought may be able to explain Advantages 
decision, without any success. This must have been frustrating for her. 
Advantage said it hadnt declined cover for Miss E. It said that when she asked for a quote 
nothing was provided by its system. It thought this may have been due to its underwriting 
criteria at the time. It later thought that it may be due to a system error that it was able to 
over-ride manually. 
But Advantage isnt obligated to provide a quote for Miss E, and neither is it required to give 
her a reason why it wont offer cover. So, whilst I can understand Miss Es frustration, I cant 
say that Advantage did anything wrong when it couldnt offer a quote to Miss E. And 
Advantage confirmed to Miss E that she need not disclose this to other insurers. So, 
although Advantage couldnt offer Miss E cover, this shouldnt have caused her any 
detriment.  
It follows that I cant hold Advantage responsible for the resulting stress and worry Miss E 
felt or the time she spent trying to find out if she had been subject to fraud. I can understand 
that Miss E was worried, but it was Miss Es choice to contact various agencies to check her 
records. And Miss E could have found cover elsewhere for her intended car purchase. 
After the complaint came to us, Advantage offered Miss E £50 compensation. It said then 
there had been a system error which its underwriter may then have been able to over-ride. 
So I think it could have given Miss E clearer information when she first contacted it. But Im 
satisfied that this was fair compensation for the effect the error had as its in keeping with our 
published guidance. And so I dont require Advantage to do anything further to this. 
Putting things right
I require Advantage Insurance Company Limited pay Miss E £50 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by its level of service, as its already offered to do.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress above, as its already 
offered to do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman