DRN-1909865
The complaint
Mr M and Ms W have complained about a life insurance policy they took out with Aviva Life 
and Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) at the same time as taking a mortgage. They have said it 
was mis-sold as they were told it was conditional to them being accepted for the mortgage. 
Theyve also said they felt pressured into taking it.
What happened
In 2006 Mr M and Ms W were applying for a mortgage. At the time of the sale Mr M was a 
self-employed taxi driver and Ms W wasnt working. The mortgage was a flexible one but set 
up initially on an interest only basis. Aviva recommended they take a level term assurance 
policy to protect the borrowing, but they chose to instead take a decreasing term assurance 
policy for the level and term of the mortgage. The policy also provided accidental and 
sickness protection for Mr M only.
Mr M and Ms W initially raised this complaint as one concerning payment protection 
insurance (PPI). But when they were told they didnt have PPI they continued to complain 
about the life protection policy.
The complaint was assessed by one of our investigators who felt he couldnt uphold the 
complaint on the specific points raised. However, he did feel the complaint should be upheld 
on the basis that as Mr M was the only one earning and he was the only person paying the 
mortgage the policy should have been on a single life basis thereby being cheaper.
He suggested Aviva:
Calculate the difference in cost between the joint life decreasing term assurance 
policy Mr M and Ms W took out with a single life decreasing term assurance 
policy on the same terms covering Mr M only.
Pay Mr M and Ms W the difference on cost if the single life deceasing 
term assurance policy would have been cheaper.
Pay 8% simple interest on the difference of each premium, up to the 
date of settlement.
Aviva didnt agree with the assessment as it felt that as both Mr M and Ms W were jointly 
liable for the mortgage the life and critical illness protection should also be on a joint basis. It 
also felt that regardless of Mr M only being the one paying the mortgage should death or 
critical illness happen to Ms W the lump sum payment made under the policy would have still 
benefitted Mr M.
I issued my provisional findings in February 2021 where I set out why I felt the complaint 
couldnt be upheld. And extract is included below and forms part of this final decision.
In my view, regardless of Ms W not working, had she passed away the payment under the 
policy would still have been of use to Mr M. While he was the only one paying the mortgage 
a lump sum payment being made would have meant that he could pay the outstanding sum 
of the mortgage off without further worries. Also, in the event of Ms Ws death there could be 
a situation where Mr M wasnt able to work for a time. So as he was self-employed and had 
no other means of keeping up with the mortgage payments the payment made under the 
policy upon Ms Ws death would have allowed him to redeem the outstanding mortgage.
In addition, if Ms W became critically ill then again if Mr M wasnt able to work or if he had to 
look after her, the policy providing Ms W protection would have paid a lump sum that Mr M 
could have put towards the mortgage payments without needing to work for it.
So while I agree that as Ms W seems to not have been contributing to paying off the 
mortgage and her passing wouldnt affect the paying of the mortgage I cant say that having 
the lump sum under the policy wouldnt have been useful for Mr M. Therefore, I think having 
Ms Ws life also protected by the policy was suitable.
With regards to the other complaint points Mr M and Ms W raised, I agree with the outcome 
the investigator reached. Theyve said the policy was a conditional part of the mortgage, 
however the mortgage offer that they were provided with clearly states that the only 
insurance required was buildings insurance. Obviously, I dont know what they were told at 
the time of the sale, but I think its unlikely that the adviser would have told them something 
that wasnt true. But even if this was the case, having read the mortgage offer they would 
have been able to see that the mortgage was only conditional to them taking building 
insurance.
Mr M and Ms W have also said they were pressured into taking out the policy. But again, as 
I wasnt at the sales meeting, I cant speak to what may have been said to them or how the 
policy was communicated to them. But on the evidence I have in front of me there is nothing 
to support their claim that they were pressured into the taking the policy. Its also worth 
noting that its not unusual for life and critical illness protection policies to be recommended 
when a large borrowing such as mortgage was being taken out. So, this isnt unusual and is 
seen as a prudent decision given the types of policies in question provide a means to pay 
that borrowing off in one lump sum upon the death or critical illness of the policy holder/s, as 
mentioned above.
Aviva accepted my provisional findings and provided no further comments.
Mr M and Ms W didnt accept the provisional findings. Ms W added that at the time of taking 
the policy she had a pe-existing medical condition which would have meant any critical 
illness claim that she made would have been declined. She stated the adviser knew of this at 
the time but still insisted they take the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not persuaded to depart from my provisional findings. 
I know that Ms W has now mentioned that she had a pre-existing medical condition at the 
time of the sale and that the adviser was aware of this. While this may have been the case 
as I wasnt at the sales meeting, I need to look at the evidence in front of me to ascertain 
whether the condition had been disclosed and recorded correctly. Only if that is the case 
would I be able to agree the condition may have been excluded under the policy thereby 
rendering the critical illness part of the policy useless for her.
To determine this, I asked Aviva to provide me with the application form from the time of 
sale, as well and the policys terms and conditions to see whether the specific condition was 
indeed excluded. Aviva hasnt been able to provide these terms and conditions, but it has provided me with screen shots showing the answers Mr M and Ms W gave on the application 
form. 
In the health section I can see that twenty-six question were asked concerning any pre-
existing health conditions they may have been suffering from at the time. These included 
conditions such as heart conditions, any disease of the central nervous system, disorders of 
the brain, epilepsy, raised cholesterol, raise blood pressure, mental illness, any disorder of 
the spine neck and joints including back or neck pain and any form or medical attention at a 
hospital or clinic as an inpatient or an outpatient which has not already been disclosed. In 
answer to all of these medical questions both Mr M and Ms W answered no.
There were the another set of questions asked where further health issues were explored, 
has either applicant had to take time of work for a specific period of time; are they taking any 
prescribed medications; are they waiting on the results of any tests. Again, to all of these 
questions Mr M and Ms W answered no. 
The final set of questions in the health section asked for details of any family medical history 
and nine disorders were named including cancer, heart disease, hereditary disease and 
disease of the nervous system. Again, I can see the recorded answers from Mr M and Ms W 
were no to all.
In light of this information, I am not satisfied that if Ms W was suffering from a pre-existing 
medical condition it was something she disclosed to the adviser at the time. I know she has 
said the adviser knew about it but I see no reason why the adviser wouldnt have recorded it 
correctly  he was under a duty to do so. And Mr M and Ms W were under a duty to provide 
accurate answers to all the questions in the application form. If this information wasnt 
disclosed there is no way those at Aviva processing the application for the policy would have 
known about this.
Therefore, as it appears to me no details about a pre-existing medical condition were 
recorded in the application for the policy, the critical illness element of the policy still seems 
to be useful to both Mr M and Ms W as does the life protection element. I therefore cant 
conclude the policy in its entirety was mis-sold.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman