DRN-3604934
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained about a delay in the service they received from Admiral 
Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) under the Home Emergency section of their Home 
Insurance policy.
References in this decision to Admiral include its claims managers and contractors.
What happened
Mr H called Admirals 24-hour hotline at around 05:14 on 21 January 2021 to report that 
water was coming through their bedroom ceiling and their electrics had fused because of a 
water leak from their boiler which was above their bedroom. Mr H turned off the water supply 
to stop the leak. Mr and Mrs H have a baby who was 8 months old at the time. Without 
electricity, they couldnt heat milk to feed him and they also had to keep him warm at a very 
cold time of year. Dealing with the leak and getting their electricity supply back was therefore 
a matter of urgency for them. 
Mr A says that Admiral told him that theyd receive a phone call from its contractor within an 
hour to arrange an engineers visit. Having not received any call by 09:00, Mr H phoned 
Admirals 24-hour hotline again to be told that its contractors dont open until 08:00. He said 
he was going to arrange for his own contractor to visit to fix the problem, which he did. 
Admirals contactors didnt contact Mr H until 09:43. 
Mr and Mrs H have been reimbursed by Admiral for the cost of their own contractor, but their 
complaint is that what they had thought to be a 24-hour product was not. They say theyd 
paid for a policy for a service they expected but which they didnt receive as Admirals 
contractors dont provide a 24-hour service. This upset is the greater because of the 
particular impact the failure to contact them had on them because of their young baby, which 
Mr H says Admiral was aware of.
Admiral has accepted there was a delay which it says was down to system issues its 
contractor was experiencing that day. It apologised and offered Mr and Mrs H compensation 
of £25. As Mr and Mrs H werent satisfied with that as a response as they dont consider that 
it adequately reflects the particular impact the delay had on them, they brought a complaint 
to this service.
Our investigators view was that there were shortfalls in Admirals handling of Mr and Mrs Hs 
claim, and this resulted in a greater level of distress which hasnt been fully recognised by 
Admiral. His view was that the £25 compensation offered by Admiral wasnt appropriate
and should be increased to £75.
Admiral was given an opportunity to comment on our investigators view but hasnt done so. 
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint has therefore been passed to me to make a final decision from 
this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
I should first mention that having looked at the terms of Mr and Mrs Hs home emergency 
policy, although the help-line is available 24 hours a day every day, there is nothing within it 
that provides any timescale for a response from an engineer. Under the heading How we 
will settle your claim it states:
We will
tell you how to immediately protect you, your home and anyone who lives in it
check your cover, and 
arrange for one of our authorised contractors to get in touch with you to make an 
appointment, or settle your claim on a reimbursement basis.
We, along with our authorised contractors, will manage your claim and keep you 
updated at all times. This will include us monitoring the progress of the repair through 
regular contact with the authorised contractor and contacting you to make sure all the 
agreed work has been completed.
We will organise an emergency call-out, labour, parts and materials to carry out a 
temporary emergency repair. 
So there is no contractual entitlement to an engineers visit within a specific timeframe. 
Admiral has said that its contractors should make first contact with a customer within 30 
minutes. It has therefore upheld Mr and Mrs Hs complaint about a delay in the service it 
provided, so I dont need to make a finding on that. But I do need to consider Mr Hs 
complaint about the compensation Admiral has offered. 
Awards of compensation that this service can make arent intended to fine or punish a 
business. This is the job of the businesss regulator. We can award fair compensation that's 
a proportionate reflection of the impact a business's actions (or inaction) has had on its 
customer. 
If we decide a business has acted unfairly, we consider the impact on their customer. For us 
to award compensation, we need to decide that the impact of a business's actions has 
been greater than just a minor inconvenience or upset, more than the inconvenience and 
upset that happens from time to time in our day-to-day lives and in our dealings with other 
people, businesses and organisations. We're unlikely to tell a business to pay compensation 
in these circumstances unless what the business did or failed to do had a significant impact 
on a particular customer.
I consider that the fact that Mr and Mrs H had an 8-week-old baby who needed to be kept 
warm and to have warm milk prepared raised the threshold of their need for an urgent repair. 
I dont consider it was unreasonable for Mr and Mrs H to be upset and concerned by the 
absence of communication from Admirals contractors from around 05:15 until their decision 
to resort to self-help from their own independent contractor at around 09:00.  
For these reasons, Im upholding this complaint and I consider that compensation of £75 as 
suggested by our investigator in his view is fairer and reasonable in the circumstances. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and I require 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to pay them compensation of £75. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman