DRN-2194043
The complaint
Mr W is a director of a company that I'll refer to as M. He's complained, on M's behalf, that,
Aon UK Limited didn't do enough to secure a renewal of M's professional indemnity 
insurance policy.
What happened
M bought an 18-month professional indemnity insurance policy through Aon in 2017, with an 
end date of 24 April 2019. When the renewal was coming up, Aon sent out a proposal form 
for M to complete. M returned this on 26 March 2019 and Aon forwarded it to the insurer on 
16 April 2019. On 24 April, the insurer declined to offer a renewal but agreed to a 14-day 
extension of cover to allow M to find a new policy. Mr W said Aon told him this on the same 
day and that it was looking for another policy for him. On 25 April Aon offered M a 14-day 
extension, which Mr W agreed to. 
 
M contacted Aon for an update on 30 April 2019. Aon said it had contacted other insurers 
with the proposal forms, but the insurers weren't able to offer cover. On 14 May 2019, Mr W 
complained to Aon. He said M had been left uninsured for a number of days as Aon hadn't 
let him know it hadn't found a new policy. He was unhappy with the time it had taken to look 
for cover, as well as the lack of updates. Mr W said he'd found cover with a new insurer, but 
that policy had cost over £7,000 which was a large increase on the premium he'd paid in 
2017. Mr W asked Aon to refund the £132.41 M had paid for the 14-day extension of cover, 
plus half of the additional premium charged by the new insurer. 
 
Aon accepted there had been some delays and that it hadn't kept Mr W as updated as it 
should have done. However, it said it had contacted the other insurers again and none had 
been able to offer a competitive quote. It refunded him £132.41 for the extension of cover. 
Mr W remained unhappy and brought his complaint to us. He said he'd had to provide a lot 
of information for his new insurer and Aon should have asked for further information in order 
to find M a suitable policy. He thought M's new policy was more expensive because the 
cover needed to start straight away. 
 
After Mr W brought Ms complaint to us, Aon offered an additional £500 to compensate M 
for the inconvenience it had caused for delays and poor service. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 1 September 2020. In that decision I 
said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
 
Aon received the renewal proposal form from M on 26 March but didn't send it to the insurer 
until 16 April. I do think it could have sent this to the insurer sooner. But I can see that 
Aon also needed to chase the insurer on 24 April in order to get a response. So, I dont think 
the delays were all due to Aon not sending the form to the insurer earlier. When the insurer 
said it was unable to offer cover due to the size of M's new contract, Aon asked for an 
extension to allow M to find an alternative policy. 
 
Mr W said Aon told him it would find a new policy. Aon has no record of this call but said it 
told Mr W to use the proposal form to approach other insurers. I find it likely that Mr W 
would have looked for a new policy if hed known Aon wouldn't be looking for a new one for 
him. And I havent seen anything to show that Aon clearly told Mr W it didnt think it could 
find him one. 
 
I can see that Aon didn't contact other insurers until after Mr W had called for an update on 
30 April. Both of the insurers it contacted then declined to offer cover, meaning that Aon 
wasnt able to provide M with a policy. I can understand why this caused M inconvenience, 
as Mr W then needed to find a policy within a very short time, after having needed to chase 
Aon for responses. Aon has also accepted that it didnt keep Mr W updated during this time. 
 
I think Aon caused delays and didn't provide sufficient updates, so I've thought about 
whether this caused M a financial loss. I can see that the insurers Aon approached refused 
to cover M. And even when Aon went back to them later in the year with more information I 
can see that both said that they either wouldn't have offered cover, or if they could they 
wouldn't have been able to offer a quote that was cheaper than Mr W had found elsewhere. 
I don't think Aon collecting any further information from Mr W would have helped here, 
because none of the insurers available to it would have provided the cover Mr W needed, 
for any less than hes currently paying. Also, the fact that he needed to provide a lot of 
information due to the change in risk suggests that this was a risk that only a limited number 
of insurers would choose to cover. 
 
That means Mr W would always have needed to look for alternative cover elsewhere. Mr W 
said he had to provide a lot of information so his new insurer would provide cover. And the 
premium was then much higher. Aon said the premium M paid in 2017 didn't include the 
large contract that was included in the 2019 proposal. Given the change in the policy it's 
likely the premium would always have increased. 
 
Ms new broker has provided information to say its likely it would have been able to 
negotiate a more competitive quote if it had more time. Ive asked for further evidence of this 
to show the reduction in premium that could have been achieved but nothing further has 
been provided. On that basis I dont think Ive seen enough to persuade me M has 
experienced a financial loss by Aon not letting them know it couldnt offer a new policy 
sooner. If M would like to provide any further evidence to show the reduction in premium 
they could have obtained if theyd known about the renewal earlier, Id ask them to provide it 
by 15 September 2020. 
 
Aon has already refunded M £132.42. I think this is fair as Aon left M with very little 
alternative but to agree to the 14-day extension. Aon also offered M £500 compensation for 
the inconvenience of whats happened. When taking all of the above into account Im 
satisfied that Aon has done enough to fairly compensate M for their inconvenience. 
 
Aon didnt respond to my provisional decision, but Mr W didnt agree with it. He provided a 
detailed response setting out why he thought Aon should pay him more than an additional 
£500. In summary, he felt that if Aon had asked for more information about the new contract 
it would have found that the additional cover was similar to the previous year. He queried 
whether Aon had actually approached the insurers for cover and thought Aons actions 
meant hed been charged more for a policy than he should have been due to having to 
approach other insurers at the last minute.  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont intend to depart from my provisional findings and Ill now explain 
why. 
 
Aon sent the proposal form to M to complete. The proposal form asked for details of any 
contracts over a certain value. M provided the value of a contract over this amount. Ive seen 
emails between Aon and Ms insurer where the insurer said it would no longer cover the risk 
due to the size of the contract, so Im satisfied Aon approached the insurer. Ive also seen 
evidence that Aon approached other insurers. I appreciate Ms new broker was able to get 
cover by providing further information, but I havent seen anything to persuade me its likely 
Aon would have been able to. None of the insurers it approached asked for any further 
breakdown of the contract costs, which I think would have happened if they thought the 
question on Aons proposal form was too broad and that with further information they 
might offer cover.  
 
Moreover, I havent seen anything other than Mr Ws comments to indicate that, had Aon 
asked further questions, it would have been able to find any cheaper premium. 
 
As I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me there was a financial loss, I remain 
satisfied that the additional £500 Aon offered is enough to compensate M for what 
happened.   
My final decision
My final decision is that Aon UK Limited should pay M an additional £500 for their 
inconvenience and refund the £132.42 they paid for the extension of cover if it hasnt already 
done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2020.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman