DRN-4323825
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that their mortgage lender, Mortgage Express, has unfairly increased 
the interest rate on their mortgage. Their representative says theyve been taken advantage 
of because theyre unable to move their mortgage elsewhere.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R took out a mortgage with a lender called GMAC-RFC in April 2005. They 
borrowed around £112,000 over a 30 year term, on repayment terms. The mortgage offer 
said that a variable rate of 1.2% above the Bank of England base rate would apply until 
1 January 2007, with a variable rate of 1.95% above base rate thereafter. 
In October 2006 Mr and Mrs R replaced their variable tracker rate with a fixed rate. They 
took a fixed rate of 5.39% until 31 December 2008. Their new mortgage offer said that after 
31 December 2008 their loan would revert to the standard variable rate (SVR). At the time 
they took the fixed rate the SVR was 6.75%. By 1 January 2009 it had fallen to 4.84%. It 
remained at that level until 2016. 
The mortgage was transferred from GMAC to Mortgage Express, as part of a wider transfer 
of business, in May 2005. The mortgage continued with Mortgage Express as the lender 
until it was redeemed in November 2020.
At the time Mortgage Express was a wholly owned subsidiary of Bradford & Bingley (B&B). 
During the global financial crisis of 2007  2009, B&B collapsed and was taken into 
government ownership. Mortgage Express remained a separate firm owned by the 
nationalised B&B.
Mr and Mrs Rs representative complained to Mortgage Express in 2021, saying:
Mortgage Express doesnt offer new interest rates to existing customers, and Mr and 
Mrs R were unable to move their mortgage elsewhere. Mr and Mrs R had a 
reasonable expectation that they would be able to take a new interest rate on the 
expiry of the existing one or later, but Mortgage Express failed to make one available.
As a result Mr and Mrs R had to remain on Mortgage Expresss SVR  they had no 
other option. Mortgage Express did not take that into account in setting the level of 
interest it charged.
Mortgage Expresss SVR has been consistently high, even at a time of low interest 
rates and when the Bank of England base rate was 0.5% or less. The SVR is 
excessive in comparison with other lenders in the market. 
The level of the SVR, and increases to it, were not justified by the terms of the 
mortgage contract  either the explicit terms, or an implied term that the SVR would 
not be varied arbitrarily, unreasonably, improperly, or dishonestly. 
As a result, Mortgage Express treated Mr and Mrs R unfairly and took advantage of 
their situation. The interest rate should be reduced to a fair rate and overpayments 
above that should be refunded to Mr and Mrs R. Mr and Mrs R believe this should be 
the Bank of England base rate plus 1.5%. Mr and Mrs R believe that it was Mortgage 
Expresss previously stated policy to set its SVR at around 1.5% above base rate.
Mortgage Express didnt agree. It said:
It had not acted in breach of the mortgage terms and conditions  either an express 
term or an implied term (and it did not accept that there was an implied term in any 
case).
There was no expectation that the SVR would track base rate, by 1.5% or at all. 
When Mortgage Express had varied the SVR it had done so for good reasons as 
permitted by the terms and conditions. Doing so was not unfair and did not amount to 
taking advantage of Mr and Mrs R. 
Mr and Mrs R could not have had a reasonable expectation of a new interest rate at 
the end of the fixed rate. The mortgage offer was clear that it would revert to the SVR 
after 1 January 2009 and that is what happened. Mortgage Express does not offer 
new interest rates to any customers, but it did not put any barriers in the way of 
Mr and Mr R moving their mortgage to a new lender to get a better rate. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it, so Mr and Mrs Rs 
representative asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service provide that complaints have to be made 
within six years of the date of the event complained about  or, if it gives more time to 
complain, within three years of when the complainant knew or ought reasonably to have 
known of cause for complaint. Unless theres a record of an earlier complaint we cant 
consider a complaint made outside those timescales. We can consider an out of time 
complaint if the firm complained about consents  but Mortgage Express doesnt consent  
or if there are exceptional circumstances that prevented a complaint being made in time. Mr 
and Mrs Rs representative hasnt suggested there were any such circumstances. 
Applying the time limit rules to this case, I note that Mr and Mrs R first complained to 
Mortgage Express on 7 September 2021. Their complaint is primarily about two things  the 
ongoing failure to offer a new interest rate, and the fairness of the interest rate they were 
actually charged. 
Each time they are charged interest, Mortgage Express has an obligation to do so lawfully 
and fairly. And if it doesnt, that gives rise to fresh cause for complaint each time interest is 
charged. That means that we can consider the fairness of each interest charging event for 
six years before Mr and Mrs R complained. I dont think we can go back further than that 
under the three year part of the rule, though. Thats because Mr and Mrs R knew what 
interest rate they were being charged from time to time, because Mortgage Express told 
them that regularly in letters and statements. They would have known that the interest rate 
was higher than they were expecting and that it did not reduce as far as base rate fell  as 
they were expecting. Thats enough to have told them they had cause for complaint. 
Mr and Mrs Rs representative says that they only became aware of cause for complaint when they saw media reports about mortgage interest rates in 2019, which led them to seek 
legal advice. But the rule is not just about when Mr and Mrs R actually knew of cause for 
complaint, its also about when they ought reasonably to have known. Knowledge of cause 
for complaint merely requires knowledge that something has gone wrong causing loss for 
which Mortgage Express is responsible. Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs R ought reasonably to 
have realised that they were being charged a higher interest rate than they were expecting 
more than three years before they complained  and thats enough to say they ought 
reasonably to have realised they had cause for complaint.
Mr and Mrs Rs representative says they didnt know of cause for complaint until they saw 
media coverage about mortgage interest rates in 2019. But the rules apply not just to when a 
complainant actually knew of cause for complaint, but also to when they ought reasonably to 
have known. Even if they didnt or couldnt know of every argument their representative now 
makes on their behalf, they had enough information to know that they might have been 
charged an unfairly high interest rate, higher than they were expecting, and they werent able 
to take a new fixed rate. Thats enough to tell them they had cause for complaint. 
In both cases, therefore, I will only be considering the fairness of Mortgage Expresss actions 
since 7 September 2015.
In considering the fairness of the interest rate charged, it will be necessary to consider the 
whole history of the interest rate  since earlier variations to the SVR made before the six 
year period may still be relevant to the interest rate charged during the six year period. As 
such, they form part of all the circumstances of the complaint about the fairness of interest 
charged in the last six years.
Offering a new interest rate
Mr and Mrs Rs representative has complained that Mortgage Express didnt offer them any 
new interest rates, either when their fixed rate ended or later. 
Mortgage Express didnt offer interest rates to any existing customers, so I dont think 
Mr and Mrs R were treated less favourably than other Mortgage Express customers. I dont 
think it was unfair that Mortgage Express didnt offer them a new interest rate after 
7 September 2015. Theres nothing in either the mortgage terms and conditions or the 
mortgage offer that says it would do so. The mortgage offer makes clear that the mortgage 
would be charged at the SVR after the end of the fixed rate period. 
It's true that many mortgage lenders do offer new interest rates to existing customers  but 
not all do. Theres no obligation, either in the rules of mortgage regulation, in law, or in the 
terms of Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage that Mortgage Express would do so in their case. But 
Mortgage Express didnt stand in their way or prevent them from shopping around and 
moving the mortgage to another lender to access a better deal  there was only an early 
repayment charge (ERC) applicable up to the end of the fixed rate, for example, so 
Mortgage Express didnt stand in the way of Mr and Mrs R seeking a better deal. There was 
no ERC from 1 January 2009, so no barrier after 7 September 2015 in the period I can 
consider. 
I dont therefore uphold this part of the complaint. Ill turn now to the fairness of the interest 
rate Mr and Mrs R were charged.
The fairness of the interest rate charged after 7 September 2015
Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage was subject to the SVR from 1 January 2009. By then the SVR 
had reduced from 6.75% when they took their new fixed rate to 4.84%. It remained at that level until 2016. Between 2016 and when Mr and Mrs R redeemed the mortgage in 
November 2020 the SVR varied in line with Bank of England base rate.
In changing the interest rate from time to time, Mortgage Express was limited in its actions 
by the terms of the mortgage contract. The terms and conditions are the ones entered into 
by GMAC  they remained in force and applicable after the transfer. Theres a term which 
says that the lender (GMAC, then Mortgage Express) could only vary the interest rate in 
certain circumstances:
3.1 If the interest rate is the standard variable rate we may vary it for any of the 
following reasons:
(a) to reect a change which has occurred, or which we reasonably expect to occur, 
in the Bank of England base rate or interest rates generally;
(b) to reflect a change which has occurred, or which we reasonably expect to occur, 
in the cost of the funds we use in our mortgage lending business;
(c) to reect a change which has occurred, or which we reasonably expect to occur, 
in the interest rates charged by other mortgage lenders;
(d) to reflect a change in the law or a decision by a court; or
(e) to reflect a decision or recommendation by an ombudsman, regulator or similar 
body.
Mr and Mrs Rs representative says that there should also be an implied term that Mortgage 
Express shouldnt exercise its power to vary the interest rate arbitrarily, improperly, 
unreasonably, or dishonestly. Thats really a question of contract law, but I dont think its 
something I need to decide for the purposes of this complaint  since I dont think it adds 
anything substantial to the central question I need to consider. Thats whether it acted fairly 
in setting the rate during the period I can consider. Deciding that question includes 
consideration of the circumstances in which it used condition 3.1 to vary the interest rate. If 
Mortgage Express did exercise its contractual power arbitrarily, improperly, unreasonably, or 
dishonestly, it would follow that it wasnt acting fairly whether or not there was an implied 
term to that effect.
Mr and Mrs Rs representative hasnt specifically argued that condition 3.1 is an unfair term 
within the meaning of the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations, though this is 
something Ive considered too as its relevant law for me to take into account. But while Ive 
taken into account the law, in deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances in 
respect of interest charged after 7 September 2015, I think the central question for me is 
whether Mortgage Express acted fairly in setting the rate during that period  which includes 
taking account of the way Mortgage Express made use of the terms and conditions.
During the period thats in time, the interest rate was varied only to reflect changes to the 
Bank of England base rate. Thats something explicitly allowed for in the terms and 
conditions, and I note its been said that this is something Mr and Mrs R expected would 
happen. I dont think the variations to the SVR between 2015 and November 2020, when Mr 
and Mrs R repaid their mortgage, were unfair.
Ive also thought about whether the SVR was set at a fair level at the start of the period thats 
in time. And to consider that Ive thought about the historic variations to the SVR, which  
from the starting point of when Mr and Mrs R took the mortgage out  cumulatively led up to 
the rate they were charged from 7 September 2015 onwards. Thats because if one of those earlier changes was not made in accordance with the contract, for example, it might not be 
fair to charge an interest rate from 7 September 2015 which relied  in part  on that earlier 
variation.
In making the changes to the SVR it made from when the mortgage was taken out to when it 
reached 4.84% in late 2008  which was the rate when Mr and Mrs R became subject to the 
SVR, and after which there were no further changes before 7 September 2015  Mortgage 
Express has told us that it relied on condition 3.1 (b)  to reflect actual or anticipated 
changes in the cost of funding its mortgage lending business.
Mortgage Express has given us detailed information about the cost of funding its mortgage 
lending business. Im satisfied its appropriate to receive that information in confidence, as 
permitted by our rules, subject to providing a summary of it. 
In summary, the information shows that Mortgage Express was funded by its parent 
company, B&B, in the form of loan facilities. B&B in turn, before its collapse and 
nationalisation, raised funding on the wholesale markets.
Wholesale market funding costs are generally driven by or related to the LIBOR rate, not the 
Bank of England base rate. Prior to the financial crisis, LIBOR and base rate were broadly 
comparable. But during the financial crisis base rate was reduced substantially as a tool of 
wider macro-economic policy, whereas the cost of wholesale funding also reduced but not to 
the same extent. The result was that there was a greater divergence between base rate and 
LIBOR during this period.
That divergence was reflected in the fact that across the industry  not just in respect of 
Mortgage Express  lenders SVR rates reduced (reflecting the reductions in LIBOR) but not 
by as much as base rate (reflecting the disconnect between the two). In other words, the 
margins between base rate and SVRs increased at this time. Im aware that this was the 
case from my knowledge of other complaints and my knowledge of the mortgage industry, 
supported by contemporary and later reports of market conditions. 
Following B&Bs collapse, it was less exposed to movements in the wholesale markets and 
became primarily government funded. There were certain conditions and costs associated 
with its government funding  which in turn influenced the funding it, as the parent company, 
was able to provide to Mortgage Express. 
Having considered all this information, Im satisfied that when Mortgage Express made 
changes to the SVR between 2006 and 2008, it did so relying on condition 3.1. Im further 
satisfied that it was entitled to rely on condition 3.1 at this time. In particular, it was entitled to 
rely on condition 3.1 (b) when reducing the SVR but increasing the margin over base rate, 
because the cost of funding its mortgage lending business was in fact changing, and the 
changes to the SVR reflected the changes to the cost of funding its mortgage lending 
business. Its true that Mortgage Express ceased to be an active mortgage lender, seeking 
out new business. But it still operated a mortgage lending business in respect of its existing 
loan book, which included Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs Rs representative says that Mortgage Express had a policy, and Mr and Mrs R 
had a reasonable expectation, that its SVR would be kept at around 1.5% above base rate  
and by increasing the margin it therefore acted unfairly. Ive seen no evidence that there was 
such a policy, or that if so it included Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage. The archived website the 
representative refers to simply says that Mortgage Expresss variable rate products are set 
at around 1.5% above base rate. Its not clear that this is referring to the SVR  as opposed, 
for example, to its base rate tracker rates  and if it is, this is at best a general statement of 
Mortgage Expresss aspirations around the time it made the statement. Its not a binding contractual commitment to Mr and Mrs R. 
This statement was also made before the financial crisis  which, as Ive said, led to a 
dislocation between base rate and the cost of funding mortgage lending. And so even if it 
was a statement of Mortgage Expresss general aspirations in managing its SVR  which I 
havent found to be the case  that doesnt mean that in the very different conditions of the 
financial crisis and its aftermath Mortgage Express is barred from making changes to its 
SVR merely because they contradict something it said  non-contractually  in the years 
before the crisis.
Theres no such linkage between the SVR and base rate in Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage offer 
or terms and conditions, and Ive not seen any evidence that GMAC led Mr and Mrs R to 
believe that their specific mortgage would behave in that way when they took it out. And of 
course Mr and Mrs R cannot have relied on this statement in making the decision to take out 
their mortgage, since they took it out with GMAC not Mortgage Express. I dont think it would 
be reasonable to conclude that a general statement of how Mortgage Express managed its 
rates at a particular moment in time, a statement that was not in the contemplation of either 
GMAC or Mr and Mrs R when the mortgage was taken out and which it is not clear was even 
referring to the SVR, binds its hands forever even if it was referring to the SVR. 
I dont therefore think this online statement is of any particular weight in considering whether 
Mortgage Express acted in line with the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage 
when it varied the interest rate. And its not of any particular weight in considering whether 
the interest rate from 7 September 2015 was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
In any case, Mr and Mrs Rs initial interest rate did track base rate  though not by 1.5% - 
but that was no longer the case after they took their fixed rate in 2006. The fixed rate 
replaced the base rate tracker. The fixed rate offer made clear that after the fixed rate ended 
the mortgage would revert to a variable rate, and did not suggest that the variable rate was 
linked to the Bank of England base rate. I think it was clear that by taking a fixed rate Mr and 
Mrs Rs mortgage would no longer be linked to base rate and wouldnt track base rate by 
any particular fixed margin even at the end of the fixed rate.
Its also important to note that condition 3.1 gives Mortgage Express the power to vary the 
interest rate, but it doesnt create an obligation to do so. In other words, if but only if certain 
conditions are met Mortgage Express has the power to change the SVR. But if those 
conditions are not met it has no power to change the SVR  and even if they are met, it is 
not obliged to do so.
Finally, Mr and Mrs Rs representatives say that there was a special responsibility on 
Mortgage Express not to take advantage of Mr and Mrs R because they were unable to shop 
around and had no option but to remain with Mortgage Express. Im satisfied that Mortgage 
Express acted in line with the terms and conditions of the mortgage and didnt treat Mr and 
Mrs R less favourably than any other borrower. I dont think Mortgage Expresss SVR is 
significantly higher than that of other lenders, whether active or closed. Im not persuaded 
that it unfairly took advantage of them.
Taking all that into account, Im satisfied that Mortgage Express acted in accordance with the 
terms and conditions in varying the SVR in the way that it did. And there is no other basis on 
which I can safely conclude that the interest rate charged to Mr and Mrs R from 7 September 
2015 onwards was unfair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman