DRN-3821681
The complaint
R complain that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont refund money it lost, after 
it fell victim to an authorised push payment (APP) scam.
What happened
The circumstances which led to this complaint are well-known to both parties. So I wont 
repeat them in detail here. But, in summary, I understand them to be as follows.
In January 2022, R was tricked into making two payments, totalling £13,500, for what it 
thought was the purchase of a vehicle, that it had seen on an online marketplace.
Interested in buying the vehicle, R has told us that it carried out a vehicle check and also 
looked up the company who was selling the vehicle on Companies House. R has said 
everything checked out and that during conversations with the seller they sounded 
professional. R has said it didnt go to see the vehicle in person, as it was over three and a 
half hours away.
Believing everything to be genuine, R agreed to purchase the vehicle. R has said it did ask 
to pay by credit card, but the seller advised they werent able to accept that method of 
payment. An initial holding payment was made for £1,500, from a personal account held by 
one of Rs directors, but that payment doesnt form part of this complaint.
Following this the seller asked R to pay £6,750 (being 50% of the remaining balance), in 
order to secure the vehicle and so that the seller could arrange for the vehicle to be 
transported and delivered. R agreed to this and, on 20 January 2022, sent a payment for 
£6,750 to the account details provided.
But the following day, the seller contacted R again. It said there was an issue with the 
insurance for the transportation of the vehicle, in that the delivery driver was under 25 and so 
the insurance policy wouldnt cover things, unless the vehicle had been paid for in full. So R 
was asked to pay the remaining balance. Still believing everything to be genuine, R went 
ahead and, on 21 January 2022, made a further payment for £6,750. R has said it received 
invoices from the seller, to confirm the payments had been received.
R became suspicious and realised it had been scammed when the vehicle was not delivered 
as agreed, and when further contact with the seller was blocked. Unknown to it at the time, it 
had been dealing with fraudsters and had sent payments to accounts that the fraudster 
controlled. 
R raised the matter with NatWest. NatWest is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board 
Contingent Reimbursement Model CRM Code (the CRM Code). The CRM Code requires 
firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams in all but a limited 
number of circumstances.
NatWest looked into Rs complaint and issued its final response in March 2022, upholding 
the complaint in part. In summary it agreed to refund 50% of the money R had lost, being 
£6,750, which was credited to Rs account on 2 February 2022. But it thought R should be 
liable for the remaining loss. NatWest also contacted the beneficiary bank (the bank to which 
the payments were made), to try and recover the money that had been lost. But it was only 
able to recover £9.30, which was returned to R on 15 March 2022.
Unhappy with NatWests response, R then brought its complaint to this service. One of our 
Investigators looked into things and thought the complaint should be upheld in part. In 
summary, he thought R had a reasonable basis for belief when making the first payment for 
£6,750, so thought NatWest should have refunded this payment in full. But he thought at the 
time R was making the second payment for £6,750, there was enough going on for R to 
realise the sale may not be legitimate, so he didnt think NatWest was liable for making any 
further refund on the second payment. Overall, our Investigator thought NatWest should 
refund the remaining loss on the first payment, along with interest.
NatWest agreed with our Investigators view. But R didnt agree, it thought it should receive a 
full refund. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has now been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered things carefully, Im satisfied that, adhering to the CRM Code, NatWest 
should have refunded R the full amount of the first payment it lost, of £6,750. Im not 
persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in the circumstances of 
this payment. Following our Investigators view, NatWest has now agreed to refund the 
remaining loss for this first payment (along with interest), so I dont need to consider this 
payment further as part of this decision.
When considering the second payment R made, again for £6,750, I do think, by this point, 
there was enough going on that R ought reasonably to have questioned what it was being 
told.
I say this because by this point R had already made a payment for £6,750, on top of the 
£1,500, to secure the vehicle. Im not persuaded a plausible reason was provided to R about 
why it was necessary to pay the full balance. Im mindful that insurance policies do have 
terms, and these can be around age, but it seems dubious as to why paying the full cost 
would in some way validate an insurance policy. I think R ought to have proceeded with 
more caution, especially considering it hadnt seen the vehicle. And Im persuaded that there 
were warning signs by now that things may not have been as they seemed.
On balance, when considering the circumstances of the second payment, I cant fairly say     
R has proceeded to make the payment with a reasonable basis for believing the payment 
was legitimate. Im persuaded this was sufficient reason for NatWest to fairly decline to 
reimburse R with the full amount of this payment, and I think the 50% refund it has already 
provided for this payment is fair and reasonable given the circumstances.
Finally, Ive thought about what NatWest did when R reported the scam. I can see it 
contacted the receiving bank, but unfortunately only £9.30 remained to be recovered. I dont 
think NatWest has missed an opportunity to recover the money R lost.
Putting things right
For the reasons outlined above, National Westminster Bank Plc should now; - Refund R the remaining amount of the loss from the first payment it made, being 
£3,375.
- Pay 8% simple interest per year on that amount calculated from the date National 
Westminster Bank Plc originally declined Rs claim until the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against National Westminster Bank Plc in 
part.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman