DRN-3981533
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Co-operative Bank Plc trading as Platform (Platform) have 
unfairly applied an early redemption charge (ERC) when they redeemed their mortgage.
What happened
On 14 January 2022 Mr and Mrs Ts representative called Platform in relation to a Unilateral 
Planning Obligation. At that time Mr and Mrs T had plans to build a commercial building in a 
field they owned near to their property which was mortgaged to Platform. They required 
Platforms consent to this, which I shall refer to as the application. In short terms this 
entailed Mr and Mrs T getting Platform to complete certain forms which would then allow 
their builders to begin work. 
Mr and Mrs T had longstanding arrangements for their builders to commence the work and 
they were worried that if the application was not completed by the time they were scheduled 
to start, the building project would be jeopardised, and they may have to recommence 
discussions with the local authority and pay further legal costs.
Platform received the application on 19 January and passed it to their relevant internal team.  
Platform required further information from Mr and Mrs T and contacted them on 26 January 
to advise as to what was required. That was also confirmed to Mr and Mrs T in writing, and 
they were told that when it was submitted it would be passed to Platforms legal team to 
consider. They were however warned that process might take a few weeks.
Platform received the information it had requested on 2 February and passed it to their legal 
team. One of their requirements was the payment of a fee which although Mr and Mrs T 
paid, they used a business, rather than a personal cheque which Platform couldnt accept. 
By the 10 February Platform had everything they needed and instructed their legal team on 
17 February.
Following that Mr and Mrs T and their advisers regularly chased Platform for a decision but 
were told that it was in the legal teams hands who would respond as soon as they could.
Platforms legal team provided a response on 10 March requesting more information/clarity, 
by which time Mr and Mrs T had already decided that they had no choice other than to 
redeem their mortgage to ensure that their building works would go ahead. As the mortgage 
was redeemed early, Platform charged Mr and Mrs T the ERC.
Mr and Mrs T complained to Platform that they had effectively been forced into the position 
of having to redeem their mortgage because of Platforms slow response to the application. 
Platform didnt agree and said that its legal team had no obligation to respond within a set 
time frame and thought that it had applied the ERC fairly and in line with the terms and 
conditions of Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage.
Mr and Mrs T were unhappy with Platforms final response and so approached this service to 
see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that Platform hadnt 
done anything wrong and had dealt with the complaint fairly. Mr and Mrs T didnt agree and 
asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The settled facts to this complaint are that the terms of Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage provided 
that if they redeemed it prior to 1 June 2026 an ERC would be charged. Mr and Mrs T knew 
and understood this and do not dispute it. Mr and Mrs T redeemed their mortgage on 17 
March 2022, which triggered the ERC liability. What they dont accept that it was fair.
Ive checked Platforms call notes in order to see what was said by Platform to Mr and Mrs T. 
The notes show;
26 January Mrs T asked for a timescale for the application and was told that the 
legal team could take a couple of weeks to review doc. 
3 February Mr and Mrs Ts surveyor rang to check whether a letter he had submitted, 
and which was required for the application, had been received. It hadnt. He was told 
that when it was it would take five working days to review and would then be sent to 
the legal team and that it approx takes a few weeks.
8 February Mr and Mrs Ts broker was told that the paperwork was still to be 
reviewed by the legal team and this may take a couple of weeks.
10 February Mrs T called and paid the £50 fee and asked that the application be 
marked urgent although timescales were not discussed. A redemption figure was 
also requested, and the legal team were emailed and asked to review the application 
urgently.
18 February the broker rang to chase matters and was told that the application was 
at the decision making authority. The broker rang back on 22 February asking if the 
legal team could be pushed but was advised that there was no timescale to the legal 
teams review.
28 February the broker rang and was advised that the application had been chased 
with the legal team that day and a response was awaited.
4 March the legal team said they would be looking at the application shortly. Platform 
also received an email from Mr and Mrs T to state that unless they received a 
response by the 7 March they would have no option other than to redeem the 
mortgage as their builders were ready to commence work in early April.
9 March Mrs T rang to confirm the redemption figure required and to get Platforms 
bank details to make the payment.
10 March Platforms legal wrote to Mr and Mrs T with a six-point response raising 
issues with the Unilateral Planning Obligation document. In essence Platform were 
requiring further information and/or clarification.15 March Mrs T spoke with Platform and confirmed she did not wish to discuss the 
application as she would be redeeming the mortgage on 17 March.
Mr and Mrs Ts application was not standard. Platform have acknowledged that for many of 
their administrative processes they operate to specific timescales, but this application was 
not one of them. I can see by looking at their legal teams response of 10 March that the 
application had resulted in some considerable legal thought being given to the matter. I 
therefore accept that this was not a straightforward application and there was no set 
timescale within which Platform were to respond.
It wasnt until 10 February that Platform had all the information that was required to consider 
the application. It took until 10 March for Platform to consider it, that being a period of 
precisely four weeks, and Mrs T has raised the issue of whether, in the light of this, Platform 
acted reasonably. 
Mr and Mrs T and their broker were told, when they called Platform at various times that the 
application would take a few weeks to be reviewed. Of note they were not told that there was 
a specific timescale, only that it was to be first passed to the legal team for review.  
I understand Mr and Mrs T were under pressure to complete their application by a certain 
date. It is clear that their builders had been arranged for some considerable time and had 
been scheduled to begin work in early April 2022. When Mr and Mrs T, representative first 
contacted Platform in mid-January Platform were unaware of this, and it is certainly not clear 
from the evidence that they were put on notice at that time. 
However, even when Platform were ultimately made aware that time was of the essence, I 
cannot say that Platform were bound to respond within a timescale Mr and Mrs T sought to 
impose. I can accept that from Mr and Mrs Ts perspective, when they first called in January 
that it would seem as though there would be sufficient time for Platform to do what they had 
to do to approve their application, but there was always the prospect of Platform not 
approving it. In those circumstances Mr and Mrs Ts builders would have been unable to 
commence work in any event. 
However, what actually happened was that by 9 March Mr and Mrs T had decided not to 
proceed with their application, instead choosing to redeem their mortgage. I do understand 
why they chose to do this, believing that they were running out of time and not wishing to 
lose their builders, but in doing so they knew that the ERC would be triggered. 
Whilst Mr and Mrs T wanted Platform to deal with their application more speedily, even if it 
had, it would have produced the same result from their legal team raising the same issues. I 
know Mr and Mrs T regard Platforms legal teams response as making no sense, but in my 
view the questions and issues raised were reasonable. Further, Platform were entitled to 
satisfy itself of the detail to the application before making its decision. 
In my view, it is more than likely that even if that response had been received from the legal 
team a week or so earlier, those issues would still have needed to have been dealt with, and 
Mr and Mrs T would most likely have arrived at the same point as they were running out of 
time. That said, I dont think Platform were unreasonable in any event in takin four weeks to 
deal with the application. It was not straightforward, and it required careful thought from their 
legal team. 
So, although Mr and Mrs T will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say 
Platform has acted unfairly or unreasonably here. For their own reasons Mr and Mrs T 
decided to redeem their mortgage early in the knowledge that it would trigger the ERC, and 
consequently Platform have fairly charged it.My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 May 2023.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman