DRN-1586975
 
The complaint
Mr D and Ms S are unhappy that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) 
rejected a claim for damage to their wall. 
What happened
Mr D and Ms S have a dry-stone wall on the boundary of their property. The wall looked as if 
itd been pushed back into their garden, and Mr D believed this had been caused by an 
impact with a tractor trailer or a similar agricultural vehicle. They claimed on their home 
insurance policy with LV, but LV said there was no impact damage. LV rejected the claim on 
the basis that any damage was wear and tear. But, because they hadnt made it clear when 
Mr D and Ms S made the claim that they werent agreeing to pay out on this, LV paid Mr D 
and Ms S £100 by way of compensation.
Mr D and Ms S have complained that LV have unfairly rejected their claim.
Our investigator found LV had acted reasonably. He said it was clear from the photographs 
hed seen that the wall was damaged, but there were no obvious signs of impact. The 
surveyors report couldnt say what actually caused the damage, but the quote for the repair 
to the wall provided by Mr D and Ms S said the footings had given way. So he thought that, 
given the circumstances, it was reasonable for LV to conclude the damage wasnt caused by 
an impact, and refuse to pay the claim.
Mr D and Ms S didnt agree with the investigator. They said the damage was certainly not 
gradual, and that Mr D saw the damage within hours of it occurring. They say the impact 
point is obvious, but difficult to photograph. They feel the footings gave way because of the 
impact damage, and the nature of dry-stone walls means it would need to be rebuilt from the 
ground upwards  not just a few loose stones replaced. And because of the shock damage, 
a far greater length of wall would need rebuilding.
Mr D also believes that LV are saying he made a fraudulent claim and, by accepting LVs 
version of events, the investigator is essentially agreeing this was the case. Hes worried that 
this will have an impact on the ability to get insurance in the future.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D and Ms Ss home insurance policy covered them for Impact by  road vehicle 
(whats known as an insured event) and that this covered walls, gates and fences. So, if 
the wall had been damaged by a tractor trailer, or something similar, then it wouldve been 
covered under the policy. However, the policy didnt cover claims arising from wear and tear 
or gradual deterioration.LV sent a surveyor out to inspect the wall, to see if the damage was caused by an insured 
event  the impact from a tractor trailer as Mr D believes  or not. As Mr D and Ms S couldnt 
give a specific time when the damage occurred, or say who was responsible for causing the 
damage, this was a reasonable course of action for LV to take.
LV admit they didnt manage Mr Ds expectations when he made the claim. As a result, Mr D 
thought the surveyors were coming out to validate the costs of the repair to the wall, not to 
determine whether the wall was damaged by an insured event. Because of this, theyve paid 
Mr D and Ms S £100 compensation for their handling of the claim. But they maintain their 
decision that the claim shouldnt be paid.
Ive seen a copy of the surveyors report. This says, while the property is in an overall good 
state of repair, theres a 3-meter section of the wall that looks as if it has been pushed back 
into the garden. The surveyor also said there was no sign of tyre tracks, debris found [or] 
indication a collision may have occurred but, because tractors, busses and other vehicles 
travelled down the road during the inspection we feel there is a good chance that an 
incident could of occurred that has caused damage to the wall.
Mr D says he inspects the walls daily while gardening, so any damage must have occurred 
suddenly and rapidly. He believes the damage was as a result of the impact of a tractor 
trailer. Hes said that, because tractor trailers are usually unpainted, overhang the wheels by 
circa 2-meters, and either have no indicators or armoured indicators, there would be no paint 
marks, tyre marks or debris. He feels that LV are applying an urban interpretation of impact 
damage to a highly rural setting.
I agree that, because of the nature of tractor trailers, some of the evidence the surveyor 
would normally expect to see wouldnt be present. But I would expect to see some physical 
damage to the wall at the point of the impact, and damage to the surrounding vegetation. But 
the photographs Ive seen dont show this damage, and the surveyor didnt see this during 
the site visit. Ive also seen a copy of the quote for the repairs to the wall, dated 16 August 
2019. This says remove stone wall as footing of wall has given way approx. 5 meters. 
So, given the evidence Ive seen, there is nothing to conclusively say the damage was 
caused by an insured event (impact with a road vehicle), and it could equally have been 
caused by an uninsured event (gradual deterioration). And the gradual deterioration of the 
footings could have resulted in a sudden collapse of the wall at a certain point, with the 
associated shock damage affecting a larger section of wall. This would mean the same 
damage could be viewed as being caused two different completely different causes.
Because of this I think its reasonable that LV didnt pay the claim. But, for the reasons given, 
I dont think Mr D and Ms S were making a fraudulent claim. They genuinely believe the 
damage was caused by impact with an agricultural vehicle, and LV believe it was caused by 
the gradual deterioration of the footings of the wall. Because of this, I wouldnt expect LV to 
record this as a fraudulent claim.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr D and Ms Ss complaint about Liverpool 
Victoria Insurance Company Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 March 2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman