DRN-3929946
The complaint
Miss F complains about the repairs that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) made to her car 
following a claim on her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
UKI made repairs to Miss Fs car. Miss F said a wheel had been taken off and not put back 
on properly. She said it nearly came off whilst she was driving and caused damage to the 
wheel bolt threads, wheel, hub and brake disc. UKI said its engineer hadnt removed the 
wheel.
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Miss Fs garage had 
removed the wheel some six months before the incident. She saw images taken during 
UKIs repair. And she was satisfied that UKIs engineer hadnt removed the wheel and so 
UKI wasnt responsible for the damage to Miss Fs car. 
Miss F replied that she thought it was strange that her cars wheel came off two days after 
being returned by UKIs garage. She said she had driven the car safely for the previous four 
months after her garage replaced the wheel. Miss F asked for an Ombudsmans review, so 
her complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The damage to Miss Fs car was a scrape along one side. This was repaired and then a 
wheel almost came off whilst Miss F was driving her car. I can understand that this must 
have been a very frightening experience. And I can understand that Miss F thinks UKI are 
responsible for the damage, and she wants it to pay for the repairs to her car.
We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused as this is a matter for 
the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and engineers. Our role in these 
complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has considered all the available 
evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for additional repairs.
Miss F provided a report from her garage which described the damage to the near side front 
wheel caused by the wheel not being fixed securely. The garage said it used silver wheel 
weights, but there were black weights attached to the wheel. But the garage didnt comment 
on how long the wheel may have been loose.
I can see that UKI considered the original inspection report made by its engineers. After the 
incident, UKI had its engineers re-inspect Miss Fs car. This confirmed that the garage hadnt 
carried out any work on the wheel in question. Miss F said her own garage had repaired a 
puncture on this wheel four months earlier. And UKIs engineer thought the wheel bolts may 
not have been sufficiently tightened at that time. 
After Miss Fs complained came to us, UKI provided detailed photographs of the repairs 
carried out by the garage. I can see that these are date stamped for the correct time period 
and they identify Miss Fs car. 
I can see that whilst the nearside rear wheel was removed for the repairs, the nearside front 
wheel was not. UKIs engineers have explained that the wheels would not need to be 
removed to complete any balancing or geometry checks. So I havent seen any evidence 
that shows that UKIs garage removed the wheel in question. 
So Im satisfied that UKI has reasonably investigated Miss Fs concern and justified its 
decision that it wasnt responsible for the repairs Miss F paid for. UKI is only responsible for 
repairs that are claim or repairs related. So I dont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman