DRN-3691318
The complaint
Miss G and Mr L complained about the valuation that was carried out on their property as 
part of a mortgage application they made with Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
They believe the valuer didnt pick up a defect in the roof of the property and they are now 
left with a large repair bill. They would like Barclays to cover the cost of the repairs. 
What happened
Miss G and Mr L took out a mortgage in June 2021 and as part of that a valuation was 
instructed. The valuation was carried out and the property was deemed suitable for lending 
to the value of £127,000. 
A few months later Miss G and Mr L had a contractor come to inspect their roof. They were 
told it was in a bad way and would cost them between £2,000 and £6,300 to repair. Miss G 
and Mr L werent happy and felt this should have been identified in the valuation carried out 
before they purchased the property, so they complained to Barclays. 
Barclays didnt uphold their complaint. It says the valuation was only done for it to be able to 
decide if the property was suitable for lending purposes and so it felt it hadnt made an error. 
Miss G and Mr L remained unhappy so referred the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator said Barclays didnt do anything wrong as it appointed an independent and 
competent valuer and it was entitled to rely on their report. Miss G and Mr L didnt agree and 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
Barclays doesnt have the expertise to value property, so it employs the services of a 
surveyor. When doing so, its obliged to instruct a suitably qualified surveyor  a requirement 
that was fulfilled in this case by appointing a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered 
Surveyors.
Barclays isnt accountable for the conduct of the individual surveyor or any act (or omission) 
by the surveyor or the firm they work for. Barclays is in our jurisdiction, but only for things it 
did (or didnt do); we cant consider complaints against it for things a separate business did 
(or didnt do).
All I can consider against Barclays is if it discharged its duty in instructing a suitable firm of 
surveyors and having considered everything Im satisfied it did.
I understand that Miss G and Mr L are concerned that the valuer hadnt correctly inspected 
the property. But the valuation that was booked was a Non Disclosed Property Risk 
Assessment  this is a basic valuation on behalf of the lender for it to be able to decide if 
the property is suitable for lending. 
I have been provided a copy of the valuation and it says We are forwarding to you a 
complimentary copy of the Mortgage Valuation report. This is purely to enable you to see the 
report which Barclays will be using as part of their lending decision. This report is not 
intended to be relied upon for any reason by you. It also goes on to say this report has 
been prepared for Barclays use only and you must not therefore assume that if Barclays 
offer you a mortgage, the property is suitable for your requirements. 
I think its clear that the valuation report was only meant for Barclays to decide if the property 
was suitable for lending purposes and wasnt intended for Miss G and Mr L to rely on for any 
kind of structural report or analysis. And it was for Miss G and Mr L to instruct their own 
suitable professional to satisfy themselves of the structural integrity of the property. 
As the valuation figure provided was £127,000 for lending purposes, there was nothing 
further Barclays needed to do. It was entitled to rely on the report it received from the 
independent professional that had been instructed.
While I appreciate Miss G and Mr L will find my decision disappointing, I dont think Barclays 
did anything wrong, so it wouldnt be fair for me to ask it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman