DRN-2252755
The complaint
Mr F complains Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco) lent to him 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr F took out a credit card with Tesco in January 2019 with an initial credit limit of £250. The 
credit limit was later increased to £600.  
Mr F says he had a poor credit rating and Tesco didnt do enough to check he could afford 
the credit card on top of his existing credit commitments. Mr F said he was reliant on credit 
for his day to day living and the credit card added to his existing financial difficulties. Mr F 
was unable to meet his monthly repayments and fell into arrears.  
Tesco said that theres no evidence of irresponsible lending. They say they conducted 
reasonable and proportionate checks at the time Mr F applied for the credit card and he met 
their internal lending criteria.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She said that whilst she accepts 
Mr F met Tescos lending criteria at the time of the application, his circumstances meant he 
wasnt able to sustainably repay the credit within a reasonable period of time. She said 
Tesco ought to have realised this from the checks it carried out.  
Tesco didnt agree. They felt that adequate checks had been completed and repeated that 
Mr F had met their lending criteria. They argued that they wouldnt have lent to him if they 
felt he wouldnt be able to repay what he borrowed.  
Tesco also wanted to draw our attention to the type of card that Mr F applied for. It said this 
particular card is designed to help customers whove been in financial difficulty rebuild their 
credit. So, it said this suggests Mr F was looking to improve the situation he was in and had 
he managed his account the way theyd expect him to he wouldve been able to do this.
The complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, Ive considered  amongst other things  the rules and guidance for lenders set 
out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) within the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook.
I think there are two overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in all of the circumstances of this complaint. These questions are:
1. Did Tesco complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr F 
would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
a. If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
b. If not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr F 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Tesco act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I think Mr F has been disadvantaged in any way by Tescos actions, Ill go onto consider 
what I think is a fair way to put things right. 
Did Tesco complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr F would be 
able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
Before granting credit, Tesco were required to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of Mr Fs ability to sustainably repay the debt. This is often referred to as an 
affordability check. This check had to be borrower-focussed. This means it needed to be 
concerned with whether Mr F could sustainably afford the borrowing (considering his specific 
circumstances), rather than how statistically likely he was to repay. The latter, is the risk 
posed to Tesco as the lender, or its credit or lending risk but this is not necessarily the 
same as an assessment of affordability. 
Whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on a number of factors 
such as, but not limited to:
The type and amount of credit;
The total repayable and the size of the regular repayments;
The duration of the agreement;
The cost of the credit; and
The consumers individual circumstances. 
What this means is that there isnt a one-size-fits-all approach to what is considered 
proportionate, as any of these factors (or others) might influence what a reasonable and 
proportionate check ought to be. 
Tesco say its their commercial decision to provide lending, and its up to them to set the 
level of checks and criteria needed when considering to lend. They say theyre confident the 
checks they complete are more than enough to gauge affordability. But just because they 
have their own criteria and level of checks, and an automated system in place for online 
applications, it doesnt immediately follow that their lending decision was a fair one in each 
and every case. 
My starting point is that the credit limit Tesco were proposing to provide to Mr F was 
relatively small at £250. However, it marketed this particular product, and said it was 
designed for, people with previously poor credit histories. So although, the initial limit was 
small, it knew given the type of credit facility it was providing that it was likely to attract 
consumers who may still be in some financial difficulty. I therefore think a proportionate 
check ought to have been more thorough than for a similar credit limit on a different type of 
credit card or lending product. 
Tesco says it asked Mr F for details of his income which he declared to be around £2,000 
per month as well as his monthly rental/mortgage payment which he declared to be £820. It 
says it also carried out a credit check to work out his current credit commitments and 
estimated what his other monthly expenditure was likely to be. It said based on this it 
estimated that Mr F had around £800 in disposable income. Given all the circumstances I think the checks Tesco carried out where likely to be 
reasonable and proportionate, particularly because of the very low credit limit it was 
proposing. However, this doesnt necessarily mean its decision to lend was a fair one. 
Did Tesco make a fair lending decision?
Tesco hasnt provided us with the exact information it saw when it carried out a credit check. 
Although it has told us it could see Mr F had unsecured debts of around £7,400 and that he 
had no history of recent missed payments. They say there was no recent adverse 
information recorded against him and that none of his other credit cards were over their 
limits at the time of the application. It said there were no concerns around affordability from 
the information it saw. But I have serious concerns about Tescos assessment of the 
information that was likely to be available to it. 
While I havent seen exactly what it saw, I have reviewed a copy of Mr Fs credit file. And in 
the absence of anything else, I think this is likely to be a good indication of what Tesco would 
have been able to see too when it carried out its credit check. In summary, the credit file 
shows:
Two credit cards consistently near their limits with recent credit limit increases. One 
of those credit cards had also been over its agreed limit recently. There were also 
indications that Mr F was regularly taking out cash advances on some of those credit 
cards. 
Mr F was consistently and significantly overdrawn in his current account, which was 
also close to its limit.
He had a number of outstanding payday loan commitments which had been 
refinanced several times over, indicating he wasnt able to afford to pay them back. 
There was also a similar pattern of repeat lending with payday loan providers dating 
back several months prior to the current outstanding payday loans. 
I think this demonstrated Mr F was likely struggling to meet his current credit commitments 
and was utilising almost 100% of his available credit already. Any further borrowing he was 
to take out would appear to have been paid for using his existing credit commitments or by 
taking out further borrowing, not any disposable income he might have had. 
So given all of this, I dont think Tesco properly scrutinised the information they received 
from the credit check. This means while they arguably gathered an appropriate amount of 
information in order to assess Mr Fs ability to sustainably repay the borrowing, they didnt 
then make a fair lending decision based on the information they received. This is because it 
ought to have been clear Mr F was still struggling financially and was already overcommitted 
with his existing creditors. 
Tesco say Mr F applied for a specific type of credit card which is designed to help customers 
build their credit up. They say Mr F was initially given a Credit Limit of £250 which was the 
lowest limit available. While I can understand the point Tesco is trying to make, by giving 
Mr F more credit than was sustainable for him to repay, it only served to make his financial 
situation even worse. Its clear from the information that would have been available to Tesco 
that Mr F wasnt someone who had in the past experienced financial difficulty and was now 
over those problems, in fact it ought to have been clear he was still experiencing difficulty 
repaying existing commitments. 
It seems Mr F continued to borrow after taking out the credit card from Tesco and this was 
from a mixture of payday lenders and other high cost creditors. While Mr F continued to 
make repayments towards his Tesco credit card, he was only able to do so because he borrowed the money from other providers. Clearly this was not a sustainable way for his to 
repay the credit card. As I think Tesco ought to have realised this before lending to him, 
I dont think its decision to lend was fair. 
I note Tesco increased Mr Fs credit limit to £600 a few months later. Given I dont think it 
ought to have given him the credit card initially, it follows that the increase wasnt reasonable 
either. But for completeness, it seems that Tesco would likely have seen that Mr F was even 
further indebted elsewhere when it increased his limit (as hed continued to take out other 
credit), making that further decision to lend unfair. 
Did Tesco act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive not seen anything to make me think Tesco acted unfairly or unreasonably in any other 
way.
Putting things right
Based on everything Ive seen, Mr F wasnt in a position to sustainably repay the borrowing 
Tesco had given him, and it ought to have realised that too from the information it had 
gathered as part of the application. As I dont think it should have lent to Mr F it isnt fair for it 
to charge interest or other charges on the borrowing it gave. However, I think its reasonable 
for Mr F to pay back the capital amount of any purchases he made. Tesco therefore needs 
to now close the credit card account if it hasnt already and re-work it as if no interest and 
charges were applied. Once its re-worked the account, if it results in a credit balance it 
should refund this to Mr F, adding 8% simple interest per year from the date it would have 
gone into a credit balance to the date of settlement. 
Lastly, I think its fair for Tesco to remove any adverse information it may have recorded on 
Mr Fs credit file in relation to this debt. Tesco have said this wouldnt be an accurate 
reflection of Mr Fs ability to repay that credit and would therefore provide a misleading view 
to other potential lenders. While I understand the point Tesco are making, it equally isnt fair 
for Mr F to have adverse data recorded against a credit facility he should never have had in 
the first place and could never reasonably afford. It is only present on his credit file due to 
Tescos unfair lending decision. Tesco can of course choose to remove the credit card 
entirely from Mr Fs credit file if it wishes and thinks this would be more appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Tesco Personal Finance 
PLC trading as Tesco Bank to:
Close the credit card account if it hasnt already, ensuring no further interest or 
charges are applied.
Re-work the credit card by refunding all interest and charges that have been added 
since inception.
If this results in a credit balance, refund that credit balance to Mr F and add 8% 
simple interest per year from the date the credit card would have first gone into a 
credit balance to the date of settlement.
If the re-work leaves an outstanding balance, Tesco should arrange a suitable and 
affordable repayment plan with Mr F to repay what is owed.
Remove all adverse entries for this credit card from Mr Fs credit fileIf Tesco considers tax should be deducted from the interest element of my award, it should 
provide Mr F with a certificate showing how much its taken off, so he can reclaim that 
amount, should he be entitled to do so
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2020.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman