DRN-2093549
The complaint
Mr R is complaining that a van FirstRand supplied him under a hire purchase agreement 
wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In November 2016 Mr R entered into a hire purchase agreement with FirstRand to acquire a 
van. The vans cash price was around £12,000, it was around five years old and had 
travelled around 41,000 miles.
Mr R says hes had continual problems with the van. He says around two weeks after he 
acquired it, it had issues with a faulty reverse parking sensor and he said there was a 
knocking noise. He called the supplying dealership and he says he was told to take the van 
to another garage  who I shall call V  to get the work done.
In April 2017 Mr R says he took the van to V on two further occasions as he said the 
knocking noise was still present, the drivers door had dropped slightly on the hinge and he 
separately broke down which was discovered to be a fault with the battery. 
In May 2017 Mr R says the van went into limp mode and he says he took it back to V. He 
says V had the van for around two weeks and says V cleaned the turbo and fitted a new 
solenoid. But Mr R says the van continued to go into limp mode, so he took the van back to 
V in May 2017 and he says V cleaned the turbo again. But Mr R says the van continued to 
go into limp mode, so in July 2017 he took the van to another garage  who I shall call M  
who similarly cleaned the turbo.
In September 2017 Mr R says a further issue developed with the vans gearbox and he said 
there was a smell of fuel. V rectified the issue with the gearbox, but it said it couldnt find 
anything to substantiate a smell of fuel.
Mr R says the van continued to have issues with the turbo and in October 2017 V replaced 
the vans turbo. But Mr R says the van continued to go into limp mode after that. And he 
says that in December 2017 the van broke down again and it was recovered to M. Mr R says 
M stripped and cleaned the injectors and replaced the rocker seals.
In March 2018, Mr R says the diesel particulate filter was blocked and needed a 
regeneration, which M carried out.
In November 2018 Mr R says the engine blew and the van was recovered to a local garage 
and he was told it needed a new engine. Mr R then complained to FirstRand that it had 
supplied him with a van that wasnt of satisfactory quality. FirstRand responded and said, 
given how long hed had the van, hed need to provide an independent report in respect to 
the cause of the engine failure.
In March 2019 Mr R complained again about the condition of the van and he said he couldnt 
afford to keep up with the finance as he wasnt able to work. FirstRand said again that he 
needed to provide an independent report.
Mr R arrange for an independent inspection of his van in April 2019 and he forwarded this to 
FirstRand by letter in May 2019. Mr R called for an update in June 2019, but FirstRand said 
it was still waiting for the independent inspection. Mr R sent this again and FirstRand 
acknowledged it had received it.
FirstRand reviewed the report, but it still didnt think Mr R had the right to reject the van. It 
said Mr R had had the van for two years and it said a number of third-party garages had 
carried out repairs. It said the independent report inferred that the faults were due to a failed 
repair. And it said, as the supplying dealership wasnt involved in the repairs, it wasnt 
required to put things right.
I issued a provisional decision in July 2020 upholding this complaint. And I said the following:
Mr R acquired the van under a hire purchase agreement. Legislation implies a term into the 
hire purchase agreement that the van must be of satisfactory quality. As the supplier and 
finance provider, FirstRand is responsible for the quality of the van its provided under the 
agreement. Theres no dispute theres a fault with the van, given the engine appears to have 
failed. But the issue is whether it was present or developing at the time of sale  or linked to 
a fault present or developing  and whether that fault makes the van of unsatisfactory quality 
when it was supplied. Ive also considered whether a reasonable person would expect there 
to be problems such as Mr R has experienced in a van of this price, age and mileage  in 
short was the van sufficiently durable.
In deciding whether this van was of satisfactory quality, I take into account the relevant 
circumstances, such as the cash price, its mileage and age. In this case, Mr R paid around 
£12,000 for the van. The van was around five years old and had travelled around 41,000 
miles at the point of supply.
Its clear Mr R has had a lot of issues with his van since he got it. Some of the initial issues 
have been resolved  namely the faulty parking sensors and the knocking noise in the 
exhaust  at no cost to Mr R. So I dont intend to comment on these further.
Between May and October 2017 Mr R says he took the van to both V and M on eight 
occasions due to issues with the van going into limp mode, which he says was linked to a  
fault with the turbo. V ultimately replaced the turbo in October 2017.
In December 2017, Mr R had a further issue with the van when it stopped running. Mr R took 
the van to M who carried out further works.
It doesnt appear that there were any further significant issues with the van, apart from a 
regeneration of the diesel particulate filter in March 2018, until November 2018 when the 
engine blew.
I think the issue for me to decide is whether the engine failure was linked to the initial issues 
with the van. Ive also thought about whether it would be unreasonable to have to replace 
the engine given how long Mr R has had the van.
Ive paid particular attention to the independent report that was carried out on the van after 
the engine failed. In particular, I note it highlights the following:
In our opinion based on the visible evidence, we can only conclude that at the time of our 
inspection we found excessive oil leakage from the turbo pipe on the exhaust side and 
excessive oil accumulation at the bottom nearside intercooler pipe consistent with wear.From the information provided and, a technical discussion, we do suspect that the van has 
suffered from hydraulic lock up due to a worn turbo unit allowing excess oil into the 
combustion chambers.
I also note the engineer has concluded that he thinks its likely these faults were linked to the 
previous repairs. Hes found evidence of excessive oil leaking from the turbo, which he 
thinks in turn has caused a hydraulic lock due to a build-up of excessive oil.
Ive thought about Mr Rs testimony and Im persuaded by what hes told us that V carried 
out a number of repairs to the turbo and ultimately replacing it. I acknowledge FirstRands 
concerns that there are no job sheets showing the repairs carried out. But I also think V was 
acting on behalf of the supplying dealership at the time. When Mr R first had issues with the 
van, he contacted the supplying dealership and, he was told to take the van to V. FirstRand 
has said theres nothing to show this. But the supplying dealership has confirmed this to 
FirstRand directly. I also havent seen anything to show Mr R paid anything towards the 
repairs V did. Im also conscious the warranty provider has said it didnt pay for any of the 
repairs.
Ive found what Mr R has told us plausible. Its not clear whether Mr R took the van to V 
directly after the first repair, or whether he was instructed to do so again by the supplying 
dealership. I note the supplying dealership said they didnt hear from Mr R again until 
September 2017. But, I havent seen anything to show Mr R paid for these repairs and, as I 
said, the warranty provider has said it didnt pay for any of the repairs. I think its most likely 
V did this on behalf of the supplying dealership  whether the dealership asked Mr R to take 
the van there or not.
It seems the issues with the turbo first arose around six months after Mr R acquired the van. 
I dont think a reasonable person would expect to see these issues so soon after acquiring 
the van, given its age, price and mileage at the point of supply. And I dont think its disputed 
the van wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. But for the avoidance of doubt, I 
dont think it was. The cash price of the van was around £12,000. So I think Mr R was 
reasonably entitled to expect it to be free from more than minor faults for a reasonable 
period of time. And I dont think he should have reasonably expected to have had a turbo 
failure on the van  which is what appears to have happened  so soon after acquiring it. I 
think, in asking V to carry out repairs, Mr R was exercising his right under the relevant 
legislation to have the van repaired.
I note FirstRand says it cant be held responsible for anything V did because its not the 
supplying dealership. But I think, its likely Mr R would have been told to take the van to V, 
even if he did contact FirstRand or the supply dealership beforehand. So Im not persuaded 
the situation would be any different.
It seems V cleaned the turbo on two occasions, before replacing it in October 2017. As I said 
above, the independent engineer has concluded the engine failure is likely to be down to 
excessive oil leaking from the turbo. Given V cleaned the turbo on two occasions before 
replacing it and taking into account what the independent engineer subsequently found, it 
does seem likely the turbo was leaking oil at the time. And the engineer has concluded the 
issues Mr R has suffered are likely to be linked to the initial issues on the van. Hes also said 
he didnt think the van to be in a condition that would be expected of a van of this age and 
mileage and from documented evidence presented to us during our inspection, we consider 
these issues present due to failed previous repairs.
Ive found the engineers report to be particularly persuasive in respect to his conclusions. 
And I dont think FirstRand has given me anything to say his conclusions arent a fair 
reflection of whats happened. 
I acknowledge FirstRands concern that M has done some repairs on the car. But it seems 
they only did the same repair as V  i.e. a temporary clean. And I havent seen anything to 
support that the engine has failed due to anything M did wrong. 
Ive thought about the fact Mr R has travelled over 14,000 miles in the van since he first 
acquired it. But I also think he was largely only able to do this because of the temporary 
repairs V carried out. Ultimately, I think, on balance, the engine has failed due to an inherent 
fault that was present  or at least developing  at the point of sale. So I think FirstRand 
should have allowed him to reject the van on receipt of the independent engineers report.
So I thought FirstRand should do the following to put things right:
As I said above, I think FirstRand should have allowed Mr R to reject the van on receipt of 
the engineer report. But Im also conscious Mr R has suffered a lot of distress and 
inconvenience as a result of whats happened. Hes also not had the use of the van he was 
entitled to expect as a result of whats happened. Hes had to take the van to a garage on 
around seven separate occasions (although I acknowledge Mr R says he took it there at 
least 16 times). And he, ultimately, hasnt been able to use it since November 2018. So I 
think FirstRand should refund any payment Mr R has made since then.
FirstRand asked Mr R to get an independent report in December 2018. I think it was fair for it 
to request this, given the fact that Mr R had had the van for around two years by this time. 
So I think Mr R could have moved this forward quicker had he done so. But Im also 
conscious that he was struggling with ill health at that time. And I note his father was 
temporarily given Power of Attorney over Mr Rs affairs. So I dont think I can hold Mr R 
responsible for any delay here. And, ultimately, I think the reason he wasnt able to use the 
van was because it wasnt of satisfactory quality, rather than anything Mr R did wrong.
Mr R has said that his income has been reduced because he cant use his van. I understand 
he was previously working as a self-employed plasterer, but hes since had to work as an 
employed labourer. He says he used to earn £150 per day, but now only earns £80 per day. 
However, he hasnt provided anything definitive to show how much income hes lost. Im also 
conscious that his expenses as a self-employed worker would have been higher. But, given 
the van was acquired for business purposes, I think its likely he will have lost some income 
as a result. I also think its clear this matter has caused Mr R a lot of distress and 
inconvenience. And hes provided a copy of his medical report which highlights that he was 
suffering from a high level of stress at the time.
I also note there were periods when Mr R wasnt able to use the van between April and 
November 2017 while it was with V being repaired, despite paying to hire it. In particular I 
note V had it for around two weeks in October 2017 and I understand Mr R wasnt given a 
courtesy vehicle during that time. So I think hes lost out during that time too. Taking all this 
into account, I think FirstRand should pay him £750 as compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience hes suffered, for the time he wasnt able to use the van and for any lost 
income.
Finally, I think Mr R has incurred expenses in demonstrating the van wasnt of satisfactory 
quality. I understand he had to arrange for the van to be taken to a manufacturing dealership 
prior to the independent inspection. He also had to pay for the independent inspection. He 
also paid M to clean the turbo and I think he should get that back too as I think this loss is 
directly attributable to the original breach of contract. I think FirstRand should refund these 
costs  subject to Mr R demonstrating he incurred them.
So, in summary, I think FirstRand should do the following to put things right:1. Allow Mr R to reject the van and arrange to collect it at no cost to him;
2. Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay - and arrange for any adverse data to 
be removed from Mr Rs credit file;
3. Refund the deposit of £1,899. It should add 8% simple interest per year on this from 
when he entered into the finance agreement until he gets it back*;
4. Refund the monthly payments Mr R made since (and including) December 2018 as he 
wasnt able to use the van during this time*;
5. Refund the amount Mr R paid to transport the van to the manufacturing dealership and 
the cost of the independent inspection*; and
6. Pay £750 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused 
Mr R.
*If FirstRand thinks that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr R how much its taken off. It should also give Mr R a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
Mr R responded to accept my provisional decision. FirstRand didnt accept it and raised the 
following points:
The engineer says theyre unable to find the cause of the fault, so it thinks Mr R should 
pay for a further inspection. It also highlighted the engineer has commented that the fault 
could be due to wear and has not commented on what repairs have failed. It said the 
engineer could only say he doesnt know the exact fault and can only attribute failed 
repairs to either the last repairer or the selling agent.
It queried why the dealership was being held responsible for the failure of the engine, if 
the turbo has been replaced, and M have completed work to the injectors, seals and 
DPF. It said it thought the DPF could be a sign of a failing turbo. It said M was the last 
repairer before the engine blew up based on the customers timeline of events which it 
thought indicated they are responsible for the failed repairs, not the dealership or V.
The independent engineer said he could only comment on the evidence provided. It 
maintained Mr R hasnt provided sufficient evidence to support the timeline of events  
only his testimony. It said this was the only information the engineer has used to form his 
opinion which it said Ive relied heavily upon. It acknowledged the engineer has 
commented he feels this is a case of failed repairs, but hes not commented on which 
repairs have failed. He still feels the van needs to be further stripped to allow a proper 
diagnosis, and further evidence to establish liability. It maintained Mr R should be 
responsible for this given the length of time hes been in possession of the van.
It said it needs to be considered how many times the dealership/V have actually had the 
van to complete repairs. It said it cant be ignored the customer acquired the van on a 
personal agreement for business use and has completed 15,000 miles. It thinks the 
dealership should be allowed reasonable attempts to resolve the matter as per the 
Supply of Goods Act. And it said its not conclusively clear how many times the 
dealership has been responsible for the repairs. It says, all Mr R says in his timeline is he 
took the van to V who didnt resolve the issue. It said theres no confirmation V actually 
repaired the van on the occasions where this is mentioned. And it said theres no 
documented evidence to confirm whether this is the dealerships liability, Vs failed repair 
or Ms failed repairs. It also suggested the failure was down to general wear.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive taken FirstRands comments into account, but Im not persuaded its provided anything 
significantly new that it hasnt raised before. I recognise it strongly feels Mr R doesnt have 
the right to reject the van. But I think my provisional decision addresses the majority of 
FirstRands comments  particularly in respect to why Im persuaded V did carry out the 
repairs Mr R said it did, why I think the dealership is liable for the current failed repair, and 
FirstRands comments that Mr R has travelled around 15,000 miles in the van. So Im not 
going to comment on this further.
FirstRand has suggested the independent engineer has only based his conclusions on what 
Mr R has said about the vans history. But I dont agree. The engineer has particularly 
highlighted that he found evidence of excessive oil leakage from the turbo pipe and 
excessive oil accumulation at the bottom nearside intercooler pipe. I dont dispute the 
engineers considered Mr Rs testimony in his conclusions, but I think it was fair for him to do 
so. Im satisfied that his conclusions are based on what he found during his inspection of the 
van. And its fair to rely upon them. 
I note FirstRand has suggested other faults could have caused the engine failure. But I think 
its fair to rely on the independent engineers conclusions that its most likely to be down to 
the turbo failure. And I havent seen anything to say I shouldnt rely upon this. Ultimately, 
hes concluded the engine failure is linked to the turbo. And V carried out the fundamental 
repairs to the turbo. So Im not persuaded the engine failure is down to any failed repairs M 
carried out.
I note FirstRand says Mr R should pay to have the engine stripped down. But I dont agree. 
Ive seen enough to show the issues are most likely to be linked to the initial faults with the 
vans turbo. So I dont think Mr R needs to pay to have the engine stripped down. Im not 
persuaded that doing so would change the situation either.
Finally, Ive thought about FirstRands comments it should have further rights to repair the 
van. Im satisfied V  on the dealerships behalf  has had looked to fix the van a number of 
times. But this hasnt been successful. Legislation now allows Mr R to reject the van. And I 
still think thats the fair and reasonable thing to do too.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. And I 
require FirstRand Bank Limited to compensate Mr R as follows:
1. Allow Mr R to reject the van and arrange to collect it at no cost to him;
2. Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay - and arrange for any adverse data to 
be removed from Mr Rs credit file;
3. Refund the deposit of £1,899. It should add 8% simple interest per year on this from 
when he entered into the finance agreement until he gets it back*;
4. Refund the monthly payments Mr R made since (and including) December 2018 as he 
wasnt able to use the van during this time*;
5. Refund the amount Mr R paid to transport the van to the manufacturing dealership and 
the cost of the independent inspection*; and
6. Pay £750 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused 
Mr R.
*If FirstRand thinks that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr R how much its taken off. It should also give Mr R a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2020. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman