DRN-1845526
 
The complaint
Mr M says Canada Square Operations Limited, trading as Egg, mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr M applied for a credit card with Egg in 2003. At the same time, PPI was added to the 
credit card, providing him with cover in the event of disability and unemployment. It also 
included death and serious illness cover.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr M disagreed, so the 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ms case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Before adding the PPI, Egg had to make it clear to Mr M that it was optional and get his 
agreement for it to do so. He says it didnt do that and that the option to take PPI was pre-
ticked. He says he couldn't move his application on without taking it.
Im satisfied Mr M applied for the credit card online. So, Ive looked at the screens I believe 
hed have seen and completed during the application process. These included a section on 
PPI where there was an area for him to click on if he wanted PPI and an equally prominent 
one to click on, just below it, if he didnt. Eggs internal records of the application details he 
provided indicate he chose to have PPI. 
Its possible the option for PPI was pre-selected, as Mr M says. But, from experience of how 
Egg sold these policies online, I find that unlikely.
So, I think Egg made it clear that it was selling optional PPI and that Mr M agreed to have it, 
knowing he had a choice. But, given the sale was back in 2003, its understandable if he 
doesnt remember that now.
I dont think Egg recommended the PPI to Mr M. This means Egg didnt have to look into 
whether it was right for him. But it should have provided enough information about the PPI 
for Mr M to make up his own mind as to whether it was right for him.
From what Ive seen, I dont think Egg made all the information Mr M needed clear to him. 
But, having gone on to consider what difference that might have made to Mr M, I dont think better information would have stopped him from buying the PPI. Thats because:
Based on what I know of Mr Ms circumstances at the time, he was eligible for the 
PPI. And while the PPI had certain exclusions to, or limits on, the cover I cant see 
that he was significantly affected by them. 
Mr M says, among other things, he had substantial savings he could have relied on to 
meet his card repayments if he wasnt working. I gather they were earmarked for a 
property purchase and the PPI would have allowed him to retain them for their 
intended use or put them towards covering his other living costs if he was off work. 
Overall, I think Mr M would have valued the extra protection the PPI provided in 
addition to his other means.
Theres nothing to suggest hed have considered the monthly premium to be 
unaffordable. And the PPI was flexible in that Mr M could have cancelled it at any 
time, and at no extra cost, if he no longer wanted it.
 
Taking everything into account, I dont believe Mr Ms lost out because of how Egg sold him 
the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman