DRN-1237037
 
The complaint
Ms K complains that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc refused her claim brought under Section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974. She wants a refund of the cost of a TV which she says 
wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Ms K tells us that in December 2018 she purchased a new TV from a company Ill refer to as 
C.  She states it cost in excess of £3,000 and this was financed through a fixed sum loan 
agreement supplied by Hitachi. Ms K states that in February 2019 she noticed a small 
scratch on the screen. She says shes had an independent inspection carried out to confirm 
the scratch is present.
Hitachi told us the scratch hadnt been reported until almost three months after delivery. And 
it said that if the scratch had been present when the goods were supplied it wouldve been 
expected this to have been reported straightaway or very soon after delivery. It explained 
that Cs terms and conditions required reports of damage to be made within 48 hours or 30 
days as per CRA. It said this wasnt done.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said that as the 
scratch hadnt been reported for over two months there was no information to show if it had 
been present at the point of supply. He said the independent report hadnt said from when 
the scratch had been present. So he couldnt fairly say the TV wasnt of satisfactory quality 
when supplied.
Ms K didn't agree with this outcome. As it's not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsman's been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Ms K would be disappointed and concerned to discover this scratch on 
a new and expensive item. 
Under section 75, a consumer has the right in certain circumstances to make a claim against 
the provider of the credit if theres been a breach of contract by the supplier of the goods. 
That might occur if the goods werent of satisfactory quality.
Its worth making clear that Im not deciding Hitachis liability under section 75 - only a court 
could do that. We take into account the relevant law and that includes section 75. 
But we decide cases by considering what is fair and reasonable, as statute requires us to do. 
What Im deciding is whether Hitachi did enough in considering Ms Ks complaint. And if it 
didnt, what else it should now do.In reality this complaint turns on whether this defect was present at the point of supply. Its 
not in dispute that there is a scratch on the TV screen. And thats its relatively small and not 
easy to spot. 
The CRA states that in order for goods to conform to contract they need to be of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply.  This is defined as being what a reasonable person would 
consider to be satisfactory. And aspects of quality include appearance and finish; and 
freedom from minor defects. As this was a new item when supplied the latter two aspects 
are relevant.  
Ms K has claimed that as the goods were found to be damaged within the first six months 
following supply, the CRA requires Hitachi to prove (if its to refuse her claim) that this hadnt 
been present at the point of supply.
Thats a fair summary of the CRA but I dont think it assists Ms K in this complaint as much 
as she thinks it should. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a delivery note which appears to bear Ms Ks signature and it confirms the goods 
were delivered and unpacked at her address. And that no damage to the packaging was 
reported. Cs terms and conditions require damaged goods to be reported within 48 hours of 
delivery. And they state that it wont accept claims for damage after this period. Im not 
deciding if this condition is enforceable. But its fair for Hitachi to take into account in 
considering this claim.
Ive also to consider that the CRA states that the short term right to reject goods must be 
exercised within 30 days after supply. After this time the supplier is able to attempt repairs. 
At the time Ms K made her complaint I dont think either C, or Hitachi, was under any 
obligation to accept the rejection of the goods even if theyd accepted the damage was 
present at the time of supply.
I accept that the damage is hard to see and that its only visible under certain conditions. 
And the independent report which Ms K supplied was unable to conclude how or when the 
scratch occurred.  As the scratch was on the screen, its reasonable to infer that this is the 
part of the TV which is the most observed. So its perhaps more surprising that - if the 
damage was present at the time of supply - it wasnt noticed earlier.
I said earlier in my findings that my decision would not determine Hitachis liability under 
section 75. Rather it would decide whether it had done enough in considering Ms Ks 
complaint. Or put another way did it act fairly?
In all the circumstances I find Hitachi has considered Ms Ks complaint fairly. In my opinion, 
it was entitled to conclude there was insufficient information to show the goods werent of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. And without this it was reasonable for it to find that 
thered been no breach of contract which made it liable under section 75.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is I'm not upholding this complaint.
 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2020.Stephen Ross
Ombudsman