DRN-4419886
The complaint
Miss G has complained about the way Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance (BPF) dealt with a conditional sale agreement that shed 
voluntarily terminated. 
What happened
In September 2014 Miss G acquired a used car under a conditional sale agreement with 
BPF. The car was around a year old and had covered around 7,600 miles. The cash price 
was around £10,000 and was to be repaid over 49 months. Miss G said she agreed to 
voluntarily terminate the agreement in 2017 and her car was picked up. A couple of months 
later she says BPF contacted her to let her know she owed around £700. She said this was 
unexpected and she didnt know what it was for, so she contacted BPF. 
Miss G said BPF gave her conflicting information about whether it was for damage charges, 
or charges from a loss when the car was sold at auction. Miss G said she was seeking 
information about the balance, but BPF passed the debt on to another firm. Miss G said she 
thought BPF had applied a default as well. 
Miss G said things werent resolved for a long time and that BPF told her it would write off 
the debt and remove the default. But she said when she spoke to it again a few weeks later 
it said that wasnt right, so she complained.
BPF said it wasnt upholding the complaint, and that it can sell the debt to a third party if 
there are arrears on the account for a certain period. Miss G referred her complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman. She said the situation caused her distress and inconvenience. She 
requested BPF contact the debt recovery company and arrange for it to stop chasing her for 
money. 
In summary, BPF said the terms of the conditional sale agreement set out Miss G was liable 
for certain costs if she voluntarily terminated the agreement. It said she opted to have the car 
collected which incurred a cost of £206.40. The car was inspected and noted around £1,150 
of repairs that were required. It said the collection agents used the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA) guidance when carrying out inspections. BPF said it decided 
to charge Miss G £550 for the damages which was the shortfall between the sale price at 
auction and the estimated value of a similar model at that time. BPF said it also applied a 
£30 valet charge and a £84 transport charge. It said these were reasonably incurred. 
BPF apologised its agent didnt notice it had sent a funds/balance advice letter in March 
2018, which was sent with a copy of the vehicle appraisal. BPF said its agent offered to 
remove the default, but it also supplied evidence showing one wasnt registered. It said it 
reduced the debt by around £30 which left Miss G owing £669.92. 
Our investigator looked into things and said, in summary, BPF should reduce the damage 
charge by £167. He said the photos supplied by BPF werent all very clear, or available to 
view in full size. He thought the damage element of the charge should be reduced to £383 
but he thought the charges for collecting the car; transporting it to the auction; and valeting it, 
were reasonable. Our investigator thought BPF should compensate Miss G £100 for the way 
it handled the call where it misinformed her. Our investigator therefore thought the amount 
outstanding should be reduced to £502.92 and BPF should pay Miss G £100 compensation. 
I cant see we received a response from Miss G. BPF agreed to pay £100 compensation. But 
it didnt think it should have to reduce the charge with the debt recovery company by £167. 
BPF said its not fair to assume the damage wasnt present because the collection agent 
doesnt have all the photos that were available in 2017. It said on the balance of probabilities 
the damage was present. 
As things werent resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss G acquired the car using a regulated conditional sale agreement, and our service is 
able to consider complaints relating to these sorts of agreements. 
BPF has shown us a screenshot of what it is reporting to the credit reference agencies, and 
theres no default showing, so I dont need to consider that further. Moreover, while the debt 
has been outstanding for a long time, BPF has shown us a record of notifying Miss G about 
the outstanding balance in March 2018. As it wasnt paid, I understand BPF sold the debt, 
which I think is broadly fair. While there was incorrect information given by a call handler in 
2022 about the debt being waived, BPF has agreed to pay £100 compensation for this. I 
think thats broadly fair too. I think the main thing left in dispute is whether BPF needs to 
reduce the outstanding charge. So thats what Ill focus on. And I think our investigators 
recommendation seems like a fair way to put things right. Ill explain why. 
The terms and conditions of the conditional sale agreement that Miss G entered into set out:
TERMINATION: YOUR RIGHTS: You have a right to end this agreement. To do so, 
you should write to the person you make your payments to. They will then be entitled 
to the return of the goods and to half the total amount payable under this agreement, 
that is £6,291.48. If you have already paid at least this amount plus any overdue 
instalments and have taken reasonable care of the goods, you will not have to pay 
any more.
The agreement also sets out:
If you or we terminate (end) this agreement for any of the reasons set out in this 
agreement you must pay us the following. 
 All repayments, interest and other amounts you owe on the date the agreement 
ends. We will tell you how much you must pay. 
 The cost of all repairs that are needed to bring the vehicle to a good state of repair. 

 All costs we must pay in repossessing, storing, insuring and selling the vehicle and 
delivering it to a buyer and any sales commission we must pay. 
You must also return the vehicle to us (including all keys, remote devices and alarm 
and immobilisation codes) and give us all licence certificates and other documents or 
items relating to the vehicle (including the V5C Registration Document, MOT 
certificate and service record). You must return the vehicle in a good state of repair 
and condition. If the vehicle is not in good condition when you return it, you must pay our costs to bring it into a good condition or (if we choose) cover the reduction in its 
value.
From what I can see Miss G repaid half the total amount payable. And BPF was able to 
charge her for damage by way of repair costs or the reduction in resale value. It looks like 
Miss G agreed to have the car collected in November 2017 and BPFs notes say she was 
aware of the collection charges. BPF charged £206.40 to collect the car from Miss G; £84 to 
transport the car to auction; and £30 to valet it. Given it looks like Miss G was aware of the 
collection charge, and the terms of the agreement set out BPF can charge costs in relation 
to selling the car, I think these charges have been applied fairly. 
With regards to the damage charges, the car was around a year old and had relatively low 
mileage when it was supplied to Miss G, so it was likely in decent condition. The damage 
recorded on the inspection when it was returned most likely happened while it was in 
Miss Gs possession. Due to the time thats passed, the report doesnt contain images that 
can be enlarged. And the secondary photos that are normally linked to the report are no 
longer viewable. 
The inspection report noted charges for dents to the bonnet (£185); the front left door (£48); 
and the front right door (£48). BPF said it considered the BVRLA guidance on fair wear and 
tear. This is industry guidance and I think its relevant to consider given the age of the car 
when it was returned.   
For dents, the BVRLA (at the relevant time) said dents of 10mm or less in diameter are 
acceptable providing there are no more than two per panel and the paint surface isnt 
broken. Even though the pictures are small on the report Ive seen, I think they all show 
dents that are outside of fair wear and tear because they exceed 10mm. I think these are 
fairly chargeable, and I dont think the charges Ive set out above are unreasonable. 
With regards to wheels the guidance at the relevant time said scuffs totalling up to 50mm on 
the total circumference of the wheel trim and on alloy wheels is acceptable. I agree that even 
with the small photo supplied, it looks like the damage exceeds this on the front left alloy. 
The report noted a £60 charge for this which seems reasonable. 
The report also notes a scratch to the front right mirror housing. The BVRLA guidance at the 
relevant time said scratches and abrasions up to 25mm are acceptable, relative to the 
vehicles age and mileage, and provided the primer or bare metal isnt showing. The photo 
on the report shows a scratch larger than this. I therefore think that falls outside of fair wear 
and tear. The report notes a charge of £42 which seems reasonable. 
The report also notes other areas of damage: dull paint on the front bumper, front left wing, 
boot, and rear quarter panel; soiled upholstery; and paint cracked on the rear bumper. But 
like our investigator pointed out the photos are too small to determine whether these areas 
of damage fall outside of fair wear and tear. While I appreciate BPF has said it shouldnt be 
penalised for this due to the time thats passed, I do need to be able to weigh up the 
evidence. I also take on board its point that on the balance of probabilities the damage was 
present. That might be true, but I cant weigh up whether the damage falls outside of fair 
wear and tear. In all the circumstances, I agree that instead of charging Miss G £550 for loss 
of resale value, a fairer figure is to add up the areas of damage I can see were likely outside 
of fair wear and tear. This totals £383. I therefore agree BPF should reduce the damage 
element to this amount.
For completeness sake I should point out this decision focussed on Miss Gs complaint 
against BPF. I understand the debt may have been sold to another firm. If shes unhappy 
with how that firm has acted, or what it is reporting on her credit file she will have to take it up with that firm in the first instance and, if shes unhappy with its response, it may be 
something our service is able to consider. 
Putting things right
For the reasons given above, if Miss G wishes to accept the decision, Clydesdale Financial 
Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance should pay £100 compensation and 
reduce the damage element of the charges to £383. BPF will therefore need to arrange to 
reduce the amount outstanding to £502.92. 
If required, BPF can either bring the debt back and reduce the amount outstanding or 
arrange to make the amendment with the firm thats recovering the debt. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, and direct Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance to put things right in the way Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman