DRN-2417654
The complaint
Mr P and Mrs P are unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc (RSA) declined their 
contents claim following a burglary at their home.
What happened
Mr P and Mrs P had buildings and contents insurance with RSA. The policy was in joint 
names but, for ease, Ill refer only to Mr P throughout my decision.
While on holiday, Mr Ps home was burgled. He claimed under his policy for the damage and 
contents which had been stolen, amounting to around £25,000. RSA appointed a loss 
adjuster (LA) who visited Mr Ps home to investigate the claim, followed by a visit to his place 
of work to determine the value of loss.
RSA declined Mr Ps claim because the LA reported that the property was undergoing 
building work. The policy required Mr P to notify RSA if the property was undergoing any 
structural work or extension.
Mr P complained to RSA because he thought it was looking for any excuse to decline his 
claim. He said the policy terms werent clear, so he didnt think he needed to notify RSA of 
what he considered decorative work. Mr P also complained about the way RSA handled his 
claim.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought it was fair for RSA to decline the 
claim because Mr P hadnt reported ongoing building work, and his home was left 
unoccupied. 
Mr P didnt agree. He thought the policy wording was ambiguous, so it wasnt at all clear that 
he needed to report the decorative work to RSA; he thought RSA unfairly invalidated the 
insurance due to unoccupancy, and he disagreed with its view that he was underinsured. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr P will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint for broadly 
the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain.
The circumstances of the burglary and the list of stolen items are well known to both parties 
and arent in dispute, so I wont repeat the details here. The issue of complaint is whether it 
was fair for RSA to decline the claim under the policy for the reason it gave.
Building work
Mr P was having an extension built and the rest of the house redecorated. RSA declined the 
claim because Mr P hadnt told it about the work. The policy states:
you must tell us within 30 days as soon as you know about any of the following:
If your home is not in good condition, if it requires work other than routine 
maintenance or redecorating or any structural alteration or extension to your home.
Mr P didnt think RSAs decision was fair because the policy term is ambiguous. Ive read the 
term a few times while thinking about what Mr P said and I agree that additional punctuation 
couldve made it clearer. For example, If your home is not in good condition; if it requires 
work (other than routine maintenance or redecorating); or any structural alteration, or 
extension to your home. But, while I agree it couldve been clearer, I dont think its fair to 
say the meaning was lost. Very simply, I think its fair to assume that RSA would want to 
know if the house was being extended because of the additional risk of loss or damage to 
the building and contents. 
Mr P said that because the term wasnt clear, he wouldnt have known to report the work to 
RSA. Ive noted his view that the policy should be read in his favour where the terms are 
unclear. But, given that the policy says, If you do not tell us about changeswe may be 
entitled to reject payment of a claim, I think if Mr P had seen this term before the break-in, 
while the work was ongoing, and thought it was ambiguous, it wouldve been reasonable for 
him to check with RSA that he was covered.
Overall, I sympathise with Mr P for the loss he suffered, but I dont think RSA unfairly 
declined his claim under this exclusion clause. Thats because I think the overriding 
meaning, on balance, was sufficiently clear to warrant contact when building work was 
planned. 
Unoccupancy
RSA also declined the claim because the property was left unoccupied. Mr P moved out for 
a little over two weeks during the most disruptive work, then he moved back in briefly before 
going on a ten-day holiday. The burglary took place one evening while he was on holiday. 
The policy states: 
you must tell us within 30 days as soon as you know about any of the following:
if it is left unoccupied for a total of more than 60 days in a year
I can understand why Mr P felt RSA unfairly used this term to decline his claim. However, if 
he had notified it of the structural building work, RSA wouldve confirmed the following:
when there is building work taking place at an insured address, it is considered to be 
unoccupied the moment it is not being slept in [the insurer] would have advised youthe 
following exclusions apply; 
Water escaping from washing machines, dishwashers, fixed water and heating 
systems 
Theft or attempted theft
I realise Mr P wasnt aware of this additional endorsement, but as Ive decided it was fair for 
RSA to expect him to notify it of the building work, I think its fair to say he wouldve been 
made aware of the endorsement. And for that reason, I cant reasonably say it was unfair for 
RSA to decline the claim because the burglary took place while the property was 
unoccupied.
Claim handlingIve considered Mr Ps dissatisfaction with the way RSA handled his claim and its earlier 
suggestion that he might have been underinsured. However, I havent seen anything to 
suggest that RSA handled the claim unfairly. I understand the home visit took place without 
Mr P being present and the construction manager, who first reported the burglary, showed 
the LA the point of entry and explained the circumstances. It was at this point the LA became 
aware of the structural building work. I can appreciate that Mr P mightve been unhappy that 
this visit was done without his knowledge, but I have no reason to think there was any 
secrecy intended. The LA also interviewed neighbours, which is standard practice for this 
type of claim. 
The suggestion that Mr P may have been underinsured related to the value of certain 
individual items. While I can understand that Mr P was unhappy with RSAs doubt about the 
value of his contents, I havent seen anything to suggest that it contributed to the decision to 
decline the claim.
In summary, Im satisfied that the overriding meaning of the policy term was sufficiently clear 
to warrant reporting a change of circumstances, and I havent seen anything in the evidence 
which persuades me that RSA unfairly declined Mr Ps claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman