DRN-3081129
The complaint
This complaints about a mortgage that until recently, Mrs and Mr E held with National 
Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest). They repaid it when selling their house, and then took a 
new, bigger, mortgage for their next home. Mr and Mrs E paid an early repayment charge 
(ERC) on redeeming the old mortgage, and were expecting it to be refunded when they took 
the new mortgage. 
However, NatWest then told them they could only do that if the took the new mortgage at the 
same rate as the old mortgage, rather than the lower rate theyd applied for. Mrs and Mr E 
say their relationship manager led them to think they could have the lower rate and the ERC.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mrs and Mr E and NatWest. Im 
also aware that the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, a copy of which 
has been sent to all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all the details here. Our decisions 
are published, the circumstances of this dispute are a little unusual, and its important that I 
dont include any information that might result in Mrs and Mr E being identified. Instead Ill 
focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be 
because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
. Having done so, these are my conclusions, and the reasons for them.
First of all, in their submissions, Mrs and Mr E have said the ERC was around £7,000. Ive 
looked at the closing statements for the old mortgage, and the true figure is a little under 
£6,300.
As a starting point, when a business gives consumers information thats inaccurate (or 
incomplete) we dont seek to place them in the position theyd be in if the information they 
were given was right. We seek, insofar as it is possible or practical to do so, to place them in 
the position theyd be in if the correct (or complete) information had been given in the first 
place.
I know Mrs and Mrs E feel very strongly that they were misled by their relationship manager, 
and having read the email exchanges, I agree his comments about when an ERC could be 
refunded were lacking in both clarity and completeness. I can see why Mrs and Mr E might 
have thought they could have the lower rate on the new mortgage and a refund of the ERC 
on the old one. It doesnt help that other NatWest staff involved later in the process 
apparently didnt correct the position either.
But I have to keep in mind also that Mrs and Mr E were always in possession of the correct 
information about when an ERC could be refunded. Thats because Ive seen the offer 
document for the rate variation they accepted on the old mortgage in June 2020. 
Between them, sections seven and eight of the June 2020 offer set out when an ERC is 
payable, and when it can be refunded. The key point that section eight in particular makes 
clear, is that for an ERC to be refunded the rate product from the old mortgage must be 
carried over to the new one. Those are the contract terms by which Mrs and Mr E were 
bound. The relationship managers comments may have contradicted those terms, but they 
didnt replace them. 
I appreciate Mrs and Mr Es sense of grievance but taking a step back and looking at the 
case independently (as Im required to do) I agree with our investigators assessment of 
what is fair in all the circumstances. 
Mrs and Mr E could never be in a position where they could have a lower rate on their new 
mortgage and have a refund of the ERC from their old mortgage. They could only ever have 
one or the other, and whilst its possible to conclude theyd been led informally to think 
otherwise, that is countered by them always being in possession of the correct information 
by virtue of the June 2020 offer.
Mrs and Mr E say they wouldnt have bought the bigger house if theyd known how much 
theyd have to pay on the bigger mortgage with the rate carried over from the old mortgage. 
Ill take them at their word on that, but the reality is that they did buy the bigger house. Thats 
not a change of position that can readily be unwound, and of course they are now accruing 
the benefits they sought when they decided to buy it. 
But even accepting that they had already sold their old house when they found out the 
correct position, Mrs and Mr E still had choice to make about how to fund the purchase of 
the new one. That choice was between taking the new mortgage on the lower rate and 
forgoing the ERC refund, or porting the previous higher rate and preserving their contractual 
right to the ERC refund. 
It was my understanding from Mr Es email of 1 October 2021 that they opted for the latter, 
but NatWest sent us a copy of the offer it issued on 6 May 2021 for the new mortgage. This 
showed that the new mortgage is on the lower rate, indicating that Mrs and Mr E opted for 
the mortgage with the lower rate (and lower monthly repayment) theyd discussed with the 
relationship manager at the outset. Our investigator checked with Mr E who confirmed they 
opted for the lower rate and forewent the ERC refund.
That may have been a choice between two unwelcome alternatives, but it was still a choice 
and in making it the way they did, Mrs and Mr E knew they were opting to forego their ERC 
refund for the lower monthly mortgage payment. Mrs and Mr E will have had their own 
reasons for doing so and Im certainly not going to criticise them for making the decision they made. It was their right, but it was also their decision, and they must accept what flowed 
from it. 
That leaves the level of compensation. When youre as close to a situation as Mrs and Mr E 
have been, its natural to see things from just one point of view. Be that as it may, I have to 
take a different approach. Im impartial and I have to look at things subjectively, sometimes 
taking a step back from the fine detail and instead focussing on the broader picture. Thats 
what Ive done here. Overall, I find the £350 NatWest offered Mrs and Mr E in its final 
response to be a fair settlement in all the circumstances.
Mrs and Mr E dont have to accept my final decision, and if they dont it wont be binding on 
them or NatWest. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a court might impose, 
Mrs and Mr Es right to pursue a legal remedy against NatWest, rather than accept its 
settlement offer, wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of their complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman