DRN-1980111
The complaint
Mr D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) closed two of his accounts requiring 
him to remove the monies he had deposited there. The funds which were held there in those 
accounts were in US dollars (USD) and Euros (EUR) and when removed were converted to 
GBP, potentially incurring a loss due to the exchange rate.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mr D and Barclays, so there is no need for me to repeat them again here in 
any great detail. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not 
mentioned something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its 
relevant to the issues I need to deal with. 
Mr D had 2 accounts with Barclays, one with funds in USD and the other EUR. On the 14 
December 2018 Barclays sent him a Notice to Close (NTC) both accounts and asked that he 
remove all funds by the 14 February 2019.
Mr D encountered difficulties in transferring his money out of the account, in part because he 
worked abroad and had limited time to do so. Despite visiting branches whilst in the UK he 
was unable to transfer the money out by the deadline Barclays had set, and when he finally 
managed to do so, this he says resulted in him incurring a loss on the exchange rate of 
about £3,000.
Barclays said they hadnt done anything wrong in closing the account as they followed their 
processes for doing so, and that was pursuant to their terms and conditions governing the 
account. They did however accept there had been a delay in returning the funds to Mr D and 
in recognition of that offered him £200 for the trouble and upset they may have caused. 
Mr D was unhappy with Barclays final response and so brought the complaint to this service 
and our investigator looked into it. Having done so, the investigator didnt think Barclays had 
done anything wrong in closing the account. The investigator did agree there had been poor 
service caused by the delay in returning the funds to Mr D, but the amount of compensation 
offered was sufficient to put things right. 
Mr D didnt agree with that and asked that the complaint be passed to an Ombudsman for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate.  
I have taken into account both sides views in considering whether Barclays acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. I have to make an independent decision about what I think is right for each case, and thats what 
Ive done here. 
A bank can decide who it wants to deal with as a customer just as a customer can decide 
who it wants to bank with. And if a bank decides to close a customers account, it doesnt 
have to give a reason. All it has to do is follow the process it has set out in the accounts 
terms and conditions. In this case it did, as it gave him more than the 60 days notice 
required in its letter of the 14 December 2018. That asked him to remove his funds by the 14 
February 2019. I do appreciate that Mr D worked abroad and this would have added to his 
difficulties in complying with the NTC, but those were the terms and conditions he agreed to 
when he opened the account.
As Mr D didnt transfer his funds out of the accounts Barclays removed them and transferred 
them to what they have described as an appropriate account (Ill call this the closure date). 
 At that point the funds were transferred into GBP. I have asked Barclays to provide the 
authority for taking that particular step and they have referred me to the general terms and 
conditions of the account, conceding that the conversion of the funds is not covered. I have 
seen no other evidence that Barclays warned Mr D that they would remove the funds from 
his account and convert them to GBP either.
When Mr D eventually transferred his funds out (Ill call this the transfer date) he maintains 
there was a loss incurred when he converted them back into their original currencies. I have 
seen no evidence to support how he has calculated the £3,000 loss however.
In my view, and in the absence of specifically warning Mr D that Barclays would convert his 
funds to GBP, I think Barclays did act unfairly when they transferred the funds to their 
appropriate account, in GBP. 
So Ive gone on to think about what Barclays should do to put things right regarding the 
conversion of Mr Ds funds to GBP. What Mr D is effectively saying is that he would have left 
his funds in their original currencies and in so doing taken the risk of any adverse currency 
exchange rate movement. I make the assumption that the exchange rate movement 
between the closure date and the transfer date was against him since he now claims 
£3,000.
I can see that a loss would be possible. Barclays converted the balances in Mr Ds accounts 
on the closure date to GBP at rates that it may reasonably use. Such rates are often 
composite ones  and not always directly comparable with exchange rates quoted in the 
press. But Barclays can easily confirm what those rates were  as the balances in USD and 
EUR and the resulting figures in GBP are known to it.
Those rates can then be compared against what they would have been at the transfer date 
to establish what the difference would be. If there is a loss  as Mr D maintains  then I think 
Barclays should pay that to Mr D. If there is a gain to Mr D, I wouldnt expect Barclays to 
pursue him for that sum.
I think this is fair  as Mr D wasnt party to any decision to convert his original USD and EUR 
balances to GBP. That was Barclays choice and, without any evidence to the contrary, it 
doesnt appear the bank has the specific authority to do that.
Barclays has accepted that it didnt get things right and because of the poor service it 
provided that led to a delay in getting the funds to Mr D. So, I agree that it should 
compensate him for that. Barclays has offered Mr D £200 which I think is fair. Having issued my provisional decision earlier, both Mr D and Barclays have confirmed that 
they accept that decision.
Putting things right
So, I think what Barclays should do is calculate the loss incurred by Mr D in putting his funds 
back into their original currencies as at the date of transfer out to his new accounts. I think 
Barclays should then pay that sum to Mr D as that would put him back in the position he was 
in prior to Barclays deciding to convert the funds themselves.
I think Barclays offer of £200 for the poor service Mr D suffered through the delay in 
accessing his money is fair. Im not proposing to ask the bank to do anything more in this 
respect.
My final decision
I uphold Mr D's complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC., 
Barclays has already made an offer to pay £200 to settle the complaint in so far as the issue 
of delay is concerned. So I direct that Barclays Bank UK PLC pay Mr D £200.
Barclays Bank UK PLC must also pay a further sum in compensation to Mr H to reflect the 
loss he incurred when his funds were changed to GBP. That compensation must be 
calculated by subtracting the difference in value of the funds between the date Barclays 
transferred the funds out to Mr D's new account and the date when they actually transferred 
the funds into GBP. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman