DRN-3333925
The complaint
Mr S has complained about U K Insurance Limited (UKI) regarding how long it took to 
provide him a premium refund when he cancelled his van insurance.
What happened
Mr S arranged cover with UKI, to start on 2 November 2021, paying it the premium on 
9 October 2021. But on 11 October 2021 Mr S called UKI to cancel. He was told hed get a 
full refund within 10 days of the cancellation date. Mr S called UKI on 23 October to chase 
the refund which he eventually received on 28 October. He was unhappy about how long 
that had taken, not least as he had had to borrow money in the meantime to get other cover.
UKI said Mr S had cancelled before his payment had cleared on its systems. It said once it 
had cleared and because Mr S wanted his money back quickly, it arranged to fast track the 
refund. It said normally the 10 days for refunds is working days and, in this case, would 
have started on 2 November because that was really the cancellation date of the policy.
Our investigator felt UKI had failed Mr S by giving him incorrect information and 
expectations, which had led to frustration and upset. He said it should pay him £100 
compensation.
UKI said that its action in fast-tracking Mr Ss refund from the point it had realised some 
confusion had arisen was a fair and reasonable response. It didnt think it should have to do 
anything more.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and in short, UKI misled Mr S. It told him on 11 October 2021 that he would 
get a refund within 10 days. It did not say working days. And it did not explain to Mr S, at that 
time that a) his payment hadnt cleared yet and the refund could only occur once it had, or b) 
that the 10 days would only begin on 2 November. Had it done so Mr S would have known 
that he would have to wait a little while for his money to be returned to him. He may not have 
been happy about that but he would have understood the process. As it was, he was left with 
a clear expectation he would have his money back in the very short term. And when that 
didnt happen he had to find ways to mitigate the situation he had found himself in because 
of UKIs failure. Im satisfied he was caused distress and inconvenience and that its fair and 
reasonable for him to be compensated for that. I think the sum set by our investigator fairly 
and reasonably achieves that.
Putting things right
I require UKI to pay Mr S £100 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out above 
at putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman