DRN-2276530
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) reduced the 
credit limit on his account and withdrew the facility for him to withdraw cash using his card.
What happened
Mr W took out an American Express card in April 2019 with an initial credit limit of £1,500. 
At the time that the card was taken out Mr Ws account included the facility to take cash 
withdrawals from the card. However, in June 2020 Mr W contacted American Express 
because the cash withdrawals he was attempting on the card at that time were being 
declined.
The reason why cash withdrawals were being declined was because American Express had 
taken the decision to lower Mr Ws credit limit and withdraw the facility for cash withdrawals 
from Mr Ws account. 
However, the correct reason why cash withdrawals were being declined was not immediately 
understood by the American Express staff who Mr W spoke to, and initially Mr W wasnt 
given accurate information as to why this was the case. This meant that the correct 
information wasnt provided to Mr W by American Express until about a week after Mr W had 
first contacted them.
Mr W wasnt happy that his credit limit had been reduced and the cash withdrawal facility 
removed, so he made a complaint. American Express looked at Mr Ws complaint, but they 
noted that the cash withdrawal facility was a discretionary service which they were within 
their rights to withdraw, and that they had written to Mr W in March 2020 advising him that 
his credit limit was being reduced and the cash withdrawal facility withdrawn. So, they didnt 
uphold these aspects of Mr Ws complaint.
However, American Express did acknowledge that the level of service that they had provided 
Mr W, especially regarding the inaccurate information that they had initially given him, wasnt 
to the standard that they would have liked. So, they upheld this aspect of Mr Ws complaint 
and made an offer of £25 credit to his account by way of compensation.
Mr W wasnt satisfied with this response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One of 
our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that the letter which American Express 
had sent to Mr W in March had provided a clear explanation that his credit limit was being 
reduced and the cash withdrawal facility removed. They also felt that the £25 offer of 
compensation already made by American Express for the inaccurate information provided 
was reasonable in the circumstances here. So, they didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Mr W remained dissatisfied and noted that he had never received the letter in March 2020 
that American Express said they had sent, and that he wouldnt have raised this complaint 
had he done so. So, the matter was escalated to an ombudsman a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so its clear that one of the key factors of this complaint is the letter sent by 
American Express in March 2020 which Mr W states that he never received. This letter 
included confirmation that American Express were reducing the credit limit and withdrawing 
the cash withdrawal facility from Mr Ws account. 
This information is crucial in the context of this complaint, as it provides an explanation as to 
why Mr W was experiencing the issues that ultimately led him to contact American Express 
and subsequently to raise this complaint. And indeed, Mr W has stated that if he had 
received this letter then he would not have raised this complaint in the first instance.
In this circumstance - where American Express confirms that it has sent a letter, but where 
Mr W equally confirms that he hasnt received it  I have to make a decision as to what I 
think is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities, given the evidence and 
information that I have available.
Its clear that Mr W feels strongly that he never received the letter. Id like to confirm 
immediately that this service is not disputing Mr Ws testimony here, and Im confident that 
had Mr W been aware of the information present in the letter then he wouldnt have raised 
this complaint, just as Mr W has himself explained.
However, the point of consideration here isnt whether the letter was received by Mr W, but 
rather whether the letter was sent by American Express, and, if it was, whether it was sent to 
the correct address. 
This is an important distinction, and the reason for this is that while a business can be held 
responsible for whether a letter is sent, this service wouldnt hold a business responsible for 
whether that letter is subsequently received  because once a letter has left the business, 
the delivery of that letter, and the receipt of it by the person to whom it is addressed, isnt 
something over which the business has any control. Instead, this is the remit and 
responsibility of the organisation delivering the letter.
In this instance, American Express have been able to demonstrate that the letter was sent in 
March 2020 and that it was sent to the correct address. American Express have also 
confirmed that they didnt receive any return post which would have caused them to consider 
that the letter hadnt been delivered. As such, while I dont doubt Mr Ws testimony that he 
didnt receive the letter, I equally cant doubt the testimony of American Express that the 
letter was sent.
It follows that Im satisfied that American Express did send the letter and so did take the 
necessary steps to advise Mr W that his credit limit was being reduced and that the 
discretionary cash withdrawal facility was being removed from his account. And while I 
accept that Mr W may not have received that letter, this isnt something that I can hold 
American Express responsible for, as I have explained above.
I understand that this will be frustrating for Mr W, and I can sympathise with his position 
here. But its difficult for me to conclude that American Express have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in this instance, because they have done what this service would expect a 
business to do when making the changes to Mr Ws account that American Express made. 
And while it isnt the fault of Mr W that the letter explaining these changes didnt arrive at his 
address, given that the letter was sent, it equally isnt the fault of American Express either. And so, because it wouldnt be reasonable to hold American Express accountable for the 
non-delivery of the letter, it follows that I also cant hold them accountable for Mr W not being 
informed of the changes that were due to take place on his account, including the removal of 
the cash withdrawal facility, and so I wont be upholding these aspects of Mr Ws complaint.
This leaves the issue of the £25 compensation that American Express made to Mr W in 
acknowledgment of the incorrect information they initially provided to Mr W when he first 
contacted them in June 2020. It will have been frustrating for Mr W that American Express 
werent able to provide him with the correct information immediately that would have 
explained the issues that he was encountering, and I think it was appropriate that American 
Express made an offer of compensation because of this. 
Offers of compensation are always a subjective issue, but I must note that the offer that 
American Express has made is commensurate with what this service would expect, given 
the overall circumstances here, and so I wont be asking them to make any additional offer 
beyond this.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr W was wanting, but I hope that he can 
understand, considering everything that I have explained above, why I have made the 
decision that I have here, and why I wont be upholding this complaint or asking American 
Express to take any further action at this time.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman