DRN-3745443
The complaint
Miss M complains about information BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as MINI
Financial Services (BMW) recorded on her credit file.
What happened
In September 2017 Miss M entered into a hire purchase agreement to acquire a new car.
The agreement ran for four years, and Miss M returned the car in early 2021.
BMW sent Miss M an invoice for damage charges when the car had been returned. Miss M
paid the charges that she agreed with and complained to BMW about the remaining
charges. BMW sent Miss M their final response to her complaint in June 2021 to say the
charges were payable. Unhappy with this, Miss M brought her complaint to this service.
We issued a final decision in October 2021 upholding Miss Ms complaint and directing BMW
to remove £10 from the outstanding charges, with the remaining amount being payable by
Miss M
In January 2022 Miss M noticed that late payments had been recorded on her credit file, and
she complained to BMW.
BMW sent Miss M their final response to her complaint in January 2022. They said they told
Miss M about the potential impact on her credit file if she didnt pay in June 2021, and as she
hadnt paid the charges, they had correctly recorded late payments on her credit file. BMW
said they are required to report accurate information to credit reference agencies, so they
wouldnt remove the late payment markers from Miss Ms credit file.
Unhappy with this, Miss M brought her complaint to this service for investigation. Our
investigator gave his view that Miss M showed a willingness to pay but waited until the
investigation was complete until she did so. He said Miss M didnt refuse to pay or ignore
contact from BMW, and Miss Ms agreement had been cleared so there were no payments 
to fall behind on, only the disputed damage charges. So, it was unfair to record the late 
payment markers on her credit file.
BMW didnt agree. They said they informed Miss M of the potential consequences of not 
making a payment on a number of occasions, and it was factually accurate to mark this 
payment as late. They said Miss M couldve made the payment and continued with the  
dispute.
As an agreement cant be reached, the case was passed to me for a decision. I issued a 
provisional decision on this complaint in August 2022, recommending it wasnt upheld. I 
made the following provisional findings: 
Miss M was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated
consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into complaints about it.
I havent considered as part of this case whether the damage charged for by BMW was fair,
this has already been subject to a final decision by this service, which Miss M accepted.
As the charges were accepted as having been fairly made, it follows that Miss M was liable
for this payment to BMW at the end of her agreement. Miss M chose not to pay the charges
she disagreed with and waited until the complaint was concluded to make the full payment.
Whilst I appreciate that Miss M didnt agree with the charges, and hasnt ignored either them
or BMW, I am satisfied that they were due to be paid at the time that BMW charged them.
Miss M couldve chosen to pay the charges when they became due and continued with her
complaint about them.
Miss M responded to my provisional decision to say that although shed received payment 
request letters from BMW, shed spoken to BMW on the phone after receiving them and had 
been told to ignore the letters as they were automated, so she didnt realise that not making 
a payment would affect her credit rating. 
We asked BMW to provide a copy of the call recordings after Miss M had disputed the 
damage charges, but they told us they were unable to locate these recordings, likely due to 
the time that has passed since the phone calls occurred. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M has said that she was told on the phone by BMW that she could ignore the letters 
about the payment for damages being due. 
BMW have said they told Miss M about the possible impact on her credit file on a number of 
occasions. 
Im unable to listen to the phone calls between BMW and Miss M as theyre no longer 
available. 
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, as it is here, I make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities in other words, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened given all the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
As I set out in my provisional decision, Im satisfied that the damage charges were due to be 
paid at the time that BMW charged them, and that Miss M was liable for the charges but 
didnt pay them. 
BMW sent Miss M an invoice for the charges and notice of sums in arrears when the 
charges werent paid, which explained the impact non-payment might have on Miss Ms 
credit file. 
Ive seen the contact notes that BMW recorded on Miss Ms account, and theres no 
information that says they told Miss M that she could ignore the letters or ignore any 
information BMW had sent her about the possible impact on her credit file. 
All things considered, Im more persuaded by the written correspondence and the call logs 
made by BMW at the time of the calls. Im satisfied that the information that BMW provided 
to Miss M shouldve been enough for her to know that not making the payment for the 
damage charges might have an impact on her credit file. BMW have a duty to report accurate information which is a fair reflection of Miss Ms
payment history under the agreement to credit reference agencies. Im satisfied that the
charges were due to be paid at the end of the agreement, however because Miss M didnt
pay the amount owed, it remained outstanding. So, BMW hasnt unfairly reported the
adverse information and Im not asking them to remove the late payment markers from Miss
Ms credit file.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman