DRN-1660440
 
The complaint
Mr Q is unhappy how Quickly Finance Limited, trading as Fast Track Reclaim (FTR) dealt 
with his claims for mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance (PPI). 
What happened
Mr Q instructed FTR to make a number of claims for mis-sold PPI, against a number of 
different lenders. Some of the claims were successful and Mr Q was awarded compensation. 
However, for some of the successful claims, this compensation was paid to the Official 
Receiver, and used to offset Mr Qs debts relating to a previous discharged bankruptcy.
Mr Q has complained that FTR invoiced him for successful claims against Lender N, and are 
pursuing their fees through a solicitor even though he didnt receive any compensation. Hes 
also unhappy that FTR chased him for an invoice hed already paid.
Our investigator said FTR hadnt acted reasonably by pursuing their fees on the claims 
against Lender N. He said that, while the Terms and Conditions allowed FTR to charge their 
fee when the compensation award is used to offset arrears, they didnt do this with their 
invoice for a claim against Lender B. Instead they waived this invoice. He felt that FTR were 
acting inconsistently and if they were waiving some invoices because Mr Q had previously 
been bankrupt, then they should waive all invoices. So he said FTR should waive the 
outstanding invoices, and any associated fees thatve been added.
He also said that FTR chasing for their fees on the claim for Lender C, on the day and day 
after Mr Q paid them, was likely to be caused by a crossover in correspondence. So he 
didnt think FTR needed to do anything about this.
FTR didnt agree with the investigator. They said they only worked for Mr Q because he 
omitted to tell them he was bankrupt. And because their terms allow for them to charge 
when compensation is offset against a debt, they feel theyre entitled to be paid for the work 
theyve done for Mr Q.
FTR also say that its incorrect there are notes saying if money is paid to the Official 
Receiver then cases will be cancelled. When cases are passed onto a solicitor, FTR say 
they write off any debts below £50, but this is regardless of financial situation and isnt 
related to bankruptcies. So they dont agree they should write off the outstanding invoices.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
overall conclusions as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Ive seen a copy of the Terms and Conditions Mr Q agreed to when he instructed FTR in 
February 2019. These explain how FTR would calculate their fee and include three clear examples of how FTRs full fee would still be payable, including where compensation is 
used to offset arrears consumer has on credit card or loan. 
While the Documentation and Disclosure section of the Terms says You must complete all 
documentation and disclose all relevant information which is pertinent to your claim in a 
truthful manner, which is accurate to the best of your knowledge, there is no reference to 
the need to disclose any previous (and now discharged) bankruptcies.
FTR say that when they asked Mr Q if hed ever been made bankrupt he said No. Mr Q 
completed FTRs questions online, and Id expect to see something to show the information 
FTR received from the online form. Instead theyve provided a typed up copy of his 
responses, on headed paper marked Audit Trail. This isnt sufficient for me to know exactly 
what Mr Q was asked or answered.
Ive also seen the PPI questionnaires Mr Q completed for three of the claims with Lender N. 
Although these ask if Mr Q had ever gone into arrears with the account being claimed 
against (which Mr Q correctly answered No), they dont ask if Mr Q had ever been bankrupt.
FTRs case notes say there is no indication from the client that they have been involved in 
Bankruptcy, IVA, Debt Management or Arrears but dont say where this information was 
obtained from. I dont think FTR asking Mr Q about arrears, and telling him about the 
potential to offset compensation against arrears, is sufficiently clear for him to also know this 
applied to previous bankruptcies. So I dont think FTR did everything Id expect to establish if 
Mr Q had been previously bankrupt before they started working for him, or told him the 
implications of them working for him if he had been made bankrupt previously.
FTR say they dont cancel cases where a client has been made bankrupt. But their case 
notes for 13 June 2019 for the claim against Lender B say Mr Q has a letter from the lender 
advising they have found him on insolvency register. Client confirmed he was bankrupt in 
1999. I have advised that if any money is still owing on the bankruptcy, they are obliged to 
pay this off before client receives refund. We will not know until we receive offer letter if any 
money will be due to client, and if it is sent to practitioner, we would cancel case. 
The case notes for 25 June also say we need to cancel all cases as [Mr Q] has made us 
aware that he was bankrupt in 1999. A case note relating to Lender N on 15 July says case 
cancelled as client previously (1999) declared bankrupt.
Its clear from these notes that, regardless of what their Terms and Conditions say, its FTRs 
policy to cancel cases where their client has been made bankrupt. They did it for Mr Qs 
claim against Lender B, but they didnt do it for all the claims against Lender N  the letters 
from Lender N dated 31 July 2019 show the compensation was paid to the Official Receiver.
So I agree with the investigator that FTR have been inconsistent in their approach as to how 
they dealt with Mr Qs claims. Because their case notes show that claims were cancelled, 
and shouldve been cancelled, because Mr Q has been previously bankrupt; I dont think its 
reasonable that they now charge Mr Q for the claims against Lender N where the 
compensation was paid to the Official Receiver.
putting things right
FTR should recall all outstanding invoices, which relate to claims they made for Mr Q against 
Lender N, from the solicitors they passed the debt onto. These invoices, and any associated 
fees charged by FTR should be waived. FTR should also be responsible for any fees being 
charged by the solicitors.My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Mr Qs complaint. Quickly Finance Limited must 
follow my directions above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman