DRN-2892392
The complaint
Mrs E complains that The Protection Specialist Limited trading as The Fair Trade Practice 
(FTP) have unfairly charged her for a successful mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) claim. Mrs E said the agreement shed with FTP ended in 2017.
  
What happened
In 2017, Mrs E instructed FTP to act on her behalf to check whether shed any claims for 
mis-sold PPI. Mrs E signed FTPs letter of authority (LoA) agreeing to their terms and 
conditions. She said FTP contacted several of her lenders, but no PPI was found. Mrs E said 
her agreement with FTP was to see if she had any PPI, as she didnt, she said the 
agreement had ended.
Mrs E said in 2019, her sister made a new claim for mis-sold PPI to one of her lenders Ill 
call B. And in May 2019 they contacted her for her up to date details and for information to 
support her claim that PPI had been mis-sold. In July 2019, after investigating her claim that  
shed been mis-sold PPI they made her an offer of compensation. Following this, FTP asked 
Mrs E to pay their fee as shed had a successful claim. Mrs E didnt agree and complained to 
FTP.
FTP said B had told them incorrectly in 2017 they couldnt find any PPI for Mrs E. They 
referred Mrs E to their terms and conditions that said their fee was justified if a lender later 
made an offer of compensation after theyd said PPI hadnt been found.
Mrs E wasnt happy with FTPs response. She said they hadnt done any work for her after 
2017, and the success of her claim with B was because of the information shed given. She 
referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said Mrs E had told FTP in May 2019 that she was dealing directly with B. 
And that FTP hadnt submitted a complaint to B for mis-sold PPI. She said FTP should 
waive their fee.
FTP didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
FTP feel strongly that Mrs E agreed to use their services and that it was because of their 
enquiry her claim with B was successful. I can also understand Mrs Es frustration as she 
was told by FTP in 2017 that she didnt have any PPI and considered that the end of the 
matter. 
In making my decision I need to determine whether, on balance, Mrs E had instructed FTP 
to submit a PPI claim for her. And if she had, whether they knew she no longer wanted them 
to work for her. I will also consider whether FTP has acted fairly and reasonably in their 
actions with Mrs E.
It isnt in dispute that Mrs E signed FTPs LoA in 2017 instructing them to find out if she had 
any PPI. And that FTP sent a subject access request to Mrs Es lenders. What is in dispute 
is whether FTPs fee for Mrs Es successful PPI with B is justified.
FTP has referred to their terms and conditions as justification of claiming their success fee. 
They refer to:
6.3 (a) If we have sent a complaint to a lender who informs us that you did not have PPI, or
for some other reason will not make an offer of a financial award to you for that complaint,
but they subsequently make such an offer, then you will still have to pay our fee.
This clause in the terms and conditions relies on FTP having sent a complaint to the 
lender. But Ive not seen any evidence that FTP submitted a complaint. FTPs records show 
that theyd only sent a subject access request on behalf of Mrs E to determine whether shed 
any PPI. If PPI had been found it would have been at this point that FTP would have looked 
to submit a complaint on Mrs Es behalf. But they didnt as no PPI had been found. 
And after informing Mrs E of this, Im satisfied that shed have considered any agreement 
with FTP ended.
In 2019, leading up to the August PPI deadline many claims management companies (CMC) 
amended their terms and conditions in recognition of the expected high volume of claims. 
And reflected that lenders could investigate any claim based on a data subject request only. 
But Mrs E hadnt been made aware of this by FTP. Their terms and conditions say:
During the time we are investigating your claim we will provide updates.
But FTP didnt provide any updates to Mrs E after she was told there wasnt any PPI. Which 
would have reinforced Mrs Es understanding that the agreement had ended. And B didnt 
investigate Mrs Es claim solely based on the subject access request theyd received as they 
asked Mrs E to provide information by completing a PPI questionnaire, they sent to her.
I can also see that FTP had closed the agreement in 2017, as they say after contact from B 
they reopened the case theyd with Mrs E. I cant see they sought Mrs Es agreement to 
reopen the case or for her to sign a new agreement. And Mrs E, before any redress was 
awarded, was clear in that she didnt want them to act for her.
The response FTP had from B was in relation to a subject access request they sent in 
2017. And as FTP hadnt submitted a claim for Mrs E, in 2017, I dont think FTP can rely on 
the agreement Mrs E signed then to justify their fee. 
As Mrs E hasnt signed any further LoA and has verbally told FTP she didnt want them to 
act on her behalf, Im satisfied that FTP wasnt authorised to provide their claims service. So, 
I dont think its fair or reasonable for them to ask Mrs E to pay their fee. My final decision
I uphold this decision. And ask The Protection Specialist Limited trading as The Fair Trade 
Practice to waive their fee.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman