DRN-2504505
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain Zenith Insurance plc didnt deal with their car insurance claim 
properly.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R insured their car with Zenith. One evening, it hit a deep pothole at speed, 
causing damage to the driver-side wheels. (Ill now refer to Mr R in this decision only, as he 
was driving the car at the time of the accident in question). The car was taken to a local tyre 
supplier the following day and a new tyre was fitted. However, Mr R noticed a noise coming 
from the wheel, which he hadnt heard before. He immediately advised his insurer of the 
pothole incident, although didnt raise a claim at this point.
A couple of weeks later, the noise remaining, Mr R took his car to a garage to be told both 
driver-side wheels needed replacing, but it was OK to continue driving the car. However, the 
noise continued and five weeks later Mr R took the car to another garage who undertook a 
full assessment and said the noise was coming from the gearbox. He suggested taking the 
car to a manufacturers dealership to undertake a definitive assessment, which Mr R did the 
next day. The car was inspected by the master technician there who said the noise was 
gearbox related and caused by the car hitting the pothole at speed. Mr R was advised the 
car shouldnt be driven until the matter had been rectified.
It was at this point  some nine weeks after the pothole incident  Mr R raised a formal claim 
with Zenith. A few days later, Mr R was contacted by Zeniths approved repairer. The car 
was collected, inspected, and recommendations sent to Zenith  a new gearbox and two 
new wheels were needed. But Zeniths in-house engineer wanted a second opinion. He felt 
the damage to the gearbox was unlikely to have been caused by Mr Rs car hitting a pothole. 
So, a further independent engineer was sent to inspect the car. After a full inspection, this 
engineer also felt the noise was unlikely to have been caused by hitting the pothole. At this 
point some repairs were authorised  driver-side wheels and bearings could be replaced. 
And if the noise remained, the engineer said the issue of the gearbox would be revisited.
The noise did remain, so Zenith agreed to send the car to the manufacturers garage that 
originally inspected the car, so the gearbox could be split open and properly assessed. 
However, before the car could be sent, this garage entered Liquidation.
Mr R found another dealership (70 miles away). Zenith agreed to send the car there for the 
gearbox split and inspection, but Mr R would have to pay for its return if the gearbox noise 
was found to be caused by wear and tear and not the pothole incident. And if Mr R wasnt 
happy with this, Zenith would return his car to him in its current condition, and the claim 
would end (but agreeing if Mr R arranged for the gearbox split, and the noise was found to 
be pothole related, Zenith would reimburse costs incurred and pay for repairs as necessary). 
Mr R asked for his car to be returned. It became clear some of the agreed repairs hadnt 
been completed, which Mr R paid for and was reimbursed by Zenith. Mr R then sold the car.
Mr R made two complaints to Zenith. The first essentially concerns how Zenith dealt with the 
repairs to his car, and more precisely their refusal to accept assessments provided after his 
initial manufacturer inspection, and later by their own approved repairer. Zenith didnt uphold 
this complaint. They said they remained of the opinion the gearbox damage was not related 
to the pothole incident, and that further investigations were necessary to prove conclusively 
what was causing the gearbox noise. They repeated their above offer and said this was fair.
Mr Rs second complaint was that Zeniths final engineer took a test drive in his car despite 
them being told it was unsafe to drive, the authorised repairs werent completed and there 
were delays in acknowledging this, and Zeniths actions meant Mr R was forced to sell his 
car for much less than it was worth. Zenith agreed thered been delays responding to Mr Rs 
emails regarding the work that wasnt done and offered an inconvenience payment of £175 
(which was offset against his £300 excess). But they didnt uphold the rest of the complaint.
Unhappy with this, Mr R brought his complaints to us. However, one of our investigators 
thought Zenith had acted fairly  it was reasonable for Zenith to want to see the results of an 
internal gearbox investigation before agreeing liability for any the gearbox repair and noted 
Zenith offered to arrange this. He also said, whilst acknowledging the distance, it was fair for 
Zenith to ask Mr R to cover the cost of his cars return as they wouldnt have been liable for 
repairs if the internal gearbox investigation concluded the damage wasnt pothole related. 
Accordingly, he thought the compensation offered was sufficient in the circumstances.
Unhappy with this, Mr R asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, and so 
its been passed to me to consider.
Provisional decision, dated 16 December 2020
I issued a provisional decision on 16 December 2020 in which I said I was minded to uphold 
Mr Rs complaint in part. I said as follows: 
I want to assure Mr R that Ive read all of the information hes provided, together with all of 
the information provided by Zenith. And I acknowledge and appreciate the strength of Mr Rs 
feelings regarding this matter.
I want to begin by looking at what Mr Rs policy says  as this sets out what Zeniths 
obligations were after Mr R submitted his claim. The relevant parts (in relation to this 
complaint) of the policy say as follows:
Definitions: Approved repairer  A repairer nominated by us to carry out the repair to 
your vehicle
What isnt covered:
-Loss of value, wear and tear
-Any reduction in value of your vehicle, including loss of value following damage 
whether your vehicle was repaired or not
The facts here are well rehearsed and so I wont repeat them here. Instead, I want to focus 
on what happened between the date Mr R first submitted his claim, and the date Mr R 
agreed to the return of his car  a period of approximately nine weeks.Mr Rs car was assessed within a week of him making his claim, the conclusions supporting 
what Mr R had been told by the manufacturers master technician  the gearbox damage 
was pothole related. Mr R is unhappy Zenith didnt just accept this. 
However, just because Zeniths approved repairer made a recommendation doesnt mean 
Zenith had to accept it  it was a recommendation, and no more than that. Their in-house 
engineer was entitled to review it and decide whether to accept it or not. Which is what 
happened here. And having done that, he decided a second opinion was needed, which was 
duly arranged. This second assessment was undertaken just over two weeks later. The car 
remained with Zeniths approved repairer during this time. Im not aware of anything that 
prevented a quicker re- assessment and think this took too long. Ill return to the issue of 
delays later in the decision.
This second assessment resulted in a different conclusion - it was unlikely any gearbox 
damage was caused by the pothole incident. Ive seen the report and the photos, and it 
appears clear a detailed assessment was undertaken here. The second engineer spoke to 
the approved repairers engineer who said his conclusion  the gearbox needed replacing  
was influenced by what hed been told about Mr Rs initial manufacturer assessment.
Because of the differing conclusions, the second engineer said the best course of action was 
to obtain a second, definitive opinion from a manufacturers master technician. I think this 
was a sensible and reasonable conclusion to reach at this stage. The second engineer did 
authorise some works at this point - replacing both driver side wheels and bearings. It 
appears it took a further couple of weeks for this work to be done, which again I think is too 
long in the circumstances. This is another delay that Ill return to later in this decision.
However, once these repairs had been done, the gearbox noise remained. Ive seen that 
Zenith contacted Mr Rs original manufacturers garage, but by the time arrangements were 
made to transport Mr Rs car, this garage had entered liquidation. Clearly that was an event 
neither party could have foreseen. But it seems clear to me, had it not been for the delays 
Ive highlighted above, Mr Rs car would have been sent to and likely assessed by this 
manufacturers garage/master technician long before the liquidation took place. Ill return to 
the impact of this later in the decision.
But first I want to consider what repairs Zenith were willing to cover. They said theyd cover a 
further detailed gearbox inspection at their cost, and theyd cover subsequent repair costs if 
that expert internal gearbox investigation concluded the damage was caused by the pothole 
impact. But if that investigation concluded the damage wasnt pothole related, thats where 
their repair obligation would end. Looking at what Mr Rs policy says, I think Zeniths offer, in 
principle, was a fair one. The policy makes clear damage caused by wear and tear isnt 
covered, so I think Zenith acted fairly by offering the repair options they did.
That said, whilst agreeing to send the car to the new manufacturers garage (70 miles 
further away), Zenith now said they wouldnt cover the cost of returning it to Mr R (if the 
damage wasnt pothole-related). This wasnt mentioned regarding the first (local) 
manufacturers garage. And Mr R also says Zenith said they wouldnt cover the cost of 
putting the gearbox back together (after splitting it) if the damage wasnt pothole related.
However, Zeniths case notes suggest they told Mr R they would cover the cost of putting the 
gearbox back together, which is what Id have expected them to do. But I dont think its fair 
for Zenith to alter their stance about returning Mr Rs car to his home. It appears a cost 
Zenith would have covered for the first intended manufacturer repair, and I cant see any 
justification for it not being covered in the second manufacturer repair given these were 
approved works being carried out.Faced with the above choice, Mr R agreed to take the car back in its unresolved state. And 
after paying for some approved repairs which hadnt been done (for which Zenith reimbursed 
him), Mr R sold the car. He says he was left with no choice but to sell it for approximately 
£5,000 less than it was worth, and that Zenith should be liable for this loss of value. 
However, I disagree.
Ive already said Zeniths second manufacturer garage offer was fair. It was Mr Rs choice 
whether to accept it, and he chose not to. I know he was concerned about potential costs - 
returning his car and particularly fixing the gearbox if the damage wasnt pothole related. I 
know he was adamant it was pothole related, but nevertheless he decided not to take up 
Zeniths second manufacturer offer  which would either prove he was right (and Zenith pay 
for subsequent repairs) or was wrong (and hed have been liable for any wear and tear 
gearbox repairs himself).
I know Mr R suggested an alternative - taking the car to a local garage, whod remove the 
gearbox and send it to the manufacturers garage for assessment  keeping the car local 
and minimising transport costs. Zenith refused this, which Mr R thinks was unfair, but I dont 
agree. Mr Rs policy says Zenith use approved repairers. These are repairers whose work 
they know and trust, and as Zenith remain liable for work carried out by them, I think its 
reasonable for Zenith to insist on all work here being carried out by someone they approved.
The end result was Mr R agreed to the return of his car in its current condition. And it was his 
choice to then sell the car for much less than he thought it was worth because the gearbox 
issue was unresolved. I return again to Mr Rs policy, which states Mr R isnt covered for any 
reduction in the value of his vehicle following damage whether [his] vehicle was repaired or 
not. So, taken together, I dont think Zenith are liable for the loss in value of Mr Rs car after 
he sold it.
Distress and inconvenience
Whilst I dont think Zenith are responsible for the loss of value of the car, I dont think Zenith 
handled Mr Rs claim as well as they should have. Zeniths repairer didnt complete all of the 
approved works before returning the car to Mr R, which he had to pay for and then reclaim. 
There were also delays with Zenith acknowledging this particular mistake. Zenith awarded 
£175 compensation for these particular issues (deducted against Mr Rs excess), which I 
think is a fair amount.
But Ive already said above there were certain other times in Mr Rs claim journey where 
things took longer than they should. And those delays directly contributed to Mr Rs car 
being unable to be assessed a second time by the local master technician he initially saw, 
and whose opinion I know he trusted. Its impossible to know what the outcome of the 
gearbox split would have been  the initial master technician may have altered his opinion. 
But I do think its more likely than not, given Mr Rs apparent trust in the initial technician, 
hed have agreed to the gearbox being split open by him. So, the opportunity for Mr Rs 
trusted expert to assess, once and for all, what was causing the gearbox noise was lost.
Im satisfied this particular loss of opportunity, essentially caused by these delays, caused 
Mr R a great deal of distress, which would have been avoided had Zenith progressed the 
claim quicker than it did. So I think Zenith should pay further compensation to Mr R for this 
distress. Putting a value on distress is not an exact science, but here I think an additional 
figure of £250 is a fair reflection of the distress Mr R experienced as a result of this issue. To 
be clear, this £250 is in addition to the £175 Zenith has already offered Mr R, but this sum 
can be used to offset any remaining excess in relation to this claim if that is still outstanding.Zenith responded to my provisional decision and accepted my above recommendation. Mr R 
responded but he hasnt accepted this recommendation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr R for his very detailed response and can assure him that Ive read and 
considered all the points hes raised. However, having done so, I wont be changing my 
recommendation. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr R, and I do sympathise 
with the circumstances in this case, but his response doesnt contain any new information 
that would lead me to reconsider my previous recommendation. That said, I would like to 
provide the following comments on Mr Rs response, and also make it clear that whilst I dont 
comment on every point Mr R has made in his response, no discourtesy is intended.  
Mr R has made a number of comments about the what happened section of the decision, 
essentially adding extra detail to the chronology and making a couple of minor corrections. I 
do note these but should point out this section provides an overview of the chronology of 
events. It isnt a chapter and verse account of every single event  its there to set out the 
key events in Mr Rs complaint journey. And looking at these minor additions  for instance, 
only one tyre was initially replaced after the pot-hole incident (not two), or Mr R didnt submit 
his claim to Zenith at first because he was exploring legal action against the council due to 
the condition of the roads - they dont materially alter the key narrative of this complaint. 
Turning to the what Ive provisionally decided  and why section, Mr R added further detail 
regarding the sequence of events that led to Zenith agreeing that a second opinion was 
needed. He says the decision to get the second opinion was ultimately caused by Zenith 
realising their in-house engineer was initially wrong (when saying the noise was wheel-
bearing related, only to be proved wrong when the noise remained after related repairs had 
been carried out). I accept this, but it doesnt alter or affect my conclusion. There remained 
at that point in time a situation where the opinion of Mr Rs initial master technician 
diagnosis differed from that of Zeniths own experts/recommended repairers. And I think 
Zenith did the right thing by agreeing to a further expert diagnosis  by a manufacturers 
expert  to reach a conclusive outcome. The key point remains this was a solution that was, 
I think rightly, offered by Zenith. 
Its regrettable that a build-up of delays in the claim process meant this further expert 
analysis couldnt be undertaken by Mr Rs original master technician. As Mr R says in his 
response to me, without the various delays his gearbox would most likely have been split 
and assessed by his master technician before that repairer entered liquidation. I agree with 
this and have said as much in my provisional decision  and recommended Zenith pay Mr R 
compensation for the distress caused by these delays. 
Finally, Mr R suggests theres an inconsistency with how Ive considered the status of the 
different repair firms that have played a part in Mr Rs claim journey. In particular, that Ive 
placed weight on it being reasonable for Zenith to insist on using approved repairers that 
they knew and trusted. Mr R explains he was told the second manufacturer master 
technician that he introduced (after the initial one entered liquidation) wasnt known to Zenith 
at that time  so that garage couldnt have been approved by Zenith. Whilst I note the point 
Mr R is making here, it isnt for me to tell Zenith which repair firm(s) they should agree to 
work with. In this case, the second repairer Mr R introduced was accepted as being a 
manufacturer expert, with a master technician available as I understand it  so I can 
understand why Zenith would have been prepared to trust that repairer with the gearbox split 
work in this particular case. So, for the reasons Ive set out in my provisional decision, and expanded/clarified above, I 
wont be altering my previous recommendation  that Zenith should pay Mr and Mrs R a 
further £250 compensation (in addition to the £175 already awarded) for the distress and 
inconvenience they experienced as a result of the unnecessary delays during their claim 
journey. And that Zenith are entitled to offset any part of this award against any remaining 
unpaid claim excess.  
My final decision
 I require Zenith Insurance plc to pay Mr and Mrs R a further £250 compensation for distress 
and inconvenience.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Mark Evans
Ombudsman