DRN-3485089
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy with what Society of Lloyd's (Lloyds) did after he made a claim on his legal 
expenses insurance policy in October 2018. Mr O is represented in bringing this complaint 
by Ms C. 
What happened
In October 2018 Mr O contacted Lloyds as he wanted to make a claim on his legal expenses 
insurance policy. The underlying dispute related to his employment status and in particular 
whether he was self-employed, a worker or an employee. 
Lloyds sought legal advice from one of its panel solicitors who advised in December 2018 
that while Mr O was likely a worker he wasnt an employee. And the terms of his policy 
provided cover for disputes relating to your contract of employment or related legal rights. 
Lloyds didnt think that applied here and turned down his claim. 
In February 2019 Mr O was in contact with solicitors and a barrister and asked Lloyds if it 
would reimburse the cost of a written opinion. Lloyds confirmed if he obtained a positive 
counsels opinion it would reimburse reasonable costs and asked for it to be forwarded once 
completed. Mr O says he told Lloyds a positive opinion had been received and asked it to 
contact his barrister. He says as no response was received Ms C had to complete a claim 
form to the Employment Tribunal (ET) at short notice to comply with the relevant deadline. 
Lloyds says it didnt receive the opinion from Mr Os barrister until he provided it in August. 
On receipt of that and further information from the solicitors who were acting for Mr O, Lloyds 
asked for its own counsels opinion on whether the claim had reasonable prospects of 
success. A negative opinion was provided in October 2019. Mr Os solicitors provided some 
detailed arguments as to why that was incorrect. However, it doesnt appear Lloyds referred 
those back to counsel for review. In the meantime, the ET process concluded with a hearing 
and settlement in December. 
Lloyds subsequently asked Mr Os barrister to provide a retrospective opinion on the claims 
prospects of success prior to the ET hearing. He advised the claim would have had 
reasonable prospects of success. Lloyds agreed to reinstate cover on the basis of that 
opinion. It agreed to pay the reasonable costs of Mr Os solicitors in pursuing the claim. And 
it agreed to pay the amount it would have cost a suitably qualified legal professional to 
prepare the papers for the ET. It also acknowledged some missed opportunities in the 
handling of the claim and paid Mr O over £2000 for the impact on him of that. 
Our investigator didnt think Lloyds needed to do anything more. She thought it was 
reasonable of it to take into account the initial legal advice it received on policy coverage. 
She acknowledged there had been failings after Mr O contacted Lloyds in August 2019 but 
thought the steps it had already taken (including the compensation paid) did enough to put 
things right here. 
Mr O remained unhappy. In summary he said: 
his claim should have been covered from the outset as his employer accepted he was an 
employee. He didnt agree with the legal advice provided on this. That advice in any case 
agreed he was a worker. Given the policys reference to related employment rights 
Lloyds should have accepted the claim on that basis. And Lloyds told him he couldnt 
then seek his own legal advice about that; 
Lloyds didnt reinstate cover or take action in response to the information he provided 
about his barrister in February 2019. As a result Ms C was forced to complete the ET1 
form on his behalf (and consider the ET3 submitted in response). There were errors in 
doing so which meant he lost out on the opportunity to claim for issues such as unfair 
dismissal. This wouldnt have happened if cover under the policy had been agreed; 
Lloyds didnt take appropriate action once he provided further information in August 
2019; in particular it ignored a response his solicitors provided which said counsel had 
misapplied the law; 
the amount Lloyds agreed to pay for the work Ms C carried out didnt cover all of the 
costs she incurred in doing so. He thought those costs should be covered in full;
the proposed compensation wasnt enough given the impact of what happened on him 
he was now suffering from incurable cancer which he argued resulted from what Lloyds 
got wrong;
the policy had been mis-sold to him as it wasnt fit for purpose.
So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I understand Mr O is now suffering from an incurable cancer. I was very sorry to hear 
this and I recognise this is likely to be a difficult time for him. However, the issue I need to 
focus on is the complaint hes brought to us, whether Lloyds did anything wrong when 
handling his claim and, if so, what the impact of that has been on him. 
I appreciate Mr O has made reference to the policy being mis-sold to him. However, as our 
investigator has explained any complaint about a mis-sale of the policy would need to be 
considered against the business responsible for the sale. It appears Mr O took out legal 
expenses cover alongside his home insurance so hell need to pursue any mis-sale 
concerns against the business responsible for that sale (which wasnt Lloyds).
Im also aware Mr O made a separate claim to Lloyds (covering similar issues) on the legal 
expenses section of a policy which covers his business. However, the outcome of that claim 
isnt something Im considering in this decision; Mr Os business is a limited company which 
made its own claim. So any concerns Mr O (as representative of that company) has about 
that claim decision would need to be considered as part of a separate complaint. 
What Im considering in this decision is what Lloyds did following the claim he made in his 
own right on his own policy. In doing so Ive taken into account that the relevant rules and 
industry guidelines say Lloyds has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. It 
shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.The claims decision in December 2018
Mr O believes Lloyds decision to turn down his claim in December 2018 was wrong and he 
should have been covered from the outset. 
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of his policy. In order for cover to be provided 
whats happened needs to fall within one of the insured events set out in the policy. I think 
its agreed the only one this claim could fall under is Employment. And the wording of that 
section says it covers:
A dispute with your current, former or prospective employer relating to your contract of 
employment or related legal rights.
Lloyds turned down the claim having taken into account legal advice which said Mr O wasnt 
an employee (though was likely a worker). I appreciate Mr O believes that legal advice was 
wrong and I note the points hes made about this. However, I can see the advice provided on 
13 December 2018 is detailed and clearly reasoned and from a partner who specialises in 
employment law. 
And the advice does take into account the position of the business Mr O was working for and 
what theyd said about his status. I dont think there was any reason Lloyds shouldnt have 
taken this advice into account (and given weight to it) when deciding if the claim Mr O made 
was covered or not. I dont think it acted unreasonably, given that advice, in concluding he 
wasnt an employee. 
Mr O says the advice did conclude he was a worker and the policy says cover is available for 
employment or employment related claims. So he thinks he should have been covered 
anyway. But that isnt what the policy says. It covers a dispute relating to your contract of 
employment or related legal rights. And I think a reasonable interpretation of the policy 
wording is that those legal rights relate to the contract of employment and theres a 
connection between the two. 
Contract of employment isnt defined in the policy but its defined (for example by the 
Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development) as a written legal agreement between 
an employer and an employee. I havent seen anything to show Lloyds should have applied 
a different definition in this case. And it had legal advice that Mr O was a worker not an 
employee. So on that basis he wouldnt have had a contract of employment and any dispute 
he had couldnt have been about legal rights relating to it. As a result, I dont think Lloyds 
acted unreasonably in turning down the December 2018 claim  based on the evidence and 
advice it had at that time.  
Was Mr O told he couldnt seek alternative legal advice?
Mr O has drawn attention to calls in which he says he was told he couldnt seek an 
alternative legal opinion to challenge the decline of his claim. Our investigator agreed there 
was at least a missed opportunity for Lloyds to have made the position clearer. But I dont 
think thats something I need to consider in more detail. Thats because I dont think any 
failing here led to a significant delay in Mr O seeking alternative legal opinions.
The claim was declined in December 2018 and its clear from the correspondence Mr O has 
provided that by early February 2019 hed contacted a specialist employment lawyer (who 
remained involved with the case) and had been put in touch with a barrister shed 
recommended. 
Mr Os contact with Lloyds in February 2019Mr O contacted Lloyds again about the claim on 20 February 2019. However, the focus of 
his initial email was on the claim from his business. Clarification was provided the same day 
by Ms C who asked whether Lloyds would pay for a written opinion on coverage from their 
solicitors. Lloyds advised the next step would be for positive counsels opinion to be obtained 
and it would reimburse the reasonable costs of that. And it asked for the advice to be 
forwarded once obtained. 
Mr O obtained some advice by email from counsel on 25 February. I note this did conclude 
he was likely to be considered an employee. There was further correspondence with Lloyds 
the following month. At the end of the month it confirmed it would need the advice to be put 
in writing to it so it could review the position on cover. And it asked if this could be forwarded 
as soon as possible. 
From the information Ive seen it doesnt appear any advice Mr O obtained from his barrister 
(or solicitors) was provided to Lloyds at this time and it only received that in August. In the 
absence of that information I dont think there was more Lloyds needed to do. I appreciate 
hed asked Lloyds to get in touch with his barrister but I think it had already made clear any 
advice needed to be provided to it. Mr O was in receipt of that advice so I dont think that 
was unreasonable. And until that information was provided I dont see Lloyds had grounds to 
change the decision it had already reached on cover. 
I appreciate in order to meet the deadlines for the ET the relevant form needed to be 
submitted by mid March. Mr O argues because that was done by Ms C without the benefit of 
legal advice that impacted on his ability to bring all of the claims he wanted (for example an 
unfair dismissal claim). 
However, I think Lloyds fairly turned down the claim he made in December 2018. And Mr O 
was aware at that point cover wouldnt be provided under his policy. So if he required legal 
help in completing the ET1 form it would have been open to him to obtain this in advance of 
the mid March deadline (while at the same time challenging the decision Lloyds had reached 
on the claim if he wished). 
And I understand the key issue here to be that Mr O submitted the ET claim on the basis he 
was a worker not an employee (meaning he was unable to claim for issues such as unfair 
dismissal). But the legal advice he received in February 2019 (prior to the ET deadline) 
made clear that he would have a good claim for unfair dismissal at an ET. It appears the 
reason he submitted the claim on a different basis was because of advice from his barrister; 
he emailed Lloyds in March and said I have now received advice from [barrister], that the 
best course of action for me is to claim worker status. So if Mr O has suffered a loss here I 
dont think its because of anything Lloyds got wrong. 
Mr Os contact with Lloyds in August 2019
I think its agreed Lloyds didnt get things right when Mr O contacted it in August 2019. He 
provided the advice from his barrister along with information from his solicitors. Lloyds 
appears to have accepted that showed the claim was covered as it then appointed counsel 
to consider prospects. 
But thats something which had already been looked at by Mr Os counsel and was also 
referenced in the opinion from his solicitors. If Lloyds had been unclear about those points I 
think it would have been open to it to clarify this rather than seeking a separate opinion of its 
own. Once it had obtained that counsels opinion it doesnt appear to have properly 
considered the detailed response that Mr Os solicitors (who are specialists in employment 
law) then provided. However, I think Lloyds has already taken appropriate steps to address this failing. It 
subsequently instructed Mr Os counsel to consider whether the claim did have reasonable 
prospects of success at the point the claim was considered by the ET. Once that had been 
confirmed it accepted the claim and I understand has paid all of the reasonable costs of
Mr Os solicitors. But I appreciate Mr O will also have been distressed by its error and Ill 
consider later in this decision whether the amount Lloyds has offered for this is appropriate.  
Costs associated with completing the ET1 form and reviewing the response
As part of its response to the complaints Mr O made, Lloyds agreed to pay the reasonable 
costs of completing the ET1 claim form. It said it would pay at the rate Mr Os solicitors 
would have charged (£350 an hour) for the time it would have taken a suitably trained legal 
professional. That equated to £16,800. It also agreed a separate payment of £2,500 for the 
time taken to review the ET3 form (the response to the claim). 
Mr O was unhappy as he said this work had taken Ms C 288 hours at a cost of £100 an hour 
plus VAT meaning there was a significant shortfall. It appears Mr O has an outstanding debt 
to Ms C for that amount. 
I appreciate theres been some discussion over the differing hourly rates offered for 
completing the ET1 and dealing with the ET3 form. However, Im mindful that at the point 
Ms C completed the claim form Lloyds had fairly turned down the claim. That position only 
changed when Mr O provided counter opinions from his solicitor and barrister to it. But that 
hadnt happened at the point the ET forms needed to be dealt with. So under the terms of 
the policy no cover was (or should have been) in place at this point. 
Mr O says when these forms were completed the barrister theyd approached was unable to 
assist as they were involved with other work. And they felt specialist legal help was required 
and werent able to find anyone else (which is why Ms C had to complete them at the last 
minute and without any legal support). 
But while I appreciate the ET deadline was approaching at the point Mr O received advice 
from the barrister that was still at least two weeks before the ET deadline. And, as Ive 
already said, Mr O had been told three months prior to that deadline cover for his claim had 
been turned down by Lloyds. Taking all of those issues into account I dont think Lloyds 
acted unfairly in not meeting these costs in full. I think its agreement to pay a total of nearly 
£20,000 towards them is fair. 
Compensation
Lloyds has offered a total of over £2000 in compensation for what it got wrong in this case. 
And I agree the service it provided should have been better. In particular there was delay in 
arranging for the initial assessment of prospects, it should have been clearer about next 
steps in some of its subsequent contact with Mr O and it didnt deal properly with the further 
contact Mr O made in August 2019. 
I appreciate Mr O will have been caused unnecessary distress and inconvenience by this. I 
also note the comments hes made about the impact on his health. I understand hes making 
a direct link between what Lloyds got wrong, the stress caused by that, and the fact he 
subsequently contracted cancer. 
As Ive already said Im very sorry to hear about Mr Os health problems. And I do appreciate 
that what Lloyds got wrong is likely to have increased his stress levels and caused 
considerable upset. But I think its more difficult to draw a direct causal link between his 
cancer and what Lloyds got wrong. Im mindful of the fact that bringing a claim against the business he worked for and the 
process of then pursuing and responding to a claim at ET is in itself likely to have been an 
extremely difficult and stressful experience. Im also conscious of the fact that from early to 
mid 2019 onwards Mr O does appear to have had access to legal representation to assist 
him with his claim. Taking all of that into account I think the significant compensation Lloyds 
has already agreed to pay is a reasonable way of recognising the impact on him of the 
avoidable distress and inconvenience he was caused by what it got wrong. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint because I think Society of Lloyd's has already done 
enough to put things right. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr O to accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
James Park
Ombudsman