DRN-4073114
The complaint
Mr H complains that Sainsbury's Bank Plc (Sainsburys) irresponsibly gave him a credit 
card account that he couldnt afford.
What happened
On 4 October 2017, Mr Hs credit card was opened by Sainsburys with an initial credit 
limit of £3,000. This credit limit was never increased. 
In 2022, Mr H complained to Sainsburys to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for him because it wasnt affordable and that Sainsburys ought to have made a 
better effort to understand his financial circumstances before opening the credit card for 
him. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. Sainsburys didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 27 March 2023, a section of 
which is included below, and forms part of, this decision. In my provisional decision I set out 
the reasons why I didnt agree with the investigators view and that it was my intention not to 
uphold Mr Hs complaint. I set out an extract below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round.
Sainsburys will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mr Hs complaint is that Sainsburys made credit available that was unaffordable. 
Sainsburys has explained that it relied in part on information that Mr H provided at the time 
of application to assess affordability. They said they carried out a credit search in Mr Hs 
name to assess Mr Hs level of debt at that time and to understand how he had been 
managing that debt. With that information and using their own scoring metric, Sainsburys 
decided to agree to the credit limit of £3,000. So, there was some assessment of 
affordability at the time of the sale.
The Sainsburys checks showed that Mr H had an existing amount of unsecured borrowing. 
But Mr H had declared in his application that he was employed as a manager and was 
earning a good salary. In my opinion the existing credit was not so significant in itself when 
compared to the declared income as to make the new credit automatically unreasonable.  
I have considered the credit report that Mr H sent us. It shows what Sainsburys most likely 
saw and noted at the time it made the lending decision, which is that Mr Hs credit file was 
very clean at the time of the loan application. When I say this, I mean that Mr Hs 
management of his existing credit showed no recent history of CCJs, defaults or any late 
payments. So, it seemed from the credit file that at the point that the lending decision was 
made, Mr H was affording his existing credit. And so, Sainsburys were not put on notice of 
any reason not to agree the lending from that. And I also think that the information that 
Sainsburys had at the time of the lending decision, would have led them to feel they had 
no need to make more searching enquiries of Mr Hs finances. 
It is true that some time later Mr H had some adverse markings on his credit file. But he 
had none at the time this lending decision was made. I have to look at the information that 
was available to Sainsburys at the time it made its lending decisions and not to use 
hindsight. And I have seen insufficient evidence that the information that Sainsburys 
acquired or had presented to it at the time of the lending decision, would have led them to 
think that they were remiss in not checking Mr Hs finances more closely. 
So, Im not persuaded that what Sainsburys could see of Mr Hs management of other 
credit ought to have prompted it to have acted differently than it did.  Further, having 
considered all the submissions made in this case, I have seen insufficient evidence to think 
that the credit Sainsburys provided Mr H was unreasonable.
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 14 April 2023. Both parties have acknowledged receiving the 
provisional decision. And both parties made further submissions in support of their 
respective positions. 
As Ive received the final submissions from both parties I will proceed to my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H is disappointed with my provisional decision and in his final submission has reiterated 
the comments he had already made in support of his complaint and which I had considered 
in reaching my provisional decision. Mr H is entitled to disagree with me. 
But given that theres no new information for me to consider following my provisional 
decision, I have no reason to depart from those findings. And as Ive already set out my full 
reasons for thinking that this is a complaint that should not be upheld, I have nothing further 
to add. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman