DRN-2788212
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited declined a claim for 
storm damage on their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H submitted a claim on their home insurance after water leaked through the roof 
of their property during stormy weather. Because they couldnt get a quick response from 
their home emergency cover they got a local builder to carry out the repairs.
But Mr and Mrs H said Lloyds had declined their claim for storm damage. When Lloyds 
asked for evidence of the damage Mr and Mrs H they said they hadnt been able to take 
photos due to their underlying health conditions. And a member of the family was self-
isolating at the time. But the builder who repaired the roof had confirmed the damage had 
been caused by the storm. And they want Lloyds to accept the claim.
Lloyds said itd spoken at length with Mr and Mrs Hs builder and itd raised concerns about 
the condition of the roof before the incident. It may have allowed the storm to cause further 
damage and subsequent water ingress. Lloyds said itd fully assessed Mr and Mrs Hs claim. 
But theyd been unable to provide any evidence to show the condition of the roof before the 
storm or the damage caused by the storm. 
Lloyds said Mr and Mrs H only had photos showing the work nearing completion. It couldnt 
consider that evidence of actual damage. So Mr and Mrs H had failed to meet the 
requirements to prove damage had resulted from a storm incident. And it couldnt consider 
their claim.
Mr and Mrs H werent satisfied with Lloyds response. So they contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. He explained our services approach to claims involving 
storm damage. Although he agreed a storm had taken place at the time of the damage, 
Lloyds hadnt been able to confirm the damage to the roof was consistent with storm 
damage  or that storm conditions were the main cause of the damage.
Our investigator didnt feel the builders statement was enough by itself to prove that storm 
conditions were the cause of the damage. And Mr and Mrs H hadnt been able to provide 
any further information to validate the claim. So he didnt think Lloyds had declined the claim 
incorrectly. And he wouldnt be asking Lloyds to do anything more. 
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree. It hadnt been practical to get a picture of the roof when itd been 
damaged. And they had nowhere to store any damaged items to show Lloyds. So theyve 
asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It mustve been very upsetting when water started to leak through the roof of Mr and Mrs Hs 
property. Unfortunately they werent able to get a quick response from their separate home 
emergency policy due to the volume of work following the storm. So they contacted an 
independent builder to carry out the roof repairs. 
When Mr and Mrs H contacted Lloyds the work had already been completed and the builder 
had disposed of the damaged items. And it wasnt possible to arrange a site visit as Mrs H 
was self-isolating. So they provided photos of the roof to Lloyds to support their claim. But 
Lloyds said that wasnt enough. So Ive looked at whether Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably 
in declining their claim for storm damage. 
Its important to realise an insurance policy is a contract between the insurer and the 
policyholder. The insurer agrees to pay for any losses covered by the perils listed in the 
policy documentation. But the policy also states the obligations the insurer expects the 
policyholder to abide by.
Ive looked at the policy documentation for Mr and Mrs Hs home insurance policy. It asks 
the policyholder to make sure your home is kept in a good state of repair or you could find 
that the damage is caused as a result of wear and tear, and not something your insurance 
covers you for and if you need to make a claim, call us. We may ask you for information to 
support your claim such as proof of ownership.
Page 9 of the policy booklet explains how to make a claim. Lloyds says its okay for the 
policyholder to go ahead with any urgent repairs to prevent further damage  like fixing a 
forced lock or broken window - but it asks the policyholder to give it a call before they repair 
anything else. 
And Lloyds asks the policyholder to keep any damaged goods as it may need to see them. 
This is repeated on page 43 under proof of loss where the policy says do not throw away 
any damaged items before we have had a chance to see them, or carry out any non-
emergency repairs before we have had a chance to inspect them. You must be able to prove 
and substantiate your loss.
This is important as the insurer will need to see some evidence of the damage thats been 
suffered before considering the claim. Without any evidence Lloyds wouldnt be able to 
decide if the damage was covered by one of the insured perils listed in the policy.
I appreciate that Mr H says it was difficult to take photos of the reported damage due to his 
underlying health conditions and the adverse weather outside. And hes provided an email 
from his builder who carried out the repairs saying the roof had been in good condition when 
he came to do the repairs and the damage had been caused by the winds. 
But I do think the builder couldve photographed the damage before the work started rather 
than just taking photographs to show the completed work. Its not unusual for an insurer to 
ask for photographic evidence of the damage being repaired.
Lloyds say the photos its received didnt confirm the roof was damaged by a storm. The 
photos only showed that the roof had already been repaired. When Lloyds spoke to the 
builder it was told conflicting reasons why the damage mightve occurred. And any damaged 
sections had already been disposed of so they couldnt be inspected.
As our investigator has explained, our service looks at three questions when considering 
claims for storm damage. And if any of the questions cant be answered with a yes then Im 
afraid we cant say the insurer has acted unfairly.Theres no dispute a storm took place at the time the damage occurred. And that answers 
the first question. The second and third questions ask if the damage suffered was the sort 
wed expect a storm to cause, and if so, whether the storm was the main cause of the 
damage.
Unfortunately the repairs were carried out before Lloyds could validate the claim in line with 
the terms of the policy. And without any photos of the damaged roof or physical evidence 
showing the damage, its not possible to answer the second and third question. Id expect a 
well-maintained roof to be able to withstand all but the most severe weather. And I dont 
think the builders statement by itself proves the roof damage was caused by the storm.
Mr and Mrs H have my sympathy. But I dont think theyve been able to provide enough 
evidence to support their claim for storm damage. Based on everything Ive seen I think 
Lloyds has acted fairly and within the terms of the home insurance policy in declining their 
claim. And I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman