DRN-4338302
The complaint
Mr F complains that Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix) mis-sold him a number of personal 
pension policies. 
What happened
In 1988, Mr F opened a personal pension with a business that Phoenix is now responsible 
for. He was employed at the time and his employer didnt offer him a pension. Between 1991 
and 1996, Mr F increased the amount he was paying into his pension with Phoenix. 
However, rather than the initial policy premium being increased, Phoenix set up a new policy 
to receive the additional premiums. This meant that upon retirement, Mr F in effect had six 
pension policies. 
Mr F took the benefits from the pension in 2007. He took tax free cash and an annuity from 
each of the pension policies at this time. Each one paid out a separate tax-free cash sum 
and was paid as a separate income payment. 
In 2022, Mr F complained about the sale of his pensions. He said he wasnt unhappy with 
the initial policy, but was unhappy that by setting up separate policies, rather than simply 
increasing the contributions to the initial policy, hes incurred higher charges. Mr F is also 
unhappy that since purchasing annuities with each pension policy, he now receives his 
income as a number of payments, rather than one payment.
One of our Investigators looked into this complaint. Initially, Phoenix didnt respond to our 
Investigators request for further information, so she thought the complaint should be upheld. 
However, following submissions by Phoenix, she changed her opinion and didnt uphold the 
complaint. 
Mr F didnt accept this and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. So, 
its been passed to me to consider and make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F has complained many years after the pension was original set up and after he used it to 
purchase a number of annuities. This might normally mean that time limits within our rules 
may apply. However, Phoenix has consented to us looking into this complaint. So I havent 
needed to consider whether this complaint was brought in time or not.
When Mr F took the initial pension, he was employed with no access to a company pension. 
He later became self-employed. So, on the face of it, he needed to plan for his retirement, 
and Ive seen no reasons why this particular pension wasnt suitable for him. And Mr F has 
confirmed the key reason hes unhappy is that Phoenix set up a new policy each time he 
increased his contributions, rather than simply amending the contribution to the initial 
pension policy. And that he then had to purchase individual annuities with each policy. Mr F 
believes hes financially worse off as a result of this. So thats what Ive focussed this 
decision on. 
Phoenix has explained to us that the company that previously administered Mr Fs pension 
facilitated monthly contribution increases by setting up what appeared to be a new policy but 
was essentially an extension of the initial policy. This meant that whilst it would show under a 
new (sequential) policy number, it was essentially the same policy and linked via Mr Fs 
customer number. And the monthly premium for all the policies was taken by one single 
direct debit.
Typically, our Service wouldnt interfere with a decision a business makes in how it operates 
if we are satisfied its a legitimate exercise of its commercial discretion. And in this case, Im 
satisfied it was a legitimate use of commercial judgement. Phoenix has shown us evidence 
that the additional policies set up for each contribution increase didnt incur any additional 
policy charges other than for the increased amount of life cover the policy provided  which 
wouldve been charged even if the contribution had simply been changed. So, Mr F is no 
worse off due to increased charges as a result of the pension being set up in this way.
Mr F has also indicated a belief that his pension fund would be higher had it been one policy, 
rather than multiple ones. But Ive seen nothing to suggest this is the case. The same 
amount wouldve still been going into the same pension, it was just split into different pots  
but it ultimately would be worth the same. 
I understand Mr F is also frustrated that he had to take separate annuity payments rather 
than one single income. Again, this was Phoenixs process at the time, and a decision it was 
entitled to make. Whilst I can see why its frustrating for Mr F, hes no worse off because of 
this. Furthermore, Mr F was under no obligation to take his annuity with Phoenix, he couldve 
chosen to seek advice and move to another provider, but he didnt. 
Overall, I dont think Phoenix has made a mistake in its setting up of Mr Fs pension policies 
or his annuities. Furthermore, Ive not seen anything that makes me think Mr F is financially 
worse off as a result of the way in which Phoenix set up his pension policies or his annuities. 
So Im not going to ask it to take any action.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman