DRN-3061194
The complaint
Mrs W complains about delays when transferring her cash ISA from Tesco Personal Finance 
PLC (Tesco).
What happened
Mrs W applied to transfer her cash ISA from Tesco to another provider who Ill call F. Tesco 
received the request on 11 March 2020. The cheque was raised on 13 March 2020 and sent 
to F on 16 March 2020. As F hadnt received the cheque by mid-March, it wrote to Tesco on 
two occasions chasing the cheque. But Tesco didnt respond. 
F received the cheque from Tesco for the ISA transfer in early April 2020. The transfer 
completed and interested was backdated to 13 March 2020  the date the cheque was 
written. 
Mrs W complained about this to Tesco. Tesco accepted it hadnt replied to the chaser letters 
from F. But it said it had already sent the cheque for the ISA transfer prior to these letters 
being received. It offered Mrs W £25 to cover the costs of the calls shed made.
Unhappy with this response, Mrs W referred the complaint to us where one of our 
investigators looked into it. He didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs W didnt 
agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to consider and make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs W is represented by her husband, Mr W. Hes responded in a lot of detail and made a 
number of points. I want to reassure both Mr and Mrs W that Ive considered everything 
theyve said. But I wont be responding to each and every point theyve made. Instead, Ill be 
focussing on the crux of the overall complaint. I hope they realised I mean no disrespect by 
this, it simply reflects the informal nature of this service.
Government guidelines say that a cash ISA transfer should take no more than 15 working 
days. Of course, this happening is dependent on actions from both parties to the transfer. Its 
unclear why it took so long for the cheque to be received by F. But Ive seen a copy of the 
cheque dated 13 March 2020 and internal notes which show the cheque was sent on 
16 March 2020 to F. Based on this, Im satisfied that Tesco sent the cheque within the 
required timescales of five working days from receiving the transfer request. 
Given that we were at the start of the Coronavirus pandemic in March 2020, it was known 
that many services including Royal Mail had been affected and were delayed. I suspect that 
this is likely the reason for the delay. Furthermore, this was shortly after the government had 
issued stay at home orders for most of the UK population. Many firms were having to adapt 
to working from home so I can understand why certain things mayve been delayed in 
situations such as this.
Like our investigator, Ive noted that Tesco sent the cheque using second class post. 
Whereas industry best practice is that first class post be used, this is a recommendation 
rather than a requirement. I can also see that Tesco didnt respond to the two chaser letters 
from F. However, this is understandable given these letters were chasing a cheque which 
had been sent and taking into account the fact that, as Ive said above, many staff were now 
working from home on short notice. 
Our role is to put right financial loss when it has occurred. However, in this situation, there is 
no financial loss. F backdated the interest of Mrs Ws ISA to start from the date the cheque 
was issued. So, she hasnt lost out financially here.
I can make awards of compensation when I think that distress and inconvenience has been 
caused by an error a business has made. But I dont think any is warranted here. Tesco did 
send the cheque within the required timescales. And whilst it shouldve sent this first class, 
this hasnt caused Mrs W any financial loss. As Ive explained, I think its most likely that the 
delays and the lack of certain responses were caused by the Coronavirus pandemic, and 
this isnt something I think Tesco should pay compensation for.
Mr W has raised a number of points regarding the way in which Tesco handled Mrs Ws 
complaint including a number of emails he says werent responded to. However, complaint 
handling isnt an activity which our rules allow us to look into. So, I dont have the power to 
consider any issues arising solely from how Tesco dealt with Mrs Ws complaint.
I can see that Tesco has offered Mrs W £25 for the calls she had to make. As Ive explained, 
I dont feel that any compensation is warranted here. So Ill leave it to Mrs W to decide 
whether to accept this or not. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman