DRN-3501812
The complaint
Mr H and Mr G complain U K Insurance Limited took too long to settle their landlords 
insurance claim. 
UKIs been represented during the claim by various contractors. For simplicity, in places, Ive 
referred to their actions as being those of UKI. 
What happened
In January 2021 Mr H and Mr G made a claim against their UKI landlords insurance policy. 
UKI investigated and found the front of Mr Hs and Mr Gs property to be suffering from 
subsidence. In January 2022 they complained to UKI about a lack of progress. In 
March 2022 UKI accepted it had failed to provide appropriate updates and to manage 
Mr H and Mr Gs expectations about the complexity of a subsidence claim. It paid £200 
compensation in recognition. It added the stabilisation scheme was in the final stages of 
preparation and said the works would be scheduled as a priority. 
Mr H and Mr G werent satisfied so came to this service. They said UKI had failed to 
complete the work in reasonable time. This had caused them to spend unnecessary time 
dealing with the issues involved - including complaints from neighbours and various 
authorities. They said the delay to repairs caused them to lose rental income. They asked for 
£8-£10,000 as a resolution, to cover financial loss and compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. In response UKI increased its offer of compensation to £350. It said 
Mr H and Mr G didnt have rental cover, so didnt volunteer to cover any loss of rent. 
In May 2022 our investigator recommended UKI increase the compensation to £500. She felt 
the insurer hadnt progressed the claim effectively. She said because Mr H and Mr G didnt 
have loss of rent covered UKI was fair to decline that part of the claim. Finally she 
recommended UKI progress repairs in a timely manner. In response, Mr H said the 
compensation she had proposed wasnt enough to cover the financial loss resulting from 
UKIs poor handling of the claim. So the complaint was passed to me to decide.
In February 2023 I issued a provisional decision. In it I explained why I intended to require 
UKI to pay Mr H and Mr G £6,600 for financial loss and £500 compensation. The reasoning 
forms part of this final decision, so Ive copied it in below. I also invited Mr H and Mr G and 
UKI to provide anything further they would like me to consider before issuing a final decision. 
In response UKI requested to see photos of the property and a tenancy agreement for 
Mr H and Mr Gs previous tenant. 
After being provided with a tenancy agreement I realised I had misunderstood the rent they 
had been paid by the departed tenant. £550 was an aspirational rent for a new tenant. 
Instead they had been paid £460 per month. I explained to UKI and Mr H and Mr G that I 
hadnt seen enough to persuade me they would most likely have received the higher 
amount. So I said I now intended to base the financial loss award on £460 per month rent. I 
also provided some additional information to UKI, including the requested photos. UKI failed 
to provide a response by an extended deadline. Mr H and Mr G provided some thoughts. Ive 
addressed those below.
what Ive provisionally decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the summer of 2022 UKI completed stabilisation work. In December 2022 it 
finished external and internal repairs. As far as Im aware Mr H and Mr G dont have 
any complaint about the quality of the work. So I dont have to consider that aspect. 
However, they remain unhappy about how long it took to complete the claim  
approximately two years.
The longstanding tenant moved out, due to the condition of the property, around 
March 2021. That was about two to three months into the claim. The propertys 
remained unlet since. Mr H and Mr G say the condition meant they couldnt and 
wouldnt let it out. Having seen some photos that seems reasonable to me.
Mr H and Mr G accept they dont have optional rental cover. So I cant fairly say UKI 
should cover loss of rent under the terms of their policy. However, they feel its failure 
to complete the repairs in reasonable time caused them additional loss of rent. 
Having considered the matter, I think they make a fair point. So I intend to require 
UKI to reimburse them for some lost income.  
Ive seen a schedule of works (SoW) for the stabilisation and repairs, along with UKI 
and its contractors records of the claim. Im satisfied, if managed proactively and 
effectively, the claim would have been unlikely to take two years from notification to 
completion. To illustrate, Ive highlighted a few incidents of delay I feel UKIs 
responsible for. 
UKI accept in its own notes that it could have been more proactive in chasing the 
building consultant to review reports and make decisions. It was only in July 2021, 
seven months into the claim, that its contractors managed to identify the cause and 
potential solution. This was also four months after it transpired a request for a 
proposal of works had been overlooked. This seems to have caused additional delay. 
After that, UKIs contractor refused to work to an initial SoW because a void under 
the property hadnt been accounted for. An engineers input was then required  
something that probably should have been foreseen months earlier. Again, this 
delayed the claim. 
Records show that three months (so about 14 months into the claim) a contractor 
was still in the process of drawing up a stabilisation scheme. Those works eventually 
took place in the summer of 2022, around 18 months into the claim. However, 
internal and external repairs didnt take place for a further five or six months  in 
December 2022. And I havent seen anything that provides a reasonable explanation 
for that timescale. Ill consider anything UKI provides in response. 
Mr H and Mr G provided letters from a builder and a fellow landlord. They say, based 
on their experiences, the claim should have taken between five and eight months  
including allowance for local authority involvement.  I cant say for certain exactly how 
long the claim should have taken. Subsidence claims are complex by their nature, 
requiring the involvement of different agencies and contractors. This almost inevitably 
slows progress. However, as Ive said, Im satisfied the claim, if managed pro-actively by UKI, 
wouldnt have taken two years to settle. Based on my experience, and what Ive seen 
for this claim, about 12-13 months seems a reasonable timescale. However, Ill 
consider anything either party provides on this before issuing a final decision. 
So I currently intend to decide UKI was responsible for around 11 months of 
unnecessary delay.  And I intend to require it to, as far as possible, put 
Mr H and Mr G in the position they would have been in if that delay hadnt have 
happened. I think, without UKIs mistakes, they most likely would have let the 
property out again from around March 2022. That includes a few months to prepare, 
advertise and let. 
I should note here that the property, despite the work being completed, hasnt been 
let out. Mr H and Mr G are hoping to sell it. They say they accepted an offer in the 
summer of 2022, but the sale fell through due to the continued delay with the repairs. 
They say they have now accepted a lower offer. 
Whilst the property hasnt been let, Im persuaded by Mr Hs explanation, that their 
decision to sell the property was heavily influenced by the distress and 
inconvenience they experienced because of UKIs failure to progress the claim in 
reasonable time. So Im satisfied that without the unnecessary delay the property 
would probably have been let out again from around March 2022. So UKIs mistakes 
caused a loss of income. 
I therefore intend to require UKI to cover 11 months of losses  at £600 per month. 
This includes payment for loss of rent at £550 per plus an amount for bills (council 
tax, standing utility charges) that would have been covered by a tenant. So a total of 
£6,600.   
UKI had already offered £350 compensation for failing to keep Mr H and Mr G 
updated about the claim.  Our investigator felt that should be £500 in total. I agree 
that would be a fairer amount to reflect the unnecessary distress and inconvenience 
they have experienced. They have had to repeatedly chase UKI  plus deal with 
related pressure from a local authority. The extended loss of income has no doubt 
caused them some distress, something illustrated by their decision to sell the 
property.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H and Mr G provided some information to support their position that £550 per month 
would have been achievable. They referred to listings for similar properties advertised at that 
rate or higher. Ive considered the prices given. But it seems likely they are listings from 
around early 2023, rather than the relevant period of Spring 2022. They are of limited value 
when considering what might have happened at the earlier date. And UKI hasnt provided 
any comment on the award. So Im still satisfied £460 per month is a reasonable rent to base 
the financial loss on. 
I also said I intended to award £50 per month for bills that otherwise would have been 
covered by a tenant. Mr H and Mr G have shown they were paying council tax at around 
£115 per month. Ive considered this but Im still going to award £50 per month. This amount 
is intended as an approximate overall figure for other losses. I should have explained 
previously that I included, in my calculations, a deduction for maintenance or other costs and losses a landlord is likely to incur through tenants occupying a property. Again UKI didnt 
provide a response for me to consider.  
So I will be requiring UKI to cover 11 months of financial loss based on £460 per month rent 
plus £50 for other costs. At £510 per month thats a total of £5,610
Lastly Mr H and Mr G asked that I consider increasing the compensation awarded. They 
referred to the stress caused by UKI over two years. Im still satisfied £500 is a fair amount. 
So Im not increasing that award. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I require U K Insurance Limited to pay Mr H and Mr G:
- £5,610 to cover 11 months financial loss and 
- £500 compensation in total for unnecessary distress and inconvenience.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman