DRN-3214500
The complaint
Mrs H complained that Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) lent to her 
irresponsibly and provided her with loans that were unaffordable.
What happened
Everyday Loans provided loans to Mrs H as follows: 
Loan Date 
takenAmount Term Monthly 
repaymentTotal 
repayable Loan 
status
1 October 
2014£3,235 24 months £290.95 £6,982.80 Repaid 
28/10/16
2 June 2015 £1,000 24 months £98.93 £2,374.32 30/08/18
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. She didnt think Everyday Loans should 
have provided Mrs H with the loans. 
Everyday Loans disputed the adjudicators assessment. In summary, it said for loan 1 it 
worked out that Mrs H had monthly disposable income of around £472 so the loan was 
reasonable and affordable. It said its checks showed that she was managing her payments 
well and it only noted 1 missed payment on a smaller balanced credit card. Everyday Loans 
said she wasnt in a cycle of debt but repaying costs from an expensive one off event and 
whilst she was near her maximum credit limits she wasnt over committed.
For loan 2, Everyday Loans said accounts with communication suppliers were in arrears but 
the balances were very small and didnt overly impact Mrs Hs financial position and these 
could also have been disputed payments. It acknowledged there was an arrangement on a 
payday loan but said Mrs H had been impacted by the high cost event she had borrowed to 
pay for and the loan she had taken out 6 months earlier was well managed and not 
unreasonable given the circumstances she had explained. Everyday Loans didnt think it 
saw anything to suggest that Mrs H appeared to be over committed.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding Mrs Hs complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. And its important to keep in mind that when working 
out if a loan looks likely to be affordable a lender must take a borrower focussed 
approach and think carefully about the impact of the lending on the customer. The lending 
decision shouldnt just be about the business risk to the lender of not getting its money 
back.
A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can sustainably 
repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. 
For example, when thinking about what a borrower has left to spend on a new loan after 
paying other expenses, as well as taking into account the loan amount, the cost of the 
repayments and how long the loan is for, a proportionate check might mean a lender should 
also find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers 
overall financial situation.  
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is 
required to make repayments for an extended period).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Hs complaint. 
Everyday Loans gathered information from Mrs H by asking her about her income and 
expenses before it agreed to lend to her and looking at some of her recent bank statements. 
It also checked Mrs Hs credit file to understand her existing monthly credit commitments 
and credit history. Everyday Loans said that based on these checks it was satisfied that the 
loans were affordable for Mrs H. 
But, whilst I've thought carefully about what Everyday Loans has said, including the 
comments it has made in response to our adjudicators view, I dont think that Everyday 
Loans made a fair lending decision when it provided either of these loans. 
I dont think Everyday Loans properly took into account what Mrs Hs credit history and the 
information it saw in the bank statements revealed about her overall financial situation. 
It isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit history showing 
other borrowing or an impaired credit record  and these things wouldnt necessarily be 
reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application. 
But I think Everyday Loans should have been concerned to see Mrs Hs credit history and 
the extent of her existing borrowing and recognised the hallmarks of financial difficulty 
evident on her bank statements.When she applied for loan 1, I think Everyday Loans couldve seen from the credit report it 
obtained that Mrs H seemed to be reliant on payday loans  she had taken out and repaid at 
least five since March 2014. I think that shouldve concerned Everyday Loans as this pattern 
of lending can be one of the hallmarks of someone already in financial difficulty  essentially 
borrowing again to fill a gap in finances left after repaying a previous loan. 
Everyday Loans could also see that both her credit cards were maxed out and one showed 
payment arrears. When she applied for this loan, her bank statements showed she was 
already paying multiple other providers of expensive short-term loans and high cost credit 
and she was making full use of her overdraft  much of the time overdrawn by a four figure 
amount. 
Like our adjudicator, I think the information Everyday Loans gathered overall painted a 
picture of someone struggling to manage money problems effectively and it included clear 
warning signs that Mrs H was already experiencing serious financial difficulty  so it 
shouldve realised that further lending was unlikely to be sustainably affordable for her. 
And I think this is borne out also by the fact that when Everyday Loans carried out credit 
checks it noted Mrs Hs existing creditor repayments were at least £715 on the figures it 
recorded. Everyday Loans relied on statistical information to assess what someone in 
Mrs Hs particular situation would be likely to spend each month and calculated on this basis 
that her total monthly expenditure was around £1,611.83. 
It had recorded her total income was £3,164.04 but this included benefits as well as her 
earnings of around £2,000. I dont think it was realistic to assume that benefits that were 
specifically paid to meet other costs and allowances worked out according to financial need 
could properly be considered as general spending money. And despite what Everyday 
Loans income and expenditure assessment suggested it was clear I think from the other 
information it had gathered that in actuality Mrs H had no spare income at all.    
When thinking about these figures, Everyday Loans should have realised that Mrs H was 
already paying more than a third of her take home pay just on servicing her existing debt. To 
me, that was a clear warning sign that she was over-reliant on credit  and the fact that she 
had some extra payments intended to help her with other costs doesnt affect my overall 
view on affordability. 
I think that this was such a significant proportion of Mrs Hs monthly disposable income this 
was a further reason why Everyday Loans couldnt reasonably say it was likely that Mrs H 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way. 
All the signs were that Mrs H was over-stretched financially and unable to effectively 
manage debt she was already responsible for paying and she was relying on taking out new 
credit to supplement her income in order to be able to make the monthly repayments she 
owed. 
I think that is borne out by the fact that by the time she applied for loan 2, she was further 
indebted  her total loan balance outstanding had increased from around £6,804 when she 
took out loan 1 to more than £11,000. So it was clear that she was continuing to borrow 
elsewhere  as other information Everyday Loans gathered clearly showed. 
The bank statements Mrs H provided showed further evidence of continuing financial 
difficulty. She was paying short-term loans and other high cost credit and despite this still 
using her planned overdraft to the full and also incurring unplanned overdraft fees. She was now paying an even bigger proportion of her income towards servicing her debt. 
I think the scale of her debts and the extent of her evident money problems would suggest 
that this debt was simply unaffordable for Mrs H and this loan looked likely to add to her 
overall money problems and she would remain in serious financial trouble regardless. 
I've taken into account everything Everyday Loans has said, including its response to our 
adjudicators view. But I dont think anything that Mrs H said was enough to explain away the 
evidence Everyday Loans saw showing the extent of her financial difficulty. And irrespective 
of the reason for part of her need for this sort of expensive borrowing, this didnt mean it was 
fair and reasonable to continue to lend in the face of clear evidence that Mrs Hs debt wasnt 
sustainably affordable. 
So, for all these reasons, I am upholding Mrs Hs complaint that she should not have been 
given the loans.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mrs H accepted what Id said in my provisional decision. I have heard nothing further from 
Everyday Loans and the deadline for responses has now passed so I think its reasonable 
for me to proceed with my review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Given that Ive not received any further evidence or comment that changes my mind about 
this complaint, I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mrs H to repay the capital amount that she borrowed, 
because she had the benefit of that lending. 
But she has paid extra for lending that should not have been provided to her. 
In line with this Services approach, Mrs H shouldnt repay more than the capital amount she 
borrowed. 
Everyday Loans should try to buy back any outstanding debt it sold if able to do so and then 
take the following steps. 
Otherwise, Everyday Loans should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results 
outlined below and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mrs H received as a result of having been given 
the loans. The repayments Mrs H made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Mrs H having paid more than she received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Everyday Loans should attempt to arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mrs H keeping in mind its obligation 
always to treat her positively and sympathetically in those discussions. Everyday 
Loans should not seek to recover from Mrs H any principal amount already written 
off.  
Remove any negative information recorded on Mrs Hs credit file regarding the loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans should give Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if 
she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Hs complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) 
to take the steps set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman