DRN-3017189
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc put restrictions on his account which he feels left 
him unable to make payments to his HSBC credit account and which has therefore resulted 
in adverse information being recorded on his credit file.
What happened
HSBC sent Mr E a letter on 21 April 2020 confirming that it had restricted his HSBC 
accounts and requesting that Mr E provide photographic ID and address verification within 
14 days. 
Mr E went into a HSBC branch to present the requested documents, but HSBC wouldnt 
accept the documents and told Mr E that he needed to go to a larger HSBC branch. 
On 19 May 2020, HSBC closed all of Mr Es accounts because of their ongoing concerns. Mr 
E wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
HSBC looked at Mr Es complaint. They conducted a further review of Mr Es accounts and 
agreed to re-open Mr Es banking account. But HSBC confirmed that because Mr Es credit 
card account had been closed because of suspected fraud that they couldnt reopen the 
account and that Mr E would have to apply for a new credit account if he wanted one. 
Mr E wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, or with events that took place following his 
accounts being restricted. So, he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt that HSBC were entitled to 
have restricted Mr Es accounts if they had concerns, and they noted that HSBC had no 
record of Mr E bringing the requested verification documents to branch as Mr E had said that 
hed done. As such, they didnt feel that HSBC had acted unfairly, and so they didnt uphold 
Mr Es complaint. 
Mr E remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC are entitled to place restrictions on Mr Es accounts if they have concerns over the 
nature of those accounts. What this service would expect in such circumstances would be 
that HSBC would have written to Mr E advising what information Mr E needed to present to 
HSBC in order to alleviate HSBCs concerns, such that the restrictions could be removed 
from Mr Es accounts.
HSBC did that here. They wrote to Mr E and asked Mr E to present photographic ID and 
address verification documents within 14 days. However, HSBC have no record of Mr E 
presenting these documents to them within that timeframe, and so they made the decision to 
close Mr Es accounts because of this.
Mr E has stated that he did visit a HSBC branch and presented the requested documents 
but was told by HSBC staff that the particular branch he visited couldnt help him and that he 
needed to visit a larger branch. Mr E also stated that he did then visit an alterative branch 
but again was told that the documents couldnt be reviewed at that branch. Mr E explained to 
this service that he changed his telephone details in branch at that time, so that a record of 
him visiting that branch would exist.
I put Mr Es concerns to HSBC who explained that any branch should have been able to 
have received the presented documents from Mr E, but that they have no record of Mr E 
visiting any branch within the requested timeframe. HSBC also provided this service 
confirmation of when Mr E had last updated his telephone details, which took place on 19 
May 2020 and which was therefore outside the 14-day period given to Mr E in the letter from 
HSBC and was on the same day that HSBC made the decision to close Mr Es account as 
being potentially fraudulent.
Where the testimonies of two parties differ, as they do in this case, I have to decide which 
version of events I feel is most likely to have taken place, on balance, in light of all the 
information available to me. 
Given the information that HSBC have been able to present, I find it difficult to understand 
how Mr E could have presented the documents to HSBC in the manner and timeframe that 
he suggests here, and it appears to me that its more likely than not that Mr E didnt present 
the requested documents to HSBC within the 14-day timeframe and that his accounts were 
closed by HSBC as a result of this. And Id find it very difficult to conclude that HSBC had 
acted unfairly towards Mr E by closing his accounts in such circumstances.
Im aware that Mr E feels that HSBC should remove the adverse reporting from his credit file 
relating to the late payments on his HSBC credit account, and this is because Mr E feels that 
he was unable to make the payments because HSBC had restricted the account in which the 
money he used to make the payments to the credit account was held.
I can appreciate Mr Es position here, to a degree. But HSBC have been able to demonstrate 
that the savings account which they restricted had limited use and wasnt used by Mr E to 
receive any income from external sources, such as employment or benefit income.
Furthermore, HSBC have shown that funds were deposited and transferred into and out of 
the HSBC savings account from another bank account in Mr Es name. As such, Im satisfied 
the Mr E did have another bank account from which he could have made the required 
payment to the HSBC credit account, and so I dont feel that HSBCs restriction of the 
savings account meant that Mr E couldnt make the contractual payments to the HSBC credit 
account that were required by that account.
All of which means that I find it difficult to conclude that HSBC have acted unreasonably or 
unfairly here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing 
HSBC to take any further action at this time. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr E was wanting here, but I trust that he will 
understand, given everything that Ive explained above, why Ive made the final decision that 
I have.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman