DRN-3164607
The complaint
Miss D has complained that Everyday Lending Limited (Everyday Loans) provided her with 
an unaffordable loan.
  
What happened
 Everyday Loans provided Miss D with a loan of £1,000.00 in February 2017. This loan had a 
24-month term with a monthly repayment amount of £107.32. This all meant the total amount 
repayable of £2575.68 was due to be repaid.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in October 2021. Both parties have received 
a copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the 
decision below. I said;
Were Everyday Loans checks reasonable and proportionate?
Everyday Loans says that it carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Miss D 
prior to providing her with this loan. It says it also carried out a credit check. Everyday Loans 
verified Miss Ds income by checking almost 3 months worth of bank statements. It also 
looked through Miss Ds expenditure on the statements although it didnt use this to calculate 
her living costs. It says it worked out Miss Ds income to be £1389.65 and this was her 
monthly wage from work and child benefit. Everyday Loans then worked out that Miss Ds 
expenditure would be around £851.18. It said it did this by seeing what was on Miss Ds 
credit search results along with what she told it she was paying for board. In addition, it used 
an estimated figure for her living expenses of 35% of her monthly income. Everyday Loans 
says after carrying out its assessment, it worked out Miss D would have £458.47 disposable 
income after taking into consideration the repayment of the loan. It says its assessment 
showed that the loan was affordable for Miss D.
I have looked through the credit search results Everyday Loans had in front of it when it 
agreed to lend and have also read its final response to Miss D. I can see that the credit 
search results that it saw, didnt have much on it. And I can see that it factored in what it did 
see, into its calculations. There was a loan outstanding with a monthly repayment of around 
£40 along with two balances to repay for defaulted accounts. It included these within its 
assessment. One of the two accounts in question here ought to have raised concerns with 
Everyday Loans though as Miss D had only defaulted four months before she applied for this 
loan. This would have seemed out of sorts with its assessment of what it thought her 
monthly disposable income would be. 
In addition, I can see on the bank statements it reviewed, that it made a note next to a 
payment of £328.10 to another lender. It has written Paid off. In a recent submission to our 
service Everyday Loans said that this loan had been paid off and that is why it didnt include 
it within its assessment. It says it saw on Miss Ds mobile phone proof that it had although it 
then said the monthly repayment was for £194.40. I can clear up what has happened here. 
Miss D took out a short-term loan with another lender and on the bank statement a payment 
of £194.40 showed on 28 November 2016. It then looks like Miss D then told Everyday 
Loans that this had been repaid and showed it proof on her phone. Then on 26 January 
2017, on the bank statements Everyday Loans had in front of it, another payment to the 
same lender was paid by Miss D for £328.10. And rather than query this higher repayment 
with Miss D, Everyday Loans wrote Paid off next to it. 
I think Everyday Loans should have had concerns about the payments that Miss D was 
making to the same lender and what she was telling it. I think it should have asked for more 
information here to find out what was going on, and whether the higher payment was for a 
new loan.
I think Everyday Loans should have carried out further checks to ascertain the reason why 
Miss D defaulted on one of her accounts only 4 months prior to this application. And I think it 
should have also asked further questions about the higher loan repayment with another 
lender and asked what that loan repayment was for and whether that had been paid off too. I 
think Everyday Loans ought to have been following these questions up, in order to assure 
itself that Miss D could repay the loan in a sustainable way, especially as the term was for 2 
years. 
In conclusion and for the reasons given above, I dont think that the checks Everyday Loans 
carried out before providing Miss D with his loan were reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to Everyday Loans that Miss D 
would have been unable to repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, I 
cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So, I need to decide whether it is more likely 
than not that a proportionate check would have told Everyday Loans that Miss D would have 
been unable to sustainably repay this loan.
Everyday Loans was required to establish whether Miss D could make her loan repayments 
without experiencing significant adverse consequences  not just whether the loan payments 
were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Miss D has provided our service with a recent credit check that shows her lending history 
and in particular the loans and other finance she held at the time of the application for this 
loan. The checks that Everyday Loans ought to have conducted here are not prescribed but I 
think what Miss D has provided, will show what more likely than not Everyday Loans would 
have seen if it had carried out further checks.
I can see when I look through this credit check report that Miss D had paid off the loan with 
the other finance provider that she was making £194.40 repayments for. She had paid this 
off on 20 December 2016 and so would have been able to show Everyday Loans that this 
was settled. But she then went on and took out another loan with the same lender a day 
later, on 21 December 2016 and made her first payment of £328.10 in January 2017. This 
was showing on the statements that Everyday Loans had in front of it and if it had carried out 
further checks it would have seen that this second loan had not been paid off. So, Miss D 
had a further £328.10 of credit commitment that it hadnt assessed. 
I can see that Miss D also had a further home credit loan that she was repaying at £86 a 
week at the time she asked for this loan. I think if Everyday Loans had carried out further 
checks it would have more likely than not found out about this also. When I consider the 
amount of additional credit repayments Miss D was making at the time, I dont think she 
would have had any disposable income at all and wouldnt have been able to afford the 
repayments for this loan. To put it short - the repayments for this loan were not sustainable.Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would have 
shown Everyday Loans that Miss D would not have been able to sustainably repay this loan. 
So, it follows that I currently think that Everyday Loans needs to put things right.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to my 
provisional decision. Both Miss D and Everyday Loans have not responded. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Both parties have not responded. So, as neither party has anything further to add, I dont 
see any reason to depart from my findings within my provisional decision. With that being 
the case, Everyday Loans now needs to put things right. 
 
Putting things right
 Having thought about everything, I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Ds complaint for Everyday Loans to put things right by:
Removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Miss D made, direct to Everyday Loans, should be deducted from the new 
starting balance  the £1,000.00 originally lent. 
If Miss D has already repaid more than £1,000.00 then Everyday Loans should treat 
any extra as overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to Miss D;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Miss D to the date of settlement
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans must give Miss D a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she 
asks for one.
 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ds complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited to 
put things right as described above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman