DRN-3132989
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as C has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly turned 
down its business interruption insurance claim. 
Ms M, a director of C, has brought the complaint on Cs behalf. 
What happened
C held a business protection insurance policy with Aviva. It claimed on its policy after its 
business was impacted by the Governments response to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Aviva turned down the claim. They said the core business interruption cover and extension 
for prevention of access only provided cover in the event of damage to property and Covid-
19 hadnt caused damage to property. They said while there was an extension for disease - 
that only provided cover for the list of diseases set out by the policy. And the extension for 
Action by Police Government or Other Competent Authority didnt provide cover either as 
this extension specifically excluded action taken to prevent the spread of diseases. 
Unhappy with Avivas response, C brought its complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into Cs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as she didnt think the policy 
provided cover for Cs claim. 
C asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
C. However, Im not going to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.  
 
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to 
see if Aviva have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining Cs claim.
Damage
The core business interruption cover provided by the policy and the extension for prevention 
of access both require there to have been damage to property. The policy defines damage 
as physical loss, destruction or damage.
I havent seen anything to indicate that Covid-19 caused physical loss destruction or damage 
to either Cs property or to property within one mile of its premises. Therefore, there isnt any 
cover for Cs claim under the core business interruption section or the extension for 
prevention of access. 
Disease
The extension for disease provides cover for business interruption or interference as a result 
of a specified disease occurring at, or within five miles of, Cs premises. The policy sets out 
a list of specified diseases however the list doesnt include Covid-19. 
Given Covid-19 wasnt in existence at the time the policy was entered into, I wouldnt expect 
it to be included in the list. But there are similar policies on the market that provide cover in 
the circumstances of the pandemic, e.g. policies which cover all notifiable diseases as set 
out and updated on a Government-defined list. Cs policy is not like this  it sets out a 
defined list of the diseases which are covered. And there is nothing in the wording of the 
policy which implies it would provide cover for any new diseases which might emerge. So, I 
dont think the policy can fairly be read as covering all and any new diseases and therefore 
this doesnt provide cover for Cs claim.
Action by Police Government or Other Competent Authority
The relevant part of this extension covers loss as a result of:
The prevention or restriction of access to, or closure of, Your Premises, by any 
Police, Government or other competent Authority, due to an emergency event 
within one mile of the boundary of Your Premises that causes or threatens a 
danger or disturbance. 
This extension has an exclusion for:
action taken in controlling, preventing or suppressing the spread of any disease
When reaching a decision, Im required to take account of relevant law. I think the High 
Court judgment on the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) test case is relevant to Cs
complaint as the court considered a similar extension to the one in Cs policy and that part of 
the judgment wasnt appealed to the Supreme Court.
Paragraph 376 of the judgment says:
The order or advice contained in the 20 and 23 March government advice and in 
the 21 and 26 March Regulations was the order or advice of the competent local 
authority, and was as a result of an occurrence (in fact many occurrences) of an 
infectious disease. Accordingly, the carve-out applies and there is no cover under 
[this type of policy] wording in respect of the closure of or restriction in the use of 
the premises.
I again see no reason to depart from the judgment. I think Cs premises closed as a result of 
action taken to prevent, control or supress the spread of Covid-19 which the World Health 
Organisations website describes as an infectious disease. So this extension doesnt 
provide cover for Cs claim. 
C has referred to the Supreme Court judgment. However, whether the claim should be paid 
still depends on the terms and conditions of the policy and in this case Im afraid it doesnt 
impact the outcome of Cs claim. I appreciate this isnt the outcome C was hoping for but, 
having considered the matter very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Aviva to pay Cs 
claim. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman