DRN-2263926
The complaint
Mr H complains that he lost out financially because The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc didnt 
process a large payment he asked it to make.
What happened
Mr H said that close to the financial year end, on 3 April, he made a large online payment to 
his pension provider. A few days later (and crucially, in the next financial year) he tried to 
access his account, and found he couldnt. Mr H contacted RBS, and it said his account was 
suspended. The payment Mr H wanted to make on 3 April had been rejected because RBS 
hadnt been able to contact him. RBS said it had been trying to get in touch with him.
Mr H said that because the payment wasnt made, he had lost the opportunity to get tax 
relief on that payment for that year. And the stock market slumped after this, so he said hed 
no longer be able to purchase as many units for his pension as he couldve done if the 
payment had been processed when he wanted it to be. He wanted RBS to pay him 
compensation. 
RBS said that the payment was suspicious, in line with fraud trends it had seen recently. It 
had held the payment under the terms of his account. 
RBS said that when it holds a payment, it will try to contact customers as soon as possible, 
and at least within 72 hours. It sad it had texted Mr H on 3 April, and called him on 4 April. It 
left a voicemail for him. When it hadnt had any reply by 6 April, the payment was rejected. 
Mr H said he didnt think that RBS could reasonably have suspected that this payment was 
fraudulent. And he didnt think it had done enough to check if it was fraudulent, or to get in 
touch with him about it. He said he hadnt received a text message, or missed a call. 
RBS said it couldnt go into detail about the fraud checks it does. And it confirmed that it had 
suspended his account on 4 April, when its call to him wasnt answered. RBS was sorry 
about any loss Mr H had experienced, but it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It has 
sent us evidence that it texted Mr H on 3 April at 13.13, and then rang Mr H on 4 April at 
8.36. Because he didnt get in touch, it rejected his payment, and texted him to tell him this 
on 6 April at 13.14. Mr H contacted RBS on 7 April.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She thought it was reasonable 
for RBS to have held this payment for fraud reasons. She wouldnt expect it to provide a 
detailed explanation of why this payment was held. And she said RBS had repeatedly tried 
to contact Mr H about the payment. It had only cancelled it when it couldnt get in touch with 
him. It had used the number that Mr H later confirmed was his. So our investigator said she 
couldnt explain why Mr H didnt get its text messages or voicemail, but she didnt think this 
was RBSs fault. And she didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
Mr H didnt agree. He still didnt think this explained why this payment was held up. And it 
didnt take account of the circumstances in which the payment was made. The payment was 
made just before the end of the financial year, and the money had been moved into his 
account specifically to make the payment into his pension fund. He didnt think that a 
payment to this pension firm could be suspicious. He thought there must be a lot of similar 
payments being made at that time. So he didnt think that the payment could be said to be 
in line with fraud trends at the time. He wanted to know what exactly made this payment 
suspicious.
Mr H thought it was too easy for the bank to say it couldnt answer him for security reasons, 
but he couldnt see any circumstances in which the payment couldve been in line with fraud 
trends. He wanted to know if our service had a complete explanation, or was the bank 
refusing to tell us too? 
Mr H also said that he still wasnt receiving texts from RBS. 
He thought that hed been let down by RBS, and the conditions it was hiding behind were 
unfair. Mr H wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to 
me for a final decision. 
Our investigator said that RBS wasnt obliged to give a reason why it had held this 
transaction for a check. That forms part of its security procedures, and it wouldnt disclose 
that. She didnt think what it had done was unreasonable. 
Mr H thought the bank was able to just say it had a reason for what it had done, and he had 
to accept it. He thought we should be asking for more information about this, and RBS 
should have to justify its decision to us, even if not to him. He didnt think there could be 
anything suspicious in the way his payment was made. So he thought the bank was covering 
something up. He said either the bank should give a reason, or it should compensate him for 
his losses.
Because Mr H and our investigator didnt agree, the case was passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion as our investigator. 
Mr H argues that it isnt fair for RBS to be able to just stop a payment whenever it thinks that 
there could possibly be fraud. He wanted us to ask RBS more detailed questions, so we 
could tell why this payment was blocked. 
But I dont think thats quite what RBS did. It didnt just refuse to make the payment. 
RBS saw a large payment leaving Mr Hs account, having only recently been transferred in 
from his savings. 
Whilst there are certainly a large number of people who move money around at the end of 
the tax year, this is also a time when fraudsters are particularly active. And payments to 
other large financial institutions may also be involved in fraudulent or scam transactions. 
I dont agree with Mr H that there could be nothing to cause any concern at all about this 
large payment. RBS put a hold on the payment to check that it had really been made by Mr H. The payment 
wasnt cancelled at this point, it was simply paused, pending confirmation by Mr H that he 
did want to make it. 
Mr Hs terms do say sometimes RBS will delay a payment, if it is concerned. That allows it to 
check its been made by him. And I think thats a reasonable step for RBS to take. I think its 
important to remember that at this point, Mr Hs payment could still have been made 
successfully, and within that tax year. 
RBS then tried to contact Mr H. We know it held the right mobile number for him. It checked 
this with him. And I can hear while Mr H was on the phone with RBS, he received the text 
with a security code that it had sent him. So I think he was receiving at least some of RBS 
messages. I dont know why Mr H didnt get the text or voicemail that RBS sent him, but I 
havent seen anything to suggest to me that this was RBS fault. 
RBS hadnt been able to contact Mr H. It had also blocked his access to his account on 4 
April, which does sometimes spur customers to get in touch. But unfortunately Mr H didnt try 
to access his account until 6 April. By then, it was too late to make this payment in the same 
tax year. 
As RBS efforts to get in touch with Mr H had failed, it then rejected his payment. 
So I dont think Im assessing here whether it was fair for RBS to reject this payment just on 
the background information it had on 3 April. It didnt reject the payment then, it only delayed 
it for extra checks. I think Im assessing whether it was fair for RBS to reject this payment on 
6 April, after it had paused the payment, tried to confirm this with Mr H (and blocked his 
account access) but still not heard from Mr H at all. And I dont think its in any way unfair or 
unreasonable for RBS to have rejected this payment on 6 April, in those circumstances. I 
dont think RBS has to provide a more detailed explanation or reasoning for that.
I understand that Mr H has been inconvenienced, and that he says he lost out financially. 
But I think the steps RBS took were reasonable ones, and were aimed at protecting both 
itself and him. So I dont think it has to make any payment towards Mr Hs loss. 
I know Mr H will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2020. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman