DRN-2334999
The complaint
Mr P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc delayed a payment he made to trade shares. As a 
result of the delay Mr P says the price of the shares increased by £121.38.
What happened
On 10 March 2020 Mr P tried to make a debit card payment into his share dealing account 
so he could trade. Mr P was shown a Verified by Visa message that asked him to contact 
HSBC to complete the payment. Mr P says it took over two hours to authorise the payment. 
By that time, the share price had gone up which led to a loss of around £121.38.
Mr P has explained that he regularly transfers money both into and out of his share dealing 
account via his HSBC current account. Mr P says its unclear why this transaction was held 
by HSBCs systems given it was the same as many others he has made. Mr P complained 
and HSBC responded on 13 March 2020.
HSBCs final response said it couldnt find evidence to support Mr P had spent over two 
hours on the phone before his payment was authorised and didnt uphold his complaint. 
Mr P referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. They said 
that HSBCs systems had identified the payment as potentially fraudulent and correctly 
asked for further information. The investigator also said that as HSBC didnt have an email 
address or mobile telephone number for Mr P, it sent him a message to call. The investigator 
advised the information theyd seen didnt show Mr P was on the phone for over two hours. 
Mr P asked to appeal and said HSBC had no legitimate reason to block his payment and 
that he had completed similar transactions many times before. Mr P also said that HSBCs 
records dont reflect how long it took him to get through to the right call handler. Mr P asked 
to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
I recently asked the investigator to request a copy of Mr Ps phone bill showing the calls he 
made on 10 March 2020. But Mr P has told us his phone bill didnt itemise calls included in a 
free package and that he has since changed his phone.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has queried what reason HSBC could have to block the payment for further checks and 
has pointed out he has done many similar transactions. I understand Mr P has undertaken 
very similar transactions that werent held for security checks. But HSBC has systems in 
place that identifies potentially fraudulent transactions. HSBC has sent in systems evidence 
to show the transaction in question was picked up by its systems for further checks, which is 
why it wasnt immediately approved. 
Ive looked at the account terms and they allow HSBC to place a temporary block on a 
payment to protect the account from fraud. And, as Ive said above, the fraud detection 
systems picked up Mr Ps payment as potentially fraudulent so it required checks to 
complete. I appreciate Mr P has made similar transactions before, but that doesnt mean all 
future payments will be authorised without any need for additional checks. 
Whilst I understand why Mr P is upset, I havent found that HSBC denied him access to his 
funds. Im satisfied it had reasonable concerns and required additional verification to 
proceed with Mr Ps payment. 
I recently asked if Mr P could provide a copy of his phone bill so I could see the calls he 
made. Mr P says it took over two hours to get through to the right team. HSBC has provided 
its records and call recordings that show Mr P was on the phone for around 20-25 minutes 
before the transaction was released. Im sorry to disappoint Mr P but the information Ive 
seen doesnt show that HSBC unreasonably delayed the approval of his transaction. 
HSBC has advised there are quicker methods of approving payments that have been held 
for additional checks via a One Time Passcode. But HSBC requires a mobile telephone 
number or an email address to send the passcode to. I understand Mr P is unwilling to 
provide those as he is concerned about receiving unwanted contact from HSBC. But I 
wanted to make sure Mr P was aware there are alternative verification processes available 
that may reduce the time taken if future payments are held for checks. 
 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr P but I havent found that HSBC acted unreasonably by asking for 
further information before approving his payment or that it caused unreasonable delays. Im 
satisfied that HSBC acted in line with the account terms and has dealt with Mr Ps complaint 
fairly. As a result, Im not telling HSBC to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman