DRN-2517889
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax cancelled a repayment plan 
after two months without warning and registered a default on her credit file. Mrs T is 
represented by her husband.
What happened
Mrs T says she agreed a repayment plan for her credit card debt in November 2019. But 
some two months later Halifax cancelled the agreement without warning or telling her. She 
says Halifax registered a default on her credit file which is unfair. And would like the 
repayment plan agreed and the default removed.
Halifax says in spoke to Mrs T in around July 2019 when told about her financial difficulties. 
It says it agreed to a breathing space which was in place for about five months in which it 
didnt charge interest. Halifax says it spoke to Mrs T and her husband in November 2019, 
but Mrs Ts husband refused to provide further information about Mrs Ts income and 
expenditure and said it hadnt changed since July 2019. It says it also told Mrs Ts husband 
that the account would default, and the default would remain on Mrs Ts credit file for six 
years. And that she would receive formal letters about this. Halifax says it has backdated the 
date of the default to October 2019.
Mrs T brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Halifax tried to help Mrs T in July 2019 by agreeing a breathing space by not 
charging interest, but Mrs T didnt make any payments until about December 2019. The 
investigator thought Halifax made clear in the call to Mrs Ts husband that the recovery 
process would start and that it wasnt accepting the repayment offer of £10 a month. And 
that formal default letters would be sent, and a default would be registered on Mrs Ts credit 
file.
Mrs T doesnt accept that view and says she didnt receive any of the default letters and 
wasnt aware of the default. She says a payment plan was agreed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mrs T will be disappointed by my decision.
I have listened carefully to the two calls between Mrs T, her husband and Halifax. Im 
satisfied that Halifax didnt agree to a repayment plan and clearly told Mrs Ts husband that 
the account would close, a default would be registered on Mrs Ts credit file and that formal 
default letters would be sent to Mrs T. I think that information was repeated on a number of 
occasions and that Mrs Ts husband ought reasonably to have realised that.
Im satisfied that Halifax asked Mrs Ts husband for up to date financial information, but he 
refused to provide it and said the position hadnt changed since July 2019. I think Halifax 
was reasonably entitled to ask for such information and couldnt consider agreeing a 
repayment plan without that information. I appreciate Mrs Ts husband says Halifax agreed 
to the £10 a month repayment offer. But Im satisfied it did not and that the offer was made 
on a take it or leave it basis without Halifax having the opportunity to consider if that offer 
was appropriate or affordable.
I find that Halifax during the calls made clear to Mrs Ts husband that a default would be 
registered on Mrs Ts credit file and would remain on it for six years and that it may pass the 
debt to an external debt collector. So, I think Halifax did make Mrs T and her husband aware 
of the default and told them that formal letters about it would follow. I appreciate Mrs T says 
she didnt receive those letters, but I can see they were sent and correctly addressed. I cant 
fairly hold Halifax responsible for the safe delivery of mail.
Banks and building societies should treat customers in financial difficulties positively and 
sympathetically. Im satisfied Halifax has acted in such a way here. I think it fairly agreed a 
lengthy breathing space in July 2019 and tried to discuss matters further with Mrs T and her 
husband on 27 November 2019. But Mrs Ts husband was not prepared to provide up to 
date information and made it clear on a number of occasions that the offer was £10 a month 
and that Halifax could take it or leave it. In those circumstances I find Halifax was reasonably 
entitled to conclude the relationship between it and Mrs T had broken down and by that 
stage there had been about five months of missed payments. 
Overall, I dont think Halifax acted unfairly or made a mistake by registering a default on Mrs 
Ts credit file. And I find, for the reasons I have explained, that a formal repayment plan had 
not been agreed and Halifax made clear the account would default.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman