DRN-3874634
The complaint
Ms H complains that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans irresponsibly lent 
her a loan.
What happened
Everyday Loans lent Ms H a loan in July 2019, the loan was for £1,200 to be repaid over 18 
monthly instalments of £159.58. Shortly after taking out the loan Ms H had problems 
repaying it and the debt is still outstanding.
When Ms H complained to Everyday Loans, it didnt uphold her compliant, it said it carried 
out sufficient checks and those checks showed Ms H could afford the repayment. Ms H then 
referred her complaint to this service where it was looked at by one of our adjudicators. 
Our adjudicator thought Everyday Loans shouldnt have lent to Ms H based on what its 
checks revealed. He thought Ms H was paying a significant portion of her income towards 
credit and the figure Everyday Loans used to assess Ms Hs living expenses at the time was 
not adequate for her.
Everyday Loans disagreed and as the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to 
me an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the loans were offered.
Before lending money to a consumer, a lender should take proportionate steps to 
understand whether the consumer could repay without borrowing further or suffering 
significant adverse consequences.
A lender should gather enough information for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance and rules themselves didnt set out compulsory checks, 
they did list a number of things a lender could take into account before agreeing to lend. The 
key thing was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to take into account a 
number of different things, including things such as how much was being lent and when what 
was being borrowed was due to be repaid. A business should also consider and react 
appropriately to what it knew about the consumer at the time it made its lending decision.
Everyday Loans has provided evidence to show that before lending, it searched Ms Hs 
credit file, asked her for her monthly income. It says it used data from the Office of National 
Statistics (ONS) to work out Ms Hs living costs.
I can see Everyday Loans verified some of the information Ms H provided through her bank 
statements and payslip. The purpose of the loan is recorded as for holiday and clearing 
some bills.
Everyday Loans worked out Ms Hs monthly income as £1,219.93, it didnt ask Ms H about 
her living costs and used an ONS average of £366. At the time of the loan, Ms H was living 
with parents and declared she didnt make a payment towards housing.
Ms Hs credit file showed that she had three historic defaults from 2013 and 2014 which had 
been passed to debt collectors and so Ms H was still repaying those debts, this was also 
confirmed on her bank statements. Ms H also had other credit which Everyday Loans 
worked out she was paying £549.47 towards each month.
Overall, I think Everyday Loans carried out sufficient checks, but I dont think it reacted 
appropriately to what its checks showed. A closer look at the Ms Hs circumstances show 
that she was borrowing from at least four other high cost credit lenders and Everyday Loans 
would be the fifth. In addition to those loans, she also had an outstanding balance on her 
credit card and was still repaying historic debts.
Ms H was due to pay around £549.47 towards unsecured credit and with the monthly 
repayment due on this loan, shed be repaying more that £700 towards unsecured credit 
each month. This amount was significant when compared with her monthly income of around 
£1,219. 
Considering the full picture of Ms Hs finances, shed be paying towards her defaulted 
accounts for at least five years and there was still an outstanding balance. She was 
borrowing from multiple high cost lenders and paying a significant portion of her monthly 
income towards unsecured debt. I think Everyday Loans should have known that it was 
unlikely Ms H couldnt sustainably afford this loan. This was borne out in the fact that Ms H 
struggled to keep up with her loan repayments within a short time of the lending.
Everyday Loans in my opinion has lent to Ms H when it shouldnt have, and this has resulted 
in her suffering loss and it needs to put things right.
Putting things right
I understand the loan is still outstanding and so to put things right for Ms H. If the debt has 
been sold, Everyday Loans should buy it back, but if its unable to buy it back, the 
responsibility is on it to ensure debt purchaser to put things right for Ms H. 
To put things right, Everyday Loans should:
remove all interest and charges applied to the loan, and
treat all payments Ms H has made as repayments towards the capital of £1,200.
Theres likely to be an outstanding balance so Everyday Loans should agree a suitable 
repayment plan with Ms H.
Once the capital has been fully repaid, Everyday Loans should remove any adverse 
information recorded on Ms Hs credit file about this loan.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. Everyday Loans 
must give Ms H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Ms Hs complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman