DRN-3578487
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Experian Limited incorrectly showed a financial association 
between himself and someone with an outstanding county court judgement (CCJ).
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with the case, so Ill summarise things in brief.
A bank registered an incorrect financial association between Mr G and a family member. 
Experian displayed this association on Mr Gs file.
In April 2021, the relative had a CCJ registered against them. In August 2021, Mr G looked 
for a mortgage and was turned down at the Decision in Principle stage. He found out about 
the financial association with his relative, and complained. Two days later, Experian 
removed the financial association, and they offered Mr G £50 compensation. A week after 
that, Mr G resumed applying for mortgages, but continued to be declined. In February 2022, 
he got a mortgage offer.
Mr G says that had it not been for the false financial association and the family members 
CCJ, he would have been granted the mortgage in August 2021. He explained that since 
then, he had to live with his partners relative far away from work. Hes asked for 
compensation for his rent, storage, and travel costs, and for the added strain.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
I sent Mr G and Experian a provisional decision on 6 June 2022, to explain why I thought 
the complaint should be upheld in part. In that decision, I said:
I understand that in the past, Experian mixed up a different relatives data with Mr Gs. That 
was a different incident to this one, and was addressed in a final decision in 2019. I cannot 
reconsider what was already dealt with in another ombudsmans final decision. So I wont 
make any findings on that other incident. In this decision, I can only deal with the financial 
association with this particular relative and the events that followed.
When it comes to whos responsible for this incorrect financial association, I can see it was a 
bank who actually registered it. So they might bear some responsibility here. Of course, 
Experian also got things wrong by displaying the association, as it was clearly in a different 
name and address to Mr Gs, and they had their own responsibility to report things correctly. 
Experian have accepted that they made an error here.
When a business gets things wrong, we look at the impact of the error to think about how to 
put things right.
Mr G says that had it not been for the association to his relative, he would have been 
granted the mortgage he applied for in August 2021. I can certainly understand his thinking, 
as theres a strong likelihood that that mortgage company checked his financial associations, 
and if they did then its likely that an associations CCJ would have had some effect. Mr G 
says that his mortgage broker and the lender have both confirmed to him that the family 
members CCJ was the sole reason for the rejection. But as things stand, hes not yet 
provided any evidence of this.
However, even if I accept that the relatives CCJ caused Mr Gs Decision in Principle to be a 
decline, that doesnt necessarily mean that the lender would have granted him the mortgage 
but for the CCJ. A Decision in Principle is just that  an indication of what the lender might 
be willing to lend in principle. It is not a guarantee that they will actually grant a specific 
mortgage. Indeed, I can see that in October 2021 Mr G had an accepted Decision in 
Principle from a different lender, but that mortgage did not then go through. So hes aware 
that its normal to get a positive Decision in Principle but not secure an actual mortgage.
Even once the relatives association was removed from Mr Gs file, he still had a large 
number of negative factors on his file, and his credit score was classed as poor. And I can 
see that after the relatives data was removed, Mr G applied for a number of mortgages but 
was repeatedly turned down. So it seems very likely that Mr G would have been turned down 
for the August 2021 mortgage in the end, too. Indeed, if the relatives CCJ really was the 
only reason that Mr G was turned down for that mortgage, then it is very difficult to see why 
his broker didnt just explain the mistake to the lender and then reapply once the relatives 
data was removed just two days later. The fact that Mr G never successfully reapplied for 
that mortgage tends to suggest that the lender was not willing to grant it even without the 
relatives data.
Then even if I accept that Experian caused Mr G to get rejected for that mortgage, the fact is 
that Experian corrected the erroneous financial association just two days later. And Mr G 
was able to resume applying for mortgages just nine days later. Past that point, Mr Gs 
troubles in getting a mortgage were not because of Experian or his relatives CCJ. He was 
getting turned down on his own merits. So even if I did think Experian caused his initial 
mortgage decline, I could only hold Experian responsible for nine days worth of delay at the 
very most.
Turning to the issue of costs, I would only tell Experian to refund costs they were directly 
responsible for. And again, at most I could only see them being responsible for nine days 
worth of delay in Mr G applying for mortgages. But the costs Mr G have sent us are all dated 
later on. For example, hes given us a storage contract from late October 2021, crossing 
charges from November 2021 onwards, and rent payments from December 2021 onwards. 
But as I explained above, by those points Mr Gs file had been corrected for some time and 
any issues he was having getting a mortgage were no longer Experians fault. I do realise 
that this will come as a real disappointment for Mr G, though it is not my intention to 
disappoint him. But based on what Ive seen so far, I cannot fairly hold Experian liable for the 
costs hes listed.Of course, I do understand that finding the incorrect financial association wouldve been 
most distressing for Mr G  not least as he was trying to buy a home, which is already a 
stressful time. And I accept its likely that he may have incurred some extra costs by having 
his mortgage application process delayed by a few days. So I dont think that the £50 
compensation Experian offered is quite enough. Though Ive also kept in mind that Experian 
acted quickly to sort things out once they were aware things had gone wrong, and that were 
not here to issue fines or to punish businesses. Taking into account our guidelines for 
compensation, I currently think £200 in total would be fair to put things right.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
4 July 2022. Experian agreed to pay the additional £150 compensation on top of the £50 
theyd already paid. Mr G didnt add anything further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, and for the same reasons as set out in 
my provisional decision above.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Gs complaint in part, and direct Experian Limited to pay him £200 compensation 
in total.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman