DRN-3703939
The complaint
Mr R says Acromas Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined a claim he made on the 
parts and garage cover of his motor breakdown policy.
What happened
Mr R reported a breakdown to Acromass breakdown service in November 2021. When a 
technician attended, he told Mr R what he thought the problem was, reset a fault code and 
advised Mr R to take the car to a garage for a full diagnostic check. Following that, Acromas 
may have covered the cost of the repair or the replacement of parts. But the garage couldnt 
identify a fault at the time. Mr R was then able to drive the car until April 2022, when he says 
the same fault appeared again. He took the car to a garage and it told Acromas what the 
problem was, but Acromas declined the claim. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Rs complaint. She thought Acromas had acted 
reasonably, in line with the breakdown policys terms and conditions. Mr R said Acromas 
should have paid for the repair in November 2021, so it should reimburse him £212 for the 
2022 repair instead. As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my opinion, in November 2021 Acromas did all it was required to do under the breakdown 
policy  and all it was possible for it to do at the time. It couldnt pay for a repair then, when 
the garage couldnt identify what had caused the problem. But it gave Mr R clear advice 
about what he should do if he had further problems with the car.
The technician wasnt able to carry out full diagnostic checks at the roadside, which is why 
Mr R was advised to take the car to a garage. Its very unfortunate that the garage couldnt 
say what the fault was, but I dont think that was Acromass fault. The technician made a 
temporary repair and reset the fault code so Mr R was able to continue his journey. As far as 
Im aware, thats standard practice when roadside assistance is given. 
When Mr R called Acromas on 15 November 2021 to inform it that the fault couldnt be 
found, the advisor told him if the problem arose again within 14 days, he should take the car 
back to the garage. She said after that period expired, he should call Acromas for assistance 
(in line with the policys requirements) and tell the attending technician not to reset the fault 
code. Mr R was able to drive the car for a further 2,500 miles during the next five months 
before he had a further problem. I think he should then have followed the advice hed been 
given and called for assistance. Instead he took the car straight to a garage for diagnosis 
and Acromas was only made aware of the problem after that. 
Acromas told Mr R in its final response letter following his complaint to it that the policy first 
requires a consumer to show that their car has suffered a sudden and unexpected 
mechanical or electrical failure that has prevented it from continuing its journey. The situation  
must be assessed by a technician at the roadside. I think the policy makes it clear that a 
consumer must call for assistance before trying to make a claim. One of the policys general 
exclusions says no cover will be provided if a consumer takes the car to a garage first. And 
Mr R had also been advised to call for assistance if there was a further problem after the first 
breakdown during the conversation in November 2021 referred to above.
The technician noted in his November 2021 report that the error code showed there had 
been a misfire. He didnt say a coil pack issue caused the misfire (as diagnosed by the 
garage in 2022). His report says he found no visual fault with the coil pack. He may have told 
Mr R he thought that was the problem, but he wasnt able to diagnose the cause of  it with 
any certainty. Whatever the issue was then, it seems it was intermittent (or that a new issue 
developed) given the months that passed before a problem with the car arose again. 
I think Acromas may well have agreed to pay for the cars repairs in April 2022 regardless of 
whether the problem was the same as that in November 2021. But it would have needed to 
check that the April 2022 issue fell within the policys cover (met its breakdown definitions, 
terms, and conditions) before it could consider the claim. It didnt get the chance to do that. 
I know Mr R will be disappointed with my decision, as hes out of pocket despite having paid 
for breakdown cover. But as I dont think it was unreasonable for Acromas to decline the 
claim, Im not able to uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman