DRN-3300972
The complaint
Mr J complains that Santander UK Plc failed to refund transactions he didnt recognise.
What happened
Mr J asked Santander for copy statements relating to his closed account in support of an
issue he was dealing with relating to a large payment he was due  in 2017. Mr J explained 
that he was asked for evidence whether this payment had ever been made to him and hed 
asked Santander for the statements to help him.
Santander arranged for the statements to be sent to Mr J but there was a delay in receiving
them. Santander wrote to Mr J explaining there was an issue with the postal services and
arranged for them to be sent electronically. In the meantime, Santander looked into the
specific payment Mr J was trying to identify and told him there was no record of it been
received into his account.
Mr J subsequently received his statements and identified the payment hed previously asked
about which had been paid into his account. On further review of the statements he believed 
his account was being used by someone else and disputed the majority of the transactions 
on the account over the next few years until the account was closed. Mr J said he disputed
them on the advice of Santander.
Santander didnt accept Mr Js fraud claim and told him that it was too late to make it
because he hadnt notified them within 13 months of the unrecognised transactions. Mr J
made a complaint to Santander, who didnt change their position.
Mr J remained unhappy with how his complaint had been dealt with and brought it to our
service for an independent review. Mr J said he was vulnerable due to illness and Santander
were aware of this because of the type of payments paid into his account. He said he was
unwell at the time of the incoming payment in 2017 but had started looking after his own
accounts the following year. The complaint was looked into by one of our investigators who
thought it was unlikely that the transactions were made by anyone else and that it was
reasonable for Santander to hold Mr J liable for them.
Mr J disagreed with the outcome and asked for a further review of his complaint. He also
sent our service evidence of a suspicious text hed received. Our investigator told Mr J that
he should be wary about such texts and not to reply to them. He referred Mr J to Santanders
website for advice about such scams. Mr J wanted this text message investigating as part of
this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision where I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first like to address the suspicious text message that Mr J received. I recognise that the
receipt of such messages can no doubt be worrying. I understand Mr J wanted this looking
into as part of this complaint, but as the message doesnt form part of the original complaint,
I wont be commenting on it within this decision.
When Mr J was trying to obtain a copy of his statements, his account had already been
closed by Santander. The information he wanted was from about four years earlier and
Santander arranged to send Mr J a copy of his statements by post, which were delayed due
to postal problems.
Santander were aware what payment Mr J was trying to find and attempted to assist him by
looking through their records. They wrote to Mr J and told him specifically that there was no
record of his account receiving the payment hed asked about. Mr J has explained that he
was then told by Santander to dispute the transactions because of fraud on his account. Ive
looked at the notes recorded by Santander and theres no record of this advice, but its
apparent that whether he received advice from Santander or not, Mr J believed his account
was subject to fraud. Once Mr J received a copy of his statements, he saw the payment had
been received into his account and thought this was also part of fraudulent activity.
Mr J told our service that he wasnt actively managing his accounts at the time of the
incoming payment because he was experiencing difficulties with his health. Mr J believes
Santander knew about his health problems because of the type of payment that was made
into his account. Santanders records dont reflect Mr Js understanding and I dont think they
would necessarily know what specific issues Mr J was experiencing unless he told them. I
dont think the knowledge of his heath condition would have made a difference here because
Santander were only trying to comply with his request for copy statements and identify the
specific payment Mr J was concerned about.
Ive examined the incoming and outgoing transactions on Mr Js account and theres nothing
to suggest that he didnt receive the large payment he originally queried. The manner in
which the subsequent transactions were made - either by the genuine card or bank transfers
 also doesnt suggest they were made by anyone other than Mr J. I think its more likely
than not that these transactions were made by Mr J or someone he authorised to use his
account. I appreciate the situation Mr J was in and the doubts he had about his account. I
hope that the independent review of the transactions gives him some measure of confidence
that there was nothing wrong with how his account was used.
Santander declined to look into the disputed transactions because of the length of time Mr J
had taken to report them and I can understand why they mentioned this rule, but in any
event there isnt enough evidence to show these transactions were unauthorised in a way
that would be fair to hold Santander liable to refund them.
Ive also thought about what happened once Santander gave Mr J the wrong information,
which caused Mr J to complain to Santander and eventually refer it to our service. I think this
probably could have been avoided if theyd given Mr J the correct information when they
wrote to him. I recognise that Santander were trying to help Mr J, but the information they
told him only served to cause him further doubts about what had happened. Im unsure why
this incoming payment was missed as its the single largest payment he received around that
time.
Mr J wanted the information about the payment because it was central to a discussion he
was having with another organisation at the time. I dont know if Mr J used the information
given to him by Santander, which if he did, would no doubt have caused further confusion
and anxiety until it was rectified. As a result of the incorrect information Santander gave Mr
J, he believed his account was being used fraudulently and spent time and effort trying to
find out what happened. He experienced unnecessary inconvenience and stress as a result
of Santanders error.Because of this, Im intending to instruct Santander to pay Mr J £150 for the inconvenience
and unnecessary stress they caused due to the misleading information they gave him. I dont
intend to uphold Mr Js complaint regarding the alleged fraud on his account as I think Mr J
was more likely than not responsible for making the transactions.
I invited Mr J and Santander to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me 
to consider before issuing my final decision. Mr J accepted my provisional decision and 
Santander disagreed as they thought the award was excessive, but did agree that theyd 
initially misled Mr J, but by sending the statements out, theyd provided him with the correct 
information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not intending to change my position I set out in my provisional decision. 
I appreciate both parties responded quickly, and Ive considered the additional comments 
made by Santander.
I dont disagree that Santander corrected their earlier mistake when they sent the statements 
out to Mr J, but unfortunately by this time, Mr J had been told by them in a formal letter that 
he hadnt received this incoming payment that he specifically asked them about. Receiving 
such a letter from Santander would have carried great weight with Mr J, as Im sure it would 
with most people. Once he was given that information from Santander, Mr J then believed 
hed been defrauded which set off the further complaints. So, whilst Im satisfied it was 
purely an innocent mistake from Santanders part, it did cause Mr J unnecessary stress and 
inconvenience and I think the award of £150 is reasonable in the circumstances. 
Putting things right
Im instructing Santander to award Mr J £150 for the unnecessary stress and inconvenience 
they caused due to the misleading information they gave him. I dont uphold Mr Js complaint 
concerning the disputed transactions he believed was present on his account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and instruct Santander UK Plc to pay 
Mr J £150 for the reasons Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman