DRN-2925637
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, reduced the credit 
limits on her credit card accounts.
What happened
Miss S made monthly payments to her two Barclays credit accounts. Shortly afterward, Miss 
S discovered that Barclays had reduced the credit limits on both of her credit accounts. 
When Miss S contacted Barclays about this, she was told that shed missed a payment on 
one of her accounts and that this had led to her accounts being reviewed and the decision to 
reduce the credit limits being arrived at and implemented. Miss S wasnt happy about this, so 
she raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Miss Ss complaint, but they noted that Miss Ss recent payments had 
comprised of two separate payments to the same account, meaning that one account had 
been paid twice while the other hadnt received payment at all. Barclays acknowledged the 
intent of Miss S had been to make payments to both accounts, so they transferred the 
relevant payment to the unpaid account and reimbursed the interest and charges that had 
resulted from the non-payment on that account. 
But Barclays stood by their decision to reduce the credit limits on the two accounts and 
confirmed to Miss S that they werent willing to reinstate the higher limits as Miss S would 
have liked. Finally, Barclays acknowledged that the level of service that Miss S had received 
when trying to resolve this issue hadnt been to the standard that they would have liked, so 
they made a payment of £25 to Miss S to compensate her for this.
Miss S wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, especially as she used the credit accounts 
for her business and felt that she had incurred business losses as a result of the credit limits 
being lowered. So, she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that the payment to one of 
Miss Ss accounts had been missed because Miss S hadnt sent that payment to the correct 
account, and that Barclays hadnt acted unreasonably in reviewing the credit limits on the 
accounts and reducing those limits as they had. So, they didnt uphold Miss Ss complaint.
Miss S remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It must have been frustrating for Miss S to have discovered that the credit limits on her 
accounts had been reduced by Barclays, and even more so to learn that the reason Barclays 
had been prompted to review the credit limits on the accounts was because Barclays hadnt 
applied one of the payments that shed sent to the account that the payment had been 
intended for.
Theres disagreement between Miss S and Barclays with regard whether the payment had 
been sent to the wrong account or not, with Miss S contending that she used a recently 
expired card number on the correct account, but with Barclays stating that Miss S made both 
payments to separate, previously expired cards, both from Miss Ss other account.
In most instances, where there is a disagreement between the complainant and the 
respondent business, Id review all available evidence and information to see if the issue can 
be settled conclusively, and if not, Id try to decide which version of events is most likely to 
have taken place, on balance, and in light of all the information available to me. 
However, in this instance, I dont feel that following the above process is necessary. And I 
say this because its evident from the terms of Barclays credit accounts that they retain the 
right to reduce the credit limit on an account at any time, without warning or explanation, if 
they consider it necessary.
Furthermore, Barclays have confirmed that, following Miss Ss complaint, they passed both 
of her accounts to their underwriting department for a second review, and it was determined 
by that review that Barclays would be unwilling to offer Miss S credit limits on her accounts 
above those which Barclays had reduced them down to.
As such, given that Barclays have conducted a recent underwriter assessment, if I were to 
find in Miss Ss favour on this issue and instruct Barclays to increase Miss Ss credit limits 
back to their original levels, its highly likely that Barclays would follow my instruction, only to 
then reduce the credit limits back to the levels that they are at now as a result of their recent 
underwriter assessment. And, as per the terms of the Barclays credit accounts  as 
mentioned - I can only conclude that Barclays would be entitled to take such action.
In addition, Miss S has made repeated references that the two credit accounts in question 
are being used by her business. However, its evident from the terms of the credit accounts 
that such business use is not permitted and that the credit accounts are for personal use 
only - and Barclays have reiterated that the accounts are not for business use during their 
correspondence with this service, and that they retain the right to put a stop on the accounts 
if they consider that theyre not being used in accordance with the contractual terms.
Ultimately, while Miss S might not agree with the narrative expressed by Barclays which led 
them to review the credit limits on Miss Ss accounts, Im satisfied that the terms of the credit 
accounts allow Barclays to reduce the credit limits at any time if they so choose. 
And, following two reviews of Miss Ss accounts, Barclays have chosen to reduce the credit 
limits on those accounts. And given the aforementioned terms of the credit accounts, I cant 
conclude that it was unfair or unreasonable for Barclays to have done so, especially 
considering that it appears that Miss S is using the accounts for business purposes when 
such usage isnt permitted by the terms of the account.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Miss S was wanting here, but it follows that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or asking Barclays to take any further action at this time. I 
trust that Miss S will understand, given what Ive explained above, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman