DRN-3532502
The complaint
Mr W complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited irresponsibly granted him a conditional sale 
agreement he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
In May 2018, Mr W acquired a used car financed by a conditional sale agreement from 
Moneybarn. Mr W made an advance payment of £4,999 and was required to make 59 
monthly repayments of £242. The total repayable under the agreement was £19,282.
Mr W says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen that he had other debts including payday loans and had defaulted accounts 
as well as a county court judgement on his credit file. He says adequate checks would have 
shown the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said that it carried out a 
thorough assessment which included a credit check and reviewing Mr Ws payslips from the 
months before the agreement. It said that although Mr W did have a defaulted debt and a 
county court judgment on his credit report its customers often have some adverse credit 
information and Mr W fell within its lending criteria. It says that Mr Ws average income in the 
months before the agreement was around £3,000. It noted that there was a bonus payment 
included in one of his payslips but said that recalculating using just Mr Ws basic income still 
resulted in Mr W falling within its lending criteria.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Moneybarn didnt 
act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mr W didnt agree and reiterated that a proper credit check would have shown he had other 
debts, defaulted accounts and a county court judgement. He provided details from his bank 
accounts and credit report. Our adjudicator considered the additional information but didnt 
think this was enough to say that the finance shouldnt have been provided.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Before granting the finance, I thought Moneybarn gathered a reasonable amount of 
evidence and information from Mr W about his income. It reviewed two payslips. One 
months payslip included a bonus payment. Moneybarn recalculated based on 
Mr Ws basic salary and said the repayments were still within its lending criteria. I 
thought it was reasonable that the average of the two months basic income was 
used in the assessment. This gave Mr W a monthly income of around £2,300.
Moneybarn didnt provide a copy of the credit check it completed but noted that there 
was adverse information on this which was taken into account and Mr W still met its 
lending criteria. I looked through the additional information Mr W provided to 
understand what would likely have been seen in the credit check and this showed 
that he had several defaults, including accounts defaulting within 12 months of the 
agreement and a county court judgement. I thought this ought to have indicated that 
Mr W was likely to be struggling financially and that it would have been proportionate 
for Moneybarn to have got a more thorough understanding of Mr Ws financial 
circumstances before lending.
Moneybarn didnt ask Mr W about his expenditure. Although it did complete a credit 
check, this wouldnt have indicated what Mr Ws regular living expenses were. 
Without knowing what Mr Ws regular committed expenditure was Moneybarn 
wouldnt have got a reasonable understanding of whether the agreement was 
affordable or not. It therefore didnt complete proportionate checks.
In this case, given the adverse information on Mr Ws credit file I thought it would 
have been proportionate for Moneybarn to have verified Mr Ws expenditure. This 
could have been done by requesting copies of Mr Ws bank statements. I reviewed 
the statements that were provided and these gave limited information about Mr Ws 
committed expenditure. They showed expenses for items such as utilities, and other 
costs of around £400 a month. Additional to this there were large payments each 
month to another person. Mr W explained that due to his gambling at the time he 
would transfer part of his income to his partner to cover the costs of the mortgage, 
household bills and payments to other creditors such as payday lenders. Based on 
the information for the months leading up to the agreement, the amount Mr W paid 
varied from around £1,650 to over £3,800 but a reasonable assessment I thought 
would have been around £1,700. This combined with his other committed expenses 
of £400 gave monthly outgoings of around £2,100 or more. Mr Ws income was 
around £2,300 which demonstrated that Mr W didnt have enough disposable income 
to afford the additional borrowing. 
As I thought it likely that proportionate checks would have revealed this to 
Moneybarn, I didnt think it acted fairly by approving the finance.
In my provisional decision I noted that Mr W incurred costs when the car was returned for 
refurbishment and a replacement key, and I said these were a separate issue and remained 
payable. This issue wasnt addressed in the provisional decision and I said if Mr W wished to 
dispute these this would need to be raised separately.
Mr W agreed with my provisional decision but asked that the cost of repairs be the loss of 
value cost of £1,209.14 not the original estimate for repairs as these were not completed. 
While I appreciate the point that Mr W has made as this issue isnt being addressed in this 
decision if he wishes to challenge the charges applied he will need to do so separately to 
allow Moneybarn an opportunity to respond directly to that issue.
Moneybarn said it had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
As I set out in my provisional decision, I dont think that Moneybarn carried out proportionate 
checks. I think if it had done it would have realised that the lending wasnt sustainably 
affordable for Mr W. No new information regrading the affordability checks was provided in response to my provisional decision and so my conclusions havent changed and I am 
therefore upholding this complaint. l
Putting things right
As I dont think Moneybarn ought to have approved the lending, it should therefore refund all 
the payments Mr W has made, including any deposit. However, Mr W did have use of the 
car around 19 months, so I think its fair he pays for that use. But Im not persuaded that 
monthly repayments of £242 a month are a fair reflection of what fair usage would be. This is 
because a proportion of those repayments went towards repaying interest.
There isnt an exact formula for working out what a fair usage should be. In deciding whats 
fair and reasonable Ive thought about the amount of interest charged on the agreement, 
Mr Ws likely overall usage of the car and what his costs to stay mobile would likely have 
been if he didnt have the car. In doing so, I think a fair amount Mr W should pay is £180 for 
each month he had use of the car. This means Moneybarn can only ask him to repay a total 
of £3,420. Anything Mr W has paid in excess of this amount (including the deposit) should be 
treated as an overpayment. As noted above Mr W incurred costs when the car was returned 
for refurbishment and a replacement key, these are a separate issue and not part of this 
decision so if Mr W wishes to dispute these this would need to be raised separately.
To settle Mr Ws complaint Moneybarn should do the following:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay (see note regarding charges already 
incurred).
Refund all the payments Mr W has made (including the deposit), less £3,420 for fair 
usage.
oAs Mr W has paid more than the fair usage figure, Moneybarn should refund 
any overpayments, adding 8% simple interest per year* from the date of 
each.
As Moneybarn has received the fair usage amount, it should remove any adverse 
information recorded on Mr Ws credit file regarding the agreement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneybarn to take off tax from this interest. Moneybarn 
must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mr W asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Moneybarn No. 1 Limited should take the 
actions set out above in resolution of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman