DRN-4061809
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) turned down a Chargeback claim. He 
would like the value of the goods he claimed for refunded.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I appreciate Mr As concerns  he ordered items of significant value online but says 
these werent delivered, so contacted Barclays to put in a  Chargeback claim. The 
Chargeback scheme is a  voluntary scheme operated under strict rules set  by the 
card scheme operators with documentary evidence required to support claims. Banks 
dont have to put in claims but if there is a reasonable prospect of success we expect 
them to do so. Barclays put in a Chargeback claim which I think was the right course 
of action.
Barclays followed the correct process in refunding the disputed transaction whilst it 
made its investigations. I understand there was a separate issue with Mr As account 
being frozen. Given the sum of money involved I dont think this was unreasonable. 
The merchant successfully defended the Chargeback claim providing confirmation of 
delivery of the goods at 10.01 am on 16 April 2022 with an attempted delivery time 
also recorded of 9.59 am on the same day. Mr A has provided still footage from his 
doorbell which confirms the postman going up to his door twice and writing a missed 
delivery card which he has given us a copy of. However, matching up the delivery 
information times with the doorbell footage times I agree with our investigator that 
there is a slight discrepancy of approximately two minutes. This means that delivery 
would have shown as taking place at 10.03 on the doorbell footage . Unfortunately, 
the footage ends at 10.01. Mr A has told us the doorbell time is set automatically and 
cant be changed and I dont dispute that.  But its possible the door was opened, and 
the parcels delivered just after the missed delivery card was put through the door. On 
this basis I dont think the evidence Mr A supplied was sufficiently strong to ensure a 
successful Chargeback claim. So, I dont think Barclays were wrong not to continue 
with the claim. On this basis I cant reasonably ask Barclays to refund the cost of the 
goods as Mr A would like
I understand Barclays paid Mr A £200 compensation for not investigating his initial 
claim. I think this was reasonable as it should have  investigated the claim when Mr A 
first brought it. But I dont think further compensation is appropriate as  Mr A wasnt 
disadvantaged as Barclays did go ahead and  properly investigate his claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman