DRN-3896808
The complaint
Mr J is complaining My Policy Ltd cancelled his car insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2021 Mr J took out a car insurance policy though My Policy  a broker. He 
wanted to pay the annual premium in monthly instalments. To do so, My Policy arranged for 
Mr J to take out a finance agreement through a third-party finance provider  who I shall 
refer to as C.
In May 2021 C informed My Policy that Mr J had missed his monthly repayment as hed 
cancelled the direct debit mandate. C said it had asked Mr J to make the payment by 
24 May 2021, otherwise it would cancel the finance agreement. On 18 May 2021 My Policy 
emailed Mr J to say it was going to cancel the insurance policy and asked Mr J to contact C 
to stop the policys cancellation. On 25 May 2021 C terminated the finance agreement and, 
in turn, My Policy cancelled Mr Js insurance policy. It said Mr J still owed £478.51 on the 
finance agreement.
Mr J didnt think My Policy was entitled to cancel the insurance policy as he disputed he was 
in arrears. He also said hed called and emailed My Policy before the policy was cancelled 
but it had ignored him. Finally, he said hed tried to pay C, but he says C told him that it had 
been told to not take any payments.
I issued a provisional decision not upholding this complaint and I said the following:
I should first set out that Im only considering the actions of My Policy in this decision. I note 
Mr J has also complained about the actions of C  but C isnt a party to this complaint so Im 
unable to comment on anything C did or didnt do.
My Policy acted as an insurance broker in this complaint. It was also responsible for 
administering Mr Js insurance policy. I can see that it was informed by C that Mr J had 
cancelled the direct debit mandate, so he hadnt made his monthly payment which meant his 
finance agreement was in arrears. C also explained that it had given Mr J until 24 May 2021 
to clear the arrears.
Under its terms of business, My Policy is entitled to cancel the insurance policy where a 
consumer doesnt make one of the monthly payments. But it needs to exercise this fairly and 
reasonably. Owing to the significant implications of cancelling an insurance policy Id 
generally expect My Policy to give a policyholder an opportunity to get things back on track 
before cancelling a policy  i.e. it shouldnt immediately cancel an insurance policy where a 
payment is missed.
However, in this case, My Policy had been informed that C had written to Mr J on two 
occasions and hadnt had a reply. Ultimately, C terminated the finance agreement, so the full 
balance outstanding on the finance agreement  £644.72  became immediately payable. Id 
generally expect My Policy to have given Mr J an opportunity to pay this, but I think its 
unlikely Mr J would have been able to pay this in full at the time. So I think its likely the 
insurance policy was always going to be cancelled to obtain a refund of premium to reduce 
the amount payable on the finance agreement. So, while I do agree with the investigator that 
My Policy was premature in cancelling the insurance policy, Im not persuaded Mr J has lost 
out because its likely the policy was always going to be cancelled.
I note Mr J says he sent a number of emails and had telephone calls before the policy was 
cancelled, but I havent seen anything to show this. If Mr J is unhappy with the way C treated 
him, or if he doesnt think it took sufficient steps to support him, hell need to raise this with C 
directly.
Ultimately, I cant say that My Policy acted unreasonably in cancelling the insurance policy in 
the specific circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr J didnt accept my provisional for the following reasons:
He said he didnt cancel his direct debit mandate and he reiterated that C told him it had 
been instructed to not take any further payments to clear the arrears.
He reiterated that he emailed My Policy a number of times  replying to the email 
address My Policy emailed from  but it didnt reply. He said he preferred to 
communicate by email as he said using the telephone was impacting his mental health.
He said My Policys call handlers were rude to him and also said that it had long wait 
times to speak to him. And he said these issues made his anxieties worse.
He maintained fault lay with My Policy for not taking his monthly payments. 
My Policy responded to say that it didnt have anything further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken Mr Js comments into account, but I dont think hes raised anything new that he 
hasnt raised before. As I said in my provisional decision, I can only comment what My Policy 
did. If Mr J is unhappy with the actions of C, hell need to raise that with C directly.
I note Mr J says that My Policy didnt reply to his emails, but Ive not seen anything to show 
that My Policy received any emails from him. So I cant hold it responsible for this.
Ultimately, C informed My Policy that Mr J had missed his monthly payment and the direct 
debit mandate had been cancelled. I recognise he says he didnt cancel the direct debit 
mandate, but hell need to raise that with C. C also advised My Policy it had terminated the 
finance agreement, so the full amount outstanding on the finance agreement was payable  
i.e. Mr J needed to pay £644.72 immediately to prevent the policy being cancelled. And he 
hasnt given me anything to show that he would have been able to do this. So Im still not 
persuaded that Mr J has lost out due to My Policy cancelled the insurance policy 
prematurely.
Finally, Ive thought about Mr Js comment about the way My Policy handled his telephone 
calls. I agree that there were long hold times and I think, ideally, it should have answered the 
calls quicker than it did. But I dont think I can reasonably require My Policy to compensate 
him for this. I note Mr J says the call handlers were rude, but from listening to the calls 
My Policy has provided, I havent seen anything to support this. I recognise Mr J didnt agree 
with what the call handlers were saying, but Im satisfied they handled the calls in a fair and 
professional way.My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman