DRN-3840988
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that UK Insurance Limited declined their claim against their travel 
insurance policy. Reference to UKI includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr and Mrs M have travel insurance underwritten by UKI as a 
benefit of a bank account. They planned a trip which had a departure date of                    
8 October 2021. Mr and Mrs M planned to travel to their destination from the UK via two 
connecting flights. The first flight was due to depart from the UK at 10.45am and arrive at 
the interconnecting airport at 1.20pm.The second flight to their final destination was to 
depart at 3.30pm.
Mr and Mrs M say that their first flight was delayed which, together with additional 
requirements as a result of Covid-19 and poor signage at the airport, meant that they 
missed their second flight by a few minutes. They bought replacement flights for the 
following day at a cost of £3,537.29. They also paid for an additional nights 
accommodation. Mr and Mrs M made a claim for their additional flight and 
accommodation costs and unused accommodation costs, up to the policy limit.  
UKI declined the claim. It said that Mr and Mrs M didnt miss their first flight, so what 
happened didnt come within the terms of the policy. UKI subsequently said that           
Mr and Mrs M hadnt left enough time between their connecting flights. 
Mr and Mrs M say that it was essential that they fly to their final destination the day after 
their missed flight as their PCR tests would have expired if they had flown any later. 
They say that UKI gave confusing reasons for its decision to decline their claim and 
didnt tell them how to appeal against its decision. Mr and Mrs M want compensation of 
£2,500 in relation to UKIs failure to deal with their claim properly.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that UKI had 
acted unfairly in declining the claim. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree with the investigator. They said:
UKI changed its reason for declining their claim.
They werent made aware of requirements in the policy in relation to transfer 
times. 
The person dealing with their claim had little knowledge of the policy. 
UKI didnt tell them how to appeal its decision to decline their claim. 
When they phoned UKI about it declining their claim the person they spoke with 
refused to give her name and it didnt hear from it further. 
Mr and Mrs M asked that an ombudsman deal with their complaint, so it was passed to 
me to decide. 
My provisional decision
On 16 November 2022, I sent both parties my provisional decision. I indicated that I didnt 
propose to uphold the complaint but for different reasons than had been explained before. I 
said that Mr and Mrs Ms policy covers only missed departure of the first leg of an outbound 
journey with connecting flights. Thats a significant restriction on cover which wasnt brought 
to Mr and Mrs Ms attention at the outset. I said that in the particular circumstances here, it 
wasnt fair for UKI to limit cover to only the first flight of Mr and Mrs Ms outward journey, so I 
proceeded on the basis that the cover for missed departure relates to both flights. I said that 
Mr and Mrs Ms first flight didnt run to timetable.
I said that it wasnt fair and reasonable for UKI to decline the claim on the basis that           
Mr and Mrs M didnt leave sufficient time between flights. Mr and Mrs M were following the 
recommendation of their travel agent and the policy doesnt exclude cover for missed 
departure where policyholders havent left the time between their flights recommended by 
the airline. 
I said that UKI could fairly rely on the exclusion in the policy relating to any expenses that 
can be recovered elsewhere. In the particular circumstances here, Mr and Mrs Ms travel 
agent provided a guarantee that covers what happened - delay which led to Mr and Mrs M 
missing a connection. Mr and Mrs M said that they couldnt contact their travel agent from 
the airport and when they contacted it later from their hotel, it said that it couldnt assist them 
as theyd already booked replacement flights. Mr and Mrs M said that their travel agent said 
that it could have arranged a flight for them back to the UK the next day then a transfer to 
another UK airport for an onward flight to their final destination. 
I said that it wasnt clear to me why Mr and Mrs M couldnt contact their travel agent by 
phone immediately but, in any event, they could have accessed information and alternatives 
from their travel agent via their account. Whilst I noted why Mr and Mrs M wished to continue 
their onward journey as soon as possible given the inconvenience theyd already suffered 
and the validity of their negative PCR tests, it didnt alter the fact that their additional travel 
costs would have been met by their travel agent if they had contacted it immediately.
I said that the travel agents guarantee doesnt cover Mr and Mrs Ms additional 
accommodation costs, but the amount claimed was less than the excess due under the 
policy. So, I didnt intend to direct UKI to deal with Mr and Mrs Ms claim for additional 
accommodation costs. And the policy doesnt cover unused accommodation costs in the 
circumstances that arose here, so I couldnt fairly conclude that UKI should cover those 
costs. 
I looked at Mr and Mrs Ms concerns about how UKI handled their claim. I said that it wasnt 
necessarily unusual for an insurer to give more than one reason for declining the claim or for 
employees to disclose only their first name. I said that UKI wasnt at fault in failing to respond 
to Mr and Mrs Ms e-mails to a no-reply e-mail address and that in December 2021, UKI 
had given Mr and Mrs M information about referring the matter to this service, which its 
obliged to do. I said that UKIs reference to an incorrect amount of the claim may have been 
a reference to the amount Mr and Mrs M had spent but that didnt alter the outcome of the 
complaint. 
Responses to my provisional decisionUKI said that it had no further comment. Mr and Mrs M responded to say that they were 
disheartened that their comments were unlikely to change the outcome. They said that they 
have never claimed £2,500. Mr and Mrs M said that they are surprised by the change in 
reasons for declining their claim. They reiterated that UKI didnt make clear how they could 
appeal against its decision and they didnt know whether they were dealing with UKI or the 
bank. Mr and Mrs M say that its best practice to provide e-mail addresses to which the 
customer can respond, not no-reply e-mail addresses. 
Mr and Mrs M say that they were stressed after they missed their flight and Mrs M collapsed. 
They had difficulties making calls from the airport but when they reached the travel agent 
from their hotel, it was clear that it knew they had missed the flight yet hadnt tried to contact 
them. They say that the travel agent was aggressive and abusive. Mr and Mrs M say that 
their complaint is about UKI, not the travel agent. In addition to the time pressure they were 
under in relation to the validity of their PCR tests, they had paid for accommodation at their 
destination which wasnt refundable. 
Mr and Mrs M say that they are surprised its acceptable for staff to refuse to identify 
themselves. They say that communication portals were closed soon after UKI had made a 
decision about their claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional decision was an indication of the likely outcome based on the information I 
had. Ive reconsidered everything again, taking into account Mr and Mrs Ms comments. 
I refer to Mr and Mrs Ms claim for £2,500, as thats the figure they claimed in the complaint 
form.
When we consider complaints like this one we look at the terms and conditions of the policy 
as a whole, as it shows the rights and obligations between the parties. I dont think that UKI 
was at fault for declining Mr and Mrs Ms claim, albeit for a different reason than has been 
relied on previously. 
This service cant direct UKI generally about how it conducts its business, for example what 
sort of e-mails it sends and when it closes the contact portal, but we can look at how it dealt 
with Mr and Mrs Ms claim. For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think that UKI was at fault 
in relation to how it dealt with Mr and Mrs Ms claim. I dont think its unfair or unreasonable 
for staff members to give only their first name; thats sufficient to identify them in the 
business. 
UKI is the underwriter of Mr and Mrs Ms policy, so it makes the decision about their claim. 
The bank may deal with matters on behalf of UKI as its agent. I appreciate that can be 
confusing.  
Ive noted what Mr and Mrs M say about contacting their travel agent and the reasons for 
wanting to complete their journey as soon as possible. But it remains the case that the 
guarantee from their travel agent meant that it would have met their additional travel costs if 
they had contacted it before they bought replacement flights. In those circumstances, I dont 
think its unfair for UKI to rely on the exclusion in the policy relating to expenses that can be 
covered elsewhere. Ive reconsidered all thats been said and provided. Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs M  
but I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached previously. For the reasons 
Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman