DRN-3016791
The complaint
Ms J complains that Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) have mishandled her legal 
expenses claim and have failed to cover the full amount of costs she incurred.
Amtrust use intermediaries to administer their legal expenses insurance, so any reference to 
the insurer within this decision should be read as including the acts or omissions of such 
intermediaries. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the reasons set 
out below. 
The policy terms and conditions state that Amtrust will not cover:
Any claim relating to:
a. Any legal costs which you incur before we have accepted your claim.
On 25 September 2019 Ms J sent an invoice from her barrister which was dated 
16 August 2019 and amounted to £18,720. However, Amtrust had not agreed terms of 
business with her barrister at that point, because although the barrister had confirmed the 
case had prospects of success in excess of 51%, he had not explained why. So Amtrust 
were seeking further clarification on this point. 
Given that Ms Js legal costs had been incurred before the claim was accepted/terms of 
business agreed, Amtrust couldve argued that they were not liable to cover any of her costs. 
However, they considered that if they had agreed terms earlier, they would have likely 
covered them as the barrister had confirmed the claim had reasonable prospects of success. 
So the insurer agreed to cover the costs in any event, but only at the rate they wouldve paid 
had terms of business been agreed beforehand. This amounted to £10,005.60, which 
Amtrust have provided a breakdown for to demonstrate how much they wouldve covered if 
theyd had any input with the running of the claim. And having seen this breakdown, Im not 
persuaded it is overly restrictive or unfair, and I consider it to be a fair and reasonable 
compromise given that the costs had been incurred by Ms J without Amtrusts authorisation. 
In terms of Amtrusts handling of the claim, I appreciate that Ms J had to get in contact with 
them on several occasions in October for an update. But the insurer has explained that they 
were still waiting on a response from her barrister at this point, as a full legal assessment of 
the claim hadnt been provided. I understand that the barrister had confirmed that the claim 
had over 51% prospects of success, but I dont consider it unreasonable for the insurer to 
seek clarification on the reasons behind this, particularly when they hadnt been kept up to 
date with the claim. 
Ms J is also unhappy because she felt that Amtrust were querying everything, which was 
delaying matters. But having seen the questions and queries they asked of Ms J and her 
barrister, I dont think these were unreasonable in the circumstances or could be considered 
obstructive. An insurer is entitled to make reasonable enquiries and to test a claim before 
making a decision on whether or how much of it to indemnify. And in this instance, Amtrust 
had asked for further details such as the claims value and further details of the barristers 
fees, all of which is fairly usual information to be requested in a legal expenses claim. 
So Im not persuaded that Amtrust were dragging their heels with Ms Js claim as she 
submits, as they had not had any updates on the claims progress for almost a year between 
Ms J notifying them in November 2018 to when she asked for an update in September 2019. 
I appreciate that things couldve perhaps progressed a bit quicker after this point, but I dont 
consider there to be any unreasonable or avoidable delays in Amtrusts handling of the claim 
in these circumstances. As Ive mentioned previously, there were occasions where Amtrust 
were waiting on further information and details of the claim from Ms Js barrister. And even if 
there were delays, Im not persuaded that it has resulted in any detriment to Ms J in any 
event (such as resulting in further costs that she otherwise wouldnt have incurred, for 
example). 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Ms J. But overall, Im not persuaded that 
Amtrust have acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances, so I will not be directing 
them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman