DRN-2165693
The complaint
Mr T complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) acted unfairly and unreasonably 
when declining his claim under a travel insurance policy. He wants the claim accepted and 
paid, or the premiums refunded (though he later wanted both the refund and the claim paid).
What happened
Mr T took out an annual travel insurance policy with IPA through a comparison website. The 
day that he was due to go on holiday, Mr T became severely unwell and was unable to 
travel. It was diagnosed that Mr T had been suffering from a kidney stone. Mr T made a 
claim, but it was declined as IPA said Mr T had incorrectly answered questions about his 
health and pre-existing medical conditions when taking out the policy.
Mr T complained to IPA as he felt hed answered the questions correctly and the process 
had been unclear, misleading and unfair. IPA said the policy Mr T had taken out wasnt 
designed for anyone with a medical condition which had required prescribed medication or 
treatment in the last five years. Mr T had told IPA he hadnt been prescribed medication or 
had a medical consultation in the last five years; if he had answered correctly, IPA said that it 
wouldnt have sold the policy to him. It said Mr T had seen a consultant several times and 
received treatment in the last five years.
Mr T complained to us and said his GP had confirmed that at the time the policy was taken 
out he wasnt suffering from any medical condition, illness or injury (and wasnt experiencing 
symptoms discussed later with a GP or awaiting diagnosis, treatment or tests). He denied 
seeing any consultant in the five years before the policy was taken out, but accepted that he 
had seen a GP more than once during this period. IPA confirmed to the investigator that it 
was treating Mr Ts mistake as careless and was willing to refund the premium.
The investigators view was that Mr T had reasonably answered no to questions about 
whether he had a pre-existing medical condition, but he had incorrectly answered clear 
questions about whether hed had in the last five years suffered from medical conditions that 
required prescribed medication and/or treatment. She said he hadnt taken reasonable care 
in answering this question as only three months earlier hed been to see a GP and was 
prescribed medication and had tests. The investigator noted that in the six months previously 
to seeing the GP, Mr T had been suffering symptoms on and off.
The investigator accepted that if Mr T had answered the questions correctly, IPA wouldnt 
have offered him this policy. She explained that the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) applied and when a consumer made a careless 
mistake, the insurer was entitled to avoid the policy and refund the premium paid. The 
investigator thought IPAs offer to refund the premium was fair and reasonable.
Mr T disagreed. He said he didnt know he had a pre-existing medical condition and he didnt 
have any. Mr T repeated that he hadnt seen any consultant in the last five years, apart from 
when he became ill and needed to cancel his holiday. He felt the questions hed been asked 
were unclear and ambiguous, and denied that hed been careless in his answers. Mr T 
believed that the questions only applied if he had a pre-existing medical condition and they 
couldve been phrased differently to be clearer. Mr Ts relative also disagreed and said that 
Mr Ts answers were reasonable in the circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When I refer to IPA, Im also referring to its agents. The relevant rules and industry 
guidelines say that IPA has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it 
shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
To deal with points that I know has upset Mr T, though arent critical to the resolution of this 
complaint, I accept he didnt see consultants in the five years before he took out the policy; 
he saw GPs and nurses in medical consultations. And the key issue isnt whether Mr Ts 
illness was a pre-existing medical condition; its whether IPA wouldve offered the policy in 
the first place, given Mr Ts medical history. The claim has been declined on that basis.
Having looked at all the evidence available to me, I think the questions put to Mr T when he 
took out the policy were clear and unambiguous. I dont accept that only people who felt that 
they had a pre-existing medical condition needed to answer the questions or that its 
unreasonable for insurers to ask about any prescriptions received or GP consultations in the 
last five years. Insurers are able to decide the risks theyre willing to underwrite. 
The policy Mr T took out was not intended for anyone who had received prescribed 
medications or treatment in the last five years  this point is set out within the screen journey 
of the consumer in taking out the policy and within the policy itself that says:
Annual multi trip - This policy meets the Demands and Needs of a customer intending to 
travel more than once within the period of insurance, wishing to buy a standard travel 
insurance policy, who has not suffered a medical condition nor required prescribed 
medication, surgery, treatment, tests or investigations within the, five years leading up to the 
policy purchase date.
The key question Mr T was asked was Within the last 5 years have you or anyone you wish 
to insure on this policy suffered any medical condition that has required prescribed 
medication and/or treatment including surgery, tests or investigations?. But only three 
months earlier Mr T had received a prescription, and from his account to the GP at the time, 
he had been suffering from abdominal pains on and off for a significant period. This was not 
disclosed to IPA but was clearly covered by the question which specifically asked Mr T about 
this issue.
The relevant law in this case is CIDRA. This requires consumers to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The 
standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it. 
Mr T answered the questions about his medical history carelessly in my view. Given how 
recently hed been to see the GP and received a prescription, I cant reasonably say 
otherwise. And as the policy isnt designed for anyone who has received a prescription in the 
last five years, IPA has shown that it wouldnt have been offered to Mr T if hed answered the 
question correctly. I would comment in passing that its response that it wouldve passed to 
Mr T details of bodies who could assist simply reflects recent changes to industry practice 
and isnt a matter of concern.
Putting things right
As CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think 
allowing IPA to rely on it to avoid Mr Ts policy produces the fair and reasonable outcome in 
this complaint. The premium should be refunded.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and Inter Partner Assistance SA should 
refund Mr Ts premium in full. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman