DRN-2421225
The complaint
Mr Ps complained that the information recorded by Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) on his 
credit file was wrong  which he believes disadvantaged him.
What happened
In the latter part of 2014, Mr P found himself in a position where he was advised to enter 
sequestration (the Scottish equivalent of bankruptcy).  At the time Mr P had an outstanding 
balance on his Vanquis credit card.  This debt was included in the sequestration.
In early 2020, Mr P reviewed his credit file and say that the debt to Vanquis was recorded as 
a separate item from his sequestration.  And that the file showed the debt as unsatisfied.  So 
he contacted his sequestration Trustee to see if this was right.  His Trustee told him that the 
entries should be shown as completed or satisfied.
Mr P contacted Vanquis and asked for the records to be amended.  Vanquis reviewed the 
information they held and noticed that theyd incorrectly recorded the date of the 
sequestration  so they amended this.  And they updated the record to show that the debt 
had been partially satisfied.
Mr P wasnt satisfied, so he complained to us.  He said he thought he may have been 
adversely affected as a result of the information on his credit file.  And he thought Vanquis 
should pay him some compensation.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ps complaint but didnt think Vanquis shouldve done 
anything differently.  She explained that banks are only required to mark an account as 
partially satisfied following the discharge of a sequestration  so the information the credit 
file was now right.  And she said that, while we can direct a business to pay compensation if 
theyve caused trouble or upset to a consumer, Mr P hadnt been able to point to any 
instances when this had happened.
Mr P didnt accept the investigators view.  He thought showing the debt to Vanquis 
separately on the credit report would have disadvantaged him.  And he thought that Vanquis 
should have offered to pay him some compensation, because his report had been wrong.  
So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint.  Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that Mr Ps credit report was wrong.  But mistakes happen.  And when Mr 
P brought the incorrect information to Vanquiss attention, they investigated, and corrected it 
promptly.  So Im satisfied they did what they needed to resolve that part of Mr Ps complaint.
Ive thought about Mr Ps concerns that the incorrect information disadvantaged him.  Our 
investigator asked him if he could provide specific examples where he thought the Vanquis 
information had stopped him obtaining credit.  But Mr P hasnt been able to.
And without examples, or any other evidence, I cant conclude that any difficulties he had 
were due to the information from Vanquis, as opposed to the other information (for example, 
about the sequestration) on his credit report.
I know Mr P believes Vanquis should pay him compensation because the information on his 
file was wrong.  But we will direct a business to pay compensation for the impact a mistake 
has on a consumer  not just because a mistake has happened.  And Ive not seen the 
incorrect information had any impact on Mr P.  So Im not directing Vanquis to make a 
payment.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint about Vanquis Bank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman