DRN-2869766
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined their travel insurance 
claim and about its service. My references to UKI include its agents.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs B and their three young children have travel insurance through a bank account. 
The insurer is UKI.
In 2019 Mr and Mrs B booked a skiing holiday to France. They were due to travel with their 
children and other family members departing on 22 March 2020 and returning on 29 March 
2020.
On 15 March 2020 the accommodation provider wrote to Mr and Mrs B to say it had 
cancelled their chalet booking due to the Covid-19 situation. The booked and paid for  
childcare provider at the resort had cancelled on the 14 March for the same reason. On 
16 March the French government announced a nationwide lockdown and advised against all 
but essential travel in France from 17 March 2020. On 17 March the UK Foreign 
Commonwealth Office (FCO) also advised against all but essential travel.
Mr and Mrs B claimed on their travel insurance policy for their proportion of the unused 
accommodation (inclusive of transfers), ski school and childcare costs. They had their flight 
costs refunded from the airline.
During the claim process Mr and Mrs B complained about UKIs service. In summary, Mrs B  
says she spent over 17 hours on the phone to UKI, UKI closed the claim without telling them 
and asked for the same documents in support of the claim several times.
UKI declined the claim as the policy didnt cover costs that were recoverable from 
elsewhere. It told Mr and Mrs B to contact the providers, or if they had paid with a credit or 
debit card the card provider, to get a refund. UKI said if that wasnt successful Mr and Mrs B 
could contact its legal assistance team, under the legal expenses section of the policy, who 
may be able to help them get a refund.
UKI apologised that Mrs B experienced delays in trying to contact it by phone. It said the 
delays were due to having to change its ways of working and the unprecedented demand on 
its service due to government restrictions in place due to Covid-19. UKI accepted it asked Mr 
and Mrs B for documents it already had. It said it would pay £80 compensation for Mrs Bs 
inconvenience. Mrs B told UKI that it paid £80 into her bank account twice.
Mr and Mrs B complained to us. They want the claim paid and Mrs B said she wanted more 
compensation for her wasted time as shed lost four days work due to UKIs handling of the 
claim.
Our investigator said UKI unfairly declined the claim and it should reassess the claim under 
the remaining policy terms.
UKI disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision. It said despite the accommodation 
providers contract terms the provider had a legal liability to give a refund and under the legal 
expenses cover it could support Mr and Mrs B to bring a legal claim. It noted the 
accommodation provider had now changed its terms and conditions so that it would refund 
the costs. UKI also referred to another case we had considered where we said UKIs 
approach was fair.
In February 2021 I made a provisional decision explaining why I was intending to party 
uphold the complaint. I said:
UKI has referred to another case weve considered to support its position on this case. But 
we consider each case on its individual circumstances. The case UKI refers to has different 
circumstances  it was about a package holiday refund which has different issues to 
consider. Also, there wasnt an ombudsmans decision on that case.
I have to decide whether UKI fairly and reasonably declined Mr and Mrs Bs claim, and 
I dont think it did. But I do think UKI paid reasonable compensation for Mr and Mrs Bs 
distress and inconvenience due to its service. Ill explain why.
Claim
Our service is an informal alternative to the courts which settles disputes informally taking 
into account what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. The relevant rules and 
industry guidelines say that UKI has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. 
And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The cancellation section of the policy says Mr and Mrs B are covered for certain expenses in 
the event of:
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advising against All Travel or All 
but essential travel to your intended destination, providing the advice came into 
force after you opened your (bank account) or booked your trip (whichever was the 
later) and was in the 28 days before your departure on your trip.
Mr and Mrs B say they didnt cancel their holiday, it was the accommodation provider and 
other providers who cancelled upon the French government announcing immediate 
restrictions. So on a strict interpretation of the policy terms Mr and Mrs B didnt cancel their 
trip on FCO advice. But I can depart from a strict application of the policy terms if I think that 
produces an unfair result.
In this case, it doesnt make a difference whether the accommodation provider and other 
providers, or Mr and Mrs B, cancelled. Thats because the FCO advised against all but 
essential travel on 17 March 2020 as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, five days before 
Mr and Mrs B were due to travel. So even if the providers hadnt cancelled the bookings, 
following the closure of all non-essential public places in France, Mr and Mrs B would have 
needed to cancel their trip after the change in FCO guidance. They booked this trip well 
before the change in guidance. So I think it would be fair and reasonable for UKI to consider 
their claim as falling within the scope of the cancellation section of the policy.
As to which costs are covered, the cancellation section of the policy says:
We will cover you for your:
 unused deposits;
 accommodation and travel costs (including car hire, excursions and activities); and unused kennel, cattery, professional pet sitter or car parking charges
that you have paid or legally have to pay if you unavoidably need to cancel your trip 
for one of the following reasons...
So the accommodation and inclusive transfer costs relevant to Mr and Mrs B and their 
children are clearly covered by the policy terms. Mrs B has told us her sister initially paid for 
the full costs of the chalet and Mr and Mrs B are claiming £2,423 as one half of the total 
accommodation costs. There were 10 people in the party and Mr and Mrs B are claiming the 
costs for their family of five, so the proportion of the total cost is fair.
Mr and Mrs B are also claiming two thirds of the ski school costs they paid, which is the 
proportion relating to their children, and the childcare costs they paid for their children. 
The ski school and childcare costs claimed arent specifically covered by the policy but 
I think the ski school was an activity, and costs for activities are covered by the policy 
terms. Ive also considered whether these two costs could reasonably fall into unused 
deposits and I see no reason why they shouldnt, the policy doesnt state parameters for 
what the deposit must be for.
Mr and Mrs B had paid the full costs, not just a deposit, for the ski school and childcare 
costs. But I think its fair for UKI to pay those costs as they are costs that are unused for a 
reason that its reasonable for UKI to cover and through no fault of Mr and Mrs B. Also given 
that cancellation happened only a week before Mr and Mrs B were due to travel its probable 
that before the date of cancellation full payments would have been required by the ski school 
and childcare providers. And as Ive said, I also think the ski school costs were covered 
under activities.
However, UKI has referred to two policy exclusions to decline to cover the claim. I think the 
more detailed exclusion, on page 24 of the policy, UKI referred to doesnt apply to this claim. 
That exclusion relates to the delayed or missed departure section of the policy, which isnt 
relevant in this case. But the cancellation section of the policy, which is relevant, has an 
exclusion for:
any expenses (including Air Passenger Duty) that you can recover from elsewhere.
Theres no evidence that the Package Travel Regulations (PTR) 2018 apply in this case. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen the flights, chalet, ski school and childcare were separate 
bookings. The website for the chalet business says its not a travel agent and the ski school 
and childcare arent optional extras it provides. Theres no evidence that the 
accommodation, ski school or childcare providers are members of a trade body or 
association that offers to refund unrecoverable costs. So Mr and Mrs B dont have the option 
to try and recover their outstanding costs through a trade body scheme or other dispute 
resolution schemes.
Mr and Mrs B have provided documentary evidence that the accommodation, ski school and 
childcare providers have said they will not refund the costs paid. The accommodation and 
childcare providers specifically referred to their terms and conditions that a refund wouldnt 
be provided in the circumstances.
The accommodation providers terms and conditions list reasons why it may not be liable to 
pay refunds if its contractual obligations cant be fulfilled. These include epidemics or 
pandemics or all similar events outside our control.
The childcare providers terms and conditions, shown through the link on the providers letter to Mr and Mrs B, say the provider isnt liable to refund if cancellation is made by either party 
due to any issues arising from any FCO or other travel restrictions or resort/country 
closures/quarantine measures or any other restrictions or enforcements in place preventing 
you from receiving your Nanny service.
So those providers booking terms and conditions state they have no contractual obligation 
to refund Mr and Mrs B their cancellation costs.
UKI notes the accommodation provider has since changed their terms and conditions so that 
a refund would now be available if it is unable to provide our service, specifically due to 
government initiated Covid-19 related travel or operational restrictions. But the 
accommodation providers website is clear that those terms just apply to bookings made 
from 21 August 2020. Mr and Mrs B booked in 2019 so the new booking terms dont apply.
The ski school providers letter to Mr and Mrs B said Unfortunately, due to the 
unprecedented circumstances, we are unable to offer a refund for this booking. Ive looked 
at the providers terms and conditions on its website. Mr and Mrs B booked the ski school 
sometime in September 2019 and the providers terms and conditions changed on 13 
September 2019. But both the terms and conditions that could be relevant to Mr and Mrs Bs 
booking say that if the resort is completely closed we will do our best to reschedule lessons 
where possible. Where this is not possible we will offer a refund. So theres a difference 
between what the ski school provider told Mr and Mrs B about the refund and what its terms 
and conditions say.
UKI has referred to guidance from the Competitions and Market Authority (CMA) in relation 
to consumers impacted by changes in their travel plans as a result of Covid-19. UKI say 
Mr and Mrs B should contact its legal assistance team so the legal merits of seeking a 
refund from the providers can be considered by a lawyer under the legal expenses section of 
the policy.
But I dont think its fair or reasonable for UKI to expect Mr and Mrs B to take legal action in 
the circumstances of this case. Theyve paid for a travel insurance policy, one which 
includes cover for their unused accommodation, deposit and activities costs and would 
otherwise cover their claim. A successful legal expenses claim isnt certain  Mr and Mrs B 
would need to get over the reasonable prospects of success hurdle first and this route could 
take a significant period of time, particularly as the accommodation and childcare providers 
have referred to their terms and conditions which limit their liabilities to refund in this 
situation.
UKI also told Mr and Mrs B that if they had booked with a credit or debit card they should 
contact the credit/debit card provider about a refund. So UKI suggested that Mr and Mrs B 
recover their money through a chargeback or section 75 claim through the card provider.
Mr and Mrs B did pay some of the costs by card. But as the relevant policy exclusion doesnt 
specify that they have to attempt to recover the costs by chargeback or section 75 claim 
I dont think theres a contractual obligation on Mr and Mrs B to do that. So I dont think its 
reasonable for UKI to reject the claim on that basis.
Taking all of the above into account I dont think it is reasonable in the circumstances of this 
case for UKI to decline the claim on the basis that the costs are recoverable from the 
providers. The fair and reasonable outcome is for UKI to pay the claim in line with the 
remaining policy terms and limits, minus the policy excess, plus interest as Ive detailed 
below.
ServiceMrs B says she lost four days work due to dealing with this claim. I dont generally award 
compensation for a consumers time spent on a claim or complaint, and there are no 
reasons for me to do so in this case. Mrs B was understandably frustrated that she spent a 
lot of time trying to contact UKI on the phone about this claim. But I accept that UKI was 
operating in unprecedented and extraordinary times with demands on its service.
UKI shouldnt have closed the claim without informing Mr and Mrs B. It looks as if the closure 
was linked to UKI wrongly thinking it didnt have documents from them. UKI accepts it 
shouldnt have asked for the same documents several times and that caused a delay in 
dealing with the claim. UKI said it would pay Mrs B £80 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience, which I think was a reasonable amount. Mrs B then told UKI it had paid her 
£80 twice, so a total of £160. Its not clear if she repaid one payment to UKI and Ive not 
seen that UKI asked for repayment. If not, then in all the circumstances I think its fair for 
Mr and Mrs B to keep the additional £80, in effect a payment of £80 compensation each.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs B accepted my provisional findings and added that they didnt pay any costs by 
credit card. They had paid for the childcare costs by bank transfer. I asked them for further 
information about the card payments.  They said:
They paid for the ski school by Mrs Bs debit card. When they spoke to the bank 
about getting a refund the bank said it wouldnt refund as it was a debit card payment 
and they should claim on their travel insurance which they had through the same 
bank.
Mrs Bs sister paid for the accommodation by card payment and they paid their 
portion of those costs to her sister by bank transfer. Her sister successfully claimed 
her familys costs through travel insurance and Mrs B provided evidence of her 
sisters insurance claim settlement.
UKI didnt accept my provisional decision and provided a detailed response. In summary UKI 
said:
The exclusion it was relying on applies where a recovery is available from any third 
party, not just those third parties who were required to provide a refund through the 
PTR as Id suggested.
The policy provides legal expenses cover for Mr and Mrs B to use to make a 
recovery where a provider refuses to refund. If they made a legal expenses claim 
which succeeded it would be beneficial to Mr and Mrs B because no excesses would 
be deducted. If the panel solicitor determines the claim has no reasonable prospects 
the claim will then be considered under the cancellation cover, so Mr and Mrs B 
would not lose out financially. The use of legal expenses cover in insurance policies 
was an acceptable practice and a benefit of the policy.
The holiday was booked through a UK company that is subject to the comments by 
the Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) about customers and the impact of 
Covid-19. The CMA gave clear guidance that providers terms and conditions which 
say refunds are not payable are likely to be unfair and unenforceable under the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015. UKI quoted the following CMA guidance:
In the CMAs view, for consumer contracts the above rights to a refund will 
usually apply even where the business says part of the payment is a non-
refundable deposit or advance payment. This is because the contract will have been frustrated and terms which allow a business to provide no service 
but keep a consumers money (including deposits or advance payments) are 
likely to be unfair, and therefore unenforceable under Part 2 of the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015.
UKI also considered those principles the CMA referred to applied to a wide variety of 
contracts with UK based companies, including the accommodation, ski school and 
childcare providers. UKI said the CMA had issued an open letter in respect of 
childcare providers which said that contract terms requiring consumers to pay 
providers who are not providing the services agreed in the contract are likely to be 
unfair and unenforceable.
UKI doesnt accept that where a customer made a booking with a debit/credit card 
that it doesnt have a contractual right to force customers to seek refunds from the 
card provider. The policy exclusion says there is no cover for any expenses that can 
be claimed from elsewhere and that includes the section 75 right of recovery that is 
available to those customers who paid by a credit card. The Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) has given guidance which listed claims under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 as a possible route for customers to claim their money 
back. UKI said if Mr and Mrs B attempted to make section 75 recovery and it was 
rejected UKI would cover that loss subject to the use of the legal expenses cover to 
seek recovery from the third party where appropriate.
It considered the right outcome would be for me to agree to the claim being assessed 
under the legal expenses section of the policy. 
It didnt dispute that Mr and Mrs Bs accommodation provider cancelled the holiday 
and didnt take issue with the individual expenses that would be covered. UKI said if 
Mr and Mrs B claimed under the legal expenses cover in the policy and the appointed 
solicitor concluded there wasnt reasonable prospects of success of refund from the 
providers all elements of the claim would be paid, subject to the applicable excesses.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Ive carefully considered all of the points UKI has raised, Ive decided 
it must now pay Mr and Mrs Bs claim. Ill explain why.
Ive considered UKIs submissions, their travel policy wording, the legislative and regulatory 
framework, The Competition and Market Authority (CMA) guidance and Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) guidance, in particular the FCAs April 2021 Finalised Guidance: 
Cancellations and refunds: helping consumers with rights and routes to refunds and good 
industry practice. 
Ive noted UKIs comments about the exclusion its relied on not just applying to holiday 
refunds that can be obtained under the Package Travel Regulations (PTR). But the issue 
here is whether UKI can reasonably rely on the exclusion to decline Mr and Mrs Bs holiday 
cancellation costs, which isnt covered under the PTR, in the specific circumstances.
As I outlined in my provisional decision the relevant exclusion says that UKI doesnt cover: 
any expenses (including Air Passenger Duty) that you can recover from elsewhere.However, in my view the fact that Mr and Mrs B are potentially entitled to a refund isnt the 
same as actually obtaining one. The exclusion says that UKI wont cover expenses that 
Mr and Mrs B can recover from elsewhere. However, the ordinary meaning of the word 
can as defined in the dictionary is to be able to. 
I think this exclusion reasonably applies where there is a real, viable opportunity for Mr and 
Mrs B to recover their losses from their travel provider. Otherwise the exclusion would apply 
even if there was only a remote chance that they could. For the reasons Ill go on to explain 
I think Mr and Mrs B have taken reasonable steps to recover their losses.
The Legal Expenses Insurance (LEI) section of the policy
UKI says the right outcome would be for me to agree to the claim being assessed under the 
legal expenses section of the policy. 
UKI seeks specifically to rely on the CMAs guidance to turn down Mr and Mrs Bs claim. 
UKIs position seems to be that it considers the contracts between Mr and Mrs B and the 
accommodation, childcare and ski school providers have been frustrated. UKI considers that 
Mr and Mrs B may legally be entitled to a refund from those providers regardless of the 
providers terms and conditions and/or the providers refusal to refund. So it considers 
I should conclude that Mr and Mrs B must use the legal expenses cover on their travel 
insurance policy to take legal action against the providers to try and obtain a refund. 
The FCA guidance UKI has referred to is guidance issued in October 2020 to insurers and 
credit card providers and debit card providers in dealing with consumers who havent been 
able to obtain a refund from their travel provider. This guidance is called Finalised guidance: 
Cancellations and refunds: helping consumers with rights and routes to refunds. The FCA 
guidance acknowledges that insurance claims are governed by the policy terms and then 
goes on to provide an indication of how the FCA expects the terms of travel insurance 
policies to be interpreted. In particular, theres relevant guidance relating to the interpretation 
of policy terms which require policyholders to mitigate their loss at Annex 1, paragraphs 1.6 
and 1.7. These say:
1.6 Any potential claim on an insurance policy will depend on the terms of the policy. 
However, where an insurance provider requires policyholders to demonstrate or take 
reasonable steps to mitigate a financial loss under the terms of the policy, consumers 
should not have to go to unreasonable lengths to do this. For example, where a 
travel provider is resisting a refund, and the consumer is unlikely to have a valid 
section 75 claim, a consumer should not be expected to take more than reasonable 
steps to pursue the refund. What is reasonable will depend on the circumstances in 
each case.
1.7 For example, a consumer might be seeking a refund after a hotel has cancelled 
their booking. We think it could be reasonable to expect a consumer to have pursued 
a claim up to a point where it appears from the correspondence (including the 
absence of replies) that a refund is unlikely to be forthcoming, or there is insufficient 
indication of when it may be expected so as to give rise to sufficient uncertainty as to 
whether there may be a refund. This will depend on the facts and circumstances  
but where a consumer can demonstrate that they have made several unsuccessful 
attempts to obtain refund from the hotel, it might be unreasonable to expect them to 
do more. We would generally view it as unreasonable to expect that a consumer 
would need to go to court to recover their money.
So I think the FCA has given a clear indication that insurers shouldnt require policyholders 
to go to unreasonable lengths to mitigate their losses. The FCA has explicitly stated that it would generally see it as unreasonable to expect a consumer to go to court to recover their 
losses. In my view, it would be unreasonable for UKI to require Mr and Mrs B to try to take 
legal action through their legal expenses cover before accepting this claim under the 
cancellation section.
Also, Mr and Mrs Bs policy includes a list of General Conditions that apply to the insurance 
contract. One of these says:
We are entitled to take proceedings in your name to get back any money we have 
paid under this policy.
It seems to me that if UKI considers there is a good legal chance of recovering a refund from 
any or all of the accommodation, childcare and ski school providers due to the frustration of 
the contract, then the terms of the policy means its open to UKI to attempt legal recovery 
itself, to recover the monies it paid out to Mr and Mrs B.
Overall, Im not persuaded that the claiming on the LEI section of the policy is in Mr and 
Mrs Bs best interests. The FCA guidance supports its consumer protection objective and 
was designed to reduce consumer confusion and frustration by setting out more information 
to insurers and to make the consumer journey easier. It wasnt designed to set out the order 
in which consumers should make claims but to ensure that policyholders should not have to 
go to unreasonable lengths to demonstrate or mitigate financial loss. Potentially that would 
mean a lengthy and costly means of recovering their losses through the courts, which I dont 
think is reasonable. 
S75 and chargeback
UKIs response also says Mr and Mrs B should make a claim for the costs paid by their card. 
That isnt a requirement of the contract of insurance.
The wording of the FCA guidance at Annex 1 paragraph 1.6 might suggest that where a 
consumer has a likely valid section 75 claim then in some circumstances it may be  
reasonable for an insurer to expect a consumer to make a section 75 claim before claiming 
on their travel insurance.
But section 75 only applies if a consumer has paid the provider by credit card payment and 
Mr and Mrs B paid the ski school provider by debit card. They paid for the two other 
providers services by bank transfer and section 75 doesnt apply to bank transfers. 
Even if I thought that the FCA guidance at Annex 1 paragraph 1.6  should be read as also 
applying to a chargeback claim, which can apply to debit card payments, then I dont think 
UKI could reasonably say that Mr and Mrs B should first make a chargeback claim for the 
childcare costs before making a claim on their travel insurance. I say that because the 
Summary section in the same FCA guidance says:
Chargeback
1.6 If the consumer has paid for the cancelled services using a debit or credit card, 
then they might be able to make a chargeback claim. Under this arrangement a 
debit or credit card provider reclaims the money back from the travel provider, under 
specific circumstances set out in the card scheme rules ((card providers names)).
1.7 Chargeback is not a statutory right. The card issuer and the card providers bank 
will normally work together to look into the refund for a consumer. Consumers 
normally have 120 days to raise a chargeback claim with their card issuer from the expected delivery date of the goods or services not being provided.
Even if Mr and Mrs B paid the ski school provider on a debit card that is part of the scheme, 
chargeback requires the card issuer and card providers bank to work together to look into a 
possible refund for the consumer. Mr and Mrs  B say their bank told them that a chargeback 
wasnt possible on their card and to make a claim on the travel insurance provided through 
the same bank account. I think Mr and Mrs B reasonably understood from the banks 
information that a chargeback wasnt possible in their circumstances. Also, consumers 
normally have 120 days to raise a chargeback claim with their card issuer from the expected 
delivery date of the goods or services not being provided. The 120 days limit passed some 
time ago so if Mr and Mrs B hadnt already made a formal chargeback claim, in my opinion, 
its likely they wouldnt now be able to do so and I dont think they unreasonably delayed 
given the information they received from the bank.
Conclusion
Having reviewed this complaint again in light of UKIs submissions Im satisfied that this 
claim should fairly and reasonably be covered by the cancellation section of the policy. Its 
clear that following the change in FCO guidance on 17 March 2020 Mr and Mrs B would 
have had no choice but to cancel their trip even if the accommodation and childcare 
providers hadnt cancelled already due to Covid-19.
Whilst I accept that the policy terms specifically exclude costs which may be recoverable 
from elsewhere Im satisfied that in the very specific circumstances of this complaint, Mr and 
Mrs B have taken reasonable steps to try and obtain a refund and that its fair and 
reasonable for UKI to cover their claim. I think its unlikely that Mr and Mrs B will be able to 
recover their losses through the chargeback scheme and the other payments they made are 
not covered by section 75 or chargeback. And I think theyve taken reasonable steps to 
recover their losses by contacting the relevant providers and seeking to obtain refunds. 
Those attempts have been unsuccessful and, for the reasons Ive outlined above and in my 
provisional decision, I dont think its fair and reasonable that they should have to claim on 
the legal expenses section of their insurance policy.   
Neither Mr and Mrs B or UKI made any comments on my provisional findings that UKIs two 
payments of £80 compensation for Mr and Mrs Bs distress and inconvenience due to UKIs 
poor service was a reasonable amount. So Ive no reason to change my mind that the £160 
compensation was fair.  
Putting things right
Overall, Im satisfied that in the specific circumstances of this complaint the fair and 
reasonable outcome is for UKI to pay Mr and Ms Bs cancellation claim in line with the 
remaining policy terms, minus the policy excess, plus interest as Ive detailed below.
My final decision
I partly uphold this complaint.
I require U K Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs Bs claim in line with the remaining policy 
terms, minus the policy excess, plus interest* at 8% simple a year from the date of claim to 
the date of settlement.  
*If U K Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest it should tell Mrs and Mr B how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mrs and Mr B a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman