DRN-2578234
The complaint
 Mr C is unhappy BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) has supplied him with a
car which he believes wasnt of satisfactory quality.
 
What happened
 In April 2019, Mr C acquired a brand new car through a 48 month hire purchase agreement 
with BMWFS. The cash price of the car was £55,064 and he was required to pay £700 per 
month. 
In April 2020, the engine management light came on and the car broke down. It was 
recovered and taken to a garage for inspection. It was reported there was a problem with the 
diesel pump and this needed to be replaced. It was also noted that there was recall notice 
for the ISOFIX which related to a child seat being kept secure. 
Due to Covid-19, the repairs were delayed due to staff shortages at the repair garage. Mr C 
complained that it took over a month for the car to be repaired and during that time, he was 
still required to meet the contractual payments. He was also unhappy with the courtesy car 
provided because it wasnt of similar size as his car meaning he struggled to transport his 
three children who required a baby seat and a booster seat. 
BMWFS said the car had been in Mr Cs possession for over a year so they didnt agree the 
issue with the diesel pump was an inherent manufacturer fault and the recall notice was 
issued by the manufacturer to ensure the car was safe so they couldnt be held responsible 
for it. They also said as a courtesy car had been supplied, they werent willing to offer 
compensation. 
Unhappy with their response, Mr C referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the case was upheld. They found the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when 
supplied but the repair had fixed the issues. In regards to the courtesy car, they said it didnt 
meet Mr Cs needs and recommended he is refunded 25% of one months payment and 
BMWFS should pay £150 compensation.
Mr C accepted. BMWFS disagreed. In summary they said:
- the diesel fuel pump faulted and it was replaced under warranty;
- no manufacturer can guarantee that during the life span of the car there will be no 
faults, this is the reason for warranty;
- as the car was in Mr Cs possession for more than six months and he had travelled 
over 9,600 miles before the fault occurred, this showed the fault wasnt present at 
supply. It would be Mr Cs responsible to prove otherwise.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr C acquired a car under a regulated hire purchase agreement. BMWFS is the supplier of
the goods under this type of agreement meaning they are responsible for a complaint about
the supply and the quality of the car.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a 
contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory. To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of 
the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. In a case involving a car, the 
other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might include things like the 
age and mileage at the time of supply and the cars history
In this case, Mr C was supplied with a brand new car which cost over £55,000. So it would 
be reasonable to expect the quality of it to be higher than a more well used one and it would 
be free from defects and for a significant amount of time.
Diesel pump and recall notice
Ive seen a copy of the report when the car broke down and the job card when the car was 
inspected by the repair garage. As confirmed by BMWFS, it appears the diesel pump was 
faulty and needed to be replaced. On that basis, I think its fair to say there was a fault with 
car. 
Ive already set out the high expectations that a reasonable person would expect from a new 
car and that includes it being free from defects and for a considerable amount of time. In this 
case, the car was around a year old and had only travelled approximately 9,650 miles when 
it broke down. I wouldnt expect a brand new car which had travelled such few miles to 
experience such issues. I think the diesel pump failed prematurely which suggests it wasnt 
durable. On that basis, I believe its most likely this was an inherent manufacturer fault which 
was present or developing at the time of supply meaning the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality so there was a breach of contract. 
In such circumstances, the CRA allows BMWFS one opportunity to repair the car, outside 
the initial 30 days, and put things right. If that repair was unsuccessful, Mr C could seek to 
reject the car. I would expect such a repair to be carried out in a reasonable timeframe and 
without significant inconvenience to the consumer. 
In this case, a repair was carried out at no cost to Mr C, the diesel pump was replaced and 
the necessary remedial work relating to the recall notice was carried out (to weld an 
additional bracket on the ISOFX U-loop). Mr C hasnt reported any further issues and there 
is no evidence to say any remain so I think its fair to say the repair was successful.
I note the car was taken to the garage in 17 April 2020 and it was returned to Mr C around 
28 May 2020, therefore the repair took over a month. I appreciate Mr Cs frustration for being 
left without his car for this period of time and having to continue to meet his contractual 
payments. However given the impact of Covid-19 and the government imposed restrictions, 
its clear the garage struggled to repair the car due to staff shortages. Given the 
unprecedented nature of the pandemic, I dont think the time taken to fix the car was 
unreasonable in the circumstances. 
Courtesy car
While the car was waiting to be repaired, I can also see Mr C was provided with a courtesy 
car but he was unhappy with it as it didnt meet his needs especially in regards to the transport of his young children. BMWFS said the courtesy car was offered as a gesture of 
goodwill by the repair garage and they arent obliged to provide one so there wasnt more 
they could do. 
In light of the above faults and what the CRA says about how repairs should be carried out 
without significant inconvenience to the consumer, I would expect Mr C to be kept mobile 
during this time which is what happened so I dont believe it would be fair to ask BMWFS to 
refund the monthly payment for that time period. However I do agree with the investigator, 
that the courtesy car didnt meet his needs especially as it was a two door car and he had 
three young children. In these circumstances, I understand why Mr C was unhappy about 
still be required to pay the full £700 payment for a car that wasnt in his possession. In the 
circumstances, I believe it would be fair for BMWFS to refund 25% of one months payment 
for the impaired use of the car. 
Compensation 
Im sorry to hear Mr C experienced faults with the car and it didnt perform as
expected. This was a new car and I dont believe a reasonable person would expect a fault 
with the diesel pump to occur so soon after acquiring it. Ive thought what happened and 
Mr Cs comments about the impact it has had on him such as his upset when the car 
stopped working while he was driving and having to make arrangements to be recovered 
home. Given the circumstances, I find Mr C has been inconvenienced so I think BMWFS 
should pay £150 for the trouble and upset caused.
Summary 
Overall, its my opinion that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the time of supply.
Although I find this to be the case, I believe the fault with the diesel pump was put right at no 
cost to him. Although the delay to repair the car wasnt foreseeable, I do believe Mr C should 
be refunded 25% of one months payment for the impaired used of the car and receive £150 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
 
My final decision
To put things right, BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited must:
-Refund 25% of one months contractual payment;
-Pay £150 compensation to Mr C for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman