DRN-3299587
The complaint
Miss D has complained that Shoosmiths LLP sent her threatening letters when she was in a 
payment arrangement.
What happened
This complaint surrounds a hire purchase agreement where Shoosmiths are dealing with the 
account on behalf of the creditor.
Because of an administrative mistake, Shoosmiths sent Miss D a default notice in February 
2021, despite the fact that she was in a payment plan. Miss D queried this, and Shoosmiths 
apologised and reassured her it was sent by mistake.
The following month, Shoosmiths sent Miss D a pre-termination letter in error. Again, Miss D 
queried this and Shoosmiths apologised, reassured her they werent going to repossess the 
goods as she was in a payment plan, and escalated things to management to make sure it 
didnt happen again. They gave internal feedback and offered Miss D £50 compensation.
Miss D didnt feel that was sufficient. She explained she was already in a very difficult 
situation and so this had caused her a lot of distress.
Our investigator looked into things independently and thought £150 compensation would 
better reflect the impact Shoosmiths mistake had had for Miss D. But Miss D felt that £5,000 
would be justified instead. The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I understand that Miss D was going through a truly tough time when this all happened, 
and Im grateful for her taking the time to explain her side of things openly.
Its clear that Shoosmiths mistake caused Miss D some real distress here, not least given 
the situation she was already in. So I can understand why she complained. And its fair that 
they should pay her some compensation, to acknowledge their error and the impact it had.
Ive also taken into account that when Miss D let Shoosmiths know what had gone wrong, 
they were quick to clarify the situation, reassure Miss D that she wasnt in trouble, and 
apologise. And on the second occasion, I can see they also escalated things to 
management, made sure it didnt happen again, provided feedback to staff, and offered 
some compensation on top of the apology. That all seems reasonable.
I agree with our investigator that the amount of compensation Shoosmiths initially offered 
wasnt quite enough to reflect the stress theyd caused for Miss D. And I do understand that 
Miss D feels a much higher amount would be justified. In terms of the amount of 
compensation, its worth bearing in mind that were here to resolve disputes informally, but 
not to punish businesses or issue large fines.
We have guidelines about what levels of compensation to award, and I need to be consistent 
with that. Taking into account the full circumstances of this case, including Shoosmiths 
acting relatively quickly both times to try to put things right, I agree with our investigator that 
£150 compensation is a fair total amount.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Ds complaint and direct Shoosmiths LLP to 
pay her £150 compensation in total.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman