DRN-2942350
The complaint
Mr H complains about the delays and the costs hes incurred at the end of his hire 
agreement with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Volkswagen Finance 
(VWFS). 
Mr H has been represented on this complaint. But to keep things simple Ill only refer to Mr H 
in my decision.  
What happened
Mr H acquired a car through a hire agreement with VWFS. The duration of the hire 
agreement was 36 months and was due to end in March 2020.
Mr H explained that towards the end of the hire agreement he tried to arrange a date for the 
car to be collected, using the online portal of the collection agency. Ill refer to the collection 
agency as B. However, Mr H says he was unable to do so. Mr H provided us with copies of 
emails that hed sent to VWFS, dated 5 March 2020 showing that an issue with Bs online 
booking portal was preventing him from making a booking. 
Mr H said that a collection he arranged for the end of March 2020 was cancelled by B. The 
cancellation was due to the Covid-19 restrictions that were in place at the time. VWFS 
confirmed that as a result of the restrictions in place, B had ceased all inspection and 
collections activity from 24 March 2020.
Mr H explained that as the agreement had ended, hed acquired another vehicle, so he 
found it inconvenient to keep hold of the car. Mr H says he had to park the car on a 
neighbours driveway, move it each day and maintain the insurance on it. 
Mr H says that following Bs initial cancellation in March, he received a number of messages 
from B requesting that he rebook the collection. Mr H explained that despite him emailing B 
several times hes had no response from them. 
Mr H explained that he was able to arrange with B, a collection for 12 June 2020. Mr H says 
that when B came to collect it, they werent able to go ahead with the collection because no 
one had attended to inspect the car. Mr H provided us with a copy of an email he sent to 
VWFS on 12 June 2020 complaining about the delays to the collection.
Mr H says, the collection was re-booked for 21 June 2020. Mr H said that three people came 
to carry out the inspection and collection. Mr H says he felt unsafe with the number of people 
who had arrived as he felt at risk from Covid-19.
Mr H explained that during March to June 2020 he had to pay for three months additional 
insurance on his car. In a phone call to our investigator Mr H said that at that time hed 
acquired another car, so had no space on his driveway to keep them both. And due to permit 
parking, he was unable to leave the car on the roadside, so he had to use a neighbours 
driveway instead.
On 2 November 2020 VWFS provided their final response to Mr Hs complaint. VWFS 
upheld Mr Hs complaint. They apologised that the collection hadnt gone as planned and 
offered Mr H a goodwill gesture of £100 for the inconvenience caused.
Mr H felt the compensation offered by VWFS was inadequate, so in August 2020 he brought 
his complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Hs complaint and felt that it should be upheld. The 
investigator didnt think the delays were down to Mr H, but that hed incurred costs as a 
result of them. However, our investigator agreed with the amount of compensation offered by 
VWFS but also recommended that VWFS reimburse Mr H for the additional insurance costs 
he incurred after the original collection date in March 2020. 
VWFS accepted our investigators view. Mr H disagreed with the £100 compensation as he 
felt it didnt take into account the inconvenience and upset caused whilst he was trying to 
deal with the delays. So, Mr H asked that his complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the information provided its clear to me that Mr H experienced delays with the 
collection of his car at the end of his contract with VWFS. This has been confirmed by both 
parties and is not in dispute. 
Im persuaded that the delays to the collection of Mr Hs car are mainly due to the impact 
that Covid-19 had on Bs ability to carry out their collection activity on behalf of VWFS. This 
is confirmed by VWFS in their final response where they confirmed that B had ceased all 
collection and inspection activity from 24 March 2020.
Mr H provided us with copies of emails he sent to VWFS after the initial collection in March 
2020 had been cancelled. Mr Hs emails demonstrate his attempts at trying to arrange 
another collection over the period from March to June 2020. 
I recognise the inconvenience these delays would have caused Mr H; however, I do 
acknowledge the significant and unprecedented challenges presented by the national 
government enforced lockdown, and the impact these challenges would have on many 
businesses, including B.
Having said that, Mr H provided us with copies of emails that he sent to VWFS in March 
2020, which suggests Bs online portal appeared to be experiencing issues with bookings 
prior to the Covid-19 restrictions. This was confirmed by VWFS in an email to Mr H on 5 
March 2020 where they said that there appeared to be an intermittent issue with the portal. 
So, I think its likely there was an underlying service issue aside from the impact of Covid-19. 
Mr H provided copies of an email chain between himself and VWFS dated 12 and 15 June 
2020. The emails show that Mr H was unhappy that his car hadnt been collected on 12 June 
2020 because that the inspector hadnt attended to check the car. Mr H also sent us copies 
of an email chain with VWFS where he confirmed that the car had been collected on 21 June 
2020, but that he was unhappy with the risks to Covid-19. Mr H explained this was partly due 
to the number of people who arrived to carry out the collection.Ive not seen any further evidence about what occurred on 12 June and 21 June 2020. And 
VWFS havent provided any further explanation as to why Mr Hs car hadnt been collected 
on 12 June 2020. So, Im persuaded by what Mr H has said and by the emails that hes 
provided. 
However, in consideration of the events as described by Mr H on the day of collection, I 
havent seen any evidence that Mr Hs safety was compromised, or that B had acted 
inappropriately. So, I wont be asking VWFS to do anything in relation to this part of the 
complaint.  
Putting things right
Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator on the delay and I agree that additional 
insurance payments should be refunded. Mr H has provided us with a copy of his insurance 
payments of £29.94 each month, for April, May and June 2020. So, despite the challenges 
that B may have faced during the government enforced restrictions, I think its fair that VWFS 
reimburse those payments to Mr H. VWFS have accepted this. However, the remaining 
issue is around the £100 compensation payment.
I recognise Mr Hs strength of feeling about what happened. Mr H has described the 
inconvenience of the time he spent corresponding in relation to the collection of his car. Hes 
also said that he found it stressful. 
Ive considered that Covid lockdown was difficult for everyone as it presented many 
challenges. However, I think there would have been a degree of inconvenience and 
frustration for Mr H when the car hadnt been collected over the three-month period, for 
example having to find somewhere to leave the car. So, I think Mr H should be compensated 
for the inconvenience caused. Having considered the specific circumstances of this 
complaint, I think £100 compensation fairly takes into account the delays and inconvenience 
caused. 
I acknowledge that Mr H doesnt think £100 is sufficient, but I havent seen any evidence to 
support more than this. So, Ill be instructing VWFS to pay Mr H £100 in compensation for 
the stress and inconvenience caused.  
My final decision
Having thought about everything above, along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, I uphold this complaint and instruct Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) 
Limited trading as Volkswagen Finance to:
reimburse £89.82 to Mr H for the additional car insurance payments from April to 
June 2020 
pay £100 compensation that has already been offered 
pay 8% yearly simple interest on all reimbursements calculated from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
If Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Volkswagen Finance considers 
that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from the interest part of 
my award, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give Mr H a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 8 January 2022.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman