DRN-3120589
The complaint
Mr R complains that AmTrust Europe Limited (AmTrust) has unfairly handled a claim he 
made under his legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy.
Any reference to Mr R or AmTrust includes respective representatives and agents.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
Mr R contacted AmTrust to make a claim under his LEI policy.
AmTrust assessed the claim and declined it. It said it took this view in light of the 
legal opinion obtained from Company A which said the claim didnt have reasonable 
prospects of success.
Mr R subsequently contracted another firm, and won his case in court. He 
subsequently complained to AmTrust about the quality of the advice Company A had 
given him and which it had relied on.
AmTrust stood by the advice it had given, and the complaint was brought to this 
service.
Our investigator looked into what happened. She said policies of this nature required 
a claim to have reasonable prospects of success, and that AmTrust was able to rely 
on legal experts when assessing a claim. Mr R hadnt provided any conflicting 
opinion to AmTrust, so she said it had acted fairly based on the evidence it had.
Mr R responded, explaining why he felt AmTrust had acted unfairly. And that instead 
of compensation, he sought an appropriate sanction against AmTrust. As well as 
clearer guidelines to be laid down in future policies explaining what insurers would be 
specifically responsible for.
The investigator looked again, outlining the evidence shed relied on, and said 
Company A had considered all of the evidence when reaching its decision. And in 
turn, she still felt it was fair for AmTrust to rely on this legal opinion. The investigator 
also explained our service was unable to punish or apply sanctions.
Mr R disagreed, explaining in detail why he felt Company A and AmTrust had acted 
unfairly in light of how specific evidence had been interpreted. And he reiterated that 
AmTrust was ultimately responsible for any decisions made in respect of the claim.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
When considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances I need to take into 
account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of 
practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time.
As our investigator has previously outlined, our role is to consider AmTrusts handling of this 
claim as the insurer. I am not considering Company As (solicitors) handling of the legal 
claim or the quality of advice it provided as this falls outside of the scope of this service.
Mr R sought to make a claim under his LEI cover. Policies of this nature require claims to 
have reasonable prospects of success. This is typically defined as at least 51% and which 
would recover losses or damages.
This means if Mr Rs claim was shown to have at least 51% or greater prospects of success 
and would recover his losses or damages then the claim should be covered (subject to the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy).
In determining whether Mr Rs claim has reasonable prospects, AmTrust relied on the 
opinion of Company As solicitor. In January 2016, one of Company As solicitors wrote to Mr 
R. She explained in her legal opinion, the claim had less than 50% prospect of success. 
Referencing a police report, she said:
On review of the report I do not feel that your personal injury claim has any 
prospects of success. The report advises that your vehicle drifted into the lane of the 
third party, causing the third party to take evasive action to try and avoid the 
collision.
Ive seen the solicitor gathered information prior to giving her initial advice. And when Mr R 
presented further submissions, they reviewed those and explained why their advice hadnt 
changed in August 2016 and November 2017. So, Im not persuaded the actions of AmTrust 
meant the solicitors had incomplete information.
AmTrust is entitled to rely on the legal advice it is provided with  unless that advice is 
obviously wrong. But from what Ive seen the claim was reviewed by a qualified individual 
with suitable experience in the relevant area of law. And Company As advice was properly 
written and reasoned across three letters between January 2016 and November 2017. 
These letters addressed the circumstances and evidence presented by Mr R. 
Whilst Mr R may not have agreed with the advice, that doesnt mean it was obviously wrong 
or that Amtrust wasnt entitled to rely on it. And I think the same applies to the fact Mr R went 
on to win his case. Amtrust wasnt presented with conflicting advice from Mr Rs legal 
representatives about the claims prospects, so had no reason to question the advice it had 
relied on.
Mr R has referenced making a complaint to the legal ombudsman about Company A. While I 
havent been given the details of its findings, Mr R has indicated the complaint wasnt 
upheld. This further supports that there was nothing obviously wrong with the advice Amtrust 
relied on.
So, based on everything Ive been given, Im satisfied AmTrust acted reasonably in relying 
on Company As advice.
Mr R has requested this service apply sanctions to AmTrust, and direct it to change its policy 
wording going forward. But as our investigator has outlined, even if I was satisfied AmTrust had made mistakes in handling this claim  which Im not  this service is not here to punish 
or penalise firms.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman