DRN-2491034
The complaint
Mr D complains Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him an income protection policy. 
What happened
Mr D took out an income protection policy with Lloyds Bank in 2003. He contacted Lloyds 
Bank in 2019 at his annual renewal. He said his employment circumstances had changed, 
and he needed his sickness cover to start immediately if he were to make a claim. 
Lloyds Bank said Mr Ds policy had a six month deferred period  this is the waiting period 
before any benefits would be paid for a successful claim. And it said the deferred period 
couldnt be changed. 
Mr D said he wasnt previously informed the deferred period of his policy couldnt be 
changed in the future. He said the six month deferred period was recommended to him when 
he took out the policy. And he said had he known it couldnt be changed, he wouldnt have 
taken the policy at all.
Mr D complained to Lloyds Bank. It said itd reviewed the advice provided at the time of the 
sale. And said the recommendations made were based on Mr Ds circumstances at that 
time. And the six month deferred period was recommended because of the sickness benefits 
Mr D had in place with his then employer. It said itd found no evidence Mr D had been told 
his deferred period could be amended in the future.
Unhappy with the response from Lloyds Bank, Mr D brought his complaint to this service. An 
investigator here looked into what had happened and said she didnt think the policy had 
been mis-sold. 
Mr D disagreed with the view, and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. And Lloyds 
Bank made no further comments. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that as Lloyds Bank provided advice, it had a 
responsibility to ensure that the policy was suitable for Mr D when it sold it to him. This 
means it had a duty to consider Mr Ds individuals needs and circumstances, and based on 
this information, make a recommendation of what would be most suitable for him. Lloyds 
Bank also needed to present information in a clear, fair and non-misleading way.
Ive reviewed evidence from the time the policy was sold, including fact-find documents and 
the recommendation sent to Mr D. And Ive seen a declaration signed by Mr D, confirming 
hed reviewed the information. 
 
Mr D told Lloyds Bank one of his priorities was to protect his income in the event of long-
term sickness. He wanted to be able to meet his outgoings and maintain his standard of 
living, if he was unable to work beyond the time his employer would provide sick pay. At that 
time, Mr Ds employer offered sickness benefits of three months full pay and three months 
half pay. And a further health benefit which would provide 30% of his basic salary for five 
years. So I think Lloyds Banks recommendation of a six month deferred period was 
reasonable in these circumstances. 
The recommendation documentation Lloyds Bank provided stated that the deferred period 
was six months and it didnt give any suggestion that this could be changed. However I 
appreciate Mr D feels strongly that he should have been made aware. Ive considered this, 
and thought about whether or not Lloyds Bank has done anything wrong. 
The length of the deferred period is an important element of the policy, and Im satisfied that 
this was appropriately made clear within the policy documentation. However the fact that the 
deferred period was fixed and couldnt be changed is a common feature of an income 
protection policy  as this plays a significant part in the cost calculation. I dont think the fixed 
nature of the deferred period was an unusual restriction, so I dont think Lloyds Bank had an 
obligation to highlight it to Mr D.
Mr Ds policy is renewable annually. So, when his employment circumstances changed 
several years ago, it was for him to consider whether the policy still met his needs. And if it 
didnt, or if he had any questions, he had the option to contact Lloyds Bank to discuss things. 
He could have cancelled the policy and taken out another with different terms, either with the 
same or a different provider. However, Mr D continued with his policy with the six month 
deferred period. And I cant reasonably hold Lloyds Bank accountable for this, as it hadnt 
been made aware Mr Ds circumstances had changed or that the policy was no longer 
suitable for him.
I understand Mr Ds income protection policy is still in force. So, if he wishes to cancel at this 
stage, he should discuss this directly with Lloyds Bank. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against Lloyds Bank PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman