DRN-2188456
The complaint
Mr G says Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (Hargreaves) is responsible 
for his loss of an opportunity to make gains from the sale of his shares in Lloyds Banking 
Group plc (Lloyds). He says there was a significant increase in Lloyds share price on 13 
December 2019 and he sought to profit from this by selling his shares through Hargreaves 
online trading platform on the date, but the platform prevented him from doing so by denying 
him a price and then by asking for an unnecessary trading password. 
He seeks compensation based on the relevant share price on 13 December 2019.
What happened
The key events happened just after 08:00 on 13 December 2019. Mr G notes that it was the 
aftermath of the UK general election and he logged into his execution only Hargreaves 
account through the online platform with the aim of selling his Lloyds shares. It is not 
disputed that a price for his attempted sale was unavailable to him. It is also not disputed 
that he received an erroneous requested for an unnecessary trading password. Hargreaves 
investigation into the matter referred to the following:
Lloyds first traded on the day at the time of 08:05:25.
Its audit shows that Mr G tried to get a live price at the time but was initially unable to 
do so because no price quote was being returned by its market makers.
At 08:11:53 Mr G faced the erroneous request for a trading password and he was 
one of a number of Hargreaves clients who experienced this error around that time. 
Hargreaves says the platform error lasted for a short period of time and it accepts that this 
would have prevented Mr G from trading on its platform, but it stresses that it remained 
possible for him to have traded over the telephone and through its Dealing Desk  which    
Mr G did not do at the time.
Hargreaves response to Mr Gs complaint included an offer to review the price he could 
have obtained at the time of the platform error  but not before. He appears to have 
regarded this as a settlement offer (based on redress) but Hargreaves says it was not. 
Instead, Hargreaves offered him £50 for the trouble and upset caused to him by the error.
Mr G referred the matter to this service and one of our investigators considered it. 
Hargreaves confirmed its position to us mainly as follows:
Whilst it applies its best efforts to maintain the online platform it does not guarantee 
that the platform will be available without interruptions, delays or varied service. The 
terms and conditions for Mr Gs account reflected this, expressly included an 
exclusion of liability in this respect and expressly confirmed that its clients accepted 
the possibility of interrupted, delayed or varied service in the platform. Despite the 
lack of such guarantee for the platform its clients trading can be supported through 
its Dealing Desk.
Hargreaves was not responsible for the lack of a live price feed from its market 
makers at the relevant time. Such a scenario is not uncommon in periods of market 
volatility and it is a not a reflection upon the platform.
In the absence of a price for the trade Mr G sought to make the platform would have 
given him the option to either get a requote or to leave a fill or kill instruction for its 
Dealers to attend to manually. In addition, he had the option to trade over the 
telephone through its Dealing Desk.
It concedes the platform error with regards to the unnecessary password request, but 
this did not prevent Mr G from trading as he could have used the fill or kill and/or 
telephone dealing options to place his trade.
The investigator broadly agreed with most of Hargreavess position on the matter and 
concluded that no redress should be due to Mr G. However, he considered that the wording 
of its offer to review the price Mr G could have obtained at the time of the platform error 
appears to have had a misleading effect on him, as he thought it was a settlement offer. For 
this reason, the investigator concluded that Hargreaves offer of £50 for trouble and upset 
should be coupled by an additional payment of £100 to Mr G. Hargreaves agreed. Mr G 
asked for a review of the matter and it was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion expressed by the investigator and for 
broadly the same reasons he gave.
The key issue is mitigation. There appears to be no dispute over the facts of Mr Gs 
allegations. Hargreaves concedes that a live price was unavailable to him  as he claims; 
and that the platform error (with regards to the unnecessary password request) happened  
as he claims. With these facts established the questions that arise are  whether (or not) 
Hargreaves is responsible for the unavailability of a live price and/or the platform error; and 
whether (or not) Mr G mitigated his position as he ought reasonably to have done.
I consider the second question to be key because I am not persuaded that treatment of the 
first question concludes in favour of Mr G or that it properly concludes his complaint (without 
treatment of the second question).
It is not uncommon for firms who provide trading platforms to be reliant upon price feeds 
from one of more liquidity-provider (or market maker). Hargreaves had such an 
arrangement. On balance, I am satisfied with its account that Mr Gs inability to get a price 
for his proposed sale was caused by the lack of a price from its market makers. 
It would be contrary to the purpose of a trading platform business for a firm to wilfully or 
arbitrarily deny its clients prices required to trade. I consider it unlikely that Hargreaves 
would have done such a thing and more likely (than not) that no live price was available to 
the platform. As Hargreaves and the investigator said, this can be caused by volatility in the 
market. Given that the event in Mr Gs case happened in the early morning after the UK 
general election an explanation for any such volatility could exist within that. Overall and on 
balance, I do not consider Hargreaves responsible for the price unavailability that Mr G 
experienced.
Hargreaves has essentially accepted responsibility for the platform error and I agree that it 
prevented Mr G from trading through the platform whilst it lasted. However, I am mindful that 
Hargreaves has also invoked a contractual exclusion of liability in this respect. Even if I were to disregard this exclusion  which I do not  as I address the matter of mitigation below I 
provide reasons why such responsibility for the error is not enough to uphold Mr Gs 
complaint. I also note that the platform error was secondary to the price unavailability issue  
and was experienced by Mr G in the same sequence  so I consider that mitigation which 
ought to have been applied to the primary price unavailability issue essentially renders the 
platform error argument redundant.
There is no evidence of mitigation by Mr G at or around the relevant time. Available evidence 
suggests that he experienced the price unavailability problem, then he experienced the 
platform error and then he did not sell the relevant shares. I conclude that he had options to 
mitigate. One was the platform based option to send the fill or kill instruction to Hargreaves 
Dealers  I have not seen evidence that this was done. Another option  which should have 
applied in response to the price unavailability problem and even more so to the platform 
error problem  was to get to the bottom of the difficulty(ies) by calling Hargreaves dealing 
desk to conduct the trade, especially as Mr G was in pursuit of taking advantage of a positive 
price movement. Such an objective ought reasonably to have led him to take all reasonable 
steps  including telephone-based dealing  to achieve the sale of his shares, if the online 
platform appeared to be laden with problems.
If Mr G had called the Dealing Desk in response the price unavailability issue, it is likely that 
he would not have continued to use the platform for the purpose of the sale and would not 
have experienced the platform error that followed. It is arguable that his sale order would 
have been manually worked and executed by the Dealing Desk and that would have 
concluded the matter. This is what I meant [above] by mitigation for the primary issue 
rendering the platform error argument redundant. This manual option was a part of 
Hargreaves trading service and, as it says, it also served as a substitute for the online 
platform where necessary. Without having exhausted this option I cannot reasonably 
conclude that Mr G mitigated his position or that his complaint should be upheld.
I note that Hargreaves has already committed to increasing its payment to Mr G from £50 to 
a total of £150 (including the additional £100 proposed by the investigator)  with regards to 
the trouble and upset caused by the platform error and by the perception that its offer to 
review prices was misleading. As such, I do not consider it necessary to issue findings or an 
order in this respect.  However, for the sake of completeness and to address Mr Gs specific 
claim with regards to the latter, I am not persuaded that Hargreaves expression amounted 
to a binding settlement offer. It explicitly offered to review prices, not to settle. Whilst I can 
understand why Mr G perceived it as perhaps a prelude to settlement, it was not quite an 
offer of settlement  there was no mention of settlement or of a value for settlement or of 
consideration due from Mr G to create a mutually binding settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2020.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman