DRN-3421635
The complaint
Miss G complains that Northern Bank Limited trading as Danske Bank (Danske) were 
negligent in obtaining the structural warranty that covers her property when she re-
mortgaged. She says this led to financial losses.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties and has been detailed by our 
investigator previously. So, Ill summarise the key points Ive focused on within my decision.
In August 2018 - Miss G re-mortgaged her property with Danske. She used a Danske re-
mortgage incentive in which it appointed the conveyancing solicitors that worked for both the 
bank and the customer. 
Miss G and her partner were planning to sell each of their properties simultaneously and port 
their mortgages to the property they were buying together to avoid early repayment charges 
(ERCs).  When Miss G was about to complete on the sale of the new property, her buyers 
lender refused to lend. It had discovered the structural warranty on the property was 
administered by a broker it had blacklisted due to its affiliation with an insurer which 
collapsed and went into liquidation in 2018.
Miss G complained to Danske as she was not made aware of this issue in 2018. And she 
feels as a direct consequence of the structural warranty being invalid, the sale of her 
property fell through and did not complete. As resolution Miss G wants Danske to cover all 
her financial losses associated with the failed purchase and sale of her own property.
In Danskes final response letter dated 4 June 2021 it accepted that Miss G shouldve been 
put on notice that the structural warranty was no longer valid and agreed to cover the 
following costs:
Market and conveyancing costs for the property she was selling- (invoice required)
Conveyancing costs (invoice required) on property she was trying to buy
Valuation and homebuyers survey - £755
It also offered £600 compensation for the stress and inconvenience caused.
Miss G remained unhappy as she had found out the warranty wasnt underwritten by the 
insurer that went into liquidation and was still in fact valid. But if she had known that lenders 
were blacklisting the broker, shed have made arrangement to get a retrospective warranty. 
Which her property management company acquired after this incident. She also found out 
that when the property deeds were released by Danske in preparation for the sale of the 
property, that the structural warranty was missing.
Based on the new information Danske took another look at the complaint. It apologised as it 
had responded without sighting the structural warranty and it had therefore concluded it had 
been underwritten by the insurer that had gone into liquidation. As a result of that conclusion 
its view was that the conveyancing solicitors shouldve made Miss G aware of the issues 
with the underwriters in 2018. 
Danske acknowledged that the conveyancing solicitors in 2018 should have sighted the 
structural warranty and retained it with the property deeds, however it was of the opinion that 
the solicitors wouldnt have been able to predict that some lenders may blacklist the broker 
in the future regardless of the underwriter of the policy. So, it wouldnt have been able to 
have informed Miss G of this in 2018 as it first thought.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, he felt Danskes offer was a fair settlement. 
Miss G disagrees and has asked for it to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly Miss G has said that finding out about the warranty situation just a few days before 
completion, her partner (who was completing the same day) had no choice but to proceed 
with the sale but was unable to port the mortgage as planned. This meant Danske charged 
an ERC. Miss G feels this was unfair. Im not able to consider this under this complaint, Miss 
Gs partner would need to raise a separate complaint with Danske in the first instance 
regarding this. 
All parties agree that the solicitors firm that Danske appointed for the re-mortgage in 2018 
shouldve obtained the structural warranty and retained it with the property deeds. If it had 
done this then when Miss G went to sell the property in 2021 the structural warranty 
wouldve been provided to her solicitors when it requested the deeds in January 2021. 
Miss G has said that had she known about the problems with the broker that had supplied 
the structural warranty then this couldve been sorted out back in 2018 or she couldve not 
re-mortgaged and retained her mortgage with her original lender. However, I note that the 
warranty was valid, and the reason the buyers lender withdrew was due to the broker being 
blacklisted not due an invalid warranty. 
Danske say it couldnt have predicted in 2018 that at some point in the future the buyers 
lender would take the decision to blacklist all warranty cover administered by this broker. Im 
satisfied that even if Danskes solicitors had sight of the warranty in 2018 it wouldnt have 
shown it was underwritten by an insurer that was in financial difficulty and it wouldve had no 
reason to bring anything to the attention of Miss G at this time and she wouldve still re-
mortgaged with Danske. So, I dont think Danske has acted unreasonably or unfairly here.
Miss G has said it has taken her property management company over four months to gather 
the documentation required for an alternative broker to provide a retrospective warranty 
quote for the property. This was finally obtained in August 2021 - almost five months after 
the intended March 2021 original completion date. During this time, Miss G has said she has 
been unable to resell her property and house prices for the type of property shed originally 
agreed to buy have risen. Miss G also added that the stamp duty holiday has changed and 
will come to an end long before shed be able to relist her existing property, find a new 
property to buy, and complete conveyancing. 
Miss G feels Danske should pay an allowance for the anticipated stamp duty cost for the 
purchase of a property like the one she was planning to buy as well as a £5,000 allowance 
for the anticipated increase in value of similar properties. In addition to this Miss G had 
moved out of the property into interim accommodation prior to the completion, so she feels 
the costs related to this and removal and storage costs should also be covered by Danske.But as Ive said above, I dont think it would be reasonable to hold Danske responsible for 
either the problems with the administration of the structural warranty or the actions of other 
lenders. Danske has said that several lenders were accepting the brokers warranty policies 
in April 2021. It also provided evidence when it reviewed the UK Finance Mortgage Lenders 
Handbook in January 2022, that there were a number of lenders who still list the broker as 
an acceptable warranty provider. Im satisfied that this shows that there are lenders available 
to prospective buyers and I dont agree that Danske should cover the additional costs Miss 
G is claiming for. 
Miss G has also said that this couldve all been avoided if Danske had been willing to
consider the possibility of looking at a mortgage application from her prospective buyer,
who was willing to move from their lender to Danske. I appreciate that Miss Gs buyer 
mayve been willing to move, but Danske dont have a record of this prospective customer or 
appear to have had conversations with the perspective purchasers. Ive also noted that 
Danske had also ceased to accept the broker as a warranty provider from September 2019 
so in theory the application couldve still been rejected. 
In summary I empathise for the situation Miss G found herself in at such a late stage in the 
conveyancing process and if Danske had provided the structural warranty at the time the 
property deeds were requested in January 2021 it mayve come to light sooner. But Im not 
persuaded it was a mistake on its part for not sharing this earlier as it couldnt have 
reasonably known how this would potentially impact a third-party lender for the reasons Ive 
given. So, Im satisfied the offer Danske has made in its final response letter dated 4 June 
2021 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and I wont be instructing it to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman