DRN-1565561
 
The complaint
 Mr E is unhappy with Clydesdale Bank Plc's decision not to return a payment he made.
 What happened
Mr E made a purchase online in August 2019. But he asked Clydesdale to return his money 
under the card charge back scheme. 
Clydesdale raised a charge back, however said it was successfully defended by the 
merchant and so it didn't return any money to Mr E. When Mr E complained to 
Clydesdale about this, he said it was rude to him and it gave incorrect information about the 
next steps. Clydesdale accepted it could have handled things better and paid him £50 
compensation.
Our investigator said Clydesdale had treated Mr E fairly. She said it initiated the charge back 
scheme correctly and that it was successfully defended. She also thought the compensation 
paid for the poor service he received was fair. 
Mr E agreed in part. He accepted there was little more Clydesdale could do with his charge 
back request. But he disagreed that the compensation paid by it was enough. He said he 
was spoken to rudely when he raised his complaint and then given incorrect information and 
so there should effectively be two separate compensation awards. It's now for me to make a 
final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've decided not to 
uphold Mr E's complaint. I say that because I think the remedial action already taken by 
Clydesdale is fair and proportionate in the circumstances of this complaint. I'll explain why.
Mr E made a purchase in August 2019. When he first realised his concerns, 
Clydesdale handled this in the way I'd expect it to as far as raising a charge back request. 
The scheme doesn't mean that the consumer will automatically receive a refund. There's a 
process that needs to be followed, at the end of which, a decision can be made about 
whether to return the funds. In Mr E's complaint, the merchant, or provider of goods, 
responded to the charge back requested by Clydesdale.
The merchant's response clearly set out part of the agreement it made with Mr E. I've 
carefully considered its response and am satisfied that Clydesdale correctly recorded the 
charge back and that it was successfully defended. 
Mr E raised further arguments about the merchant's actions thereafter, particularly because 
it offered him a time-sensitive credit refund. But I should highlight it's not for this service to 
consider that element of his complaint. Rather, my role is to determine whether Clydesdale has treated him fairly, which I think it did as it adhered to the rules of the scheme 
for the reasons I've explained.  
Mr E suggested Clydesdale should increase the level of compensation paid. To be clear, I 
understand his rationale for this, but I don't agree it's fair. Mr E's effectively saying that there 
were two separate incidents when he called to report his problem. The first being that the 
operative he spoke to was rude to him and the other that he was given incorrect information 
about the next steps Clydesdale would take in terms of issuing a final response on his 
complaint. 
Mr E said the £50 compensation was awarded for the rudeness aspect of his complaint and 
nothing was awarded for the misinformation he received. I understand the connection
Mr E's attempted to make here but I'm not persuaded that it's fair. This service has the 
power to consider the complaint holistically and in its entirety, rather than applying a 
prescriptive approach to each error made by a business.    
I think the £50 compensation awarded is fair for both aspects of Mr E's complaint because I 
consider it proportionate to the circumstances of this complaint. Having listened to the call, I 
agree it was uncomfortable at times, but this was also driven by Mr E telling the call handler 
to be quiet whilst he was attempting to explain why the charge back had been unsuccessful. 
And so, I don't think it fair to say the breakdown in relationship during that conversation was 
solely Clydesdale's fault. I also didn't think the misinformation given about which department 
would issue a final response to be of particular significance as Mr E still received a final 
response nonetheless.   
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2020.
Scott Slade
Ombudsman