DRN-1979277
The complaint
Mr A complains that Legal & General Insurance Limited (L&G) (now under Fairmead 
Insurance Limited) unfairly declined a claim under the legal expenses insurance part of a 
home insurance policy. 
Where I refer to L&G, this includes its agents and claims handlers.
What happened
In 2013, Mr A entered into a conditional fee agreement (CFA) with solicitors in relation to a 
personal injury claim.  But in late 2017, the solicitors stopped acting for him leaving him with 
little time to commence proceedings before his limitation period expired.
Mr A made a claim on his L&G policy, which hed taken out in November 2015, to cover the 
cost of taking legal action against the solicitors for professional negligence. L&G considered 
the claim but declined it on the basis that Mr As policy didnt start until 2015, and claims 
relating to a contract entered into before the policy had started are excluded from cover. 
Mr A didnt think this was fair. He said that whilst he engaged the solicitors in 2013, the case 
didnt proceed until 2015 and the negligence didnt occur until 2017. So, he felt that he 
should be covered and brought a complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said the policy was clear about what it did 
and didnt cover. And as this claim didnt satisfy the policy terms, she didnt think L&G 
needed to cover it. 
Mr A didnt agree, and the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr As policy will cover the costs to pursue legal action directly arising from buying or hiring 
goods or services for your own private use. This cover is not unconditional and is subject to 
an exclusion (positioned in the policy wording next to the italicised part above) where the 
agreement for buying or hiring the goods or services was not made during the period of 
insurance. 
Its not in dispute that Mr A entered into the contract with the solicitors prior to the start of his 
L&G policy. Ive seen the CFA and its clearly signed and dated in 2013. It seems to be 
acknowledged by both sides that this exclusion applies in the circumstances of Mr As claim. 
But Mr A says it isnt fair to apply it as his personal injury case wasnt progress under the 
CFA until 2015/2016 on foot of a barristers opinion on prospects of success. And the 
professional negligence didnt occur until 2017. 
Whilst I appreciate the points Mr A has raised, Im not persuaded his claim should be 
covered. This is because the policy is clear that the agreement for buying or hiring goods or 
services must have been made during the policy period. And in this case, it wasnt. So, I 
dont think it matters when the case was officially progressed or when the negligence itself 
occurred. As the claim hasnt satisfied this policy condition, Im satisfied L&G has acted fairly 
in its decision to decline cover. 
There are occasions where our service might consider it fair for an insurer to cover a claim in 
circumstances like Mr As. But thats generally only where a customer had continuous legal 
expenses insurance cover in place, both when the agreement was entered into and when 
the negligence occurred. If Mr A can evidence to L&G that he had continuous legal 
expenses insurance in place from the point he entered into the CFA, then it would be fair for 
L&G to at least reconsider the claim. Or, it might be that Mr A asks the underwriter of such a 
policy if exists to consider his claim.
Mr A may also want to consider making a complaint to the Legal Ombudsman regarding his 
concerns over his solicitors conduct.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman