DRN-2736131
The complaint
Miss B is complaining that FCA Automotive Services UK Ltd (FCA) gave her misleading 
information when she called to ask for an early settlement figure for a fixed sum loan 
agreement it provided her.
What happened
In February 2019 Miss B took out a fixed sum loan agreement through FCA to buy a car. 
Unfortunately in October 2019 she was involved in an accident with a third party which 
resulted in her car being written off. The third party was at fault for the accident, so she 
claimed for the loss directly from the third partys insurer.
Following the accident, Miss B contacted FCA to asked for an early settlement figure. FCA 
sent this to her in the post and said she owed around £11,185. There was a delay in the third 
partys insurer settling the claim, so Miss B contacted FCA to ask if she could stop making 
her monthly payments. She says the call handler told her she needed to keep paying them, 
but shed get them back when the claim was settled.
In March 2020, the third partys insurer paid out £8,025.60 which was put towards the 
outstanding finance on Miss Bs finance agreement. In April 2020 Miss B tried to contact 
FCA again to settle the remaining balance, but the phone lines were closed due to the 
impact caused by Covid-19 and she was told to email her query. Miss B emailed FCA to say 
she wanted to pay the outstanding balance and said she was looking to get the monthly 
payments shed made back. She says FCA didnt reply to her.
In June 2020 she contacted FCA again and asked for a settlement figure and was told she 
still owed around £2,030. After her GAP insurer paid out under her GAP insurance policy, 
Miss B says she received a refund of £142. Miss B complained because she said she was 
expecting to receive all the monthly payments shed made since November 2019  around 
£1,800. She was also unhappy that she didnt think FCA made it clear that the early 
settlement figure would expire after 28 days.
FCA didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint as it said the early settlement letter made it clear the 
settlement needed to be paid by 22 November 2019.
I issued a provisional decision partially upholding this complaint and I said the following:
Miss B is unhappy that she doesnt think FCA made it clear enough the settlement offer she 
obtained in October 2019 expired in 28 days. She also maintains FCA told her it would 
refund all the payments she makes after the car was written off.
Ive looked at the settlement letter Miss B received in October 2019 and this says if she 
wants to settle the finance agreement shell need to pay £11,895.96 by 22 November 2019 
or the agreements end date, whichever is first. I think its sufficiently clear from this that this 
figure was valid until 22 November 2019. I also dont think is unreasonable because the 
agreement balance will change on a monthly basis, taking into account interest charges and 
any payment Miss B makes.
Ive also considered Miss Bs comment that she says FCA told her she couldnt freeze her 
monthly payments, but it would refund her monthly payments. Unfortunately a recording of 
the telephone call isnt available. But I can see FCAs internal file notes say that the call 
handler told her shed get a refund of any overpayments she makes. I dont think its likely 
she was told shed have all her payments refunded. But what I think its likely she was told is 
that shed get a refund of the balance of the finance if there was a credit balance on the 
agreement after the insurance pay-out. And the more payments she made, the lower the 
account balance, making it more likely shed get a refund.
Firstly, I dont think it was unfair for FCA to say it wasnt willing to freeze the monthly 
payments. While I appreciate Miss B didnt have the car any longer because it had been 
written off, there isnt anything in the finance agreement that sets out the agreement would 
end at this point or that she didnt have to keep paying the monthly payments. She was 
contractually required to continue with her monthly payments and it wasnt unreasonable for 
FCA to require her to do so.
In regard to FCA telling her shed get a refund of her payments I dont think this information 
given was necessarily incorrect as she would have got a refund if the insurance settlement 
was more than the outstanding balance on the finance as the credit balance would be paid 
to her. And, the more payments Miss B made, the less she would owe on the finance. 
However, it was unlikely she would have received anything in this instance anything given 
the market value of the car was significantly less than the amount outstanding on the finance 
agreement. Ultimately, the insurance settlement was £8,025.60. Had this been paid out in 
November 2019, this would have left a shortfall of around £3,100. However, because the 
third partys insurer didnt settle the claim until March 2020, Miss B had made four further 
payments.
But, even if I think FCA should have made things clearer to Miss B, Im not persuaded shes 
lost out as a result of this. Regardless of when the insurer settled the claim, Miss B was 
required to settle the outstanding balance on the finance agreement. When the car was 
written off she still owed around £11,185 on the agreement and she was always going to 
have to pay that. Generally, where a car is written off, the insurer will pay any settlement due 
from the insurance to the finance provider to either pay off the finance or reduce the amount 
owed. If this isnt enough to settle the finance, then the consumer is liable for the shortfall. As 
I said above, there was a difference of around £3,100 which Miss B was always going to 
have to pay. And the monthly payments she continued to make simply went towards 
reducing the amount she owed  i.e. they were payments she was always going to have to 
make.
Im conscious Miss B also took out GAP insurance to insure against any loss arising from 
her car being a total loss and Ive thought about whether she may have received less from 
the GAP insurer because of the delays. There are various different types of GAP insurance 
policies, but the general principle of GAP insurance is it covers the difference between the 
market value of a car when its written off, and a previously agreed amount, which often is 
what the consumer has left to pay on their car loan.
However, in this case Miss B took out whats known as Return to Invoice GAP. These 
policies arent linked to the finance agreement as the GAP insurer pays the consumer the 
difference between what the consumer got from their motor insurer, and the cash price of 
what they paid for their car. Miss B has provided a breakdown of the settlement from the 
GAP insurer and this shows it paid the difference between the cars market value at the time 
of the accident and what she paid for it  £2,135. So the amount she received from the GAP 
insurer wasnt impacted by the fact Miss B had had to continue to make her monthly payments. Had the finance been settled in November 2019, the £2,135 would have reduced 
the amount Miss B would have owed FCA from around £3,100 to around £965. So she still 
would have had pay this.
I do accept, however, that interest continued to be charged on the finance agreement. So 
she has ultimately had to repay more than she would have done had she settled the finance 
in November 2019. As I said, I dont think FCA is liable for the delays up April 2020. But 
Miss B has also highlighted she wasnt able to settle the account then as she couldnt 
contact FCA. I appreciate this was a difficult time for FCA due to the impact caused by 
Covid-19 and having to adapt to the national lockdown. However, it seems unfair Miss B has 
lost out as a result of not being able to contact FCA.
I understand Miss B initially tried to telephone FCA but she wasnt able to. I can see Miss B 
then emailed FCA on 3 April 2020 saying she wanted to settle her finance, but FCA didnt 
respond to this email. I think its unfair Miss B had to continue to make her monthly 
payments after April 2020, as she went to lengths to try to pay it off and shes out of pocket 
as a result. Had she repaid the finance when she wanted to, as she should have been able 
to do, she wouldnt have been charged interest in the months after until she eventually 
repaid the finance in June 2020.
Given this, I think FCA should put Miss B in the position shed be in had she settled the 
finance in April 2020. So it should work out how much she would have paid over the course 
of the finance agreement had she settled the account in April 2020. If this is less than what 
she actually paid then it should refund the difference. It should pay 8% simple interest on this 
refund from the date she paid off the finance until she receives the refund. 
Miss B responded to accept my provisional decision. FCA didnt respond to it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given me anything further to think about, I see no reason to reach a 
different conclusion to the one I reached in my provisional decision. So I partially uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require FCA Automotive Services UK Ltd to do the following to put things right:
1. Work out how much Miss B would have paid over the course of the finance agreement 
had she settled the account in April 2020. If this is less than what she actually paid then 
it should refund the difference; and
2. Pay 8% simple interest on this refund from the date she paid off the finance until she 
receives the refund*.
* If FCA thinks that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from this
interest, it should tell Miss B how much its taken off. It should also give Miss B a tax
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 February 2022. 
Guy MitchellOmbudsman