DRN-3378075
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard closed his credit card 
and recorded a default on his credit file despite agreeing a payment holiday. 
What happened
Mr C had a credit card with Barclaycard. In December 2019 Mr C appointed Citizens Advice 
(CAB) to act on his behalf. CAB wrote to Barclaycard and provided evidence Mr C had given 
it third party authority to make contact about his account. In January 2021 CAB said Mr C 
wasnt in a position to make his normal monthly payment and said he could afford to pay £96 
a month. Mr Cs normal minimum payment was around £230 at this time. 
Barclaycard reviewed Mr Cs account and CABs request. Barclaycard sent a termination 
notice to both Mr C and CAB explaining it would close his account. Default notices were sent 
a short time later and the account was closed. Mr C has told us neither he nor CAB received 
Barclaycards letters. 
In April 2020 Mr C applied for a payment holiday via Barclaycards online banking facility. 
Barclaycard says its system approved a three month payment holiday in error. The credit 
card closed around this time and a default was recorded on Mr Cs credit file. 
Mr C complained and Barclaycard apologised that its systems had approved a payment 
holiday in error. Barclaycard paid Mr C £75 for the inconvenience caused but didnt agree to 
reopen Mr Cs account or remove the default. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Cs complaint and thought Barclaycard had dealt 
with it fairly. Mr C asked to appeal and pointed out Barclaycard had sent him a text message 
confirming his payment holiday took the place of any previously agreed arrangements. As Mr 
C asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All parties agree that Barclaycard confirmed Mr Cs payment holiday was approved. Mr C 
correctly highlights that Barclaycards text message told him the payment holiday took the 
place of any previously agreed arrangements and that he thought it had been agreed. I can 
understand how frustrated Mr C feels at being misled. 
In response to the investigator, Mr C said he thinks Barclaycard should stand by its text 
message. But our approach to resolving complaints is to try and put the consumer back into 
the position they wouldve been in had no error been made. 
In this case, Barclaycard says its error came about when it approved Mr Cs payment 
holiday. CAB provided evidence to show it was acting with Mr Cs authority and that he was 
experiencing difficulties. CAB explained Mr C could afford to make payments of £95 a month 
going forward. 
Ive reviewed Barclaycards correspondence with CAB. Whilst I understand Mr Cs been told 
no letters were received, I note Barclaycard had to write back after it received the initial 
request for information. CAB responded with account details that allowed Barclaycard to 
trace Mr Cs credit card. It appears some of Barclaycards letters were received by CAB.
Barclaycard sent both Mr C and CAB a termination letter in February 2020. In March 2020 it 
sent default notices and in April 2020 Barclaycard wrote out to confirm the account had been 
closed. Ive looked at Barclaycards letters and theyre correctly addressed. Im satisfied 
Barclaycard did write to Mr C as it claims. 
Whilst I understand my decision will be disappointing for Mr C, Im satisfied Barclaycard 
intended to close his account due to the reduced payment offer received. 
Barclaycard has confirmed a systems error allowed Mr C to apply for a payment holiday 
under the Payment Deferral Guidance that was in operation at the time. The Payment 
Deferral Guidance allowed businesses to offer payment breaks to customers experiencing 
temporary difficulties due to the pandemic. But the guidance wasnt appropriate for all 
customers and specifically noted that it might not be appropriate for customers who were 
already in financial difficulties that were unconnected with the pandemic. 
In Mr Cs case, CAB contacted Barclaycard several months before the Payment Deferral 
Guidance was introduced and explained he was struggling to make payments. CAB advised 
it had reviewed Mr Cs income and expenditure and found he could afford payments of £95 a 
month towards his Barclaycard. As thats substantially below the minimum payment 
required, Im satisfied Barclaycard acted reasonably by taking steps to close Mr Cs credit 
card. Ultimately, that had the effect of stopping interest being applied to the debt and 
allowing payments that were substantially below the contractual minimum to be discussed. 
Having considered all the available evidence, Im satisfied the mistake in this case was 
Barclaycard telling Mr C the payment holiday had been approved. I havent found that the 
decision to close Mr Cs Barclaycard was a mistake or unfair. 
Barclaycard has paid Mr C £75 and apologised for its error. Im sorry to disappoint Mr C but I 
think thats a reasonable way to resolve his complaint and fairly reflects the level of distress 
and inconvenience caused. As Im satisfied Barclaycard has dealt with Mr Cs complaint 
fairly Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint because Barclays Bank UK PLC trading 
as Barclaycard has already paid a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman