DRN-1378013
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O have complained that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) declined their claim 
for stolen luggage.
What happened
Whilst travelling abroad Mr O who is elderly was taken seriously ill with pneumonia. A 
relative brought both Mr and Mrs O to a hospital in a Volkswagen Kombi van, along with all 
their luggage. They parked just outside the main hospital entrance and both Mrs O and the 
relative assisted Mr O into the hospital as he was unable to walk.
Unfortunately, when they were in the hospital the van was broken into and the luggage was 
stolen.
Mr and Mrs O submitted a claim on their travel insurance policy. However, IPA declined the 
claim. IPA said the circumstances of the theft were excluded from cover. 
Mr and Mrs O felt this was unfair and they brought the complaint to us. An investigator 
reviewed the complaint and felt that it should be upheld on a fair and reasonable basis. 
However, IPA disagree. It says the terms and conditions are clear and the claim is excluded. 
IPA have asked for an ombudsman to review this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
I need to decide whether IPA has taken a fair and reasonable approach before it declined Mr 
and Mrs Os claim. 
Mr and Mrs O travelled to the hospital with a relative in a Volkswagen Kombi van. They had 
their luggage with them. They parked outside the hospital gates and both Mrs O and the 
relative assisted Mr O to the hospital as he was too weak to walk unaided. Mrs O says they 
left their luggage in the back of the van, in the footwell between the back seats. The Kombi 
van has no boot for storage, so this was their only option. The bags werent covered, nor did 
they have locks on them.
When they returned to the van a window was broken, and the luggage had been stolen.
IPA say the police report does not have enough information to help substantiate the 
validation of the claim and based on the interview account given by the insured, they 
admitted to the items being not locked away and did not cover the items to mitigate the risk 
of losing of the items as per the policy terms and conditions. 
IPA are relying on the following terms within the policy to decline the claim:
Exclusions under Section I  Baggage, Baggage Delay, Personal Money and 
Passport
 Valuables left unattended at any time unless in a hotel safe, safety deposit box or in your 
locked accommodation.
 Baggage contained in an unattended motor vehicle between 9p.m. and 9a.m. or between 
9a.m. and 9p.m. unless it is in a locked boot or covered from view in a locked car, and 
evidence of entry into the vehicle by forcible and violent means is available.
The luggage was left in an unattended vehicle during the day. There is no boot in a Kombi 
van, so the luggage needed to be covered from view. And its written by both parties that a 
window was broken so there was forcible entry, even if this wasnt clear initially. But the 
luggage wasnt covered from view. Mrs O says they stashed the luggage in the back footwell 
and assumed that it was hidden from passing view as the windows on the van were high.
If we take the term in the policy as its set out, then this claim is excluded. The bags werent 
covered from view, so the situation isnt one thats covered by the policy. But as an 
organisation we have a requirement to look at the wider circumstances of what happened to 
decide if IPA applied this exclusion fairly.
Mr and Mrs O are an elderly couple on holiday in a foreign country. Mr O had fallen ill with 
such a serious illness that he needed hospitalisation. This can be quite distressing in normal 
circumstances, never mind whilst abroad. 
When they got to the hospital, they parked at the entrance to the hospital and both Mrs O 
and the driver had to assist Mr O to the hospital. Their luggage was in the back of the van, 
but I cant imagine storing it, or looking to carry it with them into the hospital was at the 
forefront of their minds. Mrs Os primary focus was her husbands health and getting him into 
the right hands. Further to this the only option that was available to them at the time, in order 
to satisfy the strict interpretation of the policy terms and conditions would have been to carry 
it with them into the hospital, which I think we can all agree wasnt possible at the time. Even 
if pushed under the seats, or even covered over, the luggage was always going to be seen 
by someone looking in the van windows.
The very reason for having insurance whilst travelling abroad is to give peace of mind. In 
circumstances outside the control of the insured, or at times of distress, there is comfort in 
the fact that you have cover and will receive assistance if anything goes wrong. To then be 
told at a time of distress, in particular when the policy is most needed, that there is no cover 
available because part of a term hasnt been satisfied, usually creates a feeling of ill will. 
Especially in a situation where a customer had no other choice but to do what they did. 
Insurers also need to bear in mind the intention of the policy and the principles of treating 
customers fairly. Its not simply just a matter of saying, the claim is excluded because you 
didnt meet the exact terms of the policy. Insurers should be looking at the situation as a 
whole when assessing a claim.
Mrs O felt that their luggage was safe where it was in a locked van. There is no question the 
luggage wasnt stolen. Both parties say in correspondence that a window on the van was 
broken so there was forcible entry. And I can only imagine the distress Mrs O suffered 
having carried her elderly and seriously ill husband into hospital to come out and find their 
luggage had been stolen. I think in these specific circumstances Mr and Mrs O did all they 
could to secure their luggage. In this type of vehicle, with no boot and an open seated area, 
if someone looks in the window its likely they would see luggage, even if its stashed under a 
seat or covered. So, Mr and Mrs O would never have been fully able to satisfy the term in the policy. But they tried their best in the circumstances, and I think that IPA should 
recognise this. So, I recommend that IPA pay the claim as per the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy on a fair and reasonable basis. 
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold this complaint.
I require Inter Partner Assistance SA to pay the claim as submitted for the stolen luggage in 
line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman