DRN-3922861
The complaint
Mrs and Mr K complain that U K Insurance Limited (trading as Natwest Insurance) has failed
to carry out work properly and fairly under a Buildings insurance claim.
Mrs and Mr K are represented in this complaint.
What happened
Ive previously issued two provisional decisions setting out the background. The parties are 
well aware of all the background circumstances, so Ill only give a short summary here.
Mrs and Mr Ks insurance claim related to repairs to the drainage from a septic tank into a 
soakaway. UKIs appointed contractors carried out initial repairs in July 2019 and secondary 
repairs in September 2020 because drainage had become an issue again. Problems 
continued but UKI refused to carry out further work as it said the issue causing failure was a 
change in ground conditions which wasnt an insured event.
Through their representative, Mrs and Mr K say UKI didnt obtain building control consent for
the work carried out to the soakaway, works were inadequate and percolation tests werent
carried out correctly. Reference was made to Building Regulations 2010 Drainage and
Waste disposal Approved document H (2015 edition).
My last provisional decision (11 January 2023) explained why I wasnt minded to uphold Mrs 
and Mr Ks complaint. For clarity Ive copied that decision below in italics:
As things stand, and having reviewed all the information again, Im not persuaded to reach a
substantially different conclusion to that of my provisional decision. My provisional findings
were as below in italics:
The main issue for determination is whether UKI carried out a satisfactory repair under the
terms of the insurance contract. There are ancillary issues which Ill touch on, but the crux
concerns the repairs carried out.
UKI dealt with the initial damage as an insured event (tree root damage to pipes) and
instructed its suppliers to carry out the repairs. I think its fair to expect that such repairs
should be lasting and effective. Its also noteworthy in the policy that UKI guarantees any
work carried out by its suppliers for 12 months. Within that period UKI carried out further
work because there was a failure in the drainage. There was a further failure that occurred
after the 12-month period.
Relevant building regulations1 required UKIs suppliers, when replacing the drainage
soakaway, to do certain things. There are guidance points which include assessing the
suitability of the ground conditions, referred to as percolation characteristics, and how to
carry out percolation tests. UKI has provided a document from its suppliers detailing the
percolation test results it took before carrying out works. I can see from the calculation
1 Building Regulations 2010 Drainage and Waste disposal Approved document H (2015 edition)
method in the building regulations (to determine the area of the drainage field) that UKIs
suppliers calculations supported the repair work it carried out. The suppliers have also
stated that it carried out the tests in line with the guidelines. I appreciate Mrs and Mr K
disagree with this and suspect the documentation provided by UKI lacks integrity at best,
and at worst has been manufactured. I note the documentation has been passed to UKI and
put in different formats and then provided to us. Im not persuaded the documentation is
compromised simply based on Mrs and Mr Ks recollection of what they think occurred at the
time and the file properties of the documents theyve referred to.
Within 12 months UKIs suppliers attended Mrs and Mr Ks property again because of an
issue with the drainage. Further percolation tests were carried out which showed the
required area of the drainage field had increased. UKI authorised further works to expand
the drainage area based on the new percolation results. Ive seen the suppliers test results
and am satisfied that the second set of repairs were reasonable and in line with relevant
regulations. Its noted that UKIs suppliers raised an issue that the ground conditions had
changed, which was the reason for the installed drainage not coping with the wastewater
discharge from the septic tank.
Within a year of the secondary repairs Mrs and Mr K were still experiencing issues with the
drainage  a switch was found to need attention, and this was corrected. Despite this they
instructed their own contractor to review the matter. In their report dated 23 August 2021,
around 12 months after UKIs second set of tests, this contractors percolation tests revealed
a drainage area requirement of around 18 times UKIs initial calculation and around 12 times
the secondary calculation. The difficulty though in deciding whether UKIs tests were
defective such that it would be unfair to rely on them, is that they all appear to have been
done in line with what building regulations state. So, Im not persuaded by this report from
Mrs and Mr Ks contractor that UKI erred at the time of taking the tests and so shouldnt have
relied on their initial findings and test results. Its equally evidence that ground conditions
were changing as stated by UKIs contractors, which isnt an insured event.
Ive thought carefully about the issue of whats a lasting and effective repair. The starting
point is that I think this is fair and reasonable expectation as opposed to being a policy
requirement. The type of repair intended should therefore consider the prevailing conditions
and relevant regulations at the time if such exist.
Its clear that UKIs initial and secondary repairs havent lasted but Im not persuaded thats
because of any failures on UKIs part. Its contractors used relevant tests in assessing the
ground conditions and carried out repairs on that basis. Ive seen nothing from the parties
that persuades me those tests were wrong or didnt take place. While Mrs and Mr K question
whether the firsts tests happened, their position is that the second tests did. So, even if that
were the case, the secondary repairs were in line with those results.
Its not known why the ground conditions changed and theres nothing that suggests it was
reasonably foreseeable that changes would occur, such that UKIs contractors could take
those matters into account. Im satisfied that UKIs contractors, on balance, assessed the
repair methodology in line with the relevant regulations and performed repairs that would
meet the apparent needs for the size of the drainage field. Ive seen nothing to persuade me
that UKI should reasonably have concluded anything different. Overall, Im satisfied on the
information available to me that UKI effected repairs that, in the circumstances at the time,
would have been lasting and effective given the percolation test results. It seems the change
in ground conditions, unrelated to the repair work or anything that could be considered, is in
effect something so unexpected that UKI shouldnt be required to put right given the absence
of an insured event.
Im aware that Mrs and Mr K believe UKI needed to get building regulationpermission/consent but did not. UKIs position is that no such permission is generally
required when replacing a drainage field. Ive seen an email from an Interim Building Control
Manager at the local Council to Mrs and Mr K. In this its said [i]f are drainage field is being
replaced it definitely requires Building Regulation permission. If one leg is being replaced it
can arguably be put down as a repair [sic].
It seems to me therefore that the crux on this point is whether the work UKI carried out is
considered by Building Control to be repair or replacement. Whats apparent is that the
circumstances at Mrs and Mr Ks property arent clear and so I cant be persuaded either
way from what weve been sent as to whether the works carried out at their property require
consent or not. And it follows that the ultimate arbiter of this would be the Councils building
control inspector. I cant direct the Council to do anything.
The insurance policy says that UKI will pay additional costs of rebuilding or repairing the
damaged part of the buildings (which includes septic tanks and pipes) only if this is
necessary to comply with any government or local authority regulations and requirements
after damage covered under Section 1. So, if Building Control determine that the works UKI
carried out required permission/consent then UKI will need to arrange this and cover the 
costs in doing so. And if Building Control deem the works non-compliant with building
regulations relevant at the time of the works in 2019 and 2020 then again, UKI will need to
cover the costs of making that work compliant.
Finally, there were times where UKI accepted communication and updates were poor and
Mrs and Mr K having to chase for information and updates. Im satisfied the £200 offered is a
fair amount to reflect the inconvenience and uncertainty this bred. I appreciate the entirety of
the circumstances have impacted Mrs and Mr K considerably but as Im not persuaded that
UKI has done anything wrong outside of its communication Im not making any further
compensatory award.
Ive considered the 2014 Regulations but without any further information from Mr and Mrs K
Im not persuaded these should mean a different outcome to that in my provisional decision.
Theres no information that persuades me UKIs contractors have breached any of the rules.
There is a dispute as to consent and the work carried out.
Ive carefully considered Mrs and Mr Ks reply and note that it includes a short email to Mrs K
from the local authoritys building control inspector. I must think about the impact it has on
the main issue which is that of the repairs UKI carried out under the insurance policy.
Repairs were initially carried out in 2019 and then again in 2020. There is no specific
reference to these repairs and whether UKIs contractors complied (or not) with relevant
regulations at those times. Its implicit within the email that 24-hour percolation may not have
been done. But from all the evidence Ive seen Im not persuaded that it has been shown, on
balance, that recommended percolation tests werent carried out. Its Mrs and Mr Ks word
against the contractors and theres documentary evidence showing the percolation test
results. Theres no evidence presented that persuades me UKIs contractors erred in
carrying out these tests.
I note the building control inspector refers to London Clay in the area but theres nothing
specific as to whether that means within the curtilage of Mrs and Mr Ks property, and more
specifically where the drainage was located. UKI takes issue with this too and has
commented from its contractor that photos of the ground during repairs show the soil is light
and sandy. Im not a soil expert but it does appear from the photos at the time of the works
that the visible soil is light and sandy as opposed to clay. So, Im not persuaded by the
inspectors reference to clay that it is the make-up of the ground of the drainage field.In my provisional decision I had said if Building Control determine that the works UKI
carried out required permission/consent then UKI will need to arrange this and cover the
costs in doing so. And if Building Control deem the works non-compliant with building
regulations relevant at the time of the works in 2019 and 2020 then again, UKI will need to
cover the costs of making that work compliant.
Having considered everything again, along with the replies to my provisional decision, Im
not persuaded that UKIs repairs were unreasonable in all the circumstances presented in
2019 and 2020. Im satisfied on the balance of probabilities that:
It hasnt been shown Consent was required for the specific 2019 or 2020 repairs.
The percolation tests were done as recommended by building regulations.
The visible soil wasnt clay.
The ground conditions evidently changed which wasnt an insured event.
UKI carried out additional repairs by extending the pipework when it wasnt strictly
compelled to do by the policy or because initial repairs were poorly executed.
For the avoidance of doubt, I dont require UKI to do anything else.
Replies to provisional decision
UKI has said it has nothing further to add. Mrs and Mr Ks representative has provided 
further commentary including emails from building control and Mrs and Mr K. I can 
summarise the replies as follows:
The representative would like the evidence on which UKIs contractors rely on in 
stating they complied with regulations  there is no such thing as a quick timing test.
Mrs and Mr K feel their recollection has been dismissed, particularly as they dont 
recall any specialists attending and carrying out percolation tests. They too say they 
havent seen evidence of percolation tests.
Mrs K takes issue with the second set of percolation tests allegedly carried out given 
they were quick timing tests.
And she makes other comments about the make-up of the soil in her reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its worth pointing out that our remit is to determine complaints quickly and with minimal 
formality. Were not a court and so dont have the same processes that a case brought to 
court would go through. A clear difference is that we dont have advocacy centred hearings 
where parties are represented and subject to sworn evidence and cross examination. I 
consider all the information weve been sent by the parties and make a determination based 
on what I consider is more likely than not. In this case, the parties have had ample 
opportunity to present their evidence.
It remains the case that the main issue for determination is whether UKI carried out a 
satisfactory repair under the terms of the insurance contract. 
Percolation tests
Although Mrs and Mr K and their representative say they havent seen evidence of the 
percolation tests, these were provided in August 2022 and indeed comments have been 
made about these. So, Im satisfied Mrs and Mr K have had access to the evidence Ive relied on.
I remain satisfied that its more likely than not the initial percolation test was done in line with 
building regulations. UKIs contractors assessed the ground conditions and carried out works 
in line with the findings of that test. Im not persuaded by the evidence provided that this 
initial test was incorrect.
The second test, which is referred to as a quick timing test, was done having been advised 
there was an issue with the septic tank. This was what indicated a change in ground 
conditions when compared with the percolation test initially carried out to perform repairs. 
This wasnt in contemplation of an intervening insured event, but nonetheless further works 
were done as a gesture rather than because of fundamental failings in the initial assessment 
or works. 
Given Im satisfied the initial repairs were carried out in line with relevant regulations, and 
there wasnt a subsequent insured event, it would, in my determination, be unfair to require 
UKI to do more as this isnt something that it is responsible for due to poor assessment and 
work. 
Mrs and Mr Ks evidence
I havent dismissed their evidence out of hand, rather considered their evidence and UKIs 
carefully. My role is to make a determination on the balance of probabilities, in other words 
what is more likely than not. While they say they hadnt seen evidence of percolation tests, 
we have provided that, and so while I dont dismiss their recollections its apparent that 
theres a conflict here. Im satisfied its more likely than not from the documentation made 
available that the percolation tests occurred. Im not more persuaded by Mrs and Mr Ks 
recollection as I prefer the documented evidence.
Equally, Ive seen photographs that Mr and Mrs K have provided and for which they 
challenge the soil make-up. As I stated in the provisional decision, Im not a soil expert and 
remain persuaded that the appearance from the photos at the time of the works the visible 
soil is not clay. The parties have given their view and Ive considered this again but find its 
more likely than not that the ground visible isnt clay. 
Other matters
Ive carefully noted the most recent email to Mrs and Mr K from an Interim Building Control 
Manager. Included in the email its said from the responses that its clear from a building 
control point of view the work would require building regulation approval and the problem 
being a failure due to soil conditions. 
Mrs and Mr K have corresponded with building control several times and indeed had a visit 
to their premises. Ive not seen anything that looks like an assessment of the works actually 
carried out and whether or not those specific works were compliant with building regulations. 
The very short emails Ive been sent are not definitive and Ive alluded in earlier decisions to 
that. It is apparent from the government website that The person doing the work could be 
prosecuted and fined if they do not comply with building regulations. Its also apparent that 
the local authority has a general duty to enforce the building regulations in its area. The 
absence of specificity from building control that the works carried out are non-compliant with 
building regulations persuades me that its more likely than not they are compliant. Plenty 
opportunity has been afforded for a contrary view and given the local authoritys general duty 
I would have expected it to have raised any issues with the works carried out if there were 
compliance issues, whether or not that led to informal or formal enforcement. 
  My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman