DRN-3630525
The complaint
Mr B complains Gain Credit LLC (trading as Drafty) gave him a line of credit he couldnt 
afford to repay because at the time Mr B was spending significant amounts of money 
gambling.  
What happened
Mr B approached Drafty for a running credit facility in September 2018. Mr B was initially 
given a facility with a £500 credit limit. The limit was increased on two occasions with the 
most recent increase taking Mr Bs credit limit to £1,080 in December 2018. Based on the 
most recent information from Drafty, an outstanding balance remains due.
Mr B was given a running credit account where he could either request funds up to his 
agreed credit limit in one go or could take multiple drawdowns up to his limit. He was also 
able to borrow further, up to his credit limit, as and when he repaid what he owed. To be 
clear, Mr B was not given a payday loan. 
In Draftys final response letter (sent in November 2021) it explained the information it 
gathered from Mr B before it approved the facility which Drafty says showed Mr B would be 
able to afford and then service the facility. 
However, it did agree, that the facility may have been unsustainable for him from 
14 August 2019 and so it offered to refund any interest and charges on new drawdowns from 
this date. After the refund and offsetting against the outstanding balance it left a balance to 
pay at the time of £522.17. 
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Bs complaint. She thought the checks Drafty carried
out before initially granting his facility were proportionate and showed it Mr B was likely to be 
able to afford the payment amount as outlined by the hypothetical payment schedule in 
Mr Bs credit agreement. This was calculated on the full £500 being drawn down at the 
outset and then being repaid over 12 months. So, she didnt think it was wrong for Drafty to 
have initially approved the facility.
However, the adjudicator, pointed out that, in addition to taking reasonable steps to ensure 
the facility was affordable, it also had an obligation to monitor Mr Bs ongoing use of the 
facility. 
Having reviewed the way Mr B borrowed and repaid the facility, she thought, like Drafty that 
by 14 August 2019 it ought to have realised that the facility had become unsustainable for 
him. Knowing this, in the adjudicators view, Drafty shouldve stepped in and froze all the 
interest on the facility. 
In order to put things right, the adjudicator recommended all interest, fees and charged paid 
by Mr B from 14 August 2019 should be refunded, along with additional interest of 8% 
simple. She also said any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file from the uphold 
date should be removed from his credit file. 
Drafty didnt fully agree with the adjudicators assessment. It agreed to uphold the complaint 
from the same point it had already agreed to (14 August 2019) but it agreed to only refund 
the interest fees and charges applied to any new drawdowns from that date. It also agreed to 
remove any adverse information from Mr Bs credit file. 
However, Drafty didnt agree to refund all the interest fees and charges applied from 
14 August 2019. It said this was because: 
Also, your decision implies that any draws granted after 14th August 2019, were
inappropriate, so we should refund interest paid towards them. However, it also
implicated that draws requested prior to 14th August 2019, were reasonable for us to
have granted, so we arent liable to refund any interest paid towards them despite 
that we collected it after 14th August 2019.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the relevant times.
A lender had to take proportionate steps to ensure a consumer wouldve been able to repay 
what they were borrowing in a sustainable manner without it adversely impacting on their 
financial situation. Put simply the lender had to gather enough information so that it could 
make an informed decision on the lending.
Although the guidance didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender 
could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key thing was that it required a lenders 
checks to be proportionate. Any checks had to take into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent and when what was being borrowed was due to be 
repaid. 
As explained, Mr B was given an open-ended credit facility. So, overall, I think that this 
means the checks Drafty carried out had to provide enough for it to be able to understand 
whether Mr B would be able to both service and then repay his facility within a reasonable 
period of time. Drafty also needed to monitor Mr Bs repayment record for any sign that he 
may have been experiencing financial difficulties.
It is worth saying here that Drafty agrees with the uphold point the adjudicator reached, as it 
offered some redress from this time  14 August 2019. And Mr B also didnt disagree that 
this is the point where the complaint ought to be upheld from. 
So, it seems to me, that all parties to the complaint agree the facility should be upheld from 
14 August 2019. However, what is in dispute, and therefore what this decision has focused 
on, is whether the redress proposed by Drafty is fair and reasonable considering the 
circumstances of Mr Bs complaint. 
Both the adjudicator and Drafty have agreed, that Mr Bs borrowing history showed he was 
potentially reliant on the facility and so it had become unsustainable for him. So, there 
doesnt appear to be any dispute as to when the facility likely became unsustainable for 
Mr B.Therefore, Ive set out below what I think Drafty needs to do in order to put things right for 
Mr B while explaining why I agree with the adjudicators conclusions that all the interest 
charged after the 14 August 2019 needs to be refunded. 
So, I dont think that I need to speculate here about the actions Drafty may or may not have 
taken in August 2019. There were a number of options which Drafty could have taken to 
assist Mr B. But seeing as none of these were taken and Im satisfied that action ought to 
have been taken  as it agrees. Ive considered what Drafty ought fairly and reasonably to 
do to put things right sometime after the event. And the proposed redress is the clearest and 
fairest way of doing this sometime after the event. But I have provided some commentary, 
about how Mr B used the facility. 
Indeed, as the adjudicator pointed out, Mr B typically made his minimum payment each 
month (of around £70 - £80) and then he would return within the same month but sometimes 
within a matter of days to drawdown any or all of his available credit which was usually 
around £21. This pattern was visible from the start of the facility but most apparent from 
February 2019 to the point that Drafty has now agreed the facility was unsustainable for him. 
The usage, in this case is sufficient to show Drafty that it needed to step in and take some 
action. However, as I said above, I dont know what further help and support may have 
looked like, but I mention this here to reinforce why I think all the interest and charges should 
be refunded. So, had Drafty taken some further steps to establish what help was 
proportionate and perhaps verified some of the information it had it wouldve likely seen that 
Mr B was having financial difficulties. 
Mr B has provided a copy of his bank statement from the time both parties agreed the 
complaint should be upheld - (August 2019). Had Drafty made some enquires with Mr B  
which wouldnt have been unreasonable, it wouldve discovered that Mr B was already 
servicing and repaying a total of four payday loan accounts  on top of this Drafty facility. He 
also, in the days before the uphold date borrowed a further £350 from such lenders  to me, 
the number of payday loan accounts visible on his bank statements is an indication that Mr B 
was likely struggling to maintain his finances. 
So, whether Drafty reviewed how Mr B used the facility or had taken some, unknown further 
steps in August 2019 it decided the facility was unstainable. However, I dont think its fair 
and reasonable for a lender to allow a customer to continue using a facility that has become 
demonstrably unsustainable  instead I think its fair and reasonable to expect a lender to 
help the customer repay what theyve already drawn down and what they already owe.  
I dont think Drafty continuing to allow interest to be charged on Mr Bs balance, in 
circumstances where this increased the chances of him being unable to repay, what he 
already owed and what his repayment record suggested he was already struggling to repay. 
So, it is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint that all interest is 
refunded. 
So, although, I do accept that the balance up to the uphold point was legitimately provided 
and appeared affordable for Mr B at the time it was lent, once the point had been reached 
where Drafty accepted the facility was unsustainable, it ought to have exercised forbearance 
in order to allow Mr B to repay what he owed. In these circumstances, it isnt, in my view, fair 
and reasonable for Drafty to have continued charging interest on this balance from 
14 August 2019 onwards. 
Therefore, given what Drafty said in response to the adjudicators assessment, that the 
facility was unsustainable by 14 August 2019, it therefore follows that it isnt just the new 
drawdowns that Mr B couldnt afford. He also couldnt afford to repay what he already owed  so actions in failing to offer help to repay this as well as offering further drawdowns needs 
to be reflected in what it does to put things right going forward. 
Thinking about this, and the fact the reasons why Drafty has already agreed to uphold the 
complaint at the point the adjudicator recommended, Ive outlined below what Drafty needs 
to do in order to put things right for Mr B.
 
Putting things right
If Drafty has sold the outstanding balance it should buy it back if Drafty is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If Drafty isnt able to buy the balance back then it should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
In order to put things right Drafty should do the following: 
Remove any unpaid interest, fees and charges added to the balance from 
14 August 2019. 
Treat all payments Mr B has made towards his facility since 14 August 2019 as
though they had been repayments of outstanding principal. If at any point Mr B would 
have been in credit on the credit facility after considering the above, Drafty will need 
to refund any overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on these payments, 
from the date they would have arisen, to the
date the complaint is settled.
If there is an outstanding principal balance, then Drafty can use any refunds 
calculated as part of the above to repay this. If a balance remains after this, then 
Drafty should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr B.
remove any negative information about the facility from Mr Bs credit file from 
14 August 2019  as Drafty has agreed to do.  
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to take off tax from this interest. Drafty must give
Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I partly uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Gain Credit LLC trading as Drafty should put things right for Mr B as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman