DRN-4195551
The complaint
Mr C complains that Carfinance247 Limited (Carfinance247) didnt do enough when they 
upheld his complaint and would like them to remove credit searches recorded against his 
name.
What happened
Mr C used Carfinance247, a credit intermediary and broker, in December 2022, to help 
obtain finance to acquire a used car. Mr C later signed a hire purchase agreement with a 
third-party finance provider with the intention to acquire a used car and the credit 
intermediary was Carfinance247.
Mr C said he made two separate complaints to Carfinance247 about the service he received 
during this application process. In Mr Cs first complaint, he complained about calls that were 
abruptly terminated and that Carfinance247 addressed him by his first name, rather than his 
surname as requested. Carfinance247 acknowledged they incorrectly addressed Mr C by his 
first name. They also explained that on two of the three calls that terminated, they contacted 
Mr C straight back. But on one occasion they hadnt. So, Carfinance247 upheld his 
complaint and apologised for any frustration caused.
In Mr Cs second complaint to Carfinance247, he complained about the number of calls he 
received from them and for receiving calls during the weekend when he had requested not to 
at this time. Carfinance247 again upheld Mr Cs complaint, and among other things, 
acknowledged they shouldnt have called Mr C over the weekend.
Carfinance247 also said that Mr C asked for compensation, equivalent to 50% of the 
commission payable to them from the finance provider, in order to proceed with the 
application he put through. Although Carfinance247 upheld Mr Cs complaint, they didnt 
think compensation or redress was appropriate. And so, they said on the basis of Mr Cs 
instruction that he will not proceed unless 50% of the commission was paid to him, they 
closed his application accordingly.
Mr C, unhappy with Carfinance247s response, referred his complaint to our service. Mr C 
said he wanted Carfinance247 to refund his losses of £500 and refund his deposit of £100. 
Mr C also said Carfinance247 unnecessarily completed credit searches on him and lied to 
him when they explained why the application had been cancelled.
Our investigator found that Carfinance247 didnt need to do anything further. In summary, he 
said that he thought Carfinance247 did enough by apologising for their errors. He also didnt 
think Carfinance247 did anything wrong by cancelling his application if he had requested it to 
be cancelled if he didnt receive compensation. 
Our investigator also said, among other things, that he didnt think it was fair for 
Carfinance247 to give Mr C his £500 back. He said this was because Mr C was unhappy 
with their service before his application for finance was successful and that he could have 
looked elsewhere for finance but decided to continue with them. And that Mr C only then told 
Carfinance247 that he didnt want to proceed with the finance due to not receiving 
compensation.
Our investigator also said it wasnt clear from the evidence he had that Mr C had made a 
£100 deposit payment to Carfinance247. He went on to say Mr C may have had to pay an 
application fee to them, and after telling them that he didnt want to proceed with the finance, 
he felt it was fair for Carfinance247 to retain it, if a deposit had been paid. Our investigator 
asked Mr C for evidence that he had sent Carfinance247 £100 and for documentation that 
details what the deposit was for. Our investigator explained that if Mr C provided this 
information, then our service could consider it further.
Mr C disagreed with the investigators view. Mr C didnt send any further details outlining 
what the deposit he said he sent Carfinance247 was for or any documentation to show a 
deposit was given to Carfinance247 and retained by them.
As Mr C disagreed, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why below.
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied 
I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I 
think is a fair outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature 
of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Carfinance247 upheld both of Mr Cs complaints and apologised for their mistakes. Mr C 
believes compensation should have been given to him. For me to reach what I think would 
be a fair and reasonable finding, I need to consider whether the apologies from 
Carfinance247 to Mr C was enough in these instances.
For me to direct Carfinance247 to award compensation, I would need to find that the impact 
of their errors to Mr C was more than just minimal. But, considering the issues complained 
about were relatively small errors, resolved within a short delay, I dont think the errors 
Carfinance247 to have made warrants monetary compensation to be awarded. Overall, I 
think on these occasions an apology was enough.
Mr C hasnt provided any further information explaining his losses of £500 and his deposit 
of £100 which he said he made. From the information available to me, I havent seen any 
documentation which has shown Mr C to have made these payments or to have had these 
losses. Following our investigators view, where he invited Mr C to provide more information 
about it to consider, no more information has been given. And so, I make no findings on this 
matter. 
Mr C has provided our service with a screenshot which shows three hard credit searches 
were completed on him in December 2022. Mr C believes Carfinance247 incorrectly 
proceeded with completing hard credit searches on him without his permission to do so. 
Carfinance247 has explained to our service most lenders will only complete a soft search on 
application and will only conduct a hard search once the agreement has been signed. 
However Carfinance247 went on to say they have some lenders that will conduct a hard 
search on application and those are usually prime lenders. Carfinance247 say that Mr C 
would have agreed to this happening in their privacy policy and terms and conditions.A company doesnt always need consent from an individual to complete a credit search on 
them, but they must have a legitimate reason to do so, for example when an individual has 
applied for credit. In this instance, Mr C applied for credit through the intermediary, 
Carfinance247. Mr C also signed an agreement with a third-party that was subsequently sent 
to him. And so, I dont think it was unreasonable for credit searches to be completed on Mr C 
and I think it is reasonable for multiple searches to be completed on an individual if they 
applied for credit through an online broker.
I noted Carfinance247 sent Mr C an email suggesting his application he had made was 
closed as it didnt meet their lenders requirements. I can see Mr C responded saying this 
was a lie as finance was initially approved but then later rejected by him as they had failed to 
compensate him for what he believed to be failings. I accept Mr C was given a wrong reason 
as to why his finance was declined in this email. However, this email sent to Mr C was dated 
21 December 2022  the same date Carfinance247s final response to Mr C explained the 
actual reason the application was declined. So, considering everything here, I think it was 
more likely than not the email sent to Mr C was an error and likely a generic email generated 
when an application is cancelled or declined. Considering Mr C was told the correct reason 
in his final response on the same day, I dont think this error would have impacted Mr C 
considerably. And so it follows, I dont think Carfinance247 need to do anything further in this 
instance.
There are aspects to Mr Cs complaint which I am not able to comment on. How 
Carfinance247 conduct their complaint handling process isnt something I can review as we 
are not a regulatory body.
In summary, I dont think Carfinance247 need to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman