DRN-3663495
The complaint
Mr Ws complaint is that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Yorkshire Bank (and referred to 
here as YB) declined his request to port (transfer) his mortgage interest rate product onto a 
new mortgage on a different property. To settle the complaint, Mr W wants YB to reinstate 
the mortgage on his new property and pay him compensation for his financial losses.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 19 May 2022. All parties have a copy of that letter, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. I also note that YB has agreed it made a mistake, and so all I need 
to decide is what needs to be done to put things right. In addition, our decisions are 
published, so its important I dont include any information that might lead to Mr W being 
identified. So for these reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Mr W had a mortgage with YB for just under £300,000 that was on an interest rate product 
taken out in April 2020 when Mr W fixed the interest rate for just over two years, until 
30 June 2022. The term of the mortgage at that point was 20 years and 2 months. The loan 
to value ratio (LTV) was 21%. If the mortgage was repaid during the fixed rate period, an 
early repayment charge (ERC) would apply. The mortgage conditions said the interest rate 
product was portable, subject to meeting YBs lending criteria. 
In 2021 Mr W decided to move house. He sold his property for £1.3 million and decided to 
buy another property for £492,500. He applied to port the mortgage in full onto the new 
property, increasing the LTV to around 59%. After considering the application, YB declined it 
on the basis that Mr W wasnt able to demonstrate that he had sufficient income to service 
the mortgage.
Mr W thought this was unfair, explaining that hed paid himself about £145,000 the previous 
year, drawing £130,000 from his pension fund and £15,000 from his company. Mr W also 
said he had planning permission to build two houses valued at £400,000 on a piece of land 
he owned, and more than £40,000 in his bank account. Nevertheless, YB would not agree to 
the port. Mr W sold his property, redeemed the mortgage and paid the ERC. He bought his 
new property free of mortgage.
A complaint was raised with YB, which didnt uphold it, so Mr W referred the complaint to our 
service. An investigator looked at what had happened and thought the complaint should be 
upheld. He was satisfied that, under the regulations that apply to porting, YB should have 
allowed a like-for-like port of the interest rate product, at the same LTV of 21%.
The investigator asked YB to reinstate Mr Ws mortgage as if hed ported it with the same 
LTV of 21%, reimburse that proportion of the ERC he would have been due, and reimburse 
Mr W for the difference in the amount repaid when he redeemed against the amount he 
would have repaid if hed ported, less the monthly repayments hed have had to make. The 
investigator also asked YB to pay compensation of £250.
YB agreed to this but Mr W did not. He wanted the full £300,000 reinstated on his new 
property. Mr W also said that the LTV should be taken against the value of the property as it 
is now, not as it was when he purchased it. This would make the LTV 47.5%.
Mr W was also disappointed that the compensation of £250 didnt include any penalty 
against YB. In addition, Mr W has explained to us that hed always had a dream of being 
able to buy a holiday cottage, and hes thought about how very different his life would have 
been if YB had ported the mortgage. If the port had been allowed, he would have had the 
funds available to be able to buy a holiday cottage. If the mortgage is not reinstated in full, 
Mr W wonders how he can ever realise this dream.
Because Mr W didnt accept the investigators findings, it falls to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service isnt a regulator, and so I have no power to impose a 
penalty on YB, even if I thought it was appropriate to do so. In this case, YB made a mistake, 
which it has offered to put right, which is what we would expect it to do.
As I said at the outset, YB has agreed to reinstate the mortgage at 21% LTV, but Mr W 
doesnt think this is reasonable. He wants the full amount of £300,000 to be put onto a new 
mortgage on the property. However, Im not persuaded this is a fair outcome. 
Under the regulations, YB should have allowed a like-for-like port of the mortgage onto the 
new property, so a 21% LTV. I think this is fair, and that it should calculated at the point 
where the port would have happened in May 2021, so on the property purchase price of 
£492,500, not any increased valuation since then.
Ive noted what Mr W has said about how things could have been very different for him if 
hed been allowed to port the full £300,000, particularly in relation to being able to buy a 
holiday cottage. However, after selling his property for £1.3 million and buying for £492,500, 
even taking account of the costs of sale, Mr W would still have had at least £700,000 from 
the proceeds of sale. 
Given this, Im not persuaded that a holiday cottage was unaffordable for him in May 2021. 
So although I acknowledge Mr Ws disappointment about this, I dont think that responsibility 
for him not buying a cottage can be attributed to YB.
I appreciate YBs actions caused Mr W distress and inconvenience, but I think the redress 
recommended by the investigator is fair, reasonable and proportionate.
Putting things right
If Mr W wants the mortgage reinstated, I think YB should do this at a LTV of 21% on 
£492,500 (so £103,425) over the remainder of the term. As at October 2022 this is 17 years 
8 months. The mortgage interest rate product had a further 13 repayments from the date the 
mortgage was redeemed in May 2021. As the interest rate product expired on 30 June 2022, if Mr W accepts this decision, I think 
YB should look at what interest rate products would have been available from 1 July 2022 
and re-work the mortgage from 1 July 2022 on the lowest two-year fixed rate product 
available from that date, if Mr W confirms his agreement to this. I think it is likely Mr W would 
probably have fixed his interest rate again at that point, and so it is only fair that he is put in 
the position hed have been in if the port had gone ahead in May 2021.
YB should also do the following:
reimburse Mr W the ERC he paid on redeeming the mortgage on the date of 
redemption, 
deduct from this the proportionate amount of the ERC he would have paid if hed 
ported at 21% LTV the amount he would have paid in monthly mortgage payments if 
the mortgage had been ported, from May 2021 to date;
take into account when calculating any refund the fixed rate product that expired on 
30 June 2022 and any other fixed-rate product applied to the remaining balance, as 
detailed above, subject to Mr Ws agreement to any new product.
If there is any remaining balance due to Mr W, YB should pay interest on this at 8% simple 
per annum from the date of redemption of the mortgage to the date of reimbursement. If YB 
considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from any 
interest, it should tell Mr W how much it has taken off. YB should also give Mr W a tax 
deduction certificate if requested, so the tax can be reclaimed from HM Revenue & Customs 
if appropriate.
Ive noted Mr Ws claim for solicitors fees incurred in redeeming the mortgage and a 
mortgage exit administration fee. However, when a mortgage interest rate product is ported, 
the existing mortgage must be redeemed, and so these fees would have been payable in 
any event. Therefore Im not ordering YB to reimburse these costs. 
Finally, I direct YB to pay Mr W £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement I direct Clydesdale 
Bank Plc trading as Yorkshire Bank to settle the complaint as set out above. I make no other 
order or award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman