DRN-4313924
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) are holding 
him liable for a loan which he says was taken out fraudulently in his name.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with the case, so Ill summarise what happened in brief.
In 2017, a £4,000 personal loan was taken out from Oakbrook in Mr Ls name, alongside a 
smaller loan from another company. The funds were paid into an old bank account of Mr Ls 
and forwarded on to a third party by bank transfer.
Mr L reported the loan as fraudulent. Oakbrook noted that it had been paid into a bank 
account of Mr Ls, and asked him for more information such as statements. Mr L did not 
provide this for several years. Oakbrook held Mr L liable for the loan.
Mr L came to our service. In our investigation, he explained that he kept the bank card in a 
wallet or in his room in a shared property, along with a record of his PIN and online banking 
details. His landlord, landlords staff, and other tenants couldve accessed his room. He also 
hosted people hed met through a cryptocurrency investment scheme which later turned out 
to be a scam. He had received suspicious emails and texts, and thought he might have been 
the victim of phishing. He explained that his room was a mess and he didnt really use that 
bank account anymore. So he didnt notice that his card and details were missing until he 
found a letter about the loan.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr L appealed, so the complaints been passed 
to me to decide.
I sent Mr L and Oakbrook a provisional decision on 25 July 2023, to explain why I thought 
the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
First, I will clarify that I have taken into account everything which both sides have said and 
provided. But Ive focused my decision on what Ive found to be the key points.
I need to consider whether Oakbrook is entitled to hold Mr L liable for this loan. Broadly 
speaking, the onus is on Oakbrook to show that it is.
This case is quite finely balanced. On the one hand, I accept that some of Mr Ls genuine 
details were used to apply, that he was not initially co-operative, and that he had trouble 
explaining what might have happened here. And he seems to accept that hes been 
disorganised. I am also conscious that evidence is more limited given the time thats passed.
On the other hand, I have substantial concerns that this loan application was not genuine. 
For example:
The application used an email address and phone number which do not match up to 
Mr L. This is common practice in ID theft. 
The residential status, time at address, employment status, income, and loan 
purpose provided were all false.
The only correct information provided was basic details like Mr Ls name and 
address, which would have been relatively straightforward for an ID thief to obtain.
The IP address used at application does not match up to any genuine online banking 
activity of Mr Ls, and is based in another country.
Oakbrook has not provided evidence of any comprehensive ID checks which 
positively confirm that it was Mr L who applied for this loan.
Mr Ls bank confirmed that both before the loan was taken and when it was being 
sent on, new users accessed his online banking, and his security details were reset. 
No biometrics were used.
The bank also confirmed that around this time, Mr Ls online banking was accessed 
using a device linked to a confirmed fraudster.
I can see that that bank account was effectively dormant by the time of the alleged 
fraud, as Mr L said. Mr L has provided statements showing he did his banking 
through another account.
There are potential points of compromise for Mr Ls old bank account, and it is 
plausible that an account takeover happened here.
The way Mr Ls bank account was used fits with what Id expect in an account 
takeover situation.
Oakbrook argues Mr L would have received text messages from his bank alerting 
him about things like new payees. But the bank had no records of any such alerts.
It does not look like Mr L benefitted from this loan. The money was rapidly transferred 
away to a third party, as is consistent with an ID theft case.
The other loan provider closed Mr Ls loan and stopped pursuing him. Weve been 
unable to get further information about why they did this as theyve since gone out of 
business. But it tends to indicate they didnt have sufficient basis to hold Mr L liable.
Taking into account everything thats been said and provided so far, I think Oakbrook doesnt 
have the balance of evidence needed to hold Mr L liable for this loan, and Im not currently 
satisfied that he took it out. Given the evidence set out above, I have concerns that this loan 
may have been the result of ID theft. It follows that I currently think Oakbrook should no 
longer hold him liable.
Mr L asked for compensation, and Ive thought carefully about this too. But the fraudsters 
would be primarily responsible for the distress Mr L might have suffered here, rather than 
Oakbrook. Further, from what I can see, the delay in sorting things out was mostly caused by 
Mr L. And it doesnt seem unreasonable that Oakbrook initially held Mr L liable for the loan 
when he was not co-operating with their fraud investigation. So I do not currently intend to 
award compensation here.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it before 
22 August 2023.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Oakbrook didnt respond to the provisional decision before the deadline.
A firm representing the other loan provider got in touch to let us know they no longer had 
substantial information about Mr Ls former loan. So they could not provide the application or 
further information about what checks were performed or why that loan was closed. As such, 
I have placed no further weight on that other loan either way.
Mr L forwarded evidence that someone tried to take another loan in his name with a different 
bank, though I cant say for certain whether that was fraud or not. But more significantly, he 
sent us evidence that he was involved in a potential cryptocurrency scam in the months 
before the Oakbrook loan was taken out, where he provided copies of his photo ID and other 
key personal information to the crypto platform. This also supports how he might have 
become the victim of identity theft.
Mr L asked for a deadline extension as he wanted to make a subject access request to 
Oakbrook and give us a copy of the result. But Mr L has already had more than enough time 
to provide us with information. And we already have access to Oakbrooks files, so this 
would not be new information. So I found no good reason to extend the deadline here.
Lastly, Mr L said he mostly agreed with the provisional decision but reiterated that he wanted 
compensation for the years he said hed suffered. I understand Mr Ls point of view and I did 
think about this carefully. But as I said before, its the fraudsters who would be primarily 
responsible for the distress Mr L might have suffered here, rather than Oakbrook. And as far 
as I can see, the time its taken to sort things out has mostly been caused by Mr Ls own 
delays. Further, it doesnt seem unreasonable that Oakbrook initially held Mr L liable for the 
loan when it was paid into a genuine bank account of his, he hadnt given Oakbrook all the 
same evidence he gave us, and he was not co-operating with its fraud investigation. So I do 
not think it would be fair for me to tell Oakbrook to pay compensation in this case.
I do think Oakbrook should take the loan out of Mr Ls name, for the same reasons as set out 
in my provisional decision above. I hope this will help bring the matter to a close for Mr L.
Putting things right
I direct Oakbrook Finance Limited to:
Take the loan out of Mr Ls name and disassociate him from it;
Make sure that Mr L is no longer pursued for this account; and-
Remove any record of this account from Mr Ls credit file.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ls complaint, and direct Oakbrook Finance Limited to put things right in the way 
Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman