DRN-2046555
The complaint
Mr P would like to make a complaint about a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) 
policy that he says that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold to him in 1996.
What happened
Our adjudicator looked at Mr Ps complaint but didnt think that it should be upheld. 
Mr P disagreed with this, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ps complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint. I know this will be 
disappointing for him, so Ill explain the reasons why.
I should start by saying that Mr P has provided a lot of information to support his complaint  
and has clearly spent a lot of time and effort in gathering this information  and Ive carefully 
looked at all hes kindly been able to provide.
Mr Ps MPPI policy was sold in 1996  around 25 years ago. So understandably he doesnt 
remember much from the time of sale, and I wouldnt expect him to either. Bank of Scotland 
has only been able to provide some details about the policy that was in place but hasnt 
been able to provide any paperwork in relation to the sale that Mr P wouldve had to 
complete at the time. But this isnt unusual  and businesses arent required to keep records 
indefinitely.
Because of the lack of information available, Im unable to say that Bank of Scotland didnt 
give Mr P a choice in taking out his MPPI policy  so I cant uphold his complaint for this 
reason.
Bank of Scotland has said that it thinks it gave Mr P advice when it sold him his MPPI policy 
 which means that it needed to make sure it took extra steps to make sure that the policy it 
sold to him was suitable for his circumstances.
Mr P was clearly in good financial circumstances at the time he took out the policy  he had 
savings, a health care plan, and was regularly getting bonuses from work which hes 
confirmed he received over a number of years. So, Ive thought about whether Mr P had a 
need for the policy, and if Bank of Scotland was right to recommend it to him  and I think 
that it was.  
Although Mr P was in, what he felt, was secure employment, and received a regular annual 
bonus over a number of years after the policy was sold, Im not persuaded that this couldve 
been known at the time Mr P was sold the MPPI policy  and insurance, by its nature is 
designed to protect against the unknown. The MPPI could have paid out on top of, and for 
longer than the sick pay he was entitled to, and also have protected his savings for other 
expenses too.
Ive also paid careful attention to the health care plan that Mr P has provided paperwork for, 
and I can see that the policy had a deferment period of twelve months before it would pay 
out  and it didnt provide unemployment cover like the MPPI policy did. The MPPI policy 
had a deferment period of 30 days. So, although Mr P had this extra cover, I dont think that 
this made the MPPI policy unsuitable for him.
Its possible that Bank of Scotland didnt point out some of the main things that the MPPI 
policy didnt cover, but from what Mr P has said, he doesnt appear to have been affected by 
any of these exclusions. 
Ive taken in to account everything that Mr P has said, but the points hes raised dont 
change my conclusions, and I dont think think that the MPPI policy was mis-sold.
Other considerations
The Supreme Court decided a case that involved the commission on a PPI policy  Plevin v
Paragon Personal Finance. And the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  who make the
rules for financial businesses  introduced some new rules and guidance for businesses to
follow when theyre looking at PPI complaints. This means businesses will sometimes need
to give consumers back some of the commission paid on certain PPI policies.
But this only applies to credit agreements taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements
taken out before then which were still running on 6 April 2008. From the information Ive
seen these dates dont apply to Mr Ps mortgage account and so these rules and guidance 
dont apply.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman