DRN-3311269
The complaint
Mr R complains that he cant log into his Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money 
account.
What happened
Mr R says he cant log into his Virgin Money savings account as he cant receive a One Time 
Passcode (OTP). He says he doesnt own a mobile telephone and the OTP doesnt work 
with his landline due to the provider. Mr R says Virgin Money ought to be able to provide a 
solution and the situation has caused him inconvenience in using telephone banking. 
Virgin Money accepts there is an ongoing problem with sending OTPs via Mr Rs landline 
provider. It says it has offered a voucher to Mr R to buy a mobile phone and has offered 
other solutions such as opening a different type of account.
Mr R brought his complaint to us and says he has now closed his Virgin Money account. He 
says as an example in December 2021 it took 23 minutes to get an account balance. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. The investigator explained 
that we are not Virgin Moneys regulator and thought it had offered reasonable alternatives 
such as a voucher for a mobile telephone.
Mr R doesnt accept that view and in summary says he doesnt want a mobile telephone. He 
says Virgin Money is obliged to provide a viable means to authenticate its customers and 
says it has breached its regulatory duties. Mr R would like compensation for what has taken 
place.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate that Mr R will be disappointed by my decision and appreciate how strongly he 
feels about this complaint
The investigator has explained that we are not Virgin Moneys regulator, that is the role of 
the Financial Conduct Authority. So, its not our role to direct Virgin Money to comply with 
any regulatory requirements or tell it how it ought to operate.
I am sure Mr R appreciates that Virgin Money has a responsibility to protect its and its 
customers money from fraudulent activities and that is why OTPs have been introduced. 
There must be consideration given to those that do not have a mobile phone or are in a 
position where there is, for example, no mobile telephone coverage. Im satisfied that Virgin 
Money has acted fairly by offering Mr R a voucher to buy a mobile phone and is prepared to 
send the OTP to Mr Rs landline. I accept that there is a known problem with Mr Rs landline 
provider and Virgin Money being able to send the OTP to his landline. It is not clear what 
that issue is, which party is responsible for it, or how long it may take to sort out. In those 
circumstances I cant fairly direct Virgin Money find a solution to that problem when it may 
not be able to comply with that direction or responsible for the problem
Im also satisfied that Virgin Money has fairly offered to change Mr Rs account to an account 
for which a different type of security measure could be used. I appreciate Mr R says that 
may mean a lower interest rate, but I have not seen evidence from either side about that 
interest issue.
I can see that Mr R has in any event moved his account, which of course is his prerogative. 
Im satisfied that this was a savings account rather than a current account and that it likely 
any transactions requiring an OTP are likely to have been fairly limited. I also think other 
forms of banking were available to Mr R such as telephone banking.
Overall, Im satisfied that Virgin Money has tried to offer alternatives here. I dont know why 
Virgin Money cant send the OTP by e-mail but equally its not our role to direct it to do so or 
interfere in the commercial running of its business. As Im satisfied reasonable alternatives 
have been offered and considering the type of account, I dont consider that compensation is 
justified. I also find this brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this complaint informally 
can do. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman