DRN-3297932
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain about how HSBC UK Bank Plc dealt with the release of its charge on 
their previously mortgaged property.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P held a mortgage with HSBC which they repaid in 2011. Mr and Mrs P say that 
in late October 2020 when trying to apply for an equity release loan, they discovered that 
HSBC still had a charge registered against their property. Unable to complete on their new 
loan until this matter was resolved, they contacted HSBC to raise the issue and asked for the 
title deeds to be corrected. The title deeds werent updated until late December 2020. 
Unhappy that HSBC failed to release its charge when the mortgage was redeemed and how 
it sorted the issue out, Mr and Mrs P raised a complaint. HSBC admitted it got things wrong 
and offered £500 compensation for its error. This was later increased to £1,000. Unhappy 
with HSBCs response, Mr and Mrs P brought their complaint to our service. Theyre seeking 
compensation in excess of £16,000.
An investigator looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint. He thought HSBCs offer 
fairly compensated Mr and Mrs P for the distress and inconvenience caused. Mr and Mrs P 
didnt agree and asked for the case to be decided by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key facts about this complaint aren't in dispute. HSBC has admitted it got things
wrong. So, the only issue I have to decide is whether the things it has done to put things
right, including the amount of compensation it has offered, is fair and reasonable. Ive 
carefully considered everything Mr and Mrs P have said about how theyve been impacted 
as a result and how they should be fairly compensated in the circumstances. 
When making an award for compensation, I must decide whats fair and reasonable to both 
sides involved giving careful consideration to all the circumstances of this case. I also think 
its important to explain that, as a service, our awards are designed to compensate 
consumers - not punish organisations. 
Mr and Mrs P say they were releasing equity in their property to buy a house for their 
daughter who was in a vulnerable position with her young daughter. The move was to 
protect their safety. They say the delays caused their offer on a house to fall through.  
They spent a considerable amount of time trying to resolve matters with HSBC. During this 
time, they say housing market conditions changed in response to the governments stamp 
duty land tax scheme. They say supply was low and prices increased by on average £7,000. 
As a result, their options were restricted and they resulted to rental accommodation to house 
their family, leading to costs of around £9,000 being incurred. Mr and Mrs P say that due to 
the additional costs and increase in house prices, theyve needing to take further borrowing 
to fund their current purchase.
I dont doubt that this situation caused Mr and Mrs P significant distress and inconvenience. 
Its also evident a different set of sensitive circumstances apply here. Circumstances, that 
Im persuaded HSBC has taken into consideration when deciding a fair and reasonable 
compensation award. I say this because in normal circumstances I wouldnt expect HSBC to 
award such an amount for a mistake of this extent. 
However, I dont think its fair to hold HSBC responsible for everything that happened 
following its mistake. I say this because much of the consequences explained by Mr and Mrs 
P are too far attached from the mistake in question. I dont think the chain of events that 
occurred, and the financial loss suffered was a reasonably foreseeable result of the error. 
Im also unable to say for certain that it was solely due to HSBCs actions that Mr and Mrs 
Ps offer fell through. And theres not enough to say on balance that, but for HSBCs mistake, 
the purchase would complete. There are too many other factors that can impact a successful 
completion. 
When considering everything I think HSBCs settlement of £1,000 is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances and as it has already been paid, Im not asking HSBC to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman