DRN-2025584
The complaint
Mr B complains that Telefonica UK Limited say his credit account with it is in arrears, even 
though he has made regular payments.
What happened
Mr B bought a phone in March 2019 and took out a credit agreement with Telefonica to pay 
for it. As part of the agreement he set up a monthly direct debit to meet the required 
instalments.
 
The first instalment was due in April 2019 but the direct debit failed. Mr B called up a few 
days after this and made a manual card payment  this was accepted in place of the 
instalment.
In the following few months each direct debit failed again. Mr B phoned Telefonica around 
the same day each was due and made manual payments. However these payments were 
treated as ad-hoc payments to reduce the overall balance and not as monthly instalments.
Due to this Mr Bs account fell into arrears and was disconnected. Mr B complained to 
Telefonica, as he said he had been making payments each month. 
Telefonica didnt uphold his complaint. It said that at the time he made the manual 
payments, the direct debits hadnt yet failed, so those payments were taken as ad-hoc 
payments rather than instalments. Due to the fact the monthly direct debits subsequently 
failed, his account was in arrears. Mr B didnt think this was fair and brought his complaint to 
this service. 
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
She said that Mr B should have been aware that there was a problem with his account and 
could have taken action to resolve it earlier. So she didnt think Telefonica had acted unfairly.
Mr B didnt agree, he said he doesnt trust direct debits and prefers to make manual 
payments which is why he paid that way. He asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B says that his account shouldnt be in arrears as he has paid the required amount each 
month. I need to decide whether Telefonica has treated Mr B fairly when handling his credit 
account. It is important to note that Mr B took out a separate account to pay for his airtime. 
As part of this complaint, I am only considering payments towards the credit agreement that 
paid for the phone itself.
Mr B has provided copies of his bank statements from the period when the account fell into 
arrears. From these I can see that he did make regular payments towards the credit 
agreement. So I can understand why he have thought his account was up to date.
I have looked further into how these payments were made. Mr B has said that he doesnt 
trust direct debits so he cancelled the one towards his credit agreement straight away. He 
then intended to pay manually each month. He did this by calling Telefonica and paying over 
the phone. I dont think its unreasonable for Mr B to decide to make payments this way if 
that is his preference.
However Telefonica has said that the direct debit wasnt cancelled. So each month it still 
tried to take the money from Mr Bs account and failed. So when Mr B Called up to make a 
payment, the direct debit had been attempted but hadnt yet failed. So the payments were 
taken off the full amount owed and the direct debits were adjusted accordingly each time. 
But these payments werent clearing the areas. 
I have considered whether Telefonica has treated Mr B fairly by handling his payments in 
this way. I agree that it wouldnt have been obvious to Mr B that his manual payments 
wouldnt clear the instalments. So I would expect Telefonica to make this clear to him.
Telefonica no longer have the recordings of the calls Mr B made to it. However it has 
provided contact notes made by the call handlers on each occasion. From these notes I can 
see that each time Mr B called up, it was explained to him that the payments he was making 
werent going towards the arrears. On one occasion he was told that the direct debit hadnt 
been cancelled and this is the reason he was experiencing this problem. And on another 
occasion he was asked to pay the arrears instead of an ad-hoc payment and he refused. 
From these notes I think Telefonica has done enough to make Mr B aware that his account 
was in arrears. And that the payments he was making werent going towards paying this off. 
Telefonica cant control how Mr B decides to make payments, so all it can be expected to do 
is to give him enough information to make that decision himself. From the information Ive 
seen, I think it has done this. So I dont think it has treated Mr B unfairly in how it handled his 
payments. 
I sympathise with Mr Bs position and understand his intention was to ensure his credit 
account was up to date. However Telefonica has shown that it warned him that his direct 
debit hadnt been cancelled and that if he continued to pay in this way his arrears would 
build up. So I cant see that it would have been able to do anything more. 
For these reasons I dont think Telefonica has treated Mr B unfairly, so I wont require it to do 
anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I wont require Telefonica UK Limited to do anything differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman