DRN-4138918
The complaint
Miss R complains about how Healthcare Finance Limited (HFL) handled a claim she made 
about a treatment she financed with it.
What happened
Miss R financed dental alignment treatment from a provider (the supplier) using a fixed sum 
loan from HFL.
In summary, Miss R says:
the aligners did not fit properly and were defective (causing damage to her teeth) and 
the supplier provided her with a replacement when she wanted a refund; 
she got her money back via a chargeback process but HFL is still chasing her for 
payment  she wants it to stop doing so and award her compensation for 
harassment.
HFL says that Miss R was given a second set of aligners by the supplier to resolve the issue 
with the fit. And that the suppliers expert team confirmed that the aligners could not have 
caused the damage to Miss Rs teeth she has claimed. It says that Miss Rs account is in 
arrears and it is therefore entitled to send her correspondence about this.
Our investigator looked at the complaint Miss R made to HFL about how it handled things. 
The investigator considered HFLs liability for the product she paid for in light of Section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75) and the relevant law including the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015 (CRA). She didnt consider there to be persuasive evidence that there was 
a misrepresentation or breach of contract which HFL needed to remedy in respect of the 
treatment. She also didnt think that HFL had acted unreasonably in the way it pursued Miss 
R for payment.
Miss R disagrees. In response to the view she says, in summary:
she was legally entitled to a refund not a replacement and the supplier should not 
have told her she could only have a replacement  she felt pressured into accepting 
this; 
the second set of aligners were also faulty so this should void her finance agreement 
 she won her chargeback so HFL do not have the right to chase her for payment; 
and
HFL has harassed her and acted unreasonably in the way it pursued the debt  
misleading her into thinking they had sent matters to a debt collector when they had 
not. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be commenting on everything the parties have submitted  this isnt intended as a 
discourtesy but reflects the informal nature of this service in resolving disputes. I have 
focused on the key matters which I consider to be relevant here.
I know Miss R has highlighted information she found online  while some wider information 
can be relevant it is important to note that I consider each case on the individual 
circumstances.
In order to determine what is fair and reasonable I have considered the relevant law and 
good practice. In this case Section 75 is relevant as in certain circumstances it allows Miss R 
to hold HFL responsible for a breach of contract or misrepresentation in respect of an 
agreement for goods or services she has financed with it.
Section 75 has certain technical requirements in order for there to be a valid claim. I am 
satisfied those are in place here. So, in considering how HFL responded to Miss Rs claim I 
have gone on to consider if there is a likely breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier which HFL is fairly responsible for putting right.
I consider the focus of Miss Rs claim to HFL is not misrepresentation  but breach of 
contract in respect of an alleged substandard product and/or substandard care. So I do not 
consider it necessary to consider misrepresentation in any depth here  for completeness, I 
dont see evidence of a misrepresentation in any event.
In considering breach of contract I consider the express terms of the contract along with any 
implied terms by law. In the case of implied terms the CRA is relevant in that it says goods 
should be of satisfactory quality and a service should be provided with reasonable care and 
skill.
Essentially, it appears Miss R is unhappy that when she had issues with the fit of her 
aligners the supplier offered her a replacement rather than a refund. 
We dont appear to have the contract Miss R agreed with the supplier for the aligners here  
but we have managed to locate an archived version of the terms. In the absence of other 
information it seems reasonable to rely on these as a likely reflection of the suppliers policies 
in respect of the agreement it had with Miss R. However, after considering these I dont see 
any terms which would explicitly allow her to obtain a refund in the circumstances. In the 
event of a faulty product (once 30 days from sale has elapsed) the terms say that a 
customer would only be entitled to a refund if the product couldnt be repaired or replaced. In 
this case (and assuming the product was faulty) the product was replaced so the supplier 
appears to have complied with the express terms of its contract.
I consider it unlikely that any other express terms  should they exist  would give Miss R an 
unequivocal right to a refund in the circumstances she has described. I also note that there 
are unanswered questions about the issues with the product or service (which I go into later 
in this decision) that would make it difficult to conclude that the supplier had breached an 
express term of its contract in respect of faulty products/substandard service in any event.
I have considered the implied terms under the CRA. However, with a complex treatment 
such as this it is not straightforward to determine if the dental services were not provided 
with reasonable care and skill or if the products supplied were not of satisfactory quality. This would likely be judged with reference to the particular expectations within the dental industry 
 something I am not an expert on.
Furthermore, there doesnt appear to be an admission by the supplier that either of these 
were the case  and it isnt clear if its offer to replace the aligners was because it accepted 
these were faulty or from a customer service point of view.  I also note that Miss R has 
claimed that the product caused damage to her teeth  but the supplier has come back to 
state that this is part of normal anatomy and could never be caused by the aligner.
In the absence of persuasive evidence of a faulty product or a service that was provided 
without reasonable care and skill (such as from an expert report by an independent body) I 
am unable to fairly conclude that there has been a breach of contract by the supplier here 
leading to a loss of value in the service received and damage to Miss Rs teeth as she has 
claimed. 
However, even if I were to accept that the supplier agreed the issues with the fit of the 
aligner were because it was faulty or the service was provided without reasonable care and 
skill (which I do not) the remedy for this (considering the relevant provisions of the CRA and 
putting aside the contested allegation of personal injury) would likely be repeat performance 
or replacement. So in providing a replacement the supplier here has likely remedied any 
potential breach of contract in any event. 
I know Miss R has suggested that for a bespoke item she would have been entitled to a 
refund under consumer law. But after considering the relevant law I dont think that is the 
case here. The right to reject goods or services for a refund occurs in specific circumstances 
(such as where the short term right to reject has been exercised or where a 
replacement/repeat performance fails). However, I dont consider those circumstances to 
apply here.
I note Miss R has indicated the replacement aligner also didnt fit properly. However, this 
doesnt appear to have been raised by her initially. In any event, for similar reasons to those 
stated above I consider it difficult for me to determine that the replacement aligner was not of 
satisfactory quality here. I am not an expert  and based on the evidence I have here I dont 
think I am in a position to fairly say that the replacement product was faulty or provided (as 
part of the overall dental service) without reasonable care and skill.
In conclusion, I dont think there is persuasive evidence to show a breach of contract which 
the supplier failed to remedy. As a result I dont think that HFL in considering the Section 75 
claim should have refunded Miss R or stopped pursuing her under the credit agreement.
Miss R has noted that she won a chargeback. I dont have the all the details about why this 
was the case  but the chargeback rules operate differently to Section 75 and there are 
various reasons a dispute might succeed. So I dont think this in itself means that HFL 
should have upheld her Section 75 claim or prevents it from recovering money owed under 
the finance agreement.
Because I dont think HFL acted unfairly in not upholding the Section 75 claim it follows that I 
dont think it unreasonable to have pursued Miss R for the money she owes under the 
agreement to date. From what I have seen there is not persuasive evidence that HFL has 
harassed Miss R as she has indicated.  I know that she has mentioned that HFL initially 
mentioned involving a debt collector and then dropped this (or apparently did not instruct it)  
but I dont think this alone is enough to conclude an award of compensation is reasonable in 
the circumstances here.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman