DRN-4374092
The complaint
Ms P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC did not take the actions they said they would 
which resulted in distress and inconvenience for her.
What happened
Ms P transferred £1,650 to a family friend to purchase flight tickets and her friend paid the 
travel agent, however, they didnt receive the tickets. Ms P contacted Barclays as she had 
provided the travel agent with her personal details, and she was worried about being a victim 
of a scam. Barclays raised a scam investigation, and they contacted her friends bank and 
they returned the £1,650 to her account, but this resulted in her friends account being 
blocked by the third party bank. Ms P withdrew the scam claim and Barclays debited the 
£1,650 from her account, but her friends account was still blocked with the third party bank.
Ms P said she spoke to Barclays branch staff when she withdrew the claim and she says 
she was told her friends account would be unblocked in 14 days, but the account was still 
blocked several months after she withdrew the claim, which has resulted in severe hardship 
for her friend. Ms P says Barclays did not inform the third party bank that she withdrew the 
scam claim - which could have removed the block from the third party account, so she had to 
make several calls and branch visits to try and rectify this, but the block still stayed on her 
friends account. Ms P made a complaint to Barclays.
Barclays did not uphold Ms Ps complaint. They said when they spoke to Ms P on 25 April 
2022, they told her theyd be approaching the bank in which the funds were sent to. They 
said they couldnt comment on what action other banks decide to take when receiving 
communication from them, and on this occasion, as they were claiming a potential scam 
payment, the third party bank took the decision to temporarily block her friends account, and 
she would need to take it up with the third party bank to remove the block. Ms P brought her 
complaint to our service. 
Our investigator said that Barclays paying Ms P £250 would be a fair outcome for the 
complaint. She said she appreciated what a frustrating time this would have been for Ms P, 
but Barclays acted on the information they had, and they met their obligations by informing 
the third party bank about the scam claim. She said the removal of the block from Ms Ps 
friends account was a decision for the third party bank and not something that Barclays 
could influence. Ms P asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint and she said 
Barclays should pay her compensation of £17,000 for what happened.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must make it clear to Ms P that as this complaint is about Barclays I can only consider the 
actions of Barclays here and not the third party bank which was involved. As Ms P is the only 
eligible complainant as part of this complaint, I can only consider compensation for the 
impact Barclays actions had on her solely, and I cant consider the impact Barclays actions 
had on her friend as her friend is not an eligible complainant as part of this complaint.
Ms P has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
shes said and sent us, including what shes said about her health and what she told 
Barclays about this. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Ive listened to the call that Ms P had with Barclays on 25 April 2022. She feels that Barclays 
misunderstood what she was saying on the call and therefore they incorrectly raised a scam 
claim against her friend, which ultimately ended in her friends account being blocked. The 
call handler tells Ms P that they would need to share information with the bank that received 
the money, and this may result in actions being taken against the person who received the 
money. She is asked if she has any questions about this and she says no. So Ms P 
shouldve been reasonably aware that action could have been taken against her friend  
even though she was not the person ultimately responsible for the failure for the tickets to be 
sent to Ms P.
Ms P tells the call handler that her funds have went to her friend and the call handler tells her 
that is what they would be working on. The call handler asks if she (her friend) has taken 
the funds illegally from Ms P and Ms P says yeah. Ive read what Ms P has said about the 
call and the medication she was on at the time meant she didnt realise that action would be 
potentially taken about her friend. But Barclays could only take into account what she told 
them on the call and what she agreed to. So Im not persuaded that Barclays made an error 
in raising the scam claim when they did.
Ms P contacted Barclays on 28 April 2022 when her friends account was blocked and she 
visited a Barclays branch to withdraw the claim. Barclays did withdraw the claim at their end. 
As the scam claim was withdrawn, this is why Barclays removed the £1,650 they had 
refunded her out of her account. This is what I would expect them to do when Ms P withdrew 
her claim. She says that a staff member told her that the block on her friends account would 
be removed in 14 days. But Im not persuaded that the staff member would have been able 
to tell Ms P what would happen to a block on an account at a third party bank as this would 
be out of Barclays control  even if they would have notified the third party bank that the 
scam claim had been withdrawn.
Ive considered whether Barclays have done what they should have done here when Ms P 
withdrew her scam claim. When Barclays had told the third party bank that they had 
refunded the funds to Ms Ps account before the scam claim was withdrawn from Ms P, the 
third party bank told Barclays that they needed more time to investigate the claim. So as 
Barclays knew the claim was open from the other bank, it would have been reasonable to 
have communicated the withdrawal of the claim to the other bank who had since put a block 
on Ms Ps friends account. But they did not do this. They also did not send any 
communication to Ms P to show her that the scam claim had been withdrawn. If they did this, 
then Ms P would have been able to show her friends bank this information which may have 
helped the block be removed in a timely manner.
Ms P called Barclays several times for the claim to be withdrawn and for them to ask 
Barclays to contact the third party bank to remove the block from her friends account. And 
Ms P says she has visited both banks to try and get this resolved. But Ive seen no evidence 
that Barclays did contact the third party bank to inform them that the claim had been 
withdrawn. This caused distress to Ms P that Barclays werent contacting the third party 
bank, at a time when Barclays were aware of her serious health issues. This meant Ms P 
had to ring Barclays again to try and get them to contact the third party bank, but they didnt 
do this. Barclays would not be responsible for the actions of the third party to place a block on her 
friends account, or to remove the block on the account. But they did not help mitigate the 
situation by either sending Ms P a letter confirming she had withdrawn the scam claim, or to 
contact the third party bank to inform them about this. The third party bank had told Ms Ps 
friend that Barclays hadnt contacted them since their initial report and so as Barclays hadnt 
informed them of a change in the information they gave them, then they had been unable to 
remove the block.
Im satisfied that had Barclays confirmed in writing to Ms P or the third party bank that the 
scam claim had been withdrawn, then this situation would have been resolved in a timely 
manner  or at least there would be no more that Barclays could reasonably have done. And 
as a result of not doing this, they caused Ms P distress and inconvenience at a very 
vulnerable time of her life. Im persuaded that by Barclays not contacting the third party 
bank, this would have left Ms P feeling frustrated, and appeared to her that Barclays werent 
listening to her when nothing happened after she kept contacting them.
Ive considered what would be a fair outcome for this complaint. Ms P wants £17,000 
compensation for what happened here. But this is not in line with our guidance for 
compensation for the impact of Barclays actions. Our investigator said £250 was fair 
compensation, but Im not persuaded that this recognises the impact that Barclays 
actions/lack of action had on Ms P especially when they were aware of her health situation 
at the time on the call when she made the scam claim, and subsequent calls when they 
noted this on their system. 
Im persuaded that £500 would be fair compensation for what happened here. Barclays did 
know about Ms Ps serious health issue based on the initial call and their notes. But they 
have not provided our service with any evidence that they had contacted the third party bank 
to let them know the scam claim had been withdrawn. Even if it would not be their normal 
procedure to notify the third party bank, once Ms P had explained the situation to Barclays, it 
would have been proportionate to contact them to inform them of this, or at the very least to 
send Ms P a letter confirming that she had withdrawn her claim (which Barclays have 
admitted to us that they could have done this). 
Barclays actions (and lack of actions) caused Ms P considerable distress, upset and worry. It 
also caused her significant inconvenience at a time where she was vulnerable due to her 
recent health issues she had told Barclays about. So Im persuaded that £500 compensation 
is proportionate for the impact this had on her. So it follows I intend to ask Barclays to put 
things right for Ms P.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Barclays accepted the provisional decision. Ms P did not respond to the provisional 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my decision 
and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to uphold this complaint. I said I intend to ask Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Ms P £500 for distress and inconvenience. Im still satisfied 
this is a fair outcome for the reasons given previously.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Ms P £500 for distress and 
inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman