DRN-3283165
The complaint
Mr M and Ms G are unhappy with the proposed settlement from U K Insurance Limited 
trading as Natwest Insurance (UKI) following a claim made under their home insurance.
What happened
In 2011 Mr M and Ms Gs home was suffering from subsidence and repairs were carried out 
by UKI following a claim. In 2017 subsidence was found to have reoccurred and 
Mr M and Ms G approached UKI.
UKI accepted the claim as a follow on to the original subsidence claim. Following 
investigation, tree and vegetation removal and a period of monitoring, Mr M and Ms Gs 
property was underpinned and stabilised by a specialist.
However, after this had been completed and scaffolding was removed from the exterior of 
their home, Mr M and Ms G discovered a gas pipe, which had previously been buried, was 
exposed. They asked for UKI to arrange for the pipe to be re-buried in its original location. 
UKI said this wasnt possible, and suggested it be rerouted, but Mr M and Ms G didnt agree.
Alongside being unhappy with the gas pipe rerouting proposal, Mr M and Ms G were also 
unhappy with the proposed repairs to their windows, and the method of repairs to their 
flooring. So, they approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things and he upheld the complaint in part. He considered the 
three main issues raised by Mr M and Ms G. 
In relation to the windows, he said both inspections and reports completed said they could 
be repaired, so he thought UKIs proposal to do so was reasonable. He also said that UKI 
had suggested Mr M and Ms G provide quotes if they didnt agree, and this was fair in the 
circumstances.
In relation to the flooring, he said that UKI were in the process of considering this further. He 
recognised Mr M and Ms G were unhappy with UKIs proposed repair method and had 
asked to use their own contractor and receive a cash settlement. He said UKI were currently 
considering this and an appropriate settlement. And he outlined, if Mr M and Ms G remained 
unhappy once this had been offered by UKI, they could raise a separate new complaint 
about the flooring settlement.
Our investigator also considered the gas pipe part of the complaint. He said that whilst UKIs 
specialist hadnt buried the gas pipe when stabilising the property, to do so now, based on 
the evidence provided, would likely compromise the structure of the property. He thought the 
suggestion to reroute the pipe was reasonable in the circumstances. But he also said 
Mr M and Ms G should be compensated for the distress it had caused them by having the 
gas pipe exposed, given their concerns over safety.
He noted that UKI had offered £200 compensation for delays in the stabilisation works being 
able to be carried out and communication issues incurred in the earlier stages of the claim. 
But he thought UKIs handling had been reasonable since then and theyd been trying to 
move the claim forward. But to compensate Mr M and Ms G for the issues with the gas pipe, 
he suggested a further £250 compensation be paid by UKI.
UKI agreed with the recommended increase in compensation. Mr M and Ms G didnt agree 
overall with the investigators view of things. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont mean it as a discourtesy to either party, but I dont intend to comment on every event 
which has occurred throughout the history of the claim as both parties are already aware of 
this. Instead, Ill focus on the three complaint issues which remain in dispute. But having said 
that, both parties can rest assured that Ive considered all the information provided when 
reaching my final decision.
Mr M and Ms Gs home suffered from previous subsidence in 2011, a claim was made to 
UKI and they carried out repairs. In 2017 Mr M and Ms Gs property suffered further 
movement and damage and this was again reported to UKI. The claim was accepted by UKI 
as a continuation from the original subsidence claim. However, following claim investigation, 
monitoring and stabilisation works, the following three main issues remain in dispute.
The windows
Following the original subsidence claim in 2011, Mr M and Ms G had new windows installed, 
and theyve been damaged when the subsidence reoccurred in 2017. UKI accepted theyd 
been damaged by the subsidence, but the dispute here centres on the appropriate 
settlement and resolution for this.
Mr M and Ms G said they would either like a cash settlement to replace the windows at a 
cost (from a verbal quote) of £16-18,000, or instead theyd like UKI to pay them £10,000 
compensation to take into account they arent in the same condition they were prior to the 
recurring subsidence. Or as an alternative, a cash settlement which covers the windows 
being taken apart and effectively rebuilt.
UKI arranged an inspection of the windows in June 2021 whilst other issues were also being 
reviewed. Following this, UKI proposed repairing the windows. Mr M and Ms G disagreed 
with the proposal, so UKI arranged for a window specialist to carry out an inspection. But the 
conclusion was the same, that the windows could be repaired.Mr M and Ms G disputed the later findings of the window specialist and their qualifications. 
They said the earlier inspection (mentioned above - in June 2021) was carried out by a 
Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) qualified agent, and they thought it 
appropriate to rely on their report. But they said UKI hadnt provided them with a copy of this 
report, so they werent sure what the conclusions were.
Our investigator looked into things and considered both the reports and comments from the 
RICS qualified agent and the window specialist. He said UKIs window repair proposal was 
in line with both of these reports, and so he felt it was fair. He also provided a copy of the 
first report to Mr M and Ms G as they had requested.
Having looked at both reports, Im also in agreement UKIs proposal to repair the windows is 
fair and reasonable. Both reports completed confirm that the windows can be filled and 
decorated and that this is a suitable repair method. Neither say they need to be taken apart 
or replaced.
Whilst I appreciate Mr M and Ms G strength of feelings on this, they havent provided any 
evidence, such as expert reports, in support of their position that the windows cant be 
satisfactorily repaired. In the absence of this, Im unable to conclude either the RICS agent 
conclusions, or those of the window specialist, are incorrect or unfair in the circumstances. 
So, Im not going to direct UKI to pay the amounts Mr M and Ms G have asked for.
UKI also said that Mr M and Ms G can provide their own reports or quotes if they dispute the 
proposals or outcomes reached by either of the agents who concluded repairs are 
appropriate. Mr M and Ms G havent yet done this. If Mr M and Ms G do decide to obtain 
their own reports, they should submit them to UKI for consideration. After this, if 
Mr M and Ms G remain unhappy with the decision ultimately reached by UKI based on this 
new information, we may be able to consider this as a new separate complaint.
The flooring
UKI said the flooring would need to be lifted in order to investigate and repair it. And they 
said the furniture would need to be removed from the room for the duration of this. Due to 
the time of the year when this was first proposed, Mr M and Ms G were unhappy with this 
proposal, so it didnt go ahead.
Mr M and Ms G have found their own contractor who they say can carry out the works using 
a different method, which they say is more suitable as the furniture wont need to be 
removed.
UKI has confirmed they are currently considering this and an appropriate settlement amount. 
So, as the settlement hasnt yet been reached, Im not able to reach a finding whether it is 
fair or reasonable (or to know whether Mr M and Ms G are unhappy with it). But UKI has 
recognised Mr M and Ms Gs concerns about the repair method and is considering this, in 
order to calculate a settlement.
Once UKI has offered settlement based on the information provided by Mr M and Ms G, if 
they remain dissatisfied, we may be able to consider that as a new separate complaint. But 
at this stage, Ive not concluded that UKI has acted unfairly.The gas pipe
Following the recurrence of the subsidence in 2017, vegetation was removed and 
Mr M and Ms Gs property underwent a period of monitoring to establish if it was no longer 
moving. However, as movement was still detected, the decision was made by UKI to carry 
out extensive works to stabilise the property.
This took some time to happen due to the wider environment at the time, and the need to 
carry out works at a certain point in the seasonal calendar, along with the expert contractors 
availability. UKI recognised the delays in this being able to be carried out and poor 
communication and offered £200 compensation.
Ultimately the stabilisation work was completed in March 2021. However, when the 
scaffolding was removed from the front of Mr M and Ms Gs home, they discovered a gas 
pipe which had previously been buried was left partially exposed. Mr M and Ms G were 
unhappy with this so raised their concerns with UKI, along with more general concerns about 
the underpinning depths.
UKI accepted the gas pipe was previously buried but wasnt when the stabilisation works 
were carried out. However, they say its now not possible to do so, as there is a significant 
structural risk to the property by carrying out retrospective works to the stabilisation scheme. 
UKI looked at other possible options for the gas pipe. This included consultation with 
Mr M and Ms Gs gas supplier. They looked into things and quoted for the gas pipe to be 
rerouted and the gas box moved. However, Mr M and Ms G are unhappy with this proposal 
and say that it would impact on potential options for their front garden. They also say 
rerouting it would make them responsible for the pipe where it had been moved.
Whilst I appreciate Mr M and Ms G are unhappy with the proposed resolution to reroute the 
gas pipe, I think UKIs proposal is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
I say this because they have consulted with the stabilisation specialist, who has confirmed 
retrospectively altering the stabilisation works would likely significantly compromise the 
structural integrity of Mr M and Ms Gs home. Given how extensive these works are in 
ensuring a property is stabilised, even in the event of further future external forces, Im 
persuaded by the experts views that to now alter that, would lead to likely significant 
structural compromise of the property itself. So, this could significantly impact the property, 
when to the present time, the stabilisation work has resolved the subsidence and movement.
UKI has consulted with Mr M and Ms Gs gas supplier for other options, and theyve 
confirmed that it could be rerouted. Given they are gas experts, Im satisfied that is the most 
reasonable option in the absence of being able to retrospectively alter the stabilisation works 
without posing a significant structural risk to Mr M and Ms Gs home.
I also note Mr M and Ms Gs concerns that they would be responsible for any issues with the 
gas pipe if it was moved. However, thats something hypothetical that might happen in the 
future. And more generally wed expect an insurer to carry out (or arrange for a contractor to 
carry out) a repair which is lasting and effective. But if Mr M and Ms G did accept the 
proposed rerouting, and issues did arise in the future, theyd need to approach UKI to look 
into things based on what had actually happened.
But, whilst I am satisfied the proposal is fair and reasonable, I can also understand why 
Mr M and Ms G were dissatisfied and concerned that the gas pipe has been exposed for a 
number of months. So, I agree with our investigator that Mr M and Ms G should be 
compensated for this.I recognise that it has taken some time to get to the point where stabilisation work was 
carried out and that some issues still remain in dispute, including those above. But where 
there are disputes, that will naturally cause timescales to be extended. From the information 
provided, it does appear that UKI has been trying to move things forward and looking at 
alternatives such as rerouting of the gas pipe, and appointing window specialists to give a 
further opinion on repairs when Mr M and Ms G raised concerns.
Whilst UKI has offered £200 in the earlier stages for delays in stabilisation works and poor 
communication, I think UKI should pay Mr M and Ms G a further £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused in relation to the gas pipe issue.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part and direct U K Insurance Limited 
trading as Natwest Insurance to:
In addition to the £200 compensation already offered, pay Mr M and Ms G an 
additional £250 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms G to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman