DRN-3062750
The complaint
Mr K complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund him for a transaction he says he didnt make or 
agree to. He would like the money returned to him.
What happened
Mr K holds an account with Revolut. He says in October 2020 he received a message to 
authenticate a new device on his Revolut account that he didnt expect, but he ignored it. He 
says he was then contacted by a number from abroad, which asked him to authenticate his 
Revolut banking details, but he didnt give them any details. 
Two days later he checked his Revolut account and found that an online transaction of just 
over £5,000 had been taken from his account. There were also several unsuccessful 
transactions for similar values on the same day. Revolut had blocked his card as a 
precaution. 
Mr K later contacted Revolut, who raised a chargeback claim. He also reported the 
transaction to the police. He said he hadnt shared his card details or allowed anyone else to 
use his account. Revolut reviewed what happened but didnt think there was evidence of any 
fraudulent activity on Mr Ks account, so held him liable for the transactions. 
Unhappy with the Mr K referred the complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked 
into what happened, but didnt think Revolut should refund Mr K. They found that the 
transaction was likely authorised using the Revolut app  and seeing as the new device 
wasnt authenticated it more likely that not was Mr Ks phone that was used to do this. They 
couldnt see how anyone else could have carried out the transaction without Mr Ks 
knowledge. On that basis they didnt thin Revolut were liable for refunding the transaction.
Mr K disagreed. As no agreement was reached the complaint has been passed to be to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is unclear, incomplete or simply unavailable, I have to make my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened on the balance of 
probabilities.
In this case the investigator has already outlined the relevant regulations and considerations, 
so I wont repeat them in full here. But the key question I have to answer here is whether I 
think its more likely than not Mr K authorised the transaction. 
I accept this is a finely balanced case. Overall, I think its likely Mr K did authorise the 
transaction, for the following reasons:
Mr K has said he hasnt shared his Revolut banking details or his phone with anyone. 
If this is the case, there doesnt seem to be a way an unknown third party could gain 
access to his card details and his phone to authorise any payments from the account.
Mr K has provided evidence that he was called from abroad around the time of the 
transactions. And its accepted that there was an attempt to add another device to 
Mr Ks Revolut account on the morning of the transactions. But its also clear that 
Mr K didnt add the second device. And from what hes said he didnt share any 
banking details with the callers. So, this cant be the point where his card details were 
compromised. And if fraudsters already had enough information to carry out 
transactions, I cant see why they would attempt to set up new devices or call Mr K  
this could potentially put him on alert.
Because no new device was set up the person would require access to Mr Ks 
Revolut app to authorise the payment. But there doesnt seem to be a reasonable 
explanation of how someone other than Mr K could access his phone.
As Mr K says he didnt share any of his card details to the caller from abroad, then 
the likelihood is that if the transaction was made by somebody who would have 
already had his card details. But Mr K has also said he hasnt shared or given his 
card details to anyone else. Its difficult to see how someone could have carried out 
this transaction without this.
Mr K has used his card for online purchases before, so its possible his card details 
could have been stolen if hed unknowingly entered them into a fraudulent website for 
example. But then this wouldnt account for the transaction needing authorisation in 
the Revolut app. As explained, this would still require some input from someone with 
Mr Ks phone.
The funds used for the transaction had only been transferred to Mr Ks account a few 
days before they were spent, and usually the account balance was considerably 
lower. If Mr K hadnt shared his banking details with anyone, then its unlikely an 
unknown third party would be aware of the account balance. It could be a fraudster 
got incredibly lucky that such a large transaction went through first time. Or, more 
likely the transaction was carried out by someone with knowledge of how much 
money was on the account. 
The later transactions were for similar amounts but didnt go through. This could 
suggest the person using the card details didnt know how much was in the account 
and were trying to maximise the amount of the balance used. But these were over an 
hour after the successful transaction, which doesnt seem like the actions of a 
fraudster. I would expect them to try and carry out as many transactions as quickly as 
possible.
Mr K doesnt report the transaction to Revolut until two days after it took place. But by 
this time Mr K would have received the email about adding a new device  received 
calls he says were impersonating Revolut. I find it unusual that he didnt take any 
steps to secure his account, or even check the balance, for two days.
The means I cant see a reasonable explanation of how an unknown third party could have 
carried out the transaction. It doesnt seem possible for someone other than Mr K to have all 
the required information to authorise this payment. I think its more likely than not the 
transaction was authorised by Mr K, or by someone acting on his behalf.On that basis its fair for Revolut to hold Mr K liable for the transaction.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman