DRN-1534715
 
The complaint
Mr K says Novaloans Ltd (trading as cash4unow) failed to correctly assess the sustainability 
and affordability of his short term loan applications.
What happened
Mr K took seven loans from Novaloans between August 2017 and June 2019. I understand 
that the last loan is still outstanding. A summary of the lending is shown below:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments AmountMaximum 
Repayment
1 03/08/2017 10/10/2017 3 £450.00 £220.15
2 05/12/2017 27/04/2018 4 £400.00 £161.05
3 30/07/2018 26/11/2018 4 £300.00 £118.83
4 24/12/2018 20/05/2019 6 £400.00 £129.21
5 28/05/2019 20/06/2019 4 £200.00 £81.15
6 24/06/2019 26/06/2019 4 £150.00 £61.74
7 27/06/2019 Outstanding 4 £150.00 £60.08
 
Our adjudicator recommended Mr Ks complaint be upheld from loan two onwards. She 
found that Novaloanss own checks showed Mr K was having problems managing his money 
She recommended Novaloans refund the interest and charges that Mr K paid from loan 2 
onwards and remove any adverse information from his credit file.
Mr K accepted the adjudicators view. Novaloans didnt agree. It said that the three 
outstanding short-term loans at the time of loan 2 reduced to two outstanding short term 
loans for the remainder of the lending relationship. As Novaloans didnt agree, the complaint 
has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Weve explained how we handle complaints about short term lending on our website and Ive 
used this approach to help me decide Mr Ks complaint. Having done so, Ive decided to 
uphold Mr Ks complaint for the same reasons as the adjudicator.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when Novaloans lent to Mr K. The 
FCAs Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC) is the specialist sourcebook for credit-related 
regulated activities. It sets out the rules and guidance specific to consumer credit providers, 
such as Novaloans. 
It is important to note that the FCA didnt, and doesnt, specify exactly how an assessment of 
affordability is to be carried out but the extent and scope and the types and sources of 
information to use needed to be enough to be able to reasonably assess the sustainability 
of the arrangement for the consumer.
In other words, the assessment needs to be consumer-focussed. It is not an assessment of 
the risk to the lender of not recovering the credit but of the risk to the consumer of incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequence as a result of the 
decision to lend.
As set out in CONC, the risk to the consumer directly relates to the particulars of the lending 
and the circumstances of the consumer. Therefore, a lenders assessment of 
creditworthiness would likely need to be flexible. That is to say, what is sufficient for one 
consumer might not be for another, or indeed what might be sufficient for a consumer in one 
circumstance might not be so for the same consumer in other circumstances.
Bearing the above in mind, I would expect an assessment of creditworthiness to vary with 
circumstance. In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance, the greater the 
potential risk to the consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. 
Certain factors might point to the fact that Novaloans should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include, 
but are not limited to:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
Novaloans told us that, when lending, it asked Mr K for his income and expenses as well as 
carrying out a number of credit searches. 
I think the checks Novaloans did were proportionate for the first loan and the information Mr 
K provided indicated that the loan was affordable. I appreciate this might not have been 
reflective of Mr Ks actual financial position at the time. But this was Mr Ks first loan with 
Novaloans, so I think it was entitled to rely on the information Mr K provided about his 
income and expenses. 
Whilst I think the checks were also proportionate for loan 2, the information Novaloans 
gathered showed Mr K was having problems managing his money; with the credit searches showing he had three other short terms loans outstanding at the time. So I don't think it's 
likely Mr K would have been able to repay further credit sustainably.
Novaloans hasnt provided any further arguments in respect of this  but it has pointed out 
that the three outstanding short-term loans reduced to two as the lending relationship went 
on; that is to say, from loan 3 onwards. 
So Ive considered this point further. This was Mr Ks third loan with Novaloans and there 
was around a three-month gap between loan 2 and 3. I appreciate the credit search 
indicated Mr K had reduced the number of other short-term loans he had outstanding in that 
time  but it also showed he had defaulted on two short term loans since his last application. 
So far from all being well with his finances  I think the results of the searches Novaloans 
carried out indicated that Mr Ks situation had not recovered. He had been borrowing from 
Novaloans for almost a year and had been indebted to Novaloans for 7 of those 12 months, 
and he was borrowing from other lenders. The application for loan 3 would have meant 
increasing his indebtedness for another 4 months. I therefore think Novaloans shouldn't 
have agreed this loan either.
Loan 4 was taken within one month of loan 3 being repaid and was for a larger amount. Mr K 
had now been borrowing from Novaloans for over 16 months without any signifiant breaks in 
lending. He had been indebted to Novaloans for 10 of those 16 months and was not really 
making any real inroads to the original sum he borrowed 16 months earlier. Whilst I note that 
Novaloans credit searches showed Mr K's unsecured borrowing significantly improved 
between loans 3 and 4; proportionate checks by way of verifying Mr K's actual financial 
position, would have revealed Mr K was spending a significant portion of his income though 
on-line betting sites - very frequently. So, as a responsible lender, Novaloans would have 
realised there was a risk Mr K wouldn't be able to meet his repayments for laon 4 in a 
sustainable way. On this basis, I dont think Novaloans would have agreed to lend Mr K loan 
4.
It its final response Novaloans accepted that it ought to have done more before agreeing 
loans 5, 6 and 7, and as such, it accepted that these loans shouldnt have been 
advanced. Bearing in mind Novaloans already accepted that it ought to have done more and 
ought not to have lent these loans (albeit it later rescinded its offer in respect of these loans) 
I dont intend to dwell on these loans but I do think it was right for Novaloans to make this 
offer.  The credit information Novaloans obtained at the time of each loan showed increases 
on both the active accounts open and the active balance totals. And if Novaloans had 
continued to verify and review Mr K's financial circumstances, it would have realised his 
financial position hadn't improved.
So I am upholding Mr K's complaint about loans 2 to 7 and Novaloans should put things right 
as set out below.
Putting things right
Novaloans shouldnt have given Mr K loans 2 to 7.
If there is still an outstanding debt on loan 7 and Novaloans has sold the outstanding 
debt Novaloans should buy it back if Novaloans are able to do so and then take the following 
steps. If Novaloans is not able to buy the debt back then Novaloans should liaise with the 
new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Novaloans should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr K towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance.B) Novaloans should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr K 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr K originally made the
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Novaloans should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on loan 7, and 
treat any repayments made by Mr K as though they had been repayments of the principal on 
all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr K having made overpayments then Novaloans 
should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, 
from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
Novaloans should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on loan 7. If this results in a surplus then the 
surplus should be paid to Mr K. However if there is still an outstanding balance then
Novaloans should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr K.
E) Novaloans should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ks credit file in 
relation to loans two to seven.
*HMRC requires Novaloans to take off tax from this interest. If Mr K asks Novaloans for a 
certificate showing how much tax Novaloans has taken off, Novaloans should provide this. If 
Novaloans intend to use the refund to reduce an amount Mr K owes, Novaloans must do this 
after tax.
 My final decision
For the above reasons, I uphold Mr Ks complaint and direct Novaloans trading as 
cash4unow to refund him as set out above.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2020.
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman