DRN-2037366
The complaint
Mr G complains that Interactive Investment Services Limited placed a blocker on his account 
which disrupted his monthly investment and resulted in him missing out on trades. He wants 
Interactive to put his account back into the position it wouldve been in, if the blocker hadnt 
been applied.
What happened
Mr G had a monthly debit of £100 to be credited to his account to trade with. However, no 
debits were taken between August 2019 and December 2019 because Interactive placed a 
trader blocker on his account due to mail being returned undelivered. In addition, although 
Interactive took payments in July and August 2019, no trade was placed against these two 
payments.
To put things right Mr G wants Interactive to put his account in the position it wouldve been 
in, if the blocker hadnt been applied and all the missing payments were used to place 
trades.
An investigator at this service felt Mr Gs complaint should be upheld, saying:
Interactive put the blocker on Mr Gs account due to having an incorrect address - a 
missing number from his postcode - on its system
Mr G spotted this problem in April 2019 and admitted it had been his error; he 
corrected this over the phone yet in May Interactives system reverted to his 
incomplete address
Given this, it shouldve put safeguards in place to ensure it spotted this problem and 
dealt with it
Also, after its first letter to Mr G was returned undelivered it should have contacted 
him via another means (which were available to it)
Interactive had provided no explanation for failing to trade with the direct debits for 
July and August
She said Mr G should make the £500 in deposits that were missed. Interactive should 
then assess how his account wouldve traded between July and December 2019 with 
this missing money and purchase the investments necessary to put Mr G in the 
position he would now be in but for its account blocker. Alternatively it could use the 
proceeds in Mr Gs account to help make these purchases.
Interactive did not agree, and said:
After Mr G contacted it the first time to admit that hed missed a number out from his 
postcode, this was corrected and subsequent mail was sent to this amended 
postcode. It does not know why subsequent mail was returned undelivered but this 
was not its fault
Given mail was returned undelivered it was appropriate to block his account to place 
a block to protect his assets
While it placed several blocks on his account, it had no reason to assume he had not 
simply changed address but failed to update his account
Mr G should have been aware that he was not receiving mail from it
It did not keep returned mail but in any case this would not show the reason for a 
non-delivery; it now seems likely that this was not due to an incorrect postcode but 
some other reason beyond its control
Its screen grabs demonstrated that Mr G changed his postcode back to the earlier 
incorrect one in May; further, this occurred in the evening when its offices were 
closed so it could not have been responsible for this 
Mr G responded, saying:
Interactive sent him several statements in April 2019 showing his correct full address 
so it had grounds for querying this apparent subsequent change
Interactives latest screengrab appeared to show the postcode had been changed in 
May 2019, but he had no recollection of doing this; indeed why would he change it 
back to the earlier incorrect one? 
It seems suspicious that 18 months on  and many months after this service had 
been looking into his complaint and decided to uphold it  that Interactive could now 
produce alleged data its been unable to source previously
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role, and that of this service, is to decide whether there is sufficient evidence to conclude 
 on the balance of probabilities  that a business did something wrong. In this case, while I 
recognise that the evidence is far from conclusive I am satisfied, on balance, that Interactive 
did do something wrong in so far as it did not treat Mr G fairly.
Both Interactive and Mr G have offered seemingly persuasive evidence in support of their 
rival arguments as to who was responsible for Mr Gs address apparently being changed in 
May 2019, back to the previous incorrect address with a missing digit. I accept that 
Interactives screen grab appears genuine and that this change seems to have occurred 
outside office hours. But equally I can see no reason why Mr G would have chosen to go 
online in May to alter his postcode to a previously-recorded incorrect one, particularly given 
he was fully aware of this issue, having corrected this information in a call with Interactive 
several weeks earlier. While customers do sometimes make mistakes, particularly online, it 
seems unlikely that Mr G would have gone online for no apparent reason (he was not trading 
via this route) and changed his postcode to one that clearly had the same missing digit as 
before.
I therefore simply do not feel there is sufficient evidence to safely say who was responsible 
for this odd online change. Neither, in my view, is there sufficient evidence to decide who, if 
anyone, was responsible for the undelivered mail problem. Despite this, I believe Mr Gs 
complaint should be upheld.
I acknowledge that Interactive offered an execution-only service but I still believe it ought to 
have done more to make Mr G aware of the latest problem with his address, whether this 
had arisen arose due to its own error or not, given what had happened earlier. 
This issue had first arisen in December 2018, at which point Mr G admitted he was 
responsible for the missing digit. From what I have read, this was then corrected and he does not admit he was responsible for his account reverting to this incorrect postcode in 
April 2019, as Interactive claims. Instead, he says he asked for this to be corrected on 
several occasions.
Given all this, I do not think it was fair or reasonable to simply make no effort to contact Mr G 
in July 2019 when another letter was returned undelivered. It should, in my view, have 
checked to see if Mr Gs postcode was yet again showing a missing digit and, given it had 
his phone number, email address and its own secure messaging facility, contacted him to 
sort the problem. While it now says it cannot have known if he had moved address, a simple 
check would have shown the postcode was missing a digit rather than signifying a new 
address.
I am therefore satisfied that the investigators proposed redress is appropriate. So if Mr G 
chooses to pay in the equivalent of the missing direct debits, I instruct Interactive to 
purchase the number of units this money would have been able to purchase on each of the 
monthly dates from July to December 2019.
Finally, I should explain to Mr G that I have no idea whether the units he would have 
purchased between July and December 2019 have increased or decreased in value since 
then. So if he chooses to pay the missing direct debits and Interactive then purchases the 
units available on those dates with those monthly sums, there is no guarantee that they will 
now be worth more than he is retrospectively paying for them i.e. if they have fallen in value 
he will be losing out.
Putting things right
Compensation is as outlined above.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and instruct Interactive Investor Services Limited to purchase the 
number of units which Mr Gs direct debits would have bought on each of the dates in 
question, as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman