DRN-3450423
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs C complained that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BoI) wouldnt let them port their 
mortgage to a new home. They said there was nothing to make them think BoI might refuse. 
They wanted BoI to refund the survey fee, early redemption fee, and pay compensation. 
What happened
Mr H and Mrs C have had a mortgage with BoI for some years. They found a new home they 
wished to purchase. They said they checked BoIs terms and conditions to see if they could 
port their mortgage to this new house, and they expected to be able to go ahead. On 19 May 
2021 they asked BoI to start the process of porting their existing mortgage to a new property. 
But on 27 July, they were told BoI wouldnt lend on the property they wanted, because it had 
an annex which could be let out for holidays. 
They said this decision was made very late in the process, which caused inconvenience and 
stress. Fortunately, they easily got another mortgage, but they had to pay an early 
redemption charge (ERC) to end their mortgage with BoI. They wanted BoI to refund that, 
their survey fee, and pay compensation for the stress caused.
BoI said it received Mr H and Mrs Cs application on 19 May. It sent them a mortgage 
illustration on 8 June. It then sent their application to its underwriting team. 
BoI wanted a valuation on the new property. The valuation was instructed on 25 June, and 
carried out on 15 July. The resulting report said the property had a detached residential 
annex, which was capable of separate occupation.
BoI assessed the valuation report of 21 July. It has shown us an email it sent to the valuer 
on that day, which asks for comments on the suitability of the annex for letting. The valuer 
replied on 23 July, saying that 
there would be a good level of desirability to let the Annex, particularly for [holiday 
letting] with limited appeal to let the Annex for an [Assured Shorthold Tenancy] rental 
given the location and size of the Annex.
BoI said that it confirmed on 26 July that it wouldnt lend on Mr H and Mrs Cs proposed new 
property. It wrote to them on 27 July to say that it doesnt lend on properties with a high level 
of desirability for rental as holiday lets, referring to a popular online rental site that I wont 
name here. 
BoI has told our service that it will consider properties with an annex on an individual basis. 
But it will be concerned about an annex being situated in an area where there are holiday 
lets, university/student lets, or any location where there is likely to be rental demand. That 
may not be acceptable security for BoI. 
BoI said its allowed to make its own decisions on whether a property is appropriate security 
for a mortgage, and it had done that here. It wouldnt change its mind about lending on this 
property, but it had told Mr H and Mrs C that it would gladly consider somewhere else.
BoI said Mr H and Mrs C had been properly informed that there was an ERC on their current 
mortgage deal when they took this out. So BoI didnt think it had to give this money back. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said she sympathised with 
Mr H and Mrs C, who were upset to find out that they couldnt port their mortgage. But she 
thought BoI had considered carefully whether to lend on this new home. She said its 
reasonable for BoI to make its own decisions on whether to lend, and she didnt think it was 
unfair for this particular concern not to be set out in BoIs online terms. She also didnt think 
BoI was influenced by the ERC on Mr H and Mrs Cs existing mortgage, because she said 
that the decision would not have been different if this was a new mortgage application. Our 
investigator didnt think BoI had to pay Mr H and Mrs C what they wanted.
Mr H replied on behalf of them both, to say they didnt agree. They said there was no way for 
them to be aware of this restriction before they incurred survey fees, and if they had known, 
they wouldnt have paid survey fees. They said there was no evidence that the issue about a 
residential annex was actually one of BoIs lending criteria. And they thought this would rule 
out such a high proportion of properties that it should be highlighted in BoIs lending criteria.
Our investigator didnt change her mind. Because no agreement was reached, this case was 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
As a starting point, I do think its reasonable for BoI to set its own lending criteria, and as part 
of that, to decide which properties its prepared to accept as security for a loan. I think its 
worth noting that porting this mortgage was never guaranteed. It would always have been 
subject to BOI being satisfied that the new property would be suitable security. 
I understand that Mr H and Mrs C had checked the available information, to see what BoI 
isnt prepared to lend on, and didnt have any indication that this property was likely to cause 
any difficulty. But I think its also clear that this list isnt exhaustive. 
Mr H and Mrs C said this is a very widespread potential exclusion, so it really ought to be on 
BoIs published list. But Im sorry to tell Mr H and Mrs C that I dont agree with that. I think its 
more likely that only a relatively small proportion of mortgaged properties are homes 
benefitting from a separate residential annex which would be desirable short-term or holiday 
lets. And BoI has been clear that it doesnt publish all of its lending criteria online. I dont 
think its unreasonable for BoI to have this additional criterion, even if this isnt visible online. 
Mr H and Mrs C queried whether this really was one of BoIs criteria for lending. BoI has told 
us that it is, but I havent just relied on that in reaching my view. I also think its important that 
BoI asks whether a property has a residential annex, which would be capable of separate 
occupation, in its valuation pro forma. That, and the enquiries it then made with the surveyor 
about whether this annex might be a desirable let, are all consistent with what BoI told us. 
So I do think this is a genuine lending criterion. 
Mr H and Mrs C said BoI shouldve realised, and warned them, that this property wouldnt 
meet its criteria, so they didnt pay for a survey. But I note that BoI doesnt automatically exclude properties which have a residential annex. Instead, it asks its surveyor whether any 
annex could be separately occupied, and then asks for an expert opinion about whether an 
annex like this might be a desirable rental property, either for holiday letting or for a 
residential tenant. So I dont think it was a foregone conclusion, before the survey was done, 
that BoI would never lend on this property, and I dont think that BoI could clearly have made 
that decision without any sort of valuation. So it doesnt seem to me that BoI should have 
refused Mr H and Mrs Cs application at an earlier stage. 
BoI has also shown our service that Mr H and Mrs C were made aware in August 2020, 
when they last changed their mortgage deal that an ERC would be payable on their 
mortgage if it was redeemed before July 2023. Because I think Mr H and Mrs C were 
properly notified of this ERC, and because I think that BoIs decision not to lend on their new 
property was made on the basis of genuine lending criteria, not influenced by this ERC, I 
dont think that BoI was then wrong to ask Mr H and Mrs C to pay this. 
I realise that Mr H and Mrs C were some way into their purchase by the time they discovered 
BoI wasnt going to allow them to move their existing mortgage to this new property. Moving 
house is generally a stressful event in any case, and I appreciate that this will certainly have 
added to that stress. Im sorry that happened, and Im relieved to hear that Mr H and Mrs C 
managed to find a new mortgage very easily. But I havent been able to agree with Mr H and 
Mrs C that what has gone wrong here is BoIs fault. So, although I know that Mr H and Mrs C 
will be disappointed, I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman