DRN-3878671
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint is that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold their mortgage current 
account (MCA) because Barclays refused to consolidate the MCA overdraft onto a new 
mortgage.
To settle the complaint, Mr and Mrs C want Barclays to agree their application and transfer 
the balance on the MCA to their mortgage account.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr and Mrs C being identified. So for these 
reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
In 2006 Mr and Mrs C took out a mortgage with Barclays (through its residential lending 
division, Woolwich), borrowing £315,000 on a capital repayment basis over a term of 
25 years. A condition of the mortgage was that an MCA also had to be taken out.
The MCA is an overdraft facility, which works like this: as capital is repaid off the mortgage, 
the overdraft limit on the MCA increases by the same amount, due to what Barclays calls 
rebalancing.  
The reserve can be spent by the borrower, through the MCA. But its not intended to be an 
additional regular income stream for the borrower; nor should it be used to make the 
mortgage repayments. On a joint account, either borrower can use the MCA, independent of 
the other.
Borrowers are free to repay the overdraft, in part or in full, if they wish to do so, at any time. 
Customers can pay money into the MCA if they want to, and operate it in credit. If there is a 
credit balance, interest accruing on that balance can, if the customer requests it, be offset 
against the mortgage interest. But the MCA in this case isnt in credit and so it operates as 
an overdraft facility with debit interest accruing on the outstanding balance.
The overdraft also becomes immediately repayable in full when the related mortgage 
account is repaid  either when the mortgage reaches the end of its term or if the mortgage 
is repaid sooner (for example, on sale or remortgage of the property). 
The MCA operates on an interest-only basis. Interest is charged at a variable rate and is 
currently at Bank of England Base Rate + 3.49% (except where the mortgage is a specific 
offset mortgages, where interest is charged at the offset mortgage rate. This is not that type 
of mortgage and so the interest rate is Bank of England Base Rate + 3.49%.).
Over the history of the mortgage term there have been occasional missed payments, as well 
as more sustained arrears, the MCA has been used up to its limit of about £130,000, and the 
limit had been exceeded. There have been temporary switches of the mortgage from 
repayment to interest-only. The banks records also show that in August 2020 Mr and Mrs C 
explained that Mr C had been made redundant and that Mrs Cs holiday let business had 
stopped due to the pandemic. A payment holiday was agreed and Mr and Mrs C were 
granted the full six-month payment holiday that lenders were required to give by the 
regulator at this time.
In late 2021 (when the main mortgage balance was about £147,000 and the MCA about 
£133,000) Mr and Mrs C wanted to re-mortgage, consolidating the MCA into new borrowing. 
However, Barclays declined the application on the basis of affordability.
Mr and Mrs C complained, saying that the MCA had been mis-sold. They said theyd never 
been told the MCA was repayable on demand. Mr and Mrs C also say that Barclays had 
misled them into believing that the MCA could be added to the mortgage if they were 
re-scheduling their borrowing. Mr and Mrs C also said that the interest rate on the MCA was 
extortionate. 
Barclays didnt uphold the complaint, providing Mr and Mrs C with copies of letters it had 
sent them over the years about the MCA and the re-balancing feature. Barclays explained 
that the MCA was repayable in full once the mortgage was redeemed, and that this was 
highlighted in the correspondence and terms and conditions. The bank also clarified that it 
wasnt possible to consolidate an MCA when completing an interest rate switch on an 
existing mortgage. Barclays also explained that Mr and Mrs Cs recent application to 
re-mortgage and consolidate the MCA had failed on affordability.
Dissatisfied with Barclays response, Mr and Mrs C complained to our service. An 
investigator looked at what had happened but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
He was satisfied that the MCA hadnt been mis-sold. He also didnt think Barclays was 
obliged to offer a new mortgage where affordability criteria wasnt met. 
Mrs C, who has dealt with the complaint throughout, disagreed with the investigator. She 
says this wasnt new or additional borrowing but was a pre-agreed switch to a suitable 
interest rate/structured product.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sale of the MCA: Mrs Cs argument is that the MCA was mis-sold because she was always 
under the impression that, at any time when the mortgage was re-scheduled, the MCA could 
be consolidated into the new borrowing. Mrs C also says that she and Mr C were never told 
that the MCA was repayable on demand.
I am not persuaded Barclays told Mr and Mrs C they could consolidate the MCA into the 
mortgage account because that is not how the product works. I therefore think its unlikely 
that anyone at Barclays told Mr and Mrs C that they could consolidate the overdraft into the 
mortgage at a later date when this is not how the MCA operates. It was not, as Mrs C 
suggests, a pre-agreed term of the MCA or the mortgage.
I think the bank has been clear over the years in its correspondence in explaining how the 
MCA operates. Mr and Mrs C received regular statements for both the MCA and the mortgage. The interest rate is set out on the statements. The account terms and conditions 
state that the MCA is repayable on demand.
Taking all of this into account, Im satisfied that the MCA wasnt mis-sold or that Barclays led 
Mr and Mrs C to believe they could consolidate it into a new mortgage. Im not upholding this 
part of the complaint.
Declined application: Mrs C has helpfully provided the emails between her financial adviser 
(AC), herself and Barclays at the time of the application. These show that Barclays agreed to 
consider an application for a new mortgage. Barclays required proof of income in order to 
assess the application, which is standard industry practice.
However, Barclays declined Mr and Mrs Cs application to consolidate the MCA into a new 
mortgage on the basis of affordability. Mr C had been made redundant (he had previously 
been on a six-figure salary) and had no earned income. Mrs Cs income came from her 
holiday let business, which had been affected by the pandemic. They both had occupational 
pension income, as well as other sources of income. However, those sources of income  
from non-taxable family trusts and flexible drawdowns from SIPPs  were not within 
Barclays acceptable income criteria. 
I can see from the emails that Mrs C was baffled at the need to make an application for a 
new mortgage. I fully understand that our circumstances most likely dont fit with the lending 
criteria for an off the shelf package product and so continue to emphasise that this is a 
restructure, rather than new lending and not necessarily a mortgage in the true sense of the 
word
But the MCA is a current account, and so consolidating the overdraft into a mortgage has to 
be treated as a fresh mortgage application. Mr and Mrs C werent making monthly payments 
towards the MCA (and werent required to). Therefore, in order to decide whether or not to 
consolidate the MCA into a new mortgage, the bank was entitled to assess whether or not 
this would be affordable for Mr and Mrs C. Thats because, if the MCA was consolidated into 
the mortgage, Mr and Mrs C would be committed to making monthly repayments that 
included the amount of the MCA they wanted to consolidate. I think Barclays was justified in 
having concerns about affordability, particularly given the payment history on the mortgage 
account and recent changes to Mr and Mrs Cs incomes.
After Barclays explained that it had to follow its lending criteria, Mrs C wanted the application 
referred to a specialist team. AC asked if Barclays would provide bespoke specialist lending 
in order to allow the application without applying standard lending criteria. 
In response, Barclays said:  I was [given] to understand there was a salary from a limited 
business and that there was a flexi pension in draw down, this is reflected in the evidence I 
initially asked for. Even if this income isnt sufficient to meet normal affordability criteria 
where the application is for the mortgage current account overdraft, it is still policy to submit 
the application. After [name redacted] spoke with you it appears that the income doesnt 
appear on her tax calculations but rather is paid from a family trust fund, directly with no 
evidence that we can use 
Again, AC asked Barclays if it would bypass its affordability criteria.  the whole issue here 
is simple .. do you have a bespoke lending criteria for customers or not?  the most helpful 
thing would be to have an answer to this question; because if the bank cannot change their 
criteria then the affordability cannot be met. Barclays asked for further information about income, why Mr and Mrs C wanted to 
consolidate the MCA reserve and their repayment strategy.
AC provided this, and also confirmed that Mr and Mrs C didnt want to be tied into any early 
repayment charges. This was because their plan was to redevelop outbuildings on the 
property and either sell these to pay off the mortgage, or sell the main house and move into 
the outbuildings. This would, of course, have required the title to the property to be split; both 
house and outbuildings were held on the same title and wouldnt be possible to sell one part 
of the property without it having its own separate title number. 
The emails Ive seen dont reveal whether AC advised Mr and Mrs C about the implications 
of this. But I will explain here that its not possible to split the title to a property that is 
mortgaged without the consent of the lender, because selling off part of the secured land 
reduces the value of the mortgaged property. However, the point where that proposal might 
be an issue for Barclays was never reached, because the application was declined on 
affordability, before Barclays needed to consider whether the repayment strategy was 
suitable.
Barclays is entitled to set its own lending criteria. Decisions that Barclays makes in respect 
of what those criteria are, its attitude to risk involved in this particular lending assessment, 
and whether it should lend and if so, on what terms are clearly discretionary matters for the 
banks own commercial judgement that I would not interfere with. I dont have any power to 
substitute my own lending decision for that of Barclays; what I have to decide is whether the 
bank has acted fairly in its decision to decline the application.
Barclays has provided information about its lending criteria and about what was taken into 
account in its consideration of the application. Im entitled to treat this as confidential, 
because it is commercially sensitive. But after considering this information, Im satisfied that 
Barclays reached its decision fairly, after taking into account all relevant factors, including 
(but not limited to) affordability, exposure to risk, and Mr and Mrs Cs specific circumstances. 
Given this, Im satisfied that Barclays gave fair consideration to this application and, having 
done so, was entitled to decline the application because it didnt meet its affordability criteria.
Im also satisfied that Barclays isnt under any obligation to put in place bespoke lending 
criteria for individual customers who dont meet the banks standard lending criteria. Barclays 
considered whether or not an exception could be made in this case, but after doing so the 
bank wasnt able to change its decision on affordability. 
After taking all of this into consideration, Im satisfied Barclays has done nothing wrong so 
Im not upholding this part of the complaint.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs C wanted. However, there is no early 
repayment charge on their mortgage, and they are free to approach another lender, should 
they wish to do so. AC identified that, due to their income sources, Mr and Mrs C might need 
a bespoke product, so if they wish to move their borrowing to another lender, Mr and Mrs C 
should speak to AC or any other independent financial adviser about this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman