DRN-1317591
 
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F have complained that The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc (TMW) has discriminated 
against them on the basis of their age by not allowing them to apply for a new mortgage 
product in person or over the telephone. 
Mr F, who has dealt with the complaint throughout, also says that TMW purposefully 
withheld information about its online product switching service until 14 June 2019. 
Mr and Mrs F say that, as a result of this, theyve been overcharged. They want TMW to 
reimburse the excess interest theyve paid. The complaint has been dealt with by Mr F 
throughout.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F have a mortgage account originally taken out with another lender, but which 
was transferred to TMW in December 2011. At the time the mortgage was on a five-year 
fixed-rate product which was due to end on 31 May 2013. 
In 2014 TMW explained in a letter that if Mr and Mrs F wanted more information on what 
products were available to them, they should speak to a financial advisor or visit the TMW 
website.
Mr F has complained that, over a number of years, when hes telephoned TMW about the 
mortgage, it has refused to give him advice over the telephone about what products are 
available to him, or allowed him to see an adviser in branch. Instead hes been told that he 
will need to refer to TMWs website. 
It wasnt until after he spoke to TMW in June 2019 that Mr F used TMWs online switch 
service to change his mortgage product. 
Mr F complained to TMW.  He said TMW deliberately withheld information from him about its 
online product switching service, and that it hadnt switched him onto a new rate 
automatically.
TMW didnt uphold the complaint. It explained that its telephone staff arent able to give 
advice on mortgage deals, which is why Mr F has been advised, both in writing and on the 
telephone, that he would need to visit TMWs website. TMW also said that it operates a non-
advisory service and so could not recommend products for Mr and Mrs F, or switch them 
onto a different product.
Unhappy with TMWs response, Mr and Mrs F brought the complaint to us. An investigator 
looked at it but didnt think it should be upheld. He was satisfied that TMW had explained 
that, in order to switch products, Mr and Mrs F would need to go online.Mr F didnt accept the investigators findings. He says that TMW has unfairly discriminated 
against him and Mrs F on age grounds by not allowing them to conduct their mortgage 
business directly with TMW over the phone or in person. 
Mr F also says that TMW purposefully and with intention withheld information from him and 
Mrs F about its online switching service by failing to disclose, until June 2019, that they could 
switch products online.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I confirm Ive listened to the available call 
recordings, and Ive taken account of everything Mr F and TMW have said.
Age discrimination occurs where a business treats a customer less favourably because of 
age. It can be direct discrimination, an example of which would be refusing to allow a 
customer to use a gym or to go into a nightclub solely because of their age. 
Or it could be indirect discrimination, where a business applies a condition on the provision 
of goods or services that puts a certain age group at a disadvantage. 
An example of this might be a retailer allowing only customers who are in employment to pay 
for goods by instalments. Although the policy applies to all customers, it is likely to have a 
worse effect on elderly customers who are pensioners, and not in employment, so could be 
considered indirect age discrimination.
The crux of this complaint is that Mr F says that TMW has discriminated against him and his 
wife on the basis of age, by refusing to allow them to receive mortgage advice from TMW 
over the telephone or in person in a branch. 
Ultimately its for a court to determine whether or not Mr and Mrs F have been discriminated 
against on the basis of their age. But Ive looked at what theyve said about this. 
If I was to uphold this part of the complaint, Id have to be satisfied that TMW has excluded 
or prevented Mr and Mrs F from receiving a service thats available to other customers, and 
that this is, directly or indirectly, because of their age. (At the time TMW took over the 
mortgage in 2011 I understand Mr F was 46, and he is now 55. Mrs Fs age is unknown.)
First, I note that TMW doesnt operate a branch network and doesnt give mortgage advice 
to customers, either in person or over the telephone. I dont have the power to tell TMW how 
it should run its day-to-day operations. The way TMW runs its business is a matter for its 
own commercial judgement. 
None of TMWs customers are able to receive telephone mortgage advice or to see an 
adviser in a branch, because these are not services TMW provides. Given this, Im satisfied 
that Mr and Mrs F are not being treated differently from any other TMW customer. 
In addition, TMW isn't required to provide a service for Mr and Mrs F which isn't available to 
any other customers. If TMW was to agree to change its business practice so it could offer 
an advisory service just for Mr and Mrs F, this would have implications for the regulatory 
permissions under which it operates. 
That's because providing financial advice needs permission, regulation and oversight by the 
Financial Conduct Authority. To order TMW to do this for Mr and Mrs F would be a disproportionate outcome, given the cost involved to TMW. It also wouldn't be fair on other 
customers if TMW was providing a service to Mr and Mrs F that wasn't available to them..
Ive reviewed the contact history between Mr F and TMW. Records only go back as far as 
2014. The earliest calls recorded are from 2018. Im satisfied that, in correspondence and 
calls with TMW, Mr F was told that he would need to go onto TMWs website in order to see 
what products are available and complete a product switch. 
Mr F maintains that each year hed call TMW and be assured he was on the best rate 
possible. Theres no record of this in the contemporaneous contact notes. I also think its 
unlikely, given that TMWs business model is that it doesnt give advice that Mr F would have 
been told this over a number of years.
TMW was under no obligation to switch Mr and Mrs F onto another product once their five-
year fixed-rate product came to an end in 2013. The mortgage contract provided that the 
mortgage would revert to a variable rate once the fixed rate came to an end, and that is what 
happened. TMW wrote to Mr and Mrs F in May 2013 when this was about to happen.
I understand Mr and Mrs Fs preference is not to use online services, if they can help it. Im 
glad to see they were able to use TMWs online product switch service without any difficulty 
to take out a new product in 2019. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs F would probably prefer to have a mortgage with a lender which 
provides mortgage advice and a branch network, so they can discuss new mortgage 
products directly with the lender. 
As Ive said above, TMW doesnt provide that service, and, to be clear it doesnt have to if it 
doesnt want to. But if this is the type of service Mr and Mrs F want its always open to them 
either to discuss a new TMW mortgage product with an independent mortgage broker or to 
move their mortgage borrowing to a lender which offers telephone advice and in-branch 
advisors. 
If Mr and Mrs F decide to repay their current mortgage, I would suggest they find out if there 
is any early redemption charge payable to TMW  for doing so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that will I will not be engaging in any further consideration of the merits of the 
complaint nor any discussion with the parties about it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman