DRN-3117629
The complaint
Mr and Ms H complain that Kensington Mortgage Company Limited trading as Acenden 
didnt treat them fairly when they had financial difficulties. They ask that it freezes interest 
and agrees an affordable plan to repay the capital.  
What happened
Mr and Ms H took out a loan in 2008. The loan is secured by a second charge on their 
property. Acenden administers the account on behalf of the lender. Mr H lost his job in early 
2018 and the loan fell into arrears. With help from family they were able to repay enough of 
the arrears to avoid the property being taken into possession, but werent able to maintain 
contractual monthly payments after that. While Mr H found work their income is significantly 
lower than previously. Mr and Ms H are also in arrears with their mortgage account.
The term of Mr and Ms Hs loan expired in July 2019. They agreed payment arrangements 
with Acenden. But while the amount they can pay each month covers the interest it only 
repays a small amount of capital. They ask that Acenden freezes interest so that they can 
make affordable monthly payments to repay the debt.
After the complaint came to us, Acenden said the lender had agreed to freeze interest. Our 
investigator said this should be backdated to August 2019, when Mr and Ms H provided 
income and expenditure information and made a payment proposal. He said while Acenden 
had agreed payment arrangements with Mr and Ms H it should have taken into account that 
they werent making inroads into repaying their debt. He said Acenden should pay £150 for 
the upset caused and continue to engage with Mr and Ms H to agree a suitable payment 
arrangement.
Acenden said the lender was entitled to apply interest. It had agreed to backdate 0% interest 
from August 2020, but not to backdate this to August 2019. Mr H said their ideal outcome 
would be for interest to be waived from the maturity date and they repay the balance at £150 
per month. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Ms Hs loan account was transferred to a lender which isnt UK resident. Its 
administered by Acenden, which is regulated in the UK. 
Acenden is unable to provide a copy of the loan agreement. However, it did provide copies 
of statements that show Mr H and Ms H took out a secured loan for £13,500 in 2008 at an 
annual interest rate of 22.2%. Some statements refer to your regulated mortgage contract. 
Others say the lender was required to send a statement by the Consumer Credit Act 2006. 
Either way, rules on mortgage regulation about how lenders treat customers in financial 
hardship apply.
Part of Acendens role is to recover the debt. In doing so it must bear in mind its 
responsibility to treat Mr and Ms H fairly, taking rules on mortgage regulation into account.
Since Mr and Ms H first told Acenden about their financial difficulties Acenden has reviewed 
Mr and Ms Hs income and expenditure and agreed payment arrangements. This would 
have given them time to try to get their payments back on track so that the loan would be 
repaid within its term. Unfortunately this wasnt possible and when the term of Mr and Ms Hs 
loan expired in July 2019 they had an unpaid balance of about £4,500. 
Mr and Ms H had limited options. By the time their loan term expired, theyd been unable to 
maintain payments for about 18 months. They were in arrears with their mortgage and 
struggling with other debts, including council tax. It was unlikely their financial situation would 
improve enough to repay the loan balance within a short period. However, they were able to 
make payments towards repaying their balance. Mr H proposed paying £100 per month. 
After reviewing their income and expenditure, Acenden agreed a payment arrangement for 
£100. Mr and Ms H say most of the payments they made went towards paying interest. Only 
a small portion of their payments repaid capital. They werent able to maintain payments and 
asked if they could make lower payments of £75 per month. Acenden didnt agree to this as 
it didnt cover the interest. 
Since the complaint came to us, Acenden says the lender agreed to apply zero interest from 
August 2020. It will rework the account to remove interest applied since then. This will 
reduce Mr and Ms Hs balance. And it will mean that all further payments will reduce the 
capital balance, meaning theyll pay the debt off sooner. I think this is fair.
Mr and Ms H would like zero interest to be applied from July 2019, when the loan term 
ended. I have to consider whether its fair and reasonable to require Acenden to do this. And 
when doing so, I have to be fair to both parties. 
The lender has a charge on Mr and Ms Hs property. This means it can recover the amount 
owed from the sales proceeds if Mr and Ms H arent able to repay the debt. This is 
something they agreed to when they took out the loan. However this lender has a second 
charge. Mr and Ms Hs first charge mortgage is in arrears. I dont have any information about 
whether theyd be enough funds remaining from a sale to repay the loan. Mr and Ms H 
havent said they intend to sell the property, which is their home. And lenders should only 
take possession as a last resort. Mr and Ms H have some income available to repay the loan 
and say they are willing to do so. 
It seems likely Acendens aim from mid-2019 was to agree an arrangement that would allow 
Mr and Ms H to repay the debt as soon as possible, taking into account their circumstances. 
Lenders arent required to freeze or reduce interest, this is one of a range of concessions 
they can consider. However, I think the available options to support Mr and Ms H were 
limited. 
I think it was fair for Acenden to agree a payment arrangement. But I think it should have 
considered whether it was reasonably possible for Mr and Ms H to repay the loan from their 
available income while it applied interest at the contractual rate. I think, had it done so, it 
would have realised this wasnt practical and Mr H and Ms H needed more support if they 
were to repay the debt without selling the property. 
As I say, lenders dont have to freeze or reduce interest. But in these particular 
circumstances, I think it would have been fair for Acenden to apply a reduced interest rate, 
so that more of Mr and Ms Hs payments went towards repaying the balance. It didnt do this 
in 2019, and Mr and Ms H were unable to maintain the agreed payments. As a result, their debt balance increased. I think it would be fair for Acenden to re-work Mr and Ms Hs 
account as if interest had been applied at zero percent since 1 August 2019. And I think its 
fair and reasonable to require Acenden to pay £150 compensation for the additional upset 
caused to Mr and Ms H by not fully considering their circumstances in 2019.
In fairness, I should say that reduced interest is a concession offered by Acenden (and the 
lender) to help Mr and Ms H repay the debt. Acenden and Mr and Ms H should remain in 
contact with the aim of agreeing an affordable plan for Mr and Ms H to repay the debt. If 
despite the reduced interest Mr and Ms H remain unable to make progress in repaying the 
debt, Acenden will be entitled to consider what other actions or concessions might be 
appropriate. Id remind it of its duty to treat Mr and Ms H fairly. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Kensington Mortgage Company Limited 
trading as Acenden to:
Rework Mr and Ms Hs account as if it had applied interest at 0% since 1 August 2019.
Work with Mr and Ms H to agree an affordable repayment plan with interest at 0%.
Pay £150 to Mr and Ms H.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman