DRN-4387327
The complaint
Ms S is unhappy shes been charged a fee for the packaged bank accounts shes held with 
Lloyds Bank PLC at various points over the years.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary:
Ms S has held her current account with Lloyds since 1997 and, at various times, this has 
been a packaged account where she paid a monthly fee which entitled her to certain 
benefits.
Ms S says she didnt realise she was paying for a packaged account. The bank should 
have considered her a vulnerable consumer given her ill health and financial difficulties. 
She couldnt make use of all of the account benefits and so the bank shouldnt have sold 
her any of the packaged accounts and some of the upgrades were made without her 
consent. She thinks the bank should refund all of the account fees that have been 
charged since 1997.
Lloyds says Ms S chose to upgrade her account and she would have been given 
information at the relevant times which would have explained the costs and benefits. And 
shes made use of some of the benefits over the years. So it refused to refund any of the 
fees Ms S had been charged. But it paid her £50 compensation in recognition of the 
delays, and inconvenience caused, when it was handling Ms Ss complaint.
One of our investigators looked into Ms Ss complaint and didnt think Lloyds mis-sold the 
accounts. Ms S disagreed and so the complaint has come to me for review
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would first say that Ms S has made lengthy and detailed submissions. Ive considered 
everything shes said and provided but Im not going to respond to every point shes made. I 
will, instead, focus on what I think are the key issues here. No discourtesy is meant by this. It 
simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im satisfied I dont need to 
comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is a fair outcome.
While I appreciate Ms Ss strength of feeling, I have reached the same outcome as the 
investigator for much the same reasons. I note, in particular, that:
Given the length of time thats passed, I dont think its unreasonable Lloyds hasnt been 
able to provide complete information or documentation from when the various account 
changes took place. Where evidence is incomplete and matters are in dispute, my role is 
to make a decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping in 
mind everything Ive seen and have been told by both parties. I also have to take into 
account that memories fade over time and Ms S has said herself that she cant recall 
exactly what discussions have taken place since 1997, neither would I expect her to.
I accept Ms S has given an honest recollection of what happened. But I dont think its 
more likely than not Lloyds changed her accounts twice to a packaged one without her 
knowledge or consent. Ms S held fee-free accounts in between holding packaged 
accounts, for a number of years. And, despite what she recalls, I think its unlikely the 
conversions to packaged accounts happened without some direct intervention from 
Ms S. I also think its more likely than not Lloyds would have provided information about 
the fees and related benefits in order for Ms S to make an informed choice about the 
changes.
Ms S has provided details of the debts she held at various points in time and its clear 
from her current account statements and Lloyds customer notes in 2002 that she was in 
financial difficulty at that point. Theres also a note from 2006 which refers to Ms S being 
unwell. And I can see, at times, that there has been insufficient money in Ms Ss account 
to meet some direct debit payments. However, an individuals health and financial 
position can, and usually does, change over time and I wouldnt expect a bank to 
assume that the problems Ms S was experiencing in 2001/2 continued unabated until 
2022. Her account was downgraded to a free account in March 2002 and stayed that 
way until May 2004. There are then long periods when her account didnt go overdrawn 
or only went overdrawn by a small amount for a short period of time. And, shortly before 
the upgrade in 2009, Ms S received almost £4,500 into her account. Overall, I dont 
agree with Ms S that it was clear from the activity on her current account or from the 
customer notes that she was consistently in financial difficulty from 2001 onwards such 
that Lloyds ought to have concluded a packaged bank account was unaffordable and/or 
unsuitable.
Ms S has explained why, at times, she couldnt use some of the account benefits and 
shes disputed registering and making an insurance claim for a specific mobile phone. 
But shes not said she didnt register a number of other phones. Its possible Ms S hasnt 
taken advantage of all the benefits on offer, and for which she was eligible, over the 
years. But that, in and of itself, doesnt mean the fees should be refunded or that the 
accounts were unsuitable.
Overall, having considered the circumstances surrounding this complaint, Im not persuaded 
I can fairly instruct Lloyds to refund any of the fees Ms S has been charged over the years.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman