DRN-1665709
 
The complaint
Mr G complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr G bought the policy in 2003 at the same time as taking out a credit card. It protected his 
monthly credit card repayments if he couldnt work as a result of accident, sickness or 
unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion.
Mr G mainly says that he didnt want or need PPI, he doesnt recall discussing it and he 
wasnt aware that he had it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs 
complaint.
Although Co-op couldnt confirm how the PPI was sold to Mr G, he told us he remembered 
hed taken out his credit card and the PPI during a phone call. 
Theres no call recording and I dont know what, if anything, was discussed about PPI when 
Mr G took out his credit card. But on the agreement Mr G signed to get his credit card there 
were Yes and No options for Mr G to be able to say if he wanted to have PPI  and the 
Yes box is marked to show that he wanted to have PPI added to the account. So I think he 
wouldve seen that it was up to him to say if having PPI was something he wanted. And if he 
hadnt wanted to have PPI with his credit card, Mr G couldve ticked the No box instead.
Mr G signed the completed application confirming that the information shown on the form 
was true and complete. So, on balance, I think that Co-op made Mr G aware that the PPI 
was optional and that he chose to take it. 
Co-op said it would look at the complaint on the basis that it would've recommended the PPI 
to Mr G during the phone call. This means it not only had to give him important policy 
information in a clear way. It also had to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it 
recommended was suitable for Mr G. 
Mr G told us he was entitled to statutory sick pay and he had no other way of making the 
monthly repayments if he wasnt working.  So I think the policy was suitable for him.The policy paid a monthly benefit that covered his minimum credit card repayments for up to 
24 months per claim if he couldnt work as a result of accident or sickness and it covered him 
for 18 months in the event Mr G he lost his job unexpectedly and was out of work. So I think 
PPI wouldve given Mr G a useful benefit at whats likely to have been a difficult time if he 
was off work as a result of accident or sickness or he became unemployed.  
Its possible some of the information Co-op gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The policy didnt cover some things. But it doesnt look as if that affected 
Mr G. So, I dont think having more information about the policy exclusions and limitations 
wouldve made any difference to Mr Gs decision to take out PPI.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made clear to Mr G when he bought the policy. But, it said 
on the agreement he signed to have PPI that it was free for the first 90 days and hed only 
start to pay for the policy after that if he didn't cancel it. From what Ive seen, the monthly 
premiums seem to have been affordable for him when he took the policy out. Mr G paid for 
the PPI each month so he couldve cancelled the policy at any time without losing out 
financially if his circumstances changed or he no longer wanted to pay to keep it running. 
Overall its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Mr G still wouldve decided to buy the policy if hed been better informed as PPI gave 
him useful protection in his particular situation. 
This means The Co-operative Bank Plc doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr G.
But The Co-operative Bank Plc has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr G because: 
The Co-operative Bank Plc got a high level of commission and profit share (more 
than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr G about that. Because The 
Co-operative Bank Plc didnt tell Mr G, that was unfair. 
To put that right, The Co-operative Bank Plc has paid back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think 
that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Co-operative Bank Plc does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But The Co-operative Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr G any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman