DRN-2886938
The complaint
Mr A complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Secure Trust Bank Plc (STB), trading as Moneyway.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint STB, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr A acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then STB, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr A. The car here was about 
four years old and had already completed about 64,000 miles so I wouldnt expect it to be 
fault free and Id expect some wear and tear to be present. But I dont think a reasonable 
person would expect to experience faults with the car within the first few days that prevented 
it from being driven.
The relevant legislation explains that if theres a fault with the goods within the first 30 days 
the consumer should be allowed to reject them without the business being given an 
opportunity to carry out repairs.
STBs file notes explain that Mr A contacted them on 26 March 2020, only seven days after 
the finance agreement had been signed. The notes say that he complained of a service light 
being on; the car being underpowered and that on 7 April, also within the first 30 days, he 
told them the car wouldnt start.
Whilst the battery was replaced I dont think all the issues reported by Mr A within the first 30 
days were. Thats because in May 2020 he explained there were some issues still 
outstanding and the car was still going into limp mode. That seems consistent with the report 
he made in March, that the car was underpowered.
The diagnostic that Mr A had completed confirmed there was a problem with the oil pressure 
solenoid and given the reports hed made within the first 30 days I think its likely that issue 
had been present from the moment the car was supplied to him.
Mr A told STB he wanted to reject the car and I think they should have allowed him to as Im 
persuaded the car wasnt satisfactory when supplied and that Mr A reported the issue in the 
first 30 days.
Putting things right
STB should cancel the finance agreement, allow Mr A to reject the car and collect it at their 
expense. There was no deposit paid so its not necessary for a refund to be considered.
I think its clear that Mr A has been inconvenienced here as hes had to call out breakdown 
services, arrange a diagnostic when the onus was on the business to arrange that, and 
escalate his complaint to this service when it could reasonably have been resolved earlier. In 
those circumstances it would be fair for STB to pay him some compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience experienced and Id agree with the investigators suggestion of £100.
Mr A stopped paying towards his finance agreement but, as Ive found the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality, I dont think he should be penalised for that. Im therefore asking STB 
to ensure they remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr As credit file.
Th relevant legislation says that when goods are of unsatisfactory quality the business 
should return all the payments a consumer has made but that they can retain some of those 
payments to compensate them for the use the consumer has had from the goods.
The investigator didnt mention that in her written view of this complaint but I can see she did 
discuss the matter with Mr A and that she explained to him that because he had continued to 
use the car, and because he had also been advised not to, she would be suggesting STB 
should retain all of the finance instalments that had been paid or were due on the car.
Id agree with the investigators reasoning here. Whilst Mr As use of the car may have been 
impaired by the problems hes experienced he was told not to drive the car, and this may 
have damaged STBs vehicle. In those circumstances I dont think it would be fair to order 
any refund of instalments due, or paid, on the vehicle.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Secure Trust Bank Plc to:
cancel the agreement and allow Mr A to reject the car;
collect the car at no cost to Mr A;
pay Mr A £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes been 
caused;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr As credit file in respect of 
this issue.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman