DRN-3958776
The complaint
Mrs F is unhappy with Covea Insurance plcs valuation of her car when she made a claim on 
her motor insurance policy.
Mrs F is represented by her son Mr F. For ease Ive referred to comments made by Mr F as 
being made by Mrs F.
What happened
Mrs F says a third-party driver collided with her car while it was parked and so she made a 
claim on her car insurance policy. Covea deemed the car a total loss and valued it at £1,288. 
Mrs F didnt think its valuation was fair but Covea didnt change its position. It said it had 
looked at four vehicle valuation guides, but only one of the guides gave a value for the car. It 
said, to reach its final valuation, it adjusted the guide price to take into account the low 
mileage of Mrs Fs car, and it also looked at adverts for similar cars. 
Mrs F still didnt accept its valuation and brought her complaint to our service. Mrs F says 
due to the rarity of her car, and its increasing desirability, she believes it is worth much more, 
and she says it would cost more than Covea offered to replace it with a like for like car.
Mrs F would like Covea to increase its valuation to £1,995. She says she would also like to 
be compensated for the unnecessary stress and loss of mobility caused by delaying this 
claim. Mr F says he would also like to be compensated at his hourly rate of £20 for the 15 
hours he says he spent writing emails, on phone calls and in writing his mothers complaint.
Our Investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She said Covea should consider 
the advert Mrs F provided us, and pay the average between this figure, and its valuation. 
Our investigator said it should increase its valuation to £1,641. But she didnt think Covea 
needed to compensate Mr F.
Covea didnt agree, it said the investigator should also take into consideration the market 
example it provided and take an average of the three figures. It therefore offered to increase 
its valuation to £1,492.67. Mrs F didnt accept this offer and our investigator didnt change 
their opinion. As such, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision on 30 January 2023 in which I said: 
This services role isnt to work out exactly what the value of an individual vehicle is. We 
look at whether the insurer has applied the terms of a policy correctly and taken reasonable 
steps to ensure a fair valuation was reached. Under the terms of Mrs Fs policy, Covea must 
pay her the market value of the car at the time of the loss, less her policy excess.
The market value is defined in the policy as:
The cost of replacing the Insured Car with one of the same make, model, age, mileage, 
specification and condition at the date of accident or loss.
Mrs F says she couldnt replace her car with a like for like one for the amount Covea paid 
her. The valuation of a used car isnt an exact science, and its standard practice for the 
industry to use valuation guides to work out the estimated market value of a car. And its not 
unreasonable that it does so, as the valuations the guides give are based on national 
research on likely selling prices of similar cars with similar age and mileage for sale at the 
time of loss. We usually find the valuation guides more reliable than individual adverts which 
can vary vastly in price, and often advertised prices allow room for negotiations.
 
Occasionally, we find the guides arent able to provide a valuation for a car or dont provide a 
value we think is fair. This is usually when a car is rare or a limited edition. In this case, due 
to the age of Mrs Fs car, most of the valuation guides couldnt calculate a value for it. When 
that happens, we think its reasonable for an insurer to consider adverts for similar cars 
available. 
Firstly, I understand Mrs F says her car is rare and its becoming more desirable. I accept 
that due to its age there arent as many cars like it available for purchase in the market, but 
Ive not seen enough evidence to persuade me its value has increased a significant amount 
for this reason. 
Covea was able to obtain a valuation from one guide, which valued Mrs Fs car at £872. 
Covea says it applied a mileage adjustment to account for the low mileage of Mrs Fs car. 
However, it hasnt told us how it calculated this figure. While I accept Covea made 
allowances for the fact Mrs Fs car had a lower than average mileage, Im not persuaded the 
guide price represents a fair base value for its calculations. I say this because, the guide 
only provides one example of a similar car which sold around the time. This car had travelled 
around 90,000 miles, but when compared to other cars with a similar or higher mileage, I find 
the price stated for this car to be out of line with advertised prices Ive seen for similar cars. 
So, I think its reasonable to discount the guide price from calculations.
Covea says it also looked at cars available on the market as part of its research. Ive 
considered the advert it provided for a similar car on sale for £1,195. While this car had three 
instead of the five doors Mrs Fs had, I found it represented the closest comparable vehicle 
Ive seen. This is because, it is close in age and of a similar model, specification, and 
mileage as Mrs Fs car. 
Covea says it also considered the adverts Mrs F initially provided to it, but it found the 
adverts were obtained from a bidding website and the majority of the adverts were for 
vehicles from a different year, in a better condition or had been modified. So, I dont think it 
was unreasonable for Covea to discount them from its calculations. 
Mrs F says she would like Covea to increase its valuation to £1,995, this is based on an 
advert for a similar car she had seen. Ive looked at the details of the car, and I found 
differences to Mrs Fs car. For instance, it is a different model variation and it is an automatic 
car while Mrs F s was manual. I think its important to note that variations such as those Ive 
mentioned can have an impact on a cars value. However, I note the car is one of very few of 
a similar mileage to Mrs Fs car and it has the same engine size. So, in the circumstances, I 
dont think its unreasonable to take this car into consideration because there are so few 
available of exactly the same specifications as Mrs Fs, and even fewer available of a similar 
mileage. 
As I said, the valuation of a used car isnt an exact science, but in the circumstances of this 
case, I think a fair way to settle things would be to take an average of the two adverts, the 
one provided by Mrs F of £1,995 and Coveas of £1,195. Therefore, I think Covea should 
increase its valuation to £1,595 and pay Mrs F the difference between this figure and what 
its already paid. It should also pay 8% simple interest on the difference from the date it paid her to the date the additional payment is made. 
Our investigator didnt think Covea needed to compensate Mr F for the time he spent on this 
complaint. And I agree, this is because, Mr F isnt an eligible complainant here, that would 
be Mrs F. Ive also considered whether it ought to compensate Mrs F for the inconvenience 
she faced, but in these particular circumstances I dont think it needs to. The process of 
making a claim isnt always hassle free. When a policyholder disagrees with a valuation, 
some level of input from the policyholder is to be expected. I dont find the level of 
inconvenience in this case beyond what I would consider reasonable when making a claim. 
So, I dont think Covea needs to compensate Mrs F for this.
Mrs F responded to my provisional decision with the following: 
She says that even though they were from a bidding website, the adverts she sent to 
Covea were classified adverts and not bidding adverts. 
Mrs F says that due to the time taken to settle the claim, she is now left to pay 
todays market value to get a replacement. She says there are only two of the same 
cars for sale in the UK. 
She thinks the time its taken to settle the claim goes beyond what most people 
would reasonably expect when settling a claim. 
Mr F thinks he should be compensated as he was on the insurance policy as a 
named driver. He says Mrs F is unable to argue her case herself and he is within his 
rights to charge Mrs F for his time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken Mrs Fs additional comments into considering. Having done so. I dont intend to 
depart from what I said in my provisional decision and Ill explain why. 
I accept the adverts Mrs F provided to Covea were classified, and the cars were not to be 
bid on. Covea also said the majority of the adverts were for cars from a different year, that 
were in a better condition or had been modified. Having reviewed these adverts, including 
those which Mrs F specifically highlighted in her response to my provisional decision, I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Covea to exclude these adverts from its calculations. 
Mrs F says because of the time its taken to settle the complaint shell pay current market 
prices. The terms of the policy require Covea to pay the market value taking into 
consideration the age, mileage, specification, and condition of the car. As I said in my 
provisional decision, the valuation of a used car is not an exact science. I accept the car was 
of a lower than average mileage, but I must consider its overall condition. Coveas 
engineers report indicates that the car was in fair condition, and looking at the photographs 
of it, I think what it said is reasonable. 
Ive looked at the most recent adverts Mrs F provided. One advert is for a car which while 
previously written off, the advert states the car includes additional extra features that I dont 
find Mrs Fs car had. Ive also carried out my own research, and I find this advert out of line 
with prices for similar cars on sale. Ive also looked at the second advert Mrs F provided, 
however this states the car recently had work carried out to it, which I find would likely 
improve its condition and the price it might sell for. Im satisfied it was in overall better 
condition than Mrs Fs car. 
As I also said in my provisional decision, advertised prices usually allow room for 
negotiations, and cars often sell for less than advertised. Taking all this into account, Im satisfied £1,595 is a fair valuation for Mrs Fs car. 
Ive reviewed Mrs Fs policy documentation, I note a named driver on the policy with the 
same surname as hers, however I find Mr F was not the person named on this policy. Under 
the rules that govern our service, we can only consider complaints brought by an eligible 
complainant, and it follows that we would only ask a business to compensate the eligible 
complainant, who had the required relationship with the business. I know this will be 
disappointing to them both, but I cant tell Covea to compensate Mr F for his time while 
acting on behalf of Mrs F. This is because, he is not the eligible complainant here. I 
understand Mr F says he may still charge Mrs F for his time, but thats not something I think 
Covea needs to compensate for.
In light of all this, I require Covea to increase its valuation to £1,595. It should also pay 8% 
simple interest on the settlement amount it pays Mrs F from the date of the claim to the date 
the payment is made. 
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I uphold this complaint and require Covea Insurance plc 
to increase its valuation to £1,595. It should pay 8% simple interest per annum on the 
settlement it pays Mrs F, from the date of the claim to the date the payment is made.
If Covea Insurance plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs F how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mrs F a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman