DRN-2224981
The complaint
Miss M believes Amigo Loans Ltd acted irresponsibly by agreeing two loans shed applied 
for.
What happened
In November 2013 Miss M took out a £3,500 loan with Amigo, to be repaid over 36 months 
with repayments of £187.84 a month. In April 2015 she took out another loan with Amigo for 
£7,000 over 60 months with repayments of £276.84 a month. The second loan was used, in 
part, to clear the outstanding balance on the first loan.
Miss M has complained that Amigo didnt act responsibly when approving these loans, and 
they werent affordable when all of her circumstances were taken into consideration. Amigo 
didnt agree they acted irresponsibly, so Miss M has brought her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said Amigo checked Miss Ms income and expenditure, and did a credit 
check, before they approved each loan. And he thought this showed that the second loan 
was affordable. Amigo couldnt provide the credit check they used for the first loan, so the 
investigator considered Miss Ms bank statements alongside the income and expenditure 
check Amigo did. And he didnt think there was anything to show this loan wasnt affordable.
Because of this, the investigator said Amigo had carried out proportional checks when 
deciding to lend, and he didnt think theyd acted unfairly or unreasonably when making their 
lending decisions. So he didnt think Amigo needed to do anything more.
Miss M didnt agree with the investigator. Shes said that Amigo werent able to provide the 
credit check for the first loan because they probably did not check this. Shes also said that 
the fact that I made payments on time for both loans does not mean they were affordable it 
just means that I did not want my guarantor to have to make any payments. So shes asked 
for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, I need to 
consider whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the lending was affordable, and that the affordability was sustainable. Where reasonable 
and proportionate checks were carried out, I need to consider if the lending decision was 
fair. And if reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if the 
loan wouldve been approved if the checks had taken place. 
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportional checks are, but Id expect lenders to 
consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the loan being applied for; as 
well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
Ive seen a copy of some of the paperwork Amigo checked when they approved the first 
loan. The monthly income and expenditure statement they used says Miss M had an income 
of £2,954. Her rent and regular household bills were £1,137, and they allowed £547 for food, 
clothing, transport and unexpected expenses. Amigo also calculated Miss Ms credit 
commitments as £292. This meant that, after paying her regular outgoings, Miss M had £978 
disposable income. This was more than sufficient to pay the new loan payment.
Amigo havent been able to provide a copy of the credit file they checked in 2013. While 
Miss M thinks this maybe because they didnt do one, I dont think this is the case. Its not 
beneficial for any lender to approve a loan without checking the affordability, otherwise they 
have too great a risk of not getting any money back. And checking a credit file is both a key 
part of this, and also part of Amigos loan approval process.
The credit file Amigo checked for the 2015 loan contains historic details of Miss Ms credit. 
Which means that the information Amigo had access to in 2013 is contained within this credit 
file. So Ive reviewed the 2015 credit file to see what Amigo wouldve seen in 2013. 
This shows Miss M had two credit cards, one with occasional late payments and one where 
all payments were up to date. She also had three credit accounts thatd recently been taken 
out, and at least six credit accounts thatd recently been settled. There were also two 
defaults  one in February 2013, and one in April 2013.
Amigo lend to customers with a poor credit history, so I cant say that Miss M having defaults 
meant that Amigo shouldve automatically declined this loan. But they shouldve taken the 
defaults into consideration when making their overall lending decision.
Ive seen that, when they did their income and expenditure calculation, Amigo accounted for 
the defaults and that Miss M would still have to make payments towards these debts. So Im 
satisfied Amigo did account for the defaults. And, because the loan was still showing as 
affordable with these, Im also satisfied that Amigos checks were proportionate. And no 
further checks, for example checking bank statements, was necessary.
But Miss M has provided her bank statements for August to November 2013  the period just 
before she took out the first loan. And these show an income of £2,560, not the £2,954 used 
by Amigo in the income and expenditure calculation.
The bank statements also show that Miss M had used payday lenders  which matches with 
the recently taken out and recently settled credit accounts on the credit file. And, while the 
banks statements show most of the credit account payments Amigo used in their 
calculations, they also show a regular payment of £176 a month to a short-term lender that 
wasnt accounted for because it wasnt on the credit file.
So, if Amigo had seen these bank statements, it wouldve altered their income and 
expenditure calculation. Miss M would only have £408 disposable income a month. But, as 
this is still sufficient to cover the loan payment, the loan was still affordable. So, if Amigo had 
seen the bank statements, Im satisfied it wouldnt have altered their decision.
Ive also seen a copy of the paperwork Amigo checked when they approved the second 
loan. The monthly income and expenditure they used says Miss M declared an income of 
£2,800. Her rent and regular household bills were £1,286, and they allowed £447 for food, 
clothing and transport. Amigo also calculated Miss Ms credit commitments as £281. This 
meant that, after paying her regular outgoings, Miss M had £786 disposable income.Ive also seen the credit file Amigo reviewed at the time. All of the credit commitments 
showing on this were included in the income and expenditure calculation. The credit file 
showed that Miss M was keeping up to date with payments on all of her credit accounts, and 
that she hadnt missed any payments in at least 24 months.
The credit file also shows two additional defaults  in November 2014 and April 2015. Again 
I wouldve expected Amigo to treat the defaults as part of the overall lending decision, and I 
havent seen anything to show me they didnt do this. And, crucially, Miss M had maintained 
payments on the first loan. So, based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied this loan was 
affordable. So I think Amigos checks were proportionate, and I wouldnt expect them to do 
any further checks.
Ive also seen Miss Ms bank statements for February to April 2015  the period just before 
she took out the second loan. These show Miss M had an income of £2,800  the same as 
the figure Amigo used. The bank statements show that Miss M had some payday loans and 
another loan that didnt show on her credit file. And she paid between £359 and £428 a 
month for these. Because Amigos calculation showed Miss M had £786 disposable income 
each month, even if Amigo had seen the bank statements, it would still have shown Miss M 
to have disposable income and that the second loan was affordable.
Because of all of the above, Im satisfied the checks Amigo did when approving Miss Ms 
loan were reasonable and proportionate. And I dont think that the lending was irresponsible 
or unaffordable at the time either loan was approved. So I wont be asking Amigo to refund 
any payments, charges or interest.
Miss M has said that, just because she maintained all of the payments to both loans, it 
doesnt mean she wasnt struggling financially. I appreciate this might be the case, but I 
havent seen anything to show me that Miss M contacted Amigo about her financial 
difficulties and asked them to assist her. So I cant say Amigo have done anything wrong by 
not acting on information they were unaware of.
But I would now expect Amigo to deal with Miss Ms circumstances fairly and sympathetically 
and look to arrange a payment plan thats affordable for her.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint about Amigo Loans Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman