DRN-1757131
The complaint
Mrs V complains that she wasnt informed about the APR on a finance agreement she 
entered into with MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigators opinion for the following reasons:
Mrs V acquired her car through a hire purchase agreement. As this is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement this service is able to consider complaints about it.
If Mrs V wasnt told something that was wrong and that led her to enter into an 
agreement where she would not have otherwise done so. Then Id ask MotoNovo to 
take some further action as the relevant legislation would suggest the agreement was 
mis-represented. 
Whilst I understand Mrs V signed the finance agreement, which included interest 
payments, I think its likely she wasnt aware of this. Ive found her testimony 
compelling and consistent and I dont think she would have settled the agreement 
and part exchanged the car had she not been surprised to find the agreement 
attracted interest.
I dont think she would have been likely to have agreed to pay about £2,000 more for 
a used car that wasnt her preferred colour and that didnt have the options she 
required to manage her sons condition. I think its more likely that she believed the 
used car was cheaper and didnt attract any interest.
I think its likely that she was pressurised into entering a deal on the basis that 0% 
finance would only be available for a limited time. I say that because I can see she 
entered into the deal for the used car only a couple of days after she had been 
considering the new vehicle.
Putting things right
It was Mrs Vs choice to part exchange the vehicle and settle the finance and as shes done 
that she will have avoided most of the interest payments due. But she will inevitably have 
incurred some interest charges. I dont think it would be fair to ask MotoNovo to refund these 
as they were incurred because of Mrs Vs decision to prematurely end the agreement.
However, they should refund Mrs Vs deposit and they should pay interest on this refund as 
shes been deprived of that money. They should also refund any finance instalments she 
paid towards the agreement.
Its clear that Mrs V has been inconvenienced by these issues and it must have been 
distressing to have realised the deal was not what had been proposed. So, I think MotoNovo 
should compensate her for the experiences shes had, and I think £200 is sufficient in the 
circumstances.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell MotoNovo Finance Limited 
to:
refund Mrs Vs deposit and add 8% simple interest from the date of payment until the 
date of settlement;
refund any finance instalments Mrs V paid;
pay Mrs V £200 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience caused;
refund any administration fees paid;
remove any adverse information they may have reported to Mrs Vs credit file in 
relation to this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman