DRN-2949978
The complaint
Mr K has complained about Action 365 Ltds (Action) service in connection with a motor 
insurance policy.
Reference to Action includes its agents. 
What happened
Action arranged a motor policy for Mr K in 2019. Mr K wanted to pay for that in monthly 
instalments; so Action arranged for a credit provider (which Ill refer to as P), to put in place 
the appropriate credit agreement for him. In 2020 Action arranged for Mr Ks policy to renew. 
It wrote to him and told him how much his premium was and what his monthly repayments 
would be if he went ahead with that policy. Its documents also set out what fees Action 
would charge if Mr K decided to cancel the policy.
Soon after the policy renewed P told Action that Mr K had ended his direct debit. So Action 
wrote to him and told him he would need to pay the full premium, which was around £865 
within seven days. Mr K later contacted Action and said he wanted to cancel the policy. 
Action did so and told Mr K that, after deducting what hed already paid, he still owed Action 
around £157, which Mr K reluctantly paid.
Mr K didn't think Actions charges were fair and brought his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into it. He didn't think Action had done anything wrong. Mr K didn't 
agree so his complaint's been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Action is an insurance broker. That means it arranges and administers policies but it doesn't 
actually provide the cover or apply a charge for the time on risk. That is done by the insurer 
which is a separate business. And Action also arranged for a credit provider to loan Mr K the 
full cost of the premium. Mr K then repaid that amount in monthly instalments to the credit 
provider. The credit provider is also a separate business to Action so any interest or other 
charges it applies are outside of Actions control.
In this case I understand that, as Action told Mr K his payment amount would be changing 
when his policy renewed, he cancelled his existing direct debit without putting another direct 
debit in place. That caused P to notify Action that hed done so. So it appeared to Action that 
Mr K no longer wished to pay by instalments. That caused it to write to him to say hed need 
to pay his premium in full (because he wasn't paying in instalments). Im aware that it wasn't 
Mr Ks intention to end the agreement totally and in fact he was simply waiting for P to send 
him a new agreement to sign. But Action wasn't aware of that when it wrote to Mr K. So, 
while I can understand why this was confusing for him, I don't think Action did anything 
wrong.
Mr K did then make one premium instalment payment of around £91. But shortly after he 
chose to cancel his policy. Action told him he owed it around £157. Mr K didn't think that was 
fair as his policy had only been in place for a short time. But, when a consumer cancels a 
policy its usual for the insurer to charge for the time on risk. That means the insurer will 
calculate how many days it's provided the insurance cover for and charge the consumer for 
each day of that cover. And if premiums are still owing after that the insurer will generally ask 
the broker to collect any sums owed. In this case the insurer charged £96.53 for Mr Ks time 
on risk. That sum is outside of Actions control.
Similarly, on cancellation its usual for a broker like Action to make sure that the policyholder 
has paid it all its fees. Those will include charges for things like arranging the policy and a 
cancellation fee. It will also seek to recover any non-refundable charges, which for Mr K 
included the premium for a motor protection policy. And it will add those amounts to any cost 
for the time on risk the insurer has asked it to collect. At that point it will add up all the 
amounts the consumer is required to pay and deduct from that sum any sums already paid. 
If the consumer has already paid more than the sums owed they will get a refund. If that 
amount is less than the consumer owes then the broker will charge the balance to the 
consumer.
In this case after Mr K cancelled his policy he still owed Action around £157. Its clear he 
isnt happy with that figure. But I don't think Actions fees are unreasonable. Ive seen that it 
made Mr K aware of its cancellation and other non-refundable charges before he took out 
his policy. So given that it made Mr K aware of those charges before he bought the policy, I 
think it was reasonable that it applied those charges when Mr K cancelled it. It follows that I 
don't think its treated him unfairly.
For completeness Ill add that, when it sent Mr K a breakdown of the costs, Action said that 
Mr K had paid it £57, when the payment hed actually made to P was £91. I asked Action to 
explain the difference between the two sums. In reply Action told me the £57 was the 
amount which P paid to it. And the difference in figures is because of the interest and fees P 
applied as part of Mr Ks agreement with it. But, as I've said above, Action isnt responsible 
for Ps charges. So I don't think its unfair that it only deducted the £57 it received from P for 
Mr Ks premium payment, rather than the full amount Mr K paid to P.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman