DRN-2570434
The complaint
Ms B is a sole trader. She complains about delays in opening a business account and 
obtaining a Bounce Back Loan with Barclays Bank UK PLC.
  
What happened
Ms B held a personal account with Barclays. She wanted to open a separate account for her 
business and says she first contacted the bank about this in September 2019  but the 
account wasnt opened until June 2020. She says that errors and delays on the banks part 
meant the application process took up 2,000 hours of her time. 
Once the business account was open, Ms B applied to Barclays for a Bounce Back Loan. 
Again the application was successful, and Ms B received the loan funds in September 2020. 
But Ms B says there were also errors and delays in how Barclays handled her loan 
application, which ended up taking around five months to complete.
Ms B says that there were a number of difficulties in communicating with Barclays about the 
applications and that the bank lost information and records she provided. She says she had 
to visit a branch on a number of occasions, far more than ought to have been necessary and 
which posed a particular risk to her during the pandemic. So she wants Barclays to 
compensate her for the time spent on the applications and the stress she suffered, as well 
as reimbursing her for the cost of engaging her accountant to help with the loan application 
and interest accrued on other credit while awaiting the loan. 
One of our investigators reviewed Ms Bs complaint and thought it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Barclays internal records didnt show any attempts to open a business account until 
March 2020. But noting that Ms B had referred to a number of branch visits that quite 
plausibly would not have been recorded, he accepted that Ms B had been trying to 
open a business account with Barclays since September 2019.
Barclays had been clear about what information it had needed from Ms B in order to 
progress the account application and had dealt with it correctly. And there were some 
legitimate causes to the delay in opening the account  including a pause on new 
account applications from March to May, when the bank was prioritising existing 
business customers in light of the pandemic. But it had taken an unreasonable 
amount of time to begin the application process initially, which had caused Ms B 
some understandable distress and inconvenience. So he recommended that 
Barclays pay her £150 compensation for this.
Barclays had handled Ms Bs Bounce Back Loan application fairly. This involved 
requesting information about Ms Bs turnover and some tax records, which led Ms B 
to involve her accountant. But this had all been necessary in order to demonstrate 
Ms Bs eligibility for the loan. And once the bank had the information it requested, the 
application was progressed swiftly and the loan was drawn down within a few days. 
Barclays accepted our investigators view, but Ms B didnt. She didnt think £150 was fair 
compensation for the time and trouble shed been caused by errors on the banks part. So 
she asked that an ombudsman review the complaint, and it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached largely the same conclusions as our investigator and for 
similar reasons. Ill explain why. In doing so, I wont comment on each and every point Ms B 
has raised  rather, my findings focus on the matters I consider most relevant to how Ive 
reached my decision. But I can assure Ms B that Ive considered everything shes said and 
provided to us.
The account application
Theres nothing in the banks records of contact with Ms B about a new account until 2 April 
2020. And at that time, Barclays wasnt accepting new applications at all as it was prioritising 
the support of its existing customers during the pandemic. I think that was a decision it was 
entitled to make and wasnt unreasonable in the circumstances. 
From what Ms B and Barclays have told us, it seems that the account application wasnt 
initiated until 4 May 2020. 
Following a meeting with Barclays on 4 May, Ms Bs account application was run on 19 May. 
It was declined initially, but this was subject to review on the provision of further information. 
Barclays duly obtained some further information from Ms B  including documents to verify 
her identity and tax information  so that the application could be reconsidered. I think these 
steps were reasonable and in keeping with the banks standard requirements and regulatory 
responsibilities. And Ive not seen that Ms B was put to any unnecessary branch visits or 
communication with the bank during this time. These matters were attended to promptly, 
with the application resubmitted on 3 June and approved on 11 June. 
So Ive not found any unreasonable delay or that Ms B was put to any inconvenience unduly 
between 2 April and 11 June 2020.
Its less clear to me what happened with regard to Ms Bs request for a business account 
prior to this period. She says that shed been trying to open the account since September 
2019. And Ive no reason to doubt what shes told us about that. But theres very limited 
information for me to determine what was preventing Ms Bs application proceeding  so I 
cant see if there was a legitimate reason, or if the bank was acting unreasonably (or a 
combination of both). 
Accepting what Ms B has told us, it seems most likely to me that Barclays ought to have 
been able to resolve things much sooner  whether by initiating the application or clearly 
explaining to Ms B what the issues were. At the same time, it may also have been possible 
for Ms B to pursue the application another way, for example by applying online  not that she 
should have had to, but it mightve alleviated some of the problems that she seems to have 
experienced. She was also free to obtain a business account elsewhere.
Taking all of this into consideration, I think the existing offer to pay Ms B compensation of 
£150 for distress and inconvenience caused by any shortcomings in how Barclays initially 
handled her request for a new bank account is fair.The Bounce Back Loan application
Barclays required applicants to hold a business account before it would accept an 
application for a Bounce Back Loan. Thats a requirement it was entitled to decide upon for 
itself under the rules of the loan scheme. So Ms B couldnt apply for a Bounce Back Loan 
until her new business account was open, which was 11 June 2020.
Ms B began her application for a Bounce Back Loan that day, but didnt receive the loan 
funds until 29 September 2020. But I dont think this was due to an error on Barclays part. 
While the aim of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme was to provide financial support to 
businesses quickly, lenders were still expected to carry out a number of checks before 
approving a loan  including Know Your Customer (KYC), fraud and anti-money laundering 
checks. 
As part of these checks, Barclays needed some additional information on top of that already 
held on record about Ms B and her business. In particular, it requested some tax 
documentation to verify Ms Bs eligibility for the loan amount shed requested. I think this 
was reasonable and in keeping with the checks that the bank was expected to undertake. So 
I dont think Barclays needs to reimburse Ms B for any costs she incurred in engaging her 
accountant, or any other third party, to help obtain it.
Ms Bs loan application couldnt proceed until Barclays had this additional information. 
Ms Bs accountant provided it to the bank on 23 September 2020. The bank reviewed this 
and updated its internal systems to allow the application to proceed on 27 September, 
confirming this to Ms B the following day that she could now complete her application. The 
loan was then drawn down a day later. So I think Barclays dealt fairly with Ms Bs loan 
application, without undue delay. It follows that theres no basis on which I could require it 
compensate Ms B for any costs in arranging alternative credit while awaiting her Bounce 
Back Loan.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to 
pay Ms B compensation of £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman