DRN-3687800
The complaint
Miss B complains that Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) gave her unsuitable advice to
transfer her Personal Pension (PP) to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).
What happened
In 2011, Portal advised Miss B to transfer PP to a SIPP after shed received a letter from it
inviting her to get in touch with it. At the time Miss B was aged 57 and the fact-find, dated
23 September 2011, indicated she was employed earning £15,000 per year, living in rented
accommodation and had no savings or assets. She had outstanding bills totalling around
£1,000. And that she had around £120 disposable income per month that she spent on her
granddaughter. The suitability report notes Miss B had a PP with a transfer value of £13,572.
And that she had another pension with her current employer.
Portal carried out a risk-profiling exercise and determined Miss B had a balanced attitude to
risk (ATR). It wrote to Miss B in September 2011 recommending she transfer her PP into a
SIPP. And it recommended she invest in the following:
Raithwaites Hypa Fund  57.5%
Venture Oil International  17.5%
EOS Solar Energy  10%
Cash Deposit  15%
The SIPP was established and the value of Miss Bs PP, which had increased to £14,459.12,
was transferred on 21 November 2011 and just under £8,000 of it (after Miss B had taken
tax-free cash (TFC)) was invested as follows:
Raithwaites Hypa Fund  £5,010
Venture Oil International  £1,764.91
EOS Solar Energy  £1,008.72
In September 2020, Miss B complained to Portal that the advice was unsuitable, as this was
her only pension and advising her to invest in high risk funds was inconsistent with her
cautious attitude to risk. Portal responded in November 2020, saying that Miss B had made
her complaint too late. It said she ought to have been aware she had cause for complaint
from calls, emails and a number of letters it sent her across 2015, 2016 and 2017 which
outlined issues with her funds and the value.
Miss B brought her complaint to our service in February 2021, adding that she was unclear
about Portals reference to illiquid funds in its previous correspondence. And that while one
of the reviews it carried out in November 2017 identified concerns, she wasnt worried as it
expressed hope that her pension would grow by the targeted amount and recommended not
making any changes to her funds.
One of our investigators initially said Miss B had made her complaint in time, as he didnt
think the correspondence was enough to trigger awareness that Miss B had cause to
complain about the advice. He also said he didnt think that advising Miss B to invest her
pension in high risk funds was appropriate in light of her circumstances and that he felt her
attitude to risk was cautious rather than balanced, with her wanting to take no real risk. And
he said Portal should pay Miss B £750 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Portal didnt agree. It said Miss B approached it in 2015 asking to cash in her entire pension.
And that she was sent a pension withdrawal report on 21 May 2015, which explained she
was only able to withdraw 23% of her funds as the remainder was illiquid, which should have
alerted her that her pension wasnt invested in mainstream funds and given her cause for
concern. It said she also signed a declaration saying she understood this. It maintained that
one of its letters, dated 15 September 2015, highlighted issues with the funds and it said that
any reassurances it provided in this shouldnt nullify the time bar issue. It referred to a
previous decision given by our Service in support of this, which said that time starts to run
from the date of knowledge of the grounds for complaint and it continues to run despite any
reassurances given, or other statements made, by the financial business. And that were it
otherwise, complaints would hardly ever become time barred, because businesses are wont
to hold out the prospect of improvements and/or to deny liability.
After considering the matter further, our investigator said Miss Bs complaint has been made
too late as she ought to have been aware she had cause for concern from the report Portal
gave her in May 2015 and the declaration she signed.
As the parties didnt agree, Miss Bs complaints been referred to me for a decision. And I 
issued a provisional decision saying the following:
Jurisdiction
The rules our service is bound by, known as the Dispute Resolution (DISP) Rules - found in
the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook - say in DISP 2.8.2R that, unless the business
consents (Portal hasnt), we cant consider a complaint if its referred to us:
More than six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
more than three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or
ought reasonably to have become aware) they had cause for complaint.
That is, unless the complainant referred the complaint to the business or our Service within
that period and has a written acknowledgement or some other record of this having been
received.
The event complained of  the advice Miss B was given to transfer her PP and make high
risk investments, which she says resulted in a loss  took place in 2011. And, as she didnt
raise this with Portal until 2020 and then refer it to our service until 2021, it has been referred
to us more than six years after the event occurred. This means I have to decide if Miss B
was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, she had cause for complaint more
than three years before she complained to Portal.
Looking at the correspondence Portal had with Miss B in May 2015, I dont agree that this
ought reasonably to have made her aware she had cause for complaint. I appreciate Portal
told Miss B she couldnt cash in her entire pension in the way shed approached it do  it
said she could only take around a quarter as the rest was in illiquid funds. But she already
knew from the 2011 suitability report the funds she was invested in were illiquid. So, I dont
think she would have understood from being told her funds were illiquid again in 2015 that
this meant that her investments were performing badly or that she was at risk of not getting
money back, which could to lead her to question the advice. And the declaration she signed
following this doesnt explain this or confirm shed been told anything to that effect.Ive looked at the other letters Portal sent Miss B and, overall, I dont think she ought to have
felt concerned by these. While the letter dated 17 September 2015 says, for example, that
the Raithwaite Fund hadnt performed as anticipated and had only paid one dividend
payment to date that was lower than expected, the expected investment return dates were
2018 and 2023, which hadnt yet been reached. And it went on to say that security was in
place for this, which was doing its job. So I think Miss B wouldve felt reassured. And while
Portals letter dated 21 February 2017 said that due to the illiquid nature of Miss Bs funds
Portal was waiving its advice fee, it also said there had been a gain in fund value and that it
was happy with the growth and it was hopeful. So I think it was positive overall, along with its
earlier letter dated 4 January 2016, which I think contained very similar information.
I note Portal has referred to what weve said about reassurances given by businesses in a
previous decision. But I have to consider the circumstances individual to Miss Bs complaint.
Portal clearly wasnt concerned, and reassured Miss B as a result in its letters, so I dont
think its reasonable to say these ought to have given her cause for concern so as to make
her think she should complain.
I havent seen anything that makes me think Miss B ought reasonably to have been alerted
to a problem with the advice until 10 November 2017, when Portal sent her a letter making
her aware her investments had been valued at £0 in advance of being sent her 2018
statement by her SIPP provider. I think this drop ought to have given her cause for concern
that the advice might not have been suitable. Theres no evidence her funds experienced a
drop in value that I think ought to have given her cause for concern before this point.
While Miss B referred her complaint to our service more than three years after the letter
dated 10 November 2017, Ive seen evidence she raised it with Portal within three years of
that. So I currently think Miss Bs complaint has been made in time, which means our
Service can consider it.
The advice
Having considered all the information, I think Miss Bs complaint should be upheld for largely 
the same reasons our investigator previously gave.
Ive taken account of relevant laws and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and
standards, and what I consider to be relevant industry practice at the relevant time. These
include the overarching Principles for Businesses (PRIN). Principles 1 (integrity), 2 (skill,
care and diligence), 6 (customers interests) and 9 (reasonable care) are of particular
relevance here.
The Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) in the regulators handbook, set out the rules
regulated businesses have to follow. At the relevant time, COBS 9.2.1R required Portal to
take reasonable steps to ensure a personal recommendation was suitable for Miss B. It had
to obtain information as to Miss Bs knowledge and experience (relevant to the specific type
of designated investment), her financial situation and investment objectives.
COBS 9.2.2R required Portal to gather sufficient information from Miss B to ensure the
recommendation met his objectives, that she could bear the risks involved and had the
necessary experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved in the transaction.
And COBS 2.1.1R required Portal to act, honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance
with the best interests of its client."
In 2009 the regulator, the Financial Services Authority (FSA), also published a checklist for
pension switching. And one of the key issues it thought should be focussed on was whether
the consumer had been switched to a pension thats more expensive than their existingone(s) or a stakeholder pension, without good reason.
I recognise Miss Bs SIPP wasnt particularly expensive  it had an initial AMC of 0.55%,
reducing to 0.5% after 2012, which was lower than her existing scheme at 1%. But, as well
as the 5% initial fee charged by Portal, there would also be other product or fund charges.
Some of these could offset the charges of the existing plan. But its clear there would be a
cost to switching, which Portal recognised in the suitability report when it said:
Overall, this strategy will cost more than your existing arrangement, but will offer potential
growth which is not available to you at present.
While I think its likely the switch would have been more costly to Miss B overall, the fact find
notes her main objective was to access TFC to pay off bills and to have an emergency fund.
And shes since told us that she needed to transfer to access TFC to raise funds. So I
havent considered this any further as it appears to have been a genuine objective. And I
dont think it would have been possible for her to get this through her current PP at the time
without also taking her retirement income, which she didnt need.
While Portals recommendation to switch might not have been unsuitable in that case, that
doesnt mean its advice was suitable overall. And I dont think it was in light of the
investments it recommended Miss B invest in within her SIPP. Ill explain why.
Portal said Miss B was a balanced risk investor, but she says she had a cautious attitude to
risk. And I think this is supported by many of the answers Miss B gave in the risk attitude
profiling questionnaire. For example, Miss B said that people who know her would describe
her as cautious, she generally looks for the safest type of investment even if that means
lower returns, she doesnt associate the word risk with the idea of opportunity, she has little
experience of investment in stocks and shares and she wasnt willing to take any financial
risk. And, while Miss B had eight years until her expected retirement age, she was a
standard retail investor, with no investment experience or savings. Miss Bs said this PP is
her main retirement provision, so its one of her biggest assets. So I think her capacity for
loss in respect of it was low. In light of this, I dont think Portals assessment was correct  I
think a fairer assessment of Miss Bs attitude to risk in the circumstances was cautious.
Yet, based on Portals advice, a significant part of the funds in Miss Bs SIPP was invested in
UCIS. I think the regulators 2010 UCIS findings are relevant here, when it said that as well
as these only being eligible for promotion to certain customers (generally sophisticated, high
net worth investors), for example, even when a customer was deemed eligible for the
promotion of UCIS, suitable advice involved limiting a clients exposure to these investments
to 3% to 5% of their retirement provision. In Miss Bs case, more than 50% were invested in
this. I dont think UCIS was suitable for Miss B at all, and certainly not in the proportion
invested, given theres nothing to indicate she had the requisite knowledge or experience to
accept or understand the risks associated with these types of investments.
As already mentioned, I can see Miss B was made aware some of the investments were
illiquid in the suitability report. And that it said the Raithwaites Fund was an UCIS which may,
for example, carry higher risks and that it usually requires a sophisticated understanding of
investments. But it then said that it was recommending this investment in any event under an
exemption under COBS regulations 4.12, as it had taken reasonable steps to ensure the
investment was suitable for her. And it went on to focus on the rewards this investment
would produce. So I think Miss B went ahead because she trusted Portals advice. And had
it recommended she invest in mainstream, regulated funds, which I think would have been
suitable advice, I think shed have done so for that same reason.
In summary, I currently think the investments Portal recommended were unsuitable, giventhese were likely to lead to Miss B being exposed to far more risk than appropriate. And I
dont think she had the capacity for loss that investments like this carry. Instead, I think
suitable advice would have been for her to invest in regulated mainstream funds. Had Portal
given suitable advice, I think Miss Bs likely to have invested in that way.
Therefore, I think a fair and reasonable way to compensate Miss B for the unsuitable advice
is to use a benchmark based on an investment strategy in line with her circumstances and
attitude to risk.
This matter will also have caused distress, as shes been prevented from taking her
retirement funds when she wanted to. So Portal should pay Miss B £750 compensation.
I think this is a fair and reasonable amount to make up for this in the circumstances.
While Miss B said she accepts my provisional decision, Portal didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as neither party have provided any further comments or submissions for me 
to consider, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. So, for the reasons given 
in my provisional decision, I think we can consider Miss Bs complaint and Im upholding it.
Putting things right
My aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Miss B back into the position she would likely
have been in, had it not been for Portals unsuitable advice.
I think Miss B would have invested differently. It isnt possible to say precisely what she
would have done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given
Miss Bs circumstances and objectives when she invested.
Compare the performance of Miss B's investment with the benchmark shown below.
If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable. If the
fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is
payable.
Portal should add interest as set out below.
Portal should pay into Miss B's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount
of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Portal is unable to pay the total amount into Miss B's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Miss B wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Miss B's actual or expected
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age.For example, if Miss B is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Miss B would
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75%
of the compensation.
If either Portal Miss B dispute that this is a reasonable assumption, they must let us
know as soon as possible so that the assumption can be clarified and Miss B
receives appropriate compensation. It wont be possible for us to amend this
assumption once any final decision has been issued on the complaint.
Pay to Miss B £750 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the unsuitable
advice, which has led to a loss.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal deducts income tax from the
interest it should tell Miss B how much has been taken off. Portal should give Miss B a tax
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue &
Customs if appropriate.
Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end date)Additional 
interest
SIPP Still existsAverage
rate from fixed
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an
asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case.
Portal should take ownership of any illiquid assets by paying a commercial value
acceptable to the pension provider. The amount Portal pays should be included in the
actual value before compensation is calculated.
If Portal is unable to purchase illiquid assets, their value should be assumed to be nil for the 
purpose of calculating the actual value. Portal may require that Miss B provides an
undertaking to pay Portal any amount he may receive from the illiquid assets in the future.
That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing
the receipt from the pension plan. Portal will need to meet any costs in drawing up the
undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a
return using the benchmark.To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Portal
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded
basis.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted
from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Portal totals all those payments and deducts that figure at
the end instead of deducting periodically.
Given theres evidence Miss B wouldve withdrawn her whole pension in 2015 if she could
have, the SIPP only exists because of illiquid investments. In order for the SIPP to be
closed and further fees that are charged to be prevented, those investments need to be
removed. Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Portal taking over the
investment, or this is something that Miss B can discuss with the SIPP provider directly.
But I dont know how long that will take.
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If Portal is
unable to purchase the investment, to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that it
pays Miss B an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated
using the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable period for the
parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Miss B wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Miss Bs
circumstances and objectives. It doesnt mean that Miss B would have invested only
in a fixed rate bond. Its the sort of investment return a consumer could have
obtained with little risk to their capital.
My final decision
For the reasons explained in my provisional findings, Im upholding this complaint and           
I direct Portal Financial Services LLP to pay redress as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman