DRN-2348410
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax mis-sold them mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out three PPI policies in 1997, 2003 and 2008 in connection with their 
mortgage account. 
Theres also mention of another policy but that didnt include any PPI. And as well as this, it 
looks like there was some PPI sold to them in 1996. But it seems that Halifax had already 
paid back everything Mr and Mrs B paid for that policy and they didnt lose out financially. So 
Im concentrating in my decision just on the later policies. 
The PPI policy sold in 1997 was Mortgage Repayments Insurance and it protected Mr B 
against accident, sickness and unemployment for up to 12 months at a time each time he 
made a claim.
In 2003, Mr and Mrs B took out a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) to cover their 
repayments when they took out a further advance on their mortgage. 
TMPP offers a range of different sorts of protection  including Mortgage Repayments Cover 
(which is what Halifax called its PPI at the time), life cover and critical illness cover. Ive 
looked at the sale of the PPI which Mr and Mrs B took out in 2003 to cover Mr B if he 
couldnt work. (Mrs B took out life cover only in 2003.) The policy paid out for up to a 
maximum of 24 months for each successful accident, sickness or unemployment claim  and 
repeat claims were possible. 
In 2008, Mr and Mrs B arranged to share the policy benefits equally. From this point, they 
were both covered for accident, sickness and unemployment and Halifax told us they 
wouldve been covered for up to 12 months per claim. 
Our adjudicator didnt think these PPI policies were mis-sold. Mr and Mrs B disagreed The 
complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
I dont think the policies were mis-sold and so Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Ill explain why.
1997 sale
I think Halifax made it clear that Mr and Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI policy and that 
they chose to do so. 
I say this because Ive seen Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage application which included a section 
for PPI where it says: We recommend that you consider our Mortgage Repayments 
Insurance Scheme.
Theres a brief description of the cover available and Mr B has signed next to where it says: 
Yes, I would like to take advantage of Mortgage Repayments Insurance
So although I dont know what was said about the PPI, I think it wouldve been clear from 
this wording that it was up to Mr and Mrs B to choose whether or not they wanted to have 
PPI. 
Mr B also signed a PPI application labelled MORTGAGE REPAYMENTS INSURANCE 
APPLICATION. Details about the PPI cover, as well as Mr Bs health and employment, are 
recorded on the form. 
And Mr B has signed it so I think its likely this reflects what he wanted at the time. 
Theres nothing in the paperwork to suggest the PPI was compulsory. So while I dont know 
exactly what happened during the sale, based on what Ive seen I think its likely 
Mr and Mrs B wouldve understood that it was up to them to say if they wanted the policy in 
1997  and it was added to their account at their request.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs B in 1997 so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances when the policy was 
sold, I think that it was. 
It looks like only Mr B was in paid work at the time so it makes sense that the policy was just 
in his name. 
Mr B wasnt affected by any of the policy exclusions or limitations and he seems to have had 
a need for the cover. 
Mr B told us he was entitled to 12 months sick pay at the time the policy was sold.
  
I dont know if Mr B wouldve received full sick pay for 12 months  it would be quite unusual 
for someone to be guaranteed 12 months full sick pay and Ive seen nothing to show thats 
what wouldve happened here. 
I think its more likely that for some of that time at least he wouldve probably got a reduced 
amount compared to his normal pay when he was working  and probably hed have missed 
out on any bonus pay if he was off sick. 
Looking at the information on his mortgage application I can see that a bonus payment made 
up quite a significant part of his annual salary.
The PPI wouldve paid out in full for up to 12 months if he was unable to work because of 
accident or sickness. And it wouldve paid out on top of sick pay providing Mr and Mrs B with 
a useful benefit at a difficult time  especially bearing in mind that they mightve had some 
extra costs as a result of Mr B being sick or disabled. 
And PPI offered Mr and Mrs B more protection than they wouldve had if theyd just been 
relying on Mr Bs employer to pay him sick pay. PPI couldve also paid out for up to 
12 months for any one claim if Mr B lost his job and became unexpectedly unemployed.Mr and Mrs B told us that they didnt have any other way to pay the mortgage if Mr B wasnt 
able to work. So I think the policy offered Mr and Mrs B useful benefits and it was suitable for 
their needs at the time. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI in 1997 wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But I think they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this 
type of cover. And it seems like it couldve been useful for them if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable  and they couldve cancelled the policy at any time if their 
circumstances changed or they no longer wanted to pay for it. 
So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover 
in 1997.
This means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI sold in 1997 to 
Mr and Mrs B.
But Halifax has paid back some of the cost of the PPI sold in 1997 to Mr and Mrs B because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs B about that. Because Halifax didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
2003 sale
Halifax hasnt been able to provide any paperwork from the 2003 sale. I dont think thats 
surprising after so long. 
Ive taken carefully into account everything Mr and Mrs B have said. But what they say isnt 
enough on its own for me to be able to uphold their complaint. Where theres only limited 
information I have to look at all the available information and decide what I think is most 
likely.
This service has seen copies of the TMPP paperwork Halifax used to sell PPI around this 
time. And we already know from looking at other cases what the process was when Halifax 
sold TMPP. Ive no reason to think that Halifax wouldnt have followed its normal sales 
process here. So I dont think its likely that Halifax wouldnt have explained that the PPI was 
optional. 
I think its likely that PPI was discussed and recommended for Mr and Mrs B. And whilst its 
understandable if theyve forgotten this after so long, I think Mr and Mrs B wouldve been 
aware at the time that it was up to them to say whether or not they wanted to have this 
insurance cover.
Their mortgage was a big financial commitment, due to run for a long period of time  and in 
2003 they were borrowing more money on their mortgage account. Their home wouldve 
been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date. The PPI provided a 
dependable means of ensuring their increased monthly repayments were protected. 
On balance, I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs B decided they wanted to have the 
benefits PPI offered them. And the accident, sickness and unemployment cover was added 
to their mortgage at their request when they chose to buy it to cover Mr B.Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs B in 2003. So, as well as giving Mr and Mrs B 
important policy information in a clear way, Halifax also had to take reasonable steps to 
make sure the cover it recommended was suitable for their needs. 
Mr B was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and conditions. 
Under this policy, PPI wouldve protected Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage repayments for up to 24 
months per claim if Mr B was off work through accident or sickness. This was significantly 
longer than Mr B couldve relied on his employer to pay him sick pay. 
As well as this, the policy wouldve also paid out for up to 24 months per claim if Mr B lost his 
job and he was unemployed. 
He couldve made repeated claims on the policy and in this way it provided Mr and Mrs B 
with long term cover for the mortgage. 
So I think PPI offered useful cover to Mr and Mrs B over and above the protection Mr Bs 
work benefits gave them. And I find it was a suitable recommendation for them. 
There were some things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look as if those applied in 
Mr Bs case. So I think it unlikely that knowing more about what the policy didnt cover 
wouldve put Mr and Mrs B off taking it out. 
Its possible some of the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. But Ive seen nothing to suggest it was unaffordable for them. And 
taking into account the cost and the monthly benefit that would be paid if a successful claim 
was made I think the policy couldve provided Mr and Mrs B with a worthwhile benefit.  
2008 sale
Halifax hasnt been able to send me any paperwork for this sale either  but thats not a 
reason for me to uphold the complaint.
It looks like Mr and Mrs B wanted to amend their insurance arrangements by arranging cover 
for Mrs B also. 
Halifax told us this was a policy amendment rather than a new sale  but in that case, 
I would usually expect that the 2003 policy terms wouldve continued to apply. 
Halifax says that once Mrs B took out cover alongside Mr B, the 2008 policy terms now 
applied  so that sounds to me like Mr and Mrs B mightve been sold a new policy.
Ive thought about whether it makes any overall difference whether in 2008 the existing 
policy was simply amended to include Mrs B or whether a new policy was sold to 
Mr and Mrs B jointly. And I dont think it makes any difference overall. Heres why I say this.
As it appears that Mrs B was now also working and paying towards the mortgage I can see 
why Mr and Mrs B mightve wanted to take out cover for her as well. 
I think Mr and Mrs B wouldve understood that having PPI was still their choice and the new 
insurance arrangements were set up at their request.
Halifax told us that the policy offered them both up to 12 months cover at a time if they 
couldnt work as a result of accident, sickness or unemployment. So I think the protection offered by the TMPP is likely to have offered both Mr B and Mrs B peace of mind that their 
mortgage repayments were covered even if one (or both) of them became unexpectedly 
unable to work.
And the policy offered long term cover for the mortgage because they couldve made 
repeated claims on it after a qualifying period back at work each time. 
As before, Ive seen nothing to make me think that Mr and Mrs B couldnt have benefitted 
from everything the PPI offered   so even if everything wasnt properly explained, I dont 
think knowing more (for instance about the policy terms and conditions and what wasnt 
covered under the policy) wouldve put them off taking it out. 
Overall, I think it unlikely that Mr and Mrs B wouldve made a different decision about taking 
out PPI if Halifax had given them better information. 
This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. 
And if what happened in 2008 was a policy amendment, so that the 2003 policy terms still 
applied, that policy wouldve paid out potentially for twice as long as the 2008 policy (24 
months in the event of accident, sickness and unemployment). So this wouldnt be a reason 
for me to uphold a complaint that PPI was mis-sold in 2008.
Halifax has already made a payment to Mr and Mrs B in respect of the commission and 
profit share Mr and Mrs B paid on the 1997 policy. This service has also looked at whether 
the commission Mr and Mrs B paid for other PPI they took out after this was too high  and 
whether this was unfair. 
But Halifax had already offered to give Mr and Mrs B back some of the cost of this PPI 
before they brought their complaint to us. Even though Halifax dont think they did anything 
wrong in relation to the commission on this PPI, they made Mr and Mrs B the same 
payment offer as if they had. 
And I understand Halifax has already paid this to Mr and Mrs B.
So I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
Ive taken carefully into account everything Mr and Mrs B have said in response to the 
adjudicators view, including what happened when Mr B needed to make a claim under the 
policy. I can see that our adjudicator has passed on information we were able to find out 
from Halifax about what happened and I hope thats been helpful. I dont think theres 
anything I can usefully add to what our adjudicator has said about this.
I appreciate that what Ive said will come as a disappointment but I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr and Mrs B say they would like Halifax to explain why it refused to pay out for an 
unemployment claim in 2007 
Halifax hasnt made any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this complaint.
Ive taken into account what Mr and Mrs B told us about what happened when Mr B tried to 
claim under the policy  and Im sorry that turned out to be such an upsetting experience. 
But that doesnt mean that PPI must have been mis-sold when he took it out and it isnt a 
reason for me to uphold his complaint against Halifax. 
After taking carefully into account everything thats been said in response to my provisional 
decision, I still think its fair not to uphold this mis-sale complaint against Halifax for the 
reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs B would like more information about a declined claim in 2007. 
Halifax isnt responsible for paying out claims made on the policy it sold. Thats something 
Mr B needs to pursue with the insurer directly. Mr B may wish to approach the insurer to see 
what he can find out. If he does so and finds that he still has concerns in this regard, then 
Mr B should first tell the insurer why hes unhappy. And if hes unable to reach a satisfactory 
conclusion, he may be able to bring a complaint about that claim to this Service as a 
separate matter.  
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold in 1997  so Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B. But for the 1997 sale, Halifax does have to pay 
back to Mr and Mrs B any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the 
PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont award any further 
compensation. 
And for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs mis-selling complaint about 
the PPI they were sold in 2003 and 2008.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman