DRN-3350500
The complaint
Mr C complains that an appointed representative of Quilter Mortgage Planning Limited mis-
sold him a protection policy in June 2010. Specifically, he says that he was pressured into 
taking out the policy and it was not explained to him that the policy was one which offered 
term assurance. 
He also complains that Quilter failed to tell him it had changed his adviser and it didnt 
update him - instead it relied on the insurer writing to him at the end of the policy.
What happened
The policy began in 2010. It had a £28.18 premium and a £10,000 level sum assured. 
In June 2020, Mr C was sent a letter from the insurer of the policy notifying him that the 
cover had ceased. 
Mr C said he had expected that at the end of the ten years he would receive a lump sum on 
the basis that his payments would have accumulated and generated a return. However, it 
was explained to him by the insurer that his policy was term assurance; it comprised life and 
critical illness cover.  
In July 2020, Mr C complained to the adviser that sold him the policy, for which Quilter takes 
responsibility. The complaint was initially lodged by a family member. They said Mr C had 
been taken advantage of in 2010. Quilter told Mr C that the specific adviser had since sadly 
passed away. 
Quilter rejected the complaint in September 2020. It explained how term assurance policies 
operated, and how they did not accrue any investment value. It also said it could not contrast 
Mr Cs account with that of the adviser since he had passed away. However, it felt that the 
cover summary information issued to Mr C at the time of the sale clearly explained the 
nature of the policy.  
It also said the complaint had been made too late. In respect of the six-year time limit 
applying to this service, Quilter said the policy was sold in 2010 and Mr C should have 
known at that time that the policy had no investment value. In respect of the three-year time 
limit, it did not see any evidence as to when Mr C had otherwise acquired knowledge of 
when he could complain and therefore should have done so in 2010. 
Mr C referred his complaint to this service. By this time, he was represented in bringing the 
complaint by his solicitor. The solicitor said Mr C and his daughter confirmed that they 
recalled from the sale of the policy that Mr C was led to believe he had been sold an 
investment policy; he was not taking out a policy to cover any debt.
Quilter told our investigator that it did not consent to the complaint being considered further 
as it was made outside of the time limits applying to this service.  
An investigator reviewed the complaint and said he felt it was made within time, with 
exception of the one additional point of complaint regarding the letter sent by the insurer. He 
said Quilter had no authority over the insurer and that was a separate matter. 
He otherwise noted that Mr C had been sent paperwork at the time the policy was taken out. 
But it didnt expressly point out that the policy had no cash-in value. So he couldnt say Mr C 
ought to have been aware that he had cause for complaint at the time of the sale in 2010. 
Likewise, he felt Mr C became aware of his concerns about the change of adviser in 2020. 
Quilter disagreed. In respect of the merits of the complaint, it said the documentation from 
the time of the sale showed that no benefit was payable on maturity if no claim was made 
during the policy term. That documentation categorically confirmed to Mr C that the policy 
would only pay out in specific circumstances and there was no cash-in value at any time.
It also said ongoing advice was not being given to Mr C, so it wouldnt have contacted him 
when the adviser passed away. The last communication between the parties was in 2010.   
Quilter also said that it remained of the view that the complaint had been made too late. 
The complaint was therefore passed for an ombudsmans decision on jurisdiction. I issued a 
decision in February 2022 setting out that I believed the complaint had been pursued within 
time. 
In that decision I explained that whether Mr Cs belief was reasonably held or not, it is clear 
he did not know or was unable to recall what his policy consisted of until the insurer wrote to 
him in June 2020. It was at this point that he also had concerns about the change of adviser. 
That was the time at which Mr C became unhappy and at which his cause for complaint 
arose; and it was pursued to this service within three years of that date. Therefore, my view 
was that the complaint had been patently pursued within time.  
I did not consider the third additional aspect of complaint regarding the content of the 
insurers letter of June 2020  as Quilter was not the insuring business and it had no 
responsibility for the actions of the insurer.  
The complaint was then passed back to our investigator to resume his investigation. He 
concluded that the complaint should not succeed.  
He explained that the documentation from the time of the sale showed an assessment of Mr 
Cs needs was undertaken. The adviser had recorded that Mr C didnt have any existing life 
cover. It was noted that he was looking for cover in the event of early death and the budget 
for any policy was set at £25 to £30 per month. On that basis, the policy was proposed with 
the sum assured of £10,000 and premium of £28.18 fell within Mr Cs budget.
The investigator also said that given Mr Cs circumstances at the time of the sale, he felt the 
recommendation was suitable. He also believed the paperwork did make clear how the 
policy operated and what it comprised.  
Finally, he did not think Quilter had acted unfairly in not telling Mr C that the adviser had 
since passed away. This was because the policy he took out wasnt under review. Neither 
party had contacted one another during the ten-year term, but he did not believe Quilter had 
behaved unfairly or unreasonably on that basis.  
Mr Cs representative said that Mr C wanted the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. 
She did not make any specific further comments. Quilter also had nothing else to addWhat Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank the parties for their patience whilst this matter awaited an ombudsmans 
decision. Having reviewed the file before me, I am also of the view that this complaint cannot 
succeed. Ill explain my reasons for that below.  
As an aside, if Mr C still has concerns about the insurers actions in regards to the policy 
ending, he or his representatives will need to direct their concerns to that business  as the 
insurer is a separate business and Quilter had no involvement in the operation of the policy.  
Quilters role (and specifically its appointed representative business Ballymena Mortgage 
Centre) was to restricted to advice in 2010 regarding the policy Mr C agreed to take out. 
I believe both Quilter and our investigator have explained that the policy Mr C took out was 
term assurance  that is, life insurance for an agreed term  in this case, ten years. Term 
assurance policies do not have any investment element, and they are purely insurance 
contracts. 
Policies of this nature are sensible considerations if a consumer requires protection in the 
event of a debt such as a mortgage. But, they can also be used for family protection to 
provide a set sum should the policyholder pass away during the term. Often consumers may 
take out family protection to maintain their familys lifestyle or to ease any financial burden 
upon their death, if that occurred during the term.  
I recognise that Mr Cs representative says he was unduly pressurised into taking out the 
policy. I have no reason to dispute Mr Cs recollection. However, whilst this evidence is 
something I take into account, I must also weigh up Quilters version of events (though I 
recognise the adviser has since passed away). I have also considered any other evidence 
such as contemporaneous documentation from the time of the sale. Where there is 
conflicting evidence, I have concluded what I believe is most likely, on the balance of 
probabilities.
Having done so, I believe that after an assessment of Mr Cs needs, term assurance was fair 
to propose in the circumstances. The adviser set out the reasons for his recommendation, 
and he wrote to Mr C and his wife on 24 June 2010 confirming what had been discussed. 
Life insurance is a prudent step to take, and at the time of the advice Mr C had dependents. 
From the documentation which is available, the proposal for the £10,000 sum assured was 
derived from the budget Mr C had for the policy of £25-£30 per month. I am satisfied that the 
advisers recommendation was suitable. 
If Mr C had been unhappy with the advice received, he could have ended the policy with the 
insurer, as it would have issued him a cancellation notice. However, Mr Cs policy ran for its 
entire term and so, his family could reasonably have pursued a claim under the policy if 
required. Given I believe that the policy met an identified need for family protection, I cannot 
agree that I ought to find the policy mis-sold or propose redress on that basis.  
Quilter isnt responsible for the production of the documents (as the policy operation is 
undertaken by the insurer) but I would still have expected the adviser to explain how the 
insurance worked. But even if this wasnt the case the policy terms issued to Mr C at the 
time of the sale entitled Your Life Plan - Term Assurance Cover Details explained how the 
cover works, that term assurance provides life and terminal illness insurance cover and at section C of the wording, that the cover does not have any cash value at any time.  
I do believe the information provided made clear that the policy was term assurance and not 
an investment policy. Therefore, no surrender or maturity value was due to Mr C in 2020. 
Finally, I know Mr C, his family and his representative have set out their unhappiness at 
having no ongoing communications and not being told about the death of their original 
adviser. But the advice Mr C received was not ongoing advice. It was discrete advice as it 
related to the recommendation for insurance where no further follow-up was required once 
the policy was properly instituted. Thats because the duty to provide the policy then rested 
with the insurer, not Ballymena Mortgage Centres adviser. 
Some advisers may periodically review clients needs as these can change in intervening 
years. But the facts of Mr Cs cover being for family reasons, that he was in his 70s at the 
time of the sale and that the adviser later passed away meant that no further follow up took 
place. I do not believe that this has any bearing on the suitability of the advice, that it means 
I should otherwise uphold the complaint or that a duty of care was missed as it was not a 
requirement after the sale in 2010. 
My final decision
Though my decision may be disappointing for Mr C, I do not uphold this complaint or make 
any award.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman