DRN-3538347
The complaint
Mr A complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) didnt do enough to protect him when he fell victim 
to a scam and hasnt refunded the money he lost.
What happened
What Mr A says
Mr A says he received a call from someone who said he was from Mr As bank. He was 
asked if he recognised a payment and, as he didnt, told his account had been compromised 
and he needed to move his money to a safe account. The caller wasnt from Mr As bank 
though  he was a scammer. The scammer persuaded Mr A he needed to create a new 
account with Revolut. Mr A was also asked to download an app that allowed the scammer to 
see his screen. Once the Revolut account was set up Mr A was asked to top up the account 
and then make two payments to a named individual as a test. He was told the payments 
would later be reversed. 
In May 2021 Mr A made the two payments from his Revolut account of £1,900 and £1,290 to 
the scammer. That evening he realised he was the victim of a scam and contacted Revolut 
through its in-app chat. Hes unhappy with Revoluts decision not to provide a refund and 
has referred to the financial difficulties he is experiencing following the scam. 
What Revolut say
Revolut say it had adequate security protection in place and that when Mr A made the first 
payment, he received a notification that said,
Our system have Identified your transaction as highly suspicious. We declined It to protect 
you. If you decided to make the payment again anyway, you can, and we won't decline it. As 
we have warned you this transaction is highly suspicious and to not make the payment, if the 
person you pay turns out to be a fraudster you may lose all your money and never get it 
back. You can learn more about how to assess this payment and protect yourself here.
Revolut also tried to recover Mr As funds but only £11.67 remained which Revolut say it 
credited to Mr As account. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered Mr As complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. In 
summary, she said that that there was nothing to indicate a fraud risk to Revolut. The 
payment requests Mr A made wouldnt have been unusual or suspicious, particularly given 
they were made from a newly set up account that is often used in this way and Mr A had no 
interaction with Revolut. 
As Mr A didnt agree with the investigators opinion, his complaint has been passed to me to 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear Mr A was the victim of a scam and of the impact the scam has had on Mr A. 
I can understand why he wants to do all he can to recover the money he lost. But I can only 
direct Revolut to refund Mr As losses if it can fairly and reasonably be held responsible for 
them.
It is accepted that Mr A authorised the scam payments totalling £3,190 from his newly 
opened Revolut account. So, although he didnt intend the money to go to the scammer, Mr 
A is presumed to be liable for his loss in the first instance. And under the terms and 
conditions of the account Mr A held with Revolut, where a valid payment instruction has 
been received Revoluts obligation is to follow the instructions that Mr A provides. 
But, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice 
and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for 
Revolut, as an electronic money institute (EMI), to take additional steps or make additional 
checks before processing a payment in order to help protect its customer from the possibility 
of financial harm from fraud. For example, if a customer made a payment request for an 
amount that was out of character given the normal use of an account, Id expect Revolut to 
intervene and ask questions about the intended transaction before processing it and provide 
a suitable warning.
In this case, I dont consider Revolut acted unfairly or unreasonably in allowing the payments 
to be made. Im mindful Mr A didnt have an existing relationship with Revolut and that the 
payments were sent on the day the account was opened. This means that Revolut didnt 
have an understanding of Mr As normal spending patterns. 
I also dont think the payments were large enough to have caused Revolut any concern. 
Whilst I understand the amount Mr A sent through Revolut was a lot to him, I dont consider 
the two payments to be significant enough that Revolut should have had concerns that Mr A 
may be the victim of fraud. In the circumstances, I consider that Revolut did enough in 
providing a warning to Mr A when he made the first payment. I appreciate Mr A says he 
doesnt remember the warning and in any event was guided through the process by the 
scammer, but Im not persuaded Revolut needed to do anything more. 
Im satisfied Revolut acted reasonably in attempting to recover Mr As funds but that it was 
only able to recover a small amount. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman