DRN-3660061
The complaint
Miss J complains that Vanquis Bank Limited was irresponsible in its lending to her.
What happened
Miss J applied for a Vanquis credit card in September 2020. The application was accepted 
and a credit limit of £1,000 provided. In February 2021, the credit limit was increased to 
£1,500.
Miss J says that the lending was unaffordable and that adequate checks werent carried out 
before the credit was provided. She says she was experiencing financial difficulties at the 
time of applying for the credit card and was having to increase her borrowing to pay for 
essential items. 
Vanquis says that it carried out adequate and proportionate checks before providing the 
credit card and before increasing the credit limit. These checks included asking Miss J about 
her income and undertaking credit checks. It says based on these checks the lending was 
affordable.
Our adjudicator assessed the information provided by Miss J and Vanquis. He didnt think 
that the lending was irresponsible.
Miss J didnt agree with our adjudicators view. She said Vanquis didnt carry out reasonable 
checks and didnt see the previous financial difficulties she had experienced. She said that 
she had taken out several payday loans and defaulted or deferred payment on these. She 
didnt agree that she had disposable monthly income of £430 and said she shouldnt have 
been provided with the credit as she was already struggling financially.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate affordability 
checks. There isnt a set list of checks a lender is required to carry out, it just needs to 
ensure the checks are proportionate when considering things like: the type and amount of 
credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the credit and the 
consumers circumstances.
Miss J applied for a credit card. Before this was provided, Vanquis asked her about her 
income, carried out a credit check and provided an estimate of her expenses. I think these 
checks were reasonable and having looked at the results, I do not find that these raised 
concerns that required further checks to take place. I say this because Miss J said she was 
employed with an annual income of £30,000. The credit check showed no county court 
judgements and while there were historic defaults these were from 22 months prior, and so I 
do not think this is enough to say the lending shouldnt have been provided. The credit check 
showed unsecured borrowing of around £5,500 which was assessed to give monthly cost for 
credit commitments of around £256. Vanquis also used external sources to gather an 
estimate of Miss Js living expenses based on the information she had provided. Based on 
this it recorded Miss Js monthly disposable income as around £430. 
While I can see that the income and expenses werent verified by bank statements or similar 
evidence, in this case I do not think this was required. The credit check didnt raise concerns 
that I think meant further checks were needed and based on the information Miss J had 
provided about her income, I do not find I can say providing a credit card with a £1,000 credit 
limit was irresponsible.
The credit limit on Miss Js credit card was increased once, in February 2021. This gave a 
new credit limit of £1,500. Information provided by Vanquis suggests that in the months 
Miss J had the credit card she had managed her account well. It has said that there were no 
late or overlimit fees. Miss J wasnt using all her available credit and was making 
repayments above the minimum required. The credit checks showed no new defaults or 
county court judgements. Based on the evidence I have seen, I do not find that Vanquis 
should have been concerned that Miss J was experiencing financial difficulties at the time. I 
think the checks carried out were reasonable and as these didnt raise concerns about the 
affordability of the credit limit increase, I do not find I can say Vanquis was wrong to provide 
this.  
Based on the above, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman