DRN-4260906
The complaint
Mr S complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) wont refund over £134,000 he lost to an 
investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. In brief summary, Mr S fell victim to an investment scam after seeing an advert 
about cryptocurrency investments with the broker Safe Markets (the scammer). He was 
encouraged to invest and, between December 2017 and March 2019, made numerous 
payments totalling over £134,000 to the payees Binmarket, BO Trader and Luno, as 
well as several large international payments, which were all part of the scam. 
Mr S realised he had been scammed when he was being asked to make further deposits in 
order to withdraw his money. He reported the fraud to BOS, and it agreed that it could have 
done more to prevent the scam when he made an unusually large international payment of 
£49,000 on 8 February 2019. So, it offered to refund £36,500 in total (amounting to 50% of 
the final three international payments he made as part of the scam) plus 8% interest, along 
with £250 compensation for the poor service Mr S had experienced.
Mr S didnt think this offer was fair as it didnt cover his total losses, and he thought that BOS 
could have prevented the scam sooner. So, he referred the matter to this service.
Our investigator thought that BOSs offer of settlement was fair. She thought it could have 
intervened sooner on 10 January 2018 when Mr Ss account saw a significant increase in 
spending. But she didnt think any earlier intervention would have ultimately stopped Mr S 
from making payments, as there was no FCA warning about the broker at that point, and he 
also hadnt found anything adverse about them either when carrying out his own research. 
However, by the time he came to make the £49,000 payment, the investigator agreed that 
BOS could have prevented any further loss if it had intervened at this point. She was also 
satisfied that it could reduce compensation by 50% as a result of Mr Ss own contributory 
negligence. Mr S disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator as Im satisfied 
BOSs offer of settlement in this case is fair. Ill explain why.
It isnt in dispute that Mr S has fallen victim to a cruel scam here, nor that he authorised the 
disputed payments he made to the scammer via debit card and bank transfer. The payments 
were requested by him using his legitimate security credentials provided by BOS, and the 
starting position is that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in 
order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
Its also accepted by BOS that it could have ultimately prevented any further loss if it had 
intervened, so I dont intend to explore this point in great detail. What remains in dispute, 
however, is the point at which it should have intervened, as well as the extent to which Mr S 
should share responsibility for his loss. 
Intervention and scam prevention
In terms of when BOS should have intervened, I accept it should have arguably questioned 
Mr S sooner than the £49,000 payment on 8 February 2019. There were multiple large 
payments made from his account on 10 January 2018, for example, which I think ought 
reasonably to have been regarded as suspicious. 
However, as the investigator has pointed out, there was no FCA warning published about 
Safemarkets at this point. Evidence would also suggest that it was even operating under the 
name of Leverate Financial Services at this point, which Mr S would have discovered were 
regulated by CySEC if he had carried out any further research. Mr S had also been able to 
make successful withdrawals, which would have likely reassured him the investment was 
legitimate. Im also mindful that Information relating to how cryptocurrency investment scams 
operated was also not widely known in early 2018. So, taking all of this into account, I dont 
think it would have been readily apparent that Mr S was falling for a cryptocurrency scam if 
BOS had intervened earlier and spoken to him in January 2018. And it seems that any 
further research he couldve carried out at this point would not have likely led him to believe 
he was being scammed. 
The account activity following these payments also did not appear overly unusual. However, 
by the time Mr S came to make the international payment of £49,000 on 8 February 2019, 
Im satisfied this was out of character and unusual enough to have warranted another 
intervention from BOS to probe further as to the nature of the payment, which the bank has 
accepted. By this point, an FCA warning had been published about Safemarkets, and there 
were various other warnings online about people who had been scammed. So, it seems 
likely that a scam warning from BOS with instructions to carry out further research at this 
point would have likely revealed the scam and prevented any further loss. As such, I think its 
offer to refund the international payments made from this point onwards is fair.
I appreciate there is another payment made between the international transactions of 
£876.81 to Luno on 11 February 2019. However, Mr Ss statements show that he had two 
large credits for over £9,000 paid back into his account from Luno in both May and July 
2019. He has confirmed that these were credits from the scammer. As such, I dont consider 
it would be fair and reasonable to expect BOS to refund the Luno payment that was made 
after it should have intervened on 8 February 2019, given this has since been refunded. 
Contributory negligence
Mr S doesnt think it is fair that BOS is only refunding 50% of the international payments as a 
result of his own contributory negligence. Theres a general principle that consumers must 
take responsibility for their decisions. And I have duly considered whether its fair and 
reasonable for him to bear some responsibility for his loss, which Im satisfied he should in 
these circumstances.
Mr S has said he was promised that he could trade risk free if he paid enough money to 
reach the platforms platinum level. I understand that Mr S may not have been an 
experienced investor. But I can see that he did have some prior experience, having invested 
before in Halifaxs share dealing in 2017. So, he wouldve at least had enough experience 
that he ought reasonably to have known that a promise of risk free investing was too good 
to be true. This should have been enough cause for concern even for someone with no prior investment experience, but it doesnt appear that Mr S acted upon any of these concerns to 
verify the legitimacy of what he was being promised.
By the time Mr S came to make the international payment of £49,000, this also marked a 
significant escalation in the amount he was investing, and I think it would have been 
reasonable to expect him to have carried out further checks before parting with such large 
sums  particularly given the time that had passed since he started investing with 
Safemarkets. If he had done so, he would have then likely come across the FCA warning, as 
well as other negative reviews of the broker online, which could have revealed that he was 
being scammed. 
Therefore, Im satisfied that Mr Ss lack of due diligence and failure to question what he was 
being promised contributed to his loss, such that it would be fair and reasonable for him to 
share joint responsibility with BOS. I therefore think its fair for the bank to have deducted 
50% from the redress it has paid.
Recovery
Ive also considered whether BOS did enough to try and recover the funds after the fraud 
was reported. In terms of the debit card payments, Mr S did not report the fraud to BOS in 
time for a chargeback dispute to be raised, so it wouldnt have been able to pursue any such 
claim. And in terms of the international payments, I can see that BOS attempted to recover 
the money, but was informed that no funds remained, which isnt surprising given the time 
that had passed by the time the fraud was reported. 
Compensation
Finally, I also understand that Mr S was unhappy with the service he received from BOS 
after reporting the fraud. I appreciate the experience would have been frustrating, but BOS 
has already offered £250 for the delays and poor service he received, which Im satisfied is 
fair for the distress and inconvenience he likely suffered in this instance. 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr S, and Im sorry to hear he has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that BOS can fairly or 
reasonably be expected to pay any further compensation than it has already offered in these 
circumstances, so I will not be asking it to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman