DRN-3969739
The complaint
Ms M complains HSBC UK Bank Plc havent allowed her to use her credit card interest free 
when they should.
What happened
Following a previous complaint, interest charged on Ms Ms credit card had been refunded, 
and the balance on her credit card was placed on a 0% interest rate.
Ms M understood this to mean she could make purchases without being charged any further 
interest  she wanted to do this because she needed to repair her car which would be a 
large purchase. But after making other purchases she started getting charged interest and 
complained to HSBC as she didnt think this was correct.
HSBC said although theyd placed the existing card balance on a 0% interest rate following 
the previous complaint, any future purchases would be charged as the contractual interest 
rate applicable to the credit card. They added placing the existing credit card balance on a 
0% interest rate allowed Ms M to make an informed decision  she could put a considerable 
balance on the credit card to clear at the end of each month or spread the repayments and 
be charged interest.
It transpired two payments made on Ms Ms credit card were actually fraudulent. And, when 
those payments were refunded, this cleared the existing balance on the credit card. That 
meant there was no balance anymore sitting at the 0% interest rate because itd been fully 
repaid.
Ms M felt HSBC should give her an 18-month interest free period for a large purchase she 
wished to make, and as they didnt, she asked us to look into things. 
One of our Investigators did so but said there was nothing to show HSBC had told Ms M she 
had 0% interest free rate on future purchases  it was only for the balance on the credit card 
and thatd been cleared.
Ms M didnt accept this. She said having had the interest free rate removed from her account 
isnt very fair  and she was told in a phone call the interest free rate did apply to future 
purchases.
Before deciding this case, our Investigator asked HSBC for the relevant calls. HSBC replied 
with those calls and our Investigator said they didnt change her view, so the case is now 
with me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to explain to Ms M I cant look at the previous complaint she had with 
HSBC. The issues were discussed and seemingly resolved in January 2022 with the balance 
on her credit card being placed on a 0% interest rate along with a refund of interest she had 
been charged.
But I do need to explain whats happened in that complaint, as context for this one.
From reading HSBCs notes, and Ms Ms emails, she called in November 2021 to ask if she 
were to make a £20,000 transaction on her credit card how could she minimise the interest 
shed be charged. It looks like she offered out a number of scenarios, and HSBC gave her 
information on those.
Two purchases were subsequently made on 16 November 2021 for £9,999, and on 
21 December 2021 for £9,980  totalling £19,979.
The December 2021 statement shows interest of £285.69 (the amount HSBC ultimately 
refunded Ms M) was due to be charged to her in the following month. 
HSBC wrote in their outcome letter on this complaint in January 2022 theyd given her the 
incorrect information about how interest worked and would be charged on her credit card. 
The notes I can see suggest the sole reason for granting Ms M the 18 months interest free 
period on the credit card balance was because shed said shed have used another interest 
free card had she been correctly told shed be charged interest on the two large purchases. 
The January 2022 statement shows no interest was due to be charged, and then the 
February 2022 statement shows the two transactions of £9,999 and £9,980 be refunded  
thats because these were deemed fraudulent. And in addition, a payment of £6,000 was 
received from Ms M.
These credits  the fraud refunds and the £6,000 payment  cleared the balance which had 
the 18 months 0% interest free rate applied to it. 
Turning now to the complaint Ms M has raised, which is shes effectively being penalised for 
receiving the fraud refunds as shes now not able to benefit from the 0% interest element, 
Im afraid I cant agree. Ill explain why.
Ms M was given incorrect information about whether interest would or wouldnt be charged. 
As Im not considering the previous complaint, I cant comment on whether HSBC acted 
fairly in placing that balance on a 0% interest. But the sole reason I can see for placing this 
balance on a 0% interest free rate was due to the incorrect information.
HSBC explained theyd made an error and should have told Ms M that she would be 
charged interest when making these payments. In their email of 22 January 2022, they said 
As discussed the information that was provided to you by Telephone Banking was incorrect, 
they should of advised you that if your full balance is not paid by the due date then you will 
receive interest charged to your HSBC Credit Card.
So, I cant reasonably say Ms M wasnt made aware how things should have happened. 
Ms Ms argument is she hasnt benefitted from the 0% interest rate. But the sole reason for 
putting that in place was due to the large balance that she said shed otherwise have used a 
different interest free credit card for  this is something Ms M said to HSBC on 
23 January 2022. 
That balance was legitimately cleared. In effect, any wrong HSBC may have done to Ms M 
for the incorrect information previously was no longer a possibility  as she could no longer 
be charged interest on that balance because itd now been cleared. If the transactions hadnt been fraudulent, then shed still have had to pay back the £19,979, its just shed have had 
18 months to do it.
Ive also thought about whether HSBC could have been clearer when communicating with 
Ms M about how things would work in future. Ive not seen anything to explicitly tell Ms M 
shed be charged interest on future purchases  even though it was explained more 
generally thats how it works. But I need to look at all the evidence to fairly decide cases.
Here, I think its right to consider the statements Ms M was receiving. I think its reasonable 
to say she was looking at them, otherwise she wouldnt have known she was being charged 
interest when she raised her first complaint. The December 2021 statement sets out the 
amount of interest due to be charged, January 2022 shows the special interest rate with no 
interest charged on this statement but shows an estimated amount for February. The 
February and March statement also show this, but Ms M paid off the balance in full each 
time, so no interest was charged. The first statement where interest is charged is April 2022. 
This statement also talks about the interest rate charged on standard purchases.
And Ive also seen nothing in the previous complaint or anything since that explicitly said 
Ms M was to be granted 18-month 0% interest rate on all future purchases.
Finally, I understand Ms M says she was told on the phone the 18-month interest free period 
would apply to new purchases, but that isnt mentioned in the calls provided.
Ive seen Ms M has said people have misunderstood her complaint  from HSBC to our 
Investigator. But I think Ms Ms expectation was shed have the ability to make future 
transactions at 0% interest, and Ive simply seen no evidence that was ever offered to her.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman