DRN-3130260
The complaint
 Miss A complains that NewDay Ltd should have defaulted her account between 2009/10 but 
didnt do so. She would like a default applied from October 2009 and compensation.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat the again here. 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its disappointing that NewDay hasnt responded to our investigators view. But as this 
view went out in June 2021 and our investigator has been chasing a response since 
then I think its only fair to Miss A that I go ahead and make my final decision.
I cant hold NewDay responsible for the current management of Miss As account and 
any credit file issues since her account was passed to another companies. Miss A 
will have to complain direct to those  companies if she feels that is appropriate. 
With no significant information from NewDay on Miss As account I only have the 
information that Miss A has provided to consider. But I am persuaded that Miss A 
financial difficulties over 2009/10 resulting in her entering into a debt management 
plan through an external agency. And that she made her financial situation known to 
NewDay at the time.
Given Miss As financial situation I think it would have been reasonable to expect 
NewDay to have applied a default by 2010 and certainly by the time her account 
transferred to another company.
Miss A has told us that not applying the default has negatively impacted on her credit 
file. I am not sure I agree with that since a default itself is usually considered negative 
information on a credit file. She is also concerned of the impact of any future default if 
she falls behind with her payments. We wouldnt normally consider problems that 
havent yet arisen. However, the fact the default wasnt applied by NewDay when 
there were grounds to do so is clearly an issue for Miss A which has and is causing 
her some considerable stress.. I think the £150 compensation that our investigator 
has suggested is reasonable in the circumstances given the effort Miss A is now 
having to make to try to resolve this.
 My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement NewDay Ltd should pay Miss A £150 compensation for distress 
and inconvenience  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman