DRN-1819705
 
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a regular premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy alongside their mortgage. 
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out in 1997 at a meeting with 
Nationwide. Although Mr and Mrs R had a joint mortgage, the policy covered Mr R only for 
accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me. They said, in summary, they were 
unhappy with the process our adjudicator had used to reach her view. They considered it 
unfair and wrong as Nationwide had changed what it had said about them making a 
successful claim on the policy. They also thought they'd been asked for information that they 
couldn't reasonably be expected to supply now. 
Mr and Mrs R remained of the view that they were pressurised into taking out the PPI and 
would not have otherwise done so.
What Ive decided - and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Rs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs R say they felt under pressure to take out the PPI. They said at the time, they 
had recently had a mortgage application turned down, without explanation. And when they 
approached the Nationwide adviser he enquired about whether they had intended to take 
that mortgage with PPI. They said they were buying their first house and under severe 
pressure to secure the mortgage or lose the house. They said the adviser said the lender 
liked to see how they could cover their payments and gave them a mortgage 
quotation including PPI. Effectively they felt the adviser had made it clear that if they wanted 
to make a mortgage application through him, they'd do as he suggested.
I cant know what was discussed with Nationwide when they took out their mortgage. And 
the paperwork from the time of sale is no longer available to assist here.
This is a very subjective area, and based on what Mr and Mrs R have said about the sale, I 
dont consider that I have enough to fairly conclude that Nationwide misled them into believing they had to take PPI to get the mortgage. I can appreciate that Mr and Mrs R may 
have felt under pressure to get their mortgage application approved, but I think it more likely 
that they did know PPI was optional and decided to take it. 
In reaching this conclusion, I have taken into account that the cover Mr and Mrs R took out 
was enough to cover their mortgage repayment, with an additional £200 on top. So, it seems 
more likely that they were looking for protection beyond just their mortgage repayments.
Mr and Mrs R say they were advised to take PPI. I dont doubt that Mr and Mrs R are doing 
their best to recall what happened at the time, but Im conscious that this sale took place 
around 25 years ago and the sale of insurance is not always that memorable and memories 
can, and do, fade over time. Also, based on what theyve said about what the Nationwide 
adviser said, I dont think theres enough to show that he advised them to take PPI. Further, 
having dealt with other Nationwide cases and  looking at the paperwork used for these sales, 
and taking into account what weve learnt about the standard sales processes usually used 
by this business to sell PPI, I think it more likely that this was a non-advised sale. That 
means that Nationwide didnt have to consider whether the policy was suitable for Mr and 
Mrs R. But, it still have to give them clear, fair and not misleading information about the PPI, 
so they could make an informed choice and decide for themselves if the PPI was right for 
them and they wanted to buy it. 
But to avoid any misunderstanding, even if the adviser had advised Mr and Mrs R to take 
PPI, from what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time,  I dont think the policy was 
unsuitable for Mr and Mrs Rs needs. Nor can I see that having clearer information about the 
PPI wouldve led Mr and Mrs R to take a different decision and not take PPI. Ill explain why. 
In reaching this decision I have taken into account Mrs Rs circumstances, too, including her 
financial contribution, given that this was a joint mortgage.
Mr R was eligible for the policy, in that he met the qualification conditions to take out 
the insurance.
Mr R said he wouldve got around three months worth of sick pay from work if  off 
work sick. The policy wouldve paid out on top of Mr Rs work benefits and for up to 
12 months per successful claim. It wouldve also paid out if he was made involuntarily 
unemployed. So, I think it couldve provided them with a useful benefit to protect their 
home. It wouldve allowed them to use Mr Rs work benefits, and Mrs Rs income, for 
other household expenses at what mightve been a difficult time for them financially, 
particularly after Mr Rs three months worth of work related sick pay was up. Mrs R 
said she was also eligible to get around three months worth of sick pay from her 
work.  
They said they had substantial savings and investments at the time they took out the 
PPI. They were able to provide evidence of their savings from 1993, but not the time 
of sale. But that's not surprising given the passage of time. But, I havent seen 
anything to persuade me that the level of security Mr and Mrs R had by way of other 
means was such that it made PPI clearly unsuitable for them. I think it unlikely that if 
they felt so secure, they wouldve taken out an additional £200 of monthly cover for 
Mr R on top of their mortgage repayments.
The PPI cost Mr and Mrs R around £36.85 per month providing mortgage repayment 
cover of £650 and, as Ive said before £200 on top of that. The policy was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. The policy was paid for by monthly 
instalments, so Mr and Mrs R couldve cancelled the policy at any time without losing 
out financially.
Mr Rs circumstances dont suggest he wouldve been caught by any of the main 
exclusions or limitations in the policy. So, I dont think they needed better information 
about these things.
 In summary, I think Mr and Mrs R agreed to take out the cover, albeit because they were 
anxious to get the mortgage, but I think they knew they didnt have to. And given it provided 
broadly what I think they expected when they agreed to it, I dont think they would have 
made a different decision (and decided against taking it out) if they'd been better informed. 
So, I dont think that Mr and Mrs R have lost out here.
Ive looked carefully at what Mr and Mrs R have described as an unfair and wrong process 
used by this service for reviewing their complaint. Our service offers a direct alternative to 
court, and our procedures are more informal. 
Mr and Mrs R are concerned about the fact that Nationwide erroneously said in its final 
response that they had made a successful claim on the policy. In her not uphold view, our 
adjudicator pointed out that Nationwide had apologised for passing on wrong information 
about this. But, I cant see that this influenced our adjudicators decision to not uphold this 
complaint,  or that overall, Mr and Mrs R werent given the opportunity to comment on it - 
indeed they have. And I have reviewed this case afresh  before making this decision.
Taking everything into account, I see no reason to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman