DRN-3014334
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) declined their claim for a 
cancelled trip.
What happened
On 25 February 2020, Mr and Mrs L bought a single trip travel insurance policy and AXA 
was the underwriter of that policy. They booked their holiday to the USA through their travel 
provider (Ill call them A), which was due to take place from 16 March 2020 to 23 March 
2020.
Due to a change in the US government guidelines for Covid-19, which restricted the entry of 
non-US residents, Mr and Mrs L were unable to board their flight on 16 March 2020, even 
though they had arrived at the airport.
They submitted a claim to AXA as they were no longer able to go on the trip. It was 
reviewed, but AXA declined it on the basis theres no cover under Mr and Mrs Ls policy for a 
change in the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advice. AXA also confirmed the 
holiday had been booked as a package and therefore Mr and Mrs L needed to recover the 
funds from A. It also informed Mr and Mrs L about the protection they had under the 
Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018 PTR. 
Mr and Mrs L were unhappy with AXAs decision to decline the claim and brought a 
complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think it was 
unreasonable for AXA to consider whether the costs claimed, by Mr and Mrs L, were 
recoverable or not. She said the holiday was booked as a package with A and, while A 
refused to provide a refund, that didnt mean their liability to do so was absolved under the 
PTR requirements. She said AXA had acted fairly and reasonably in declining Mr and Mrs 
Ls claim and she didnt think AXA needed to do anything further. 
Unhappy with the investigators assessment, Mr and Mrs L asked for the complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman. So its been passed to me. They didnt respond with any further 
points or comments following the investigators assessment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our service is an alternative to the courts which settles disputes informally taking into
account what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. The relevant rules and industry
guidelines say that AXA has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it
shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The key issue I need to decide is whether AXA has considered the claim in line with the 
terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ls policy and whether in doing so, theyve been treated 
fairly and reasonably. 
I can see from the information provided, AXA decided that even though the event itself 
(cancellation of a trip due to a change in travel advice from the FCO), didnt provide cover 
under Mr and Mrs Ls policy, AXA considered the claim as if that cover was provided. It 
therefore assessed Mr and Mrs Ls claim under the remaining policy terms and conditions. 
So, Ive gone on to consider the relevant policy terms and conditions AXA relied on here to 
decline the claim.
The policy terms and conditions
Section A Cancellation or Curtailment Charges on page 18 of the policy document states:
What is Covered
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the schedule of benefits for your 
proportion only of any irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs 
and other pre-paid charges which you have paid or are contacted to pay, together 
with your proportion only of any reasonable additional travel expenses insured if:
a) Cancellation of the trip is necessary and unavoidable or
b) The trip is curtailed before completion..
AXA has said as Mr and Mrs L booked their trip as a package holiday, A is responsible and 
liable to provide a refund to them. And because of this, the cost of their trip is recoverable 
through A. 
Having reviewed all the information available and the terms and conditions of the policy, I 
dont think its unreasonable for AXA to consider the claim on the basis of whether the costs 
are recoverable or not. Ill explain why. 
Package holiday
Mr and Mrs L booked the trip as a package holiday through A. 
On 14 March 2020, the US government announced that travel restrictions to UK residents 
would be imposed from 23:59 on 16 March 2020. British Nationals werent therefore able to 
enter the USA from this point. 
On 17 March 2020, the UK government advised against all but essential travel to the USA. 
Mr and Mrs L werent able to board their flight on 16 March 2020 because of the above 
changes in travel advice. The trip was therefore cancelled. The scheduled flights have also 
been confirmed as cancelled. 
AXA reviewed the claim and said as the holiday was booked as a package, the liability for 
recovering the cost falls with A. And the evidence suggests that it was most likely that Mr 
and Mrs L were unable to travel, as opposed to simply not wanting to travel. So, based on 
the evidence Ive seen, under the Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements 
Regulations 2018 (PTR), the travel provider has a legal obligation to provide Mr and Mrs L 
with a refund for their cancelled trip.  
Having reviewed and considered this point, I can see theres no dispute that the holiday was 
indeed booked as a package. Im satisfied therefore in line with PTR that its possible, Mr 
and Mrs L are able to recover the cost though A. I note though that A has responded to Mr 
and Mrs L and said it isnt liable for the refund and hasnt been helpful with this line of communication. However, despite this, the fact is the liability still remains with A and, just 
because it hasnt been receptive to providing a refund, that doesnt absolve it of its duties to 
Mr and Mrs L. Im sympathetic to Mr and Mrs Ls attempts to recover the funds and I realise 
this has been difficult for them. 
Nevertheless, specifically on this point, I dont think AXA has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
because the option to recover their funds is still open to Mr and Mrs L and hasnt been 
completely closed off for reasons Ill go on to explain. 
ATOL protection 
The travel provider (A) that Mr and Mrs L booked with, was a member of a travel industry 
arbitration scheme. It resigned from this membership on 25 January 2021. A is also showing 
as having ceased trading on 30 March 2021. Its understandable therefore that A hasnt 
always responded in the way we would have expected. And in situations like this, the next 
option for Mr and Mrs L is to approach ATOL (Air Travel Organisers Licence). I can see our 
investigator provided them information about this scheme, but Id like to further clarify how 
this scheme operates.
ATOL is a UK financial protection scheme and it protects most air package holidays sold by 
travel businesses. The scheme is designed to reassure consumers that their money is safe 
and will provide assistance in the event a travel business fails.
I can see an ATOL certificate was provided to Mr and Mrs L which referred to the trip being a 
package sale. Having reviewed the information available from the travel industry scheme 
and the aviation regulator, theres information about A. Theres guidance to customers who 
booked a trip with A, including flights, that they should contact the aviation regulator if the 
booking is protected under the ATOL scheme. Its also included a link to the claim form for 
consumers to complete.
Has the claim been declined fairly?
With the above protection in place and the information Mr and Mrs L have provided, I dont 
think theyve explored all the avenues available to them and taken reasonable steps to 
recover their losses. The only evidence Ive seen is them contacting A directly and the 
communication that took place between them. I understand this is a frustrating situation. But 
as it stands, Mr and Mrs L have protection for the trip that was cancelled. While I appreciate 
A has ceased trading, which means their refund cant be obtained directly from it, Mr and 
Mrs L still have the option to recover their funds through the ATOL scheme. And theyre also 
able to seek advice from the industry arbitration scheme directly. 
As they havent shown theyve done this, Im not persuaded that AXA has unfairly declined 
Mr and Mrs Ls claim. The cost of their holiday is recoverable and therefore AXA hasnt 
acted incorrectly in declining their claim for this reason.
Id like to finally add, for the sake of completeness, that if Mr and Mrs L are unsuccessful in 
their claim in using the ATOL scheme and can show evidence of this, they can ask AXA to 
review their claim again in light of any new information and in line with Mr and Mrs Ls policy 
terms and conditions. 
Conclusion
Overall, having taken everything into account, Im satisfied AXA has considered the claim in 
line with Mr and Mrs Ls policy terms and conditions. Im also satisfied that it hasnt declined 
it unfairly or unreasonably. It follows that I dont think AXA needs to do anything further.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint against AXA 
Insurance UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 October 2021.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman