DRN-4205441
The complaint
Mr E complains Accredited Insurance (Europe) Limited declined his claim and avoided (treat 
it as though it never existed) his home insurance policy.
Any reference to Accredited includes its agents.
What happened
The details of the claim are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again here. 
Instead, Ill summarise the background and focus on the reasons for my decision.
On 18 January 2023, Mr E contacted Accredited to make a claim as a fire had started in his 
kitchen the evening before which caused significant damage. The fire brigade attended to 
assist in the emergency. 
Due to inconsistencies with the information Mr E had given about the part of his contents 
claim relating to an iPhone, Mr E and his mother were interviewed in March and April 2023. 
Mr E and Accredited communicated further about his claim and, ultimately, its payment for 
his alternative accommodation stopped. 
Accredited wrote to Mr E asking questions to clarify matters and Mr E responded. Soon after 
this, in early May, Accredited wrote to Mr E to let him know it wouldnt be paying his claim 
and had avoided his policy. It was also seeking to recover just under £5,300 from him for the 
costs itd already incurred in his claim. It explained this was because its satisfied Mr E 
breached the fraud condition in the policy by doing the following.
1. Attempted to claim for an item (the iPhone) he knew wasnt damaged in the fire. 
2. Knowingly made numerous false statements about several matters including:
a. his iPhone being in use prior to the fire.
b. the placement of his iPhone in the kitchen by an individual unknown to him 
before he made a video recording of it the day after the fire. 
c. the need for a new phone after the fire.
d. the alleged purchase of an iPhone 13 in late February 2023.
During Accrediteds investigations, Mr E didnt think the delays and its decision to stop 
paying his AA was fair. So, he complained to our service. Accredited was given the 
opportunity to consider his complaint and confirmed in its final response letter (FRL) it didnt 
uphold Mr Es complaint. It said Mr E had made - and continues to make - conflicting 
statements and has failed to adequately answer the evidential discrepancies. So, it had 
relied on the fraud condition correctly. 
Mr E didnt agree so he asked this service to review his complaint. He shared a report from 
Apple dated 19 May which says the device has come into contact with liquid and doesnt 
power on. Mr E explained there were hugely valuable items in the kitchen such as his new 
cooker, two boxes of jewellery, his laptop for university work, Air Pods, two expensive 
watches and his iPhone and so he doesnt understand why Accredited is focusing on his 
iPhone. He says he has no reason to lie  hes more than capable of buying another iPhone 
as he has a great deal of savings and is very self-sufficient. Mr E also says he has spent 
time and money on his property so why would he risk it  as well as his own credibility and 
career - by lying about a phone.
The Investigators view was that Accredited had valid concerns about the claim and Mr E 
hadnt done enough to dispel those concerns. Overall, they didnt find any evidence the 
iPhone was damaged by the fire in the incident. So, they didnt uphold Mr Es complaint.  
Mr E didnt agree with this. This matter has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Ive taken onboard all their points  although Im not going to respond 
to each point individually. Instead, Ive focussed on what I consider to be the crux of the 
complaint, which is whether Accredited have treated Mr E fairly by declining his claim and 
voiding his policy. Our rules allow me to do this and it reflects the informal nature of our 
service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions made 
before arriving at my decision and Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
argument to be able to reach what I consider to be a fair outcome. Where evidence is 
contradictory, I must reach my decision on a balance of probabilities  what I think is more 
likely to have happened given the evidence available and the wider circumstances. And Ive 
come to my conclusions based on this.
Having done so, I must tell Mr E Im satisfied the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So, I dont uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
Mr E wants Accredited to pay his claim. To decide if it should, I need to look at whether 
Accredited acted fairly and reasonably when it used the fraud condition of the policy to 
decline Mr Es claim. The fraud condition says the following.
You must make any claim honestly. We will not have to pay any claim if youmake 
any false or misleading statements in connection with that claim. 
The policy gives Accredited the right to refuse to pay the claim and avoid the policy if this 
condition is breached. Further, it doesnt have to return the premium to the consumer and 
can recover any amounts its paid relating to the claim, including any costs of investigating it. 
Accredited said because of the discrepancies in information itd seen, it carried out 
investigations to see if it was right to be concerned about this. I recognise Mr E was unhappy 
as he felt this was delaying his claim. However, Ive seen inconsistencies in the information 
Accredited received from Mr E throughout the claims process. So, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Accredited to undertake further investigations.
Ive read the evidence from both parties including a summary of the interviews of Mr E and 
his mother. And Im persuaded the information given to Accredited was enough for it to fairly 
say Mr E had  on balance  breached the fraud condition set out above. Below Ive set out 
some of the key instances where I find this occurred. 
Mr Es need for a new phone after the fireIn messages sent to Accredited on 24 January 2023, Mr E said Regarding payment for the 
iPhone and watch which was damaged in the fire, I need these funds today as I will have no 
phone or watch which is essential. On 25 January, he said Can I get an update regarding 
my payment or my phone and watch replacement. I need my own phone for my work and 
everyday life. This is ridiculous! I am using a friends work phone to do whats expectedI is 
crucian [sic] that I get my phone replaced. However, when questioned later Mr E confirmed 
he was using his mothers spare phone and had been doing so before the fire.
In May 2023, Mr E explained hed waited until his mother had confirmed she was happy to 
be in the claim so, after obtaining her permission, he informed the team the phone was his 
mothers spare phone. However, he feels the owner of the phone he was using has no 
relevance as he didnt own it and this shouldve been enough for Accredited to proceed. 
I dont see things the same way. Mr E only confirmed it was his mothers phone when 
questioned about this by Accredited on different occasions. And Ive seen no reason why he 
couldnt name his mother as the person who owned the phone he was using. Even so, the 
policy requires Mr E to act honestly and not make any misleading statements. When Mr E 
first told Accredited he was using a friends work phone, this wasnt true. 
It also seems to me more likely Mr E overstated the urgency of his need for a phone in his 
correspondence with Accredited after the fire. I say this because hed had use of his 
mothers spare phone before the fire and for some time afterwards too, with his mother later 
confirming there was no return date.
Mr Es claim for a damaged iPhone in 2021 and the condition of his phone in 2023
In November 2021, Mr E started a claim for the iPhone which is now the subject of this 
complaint. The damage was recorded as cracking the screen and back of the phone. He 
didnt proceed with the claim as he said itd be cheaper to have it repaired himself. 
When examining the images from the 2021 claim and the images Mr E sent Accredited in 
relation to the fire in 2023, its clear much of the damage shown on the phone in 2023 had 
been sustained previously and was the subject of the aborted 2021 claim. When responding 
to the FRL, Mr E explained he just stuck a case on as the damage didnt cause any issues 
with how a phone should work. 
I accept its possible Mr E continued to use his iPhone after the 2021 claim even though he 
didnt get it fixed. I say this because his phone looks as though its had more wear and tear 
since the 2021 claim, consistent with use/being dropped. So, in my view, its not possible to 
safely say its more likely Mr Es phone was in full working order before the fire given the 
extent of the damage sustained over a year prior. And I think its important to note he wasnt 
using his iPhone before the fire as he was already using his mothers spare phone. 
Further, in the interview with Mr Es mother on 17 April, she said shed lent Mr E her spare 
phone as his own phone was faulty and her phone had been left with him for some days or 
weeks before the fire. This also suggests its more likely Mr Es phone wasnt in full working 
order before the fire. 
I note Mr E says he and his mother had a heated conversation about her choice of words to 
say it was faulty as she actually meant it was cosmetically damaged. But I cant see any 
reason for his mother to use these words incorrectly or state this is why shed lent her phone 
to Mr E if this was incorrect. 
Based on everything Ive seen, I cant say its more likely Mr Es iPhone was in full working 
order before the fire. Turning now to the issue of the condition Mr E told Accredited his iPhone was in before the 
fire. In response to questions about the condition of his iPhone in March 2023, Mr E said 
The phone was working and in complete useable condition with no issues or damage. This 
was a phone that I used frequently and at the end of the day, I had a perfectly working 
iPhone [model]. On 20 March, during the interview, Mr E stated his iPhone was in full good 
working order at the time of the fire.
Its clear from the information supplied during the 2021 claim which showed significant 
damage to the front and back of his iPhone  which wasnt repaired  that it couldnt have 
been a perfectly working iPhone with no issues or damage by the time of the fire in 2023. 
So, I consider Mr Es statements to Accredited about the condition of his iPhone before the 
fire to be untrue. 
Notwithstanding what Ive said above, and irrespective of whether Mr E was actually using 
his iPhone before the fire (or was able to do so), I havent seen any evidence to show it was 
the fire which deprived Mr E of the use of his iPhone. 
Mr E says the damage shown in the photos from his 2023 claim show obvious damage 
which is consistent with other fire damaged phones hes seen online. I dont agree its 
possible to say the same from the photographs alone. However, theres a report from Apple 
after physically examining the phone which refers to liquid damage - theres no mention of 
any fire related damage. I appreciate Mr E explains this is from the fire brigade putting out 
the fire, but I think it likely Apple would also mention fire damage if this had been present.
A new iPhone
On 20 March at interview, Mr E is recorded as confirming I bought a new iPhone 13 off [a 
selling site] to replace my fire damaged iPhone, I bought it from a guy in [location] but I 
cannot remember what I paid for it as it was on my mums [site] account, this was around the 
end of January beginning of February.
Mr Es mother confirmed in her interview hed bought an iPhone 12 on her account with a 
selling site in late February. However, when sharing the messages from this selling site with 
the interviewer, Mr E says to the seller I am picking up the phone for my neighbour. Hes 
older and doesnt know how to do this kind of thing. 
More recently, Mr E says he told Accrediteds investigator he was buying a replacement 
second-hand phone, but he never went ahead as his mother said he could keep her phone. 
And, at the same time, he was helping his neighbour. His mother hasnt realised this as, at 
the time, they hadnt had a great deal of time to chat, and she got mixed up. 
Whilst I cant say from this information what happened, it is clear that both versions of events 
given by Mr E cant be true. Its apparent from the interview summary Mr E said hed bought 
an iPhone 13  clearly describing when, how and who from. Its not now possible for Mr E to 
explain the discrepancies in what he told the interviewer and the information on his mothers 
phone by saying he told the interviewer he was going to buy a phone but hadnt yet done so 
and then changed his mind. 
In light of this, I consider what Mr E told Accredited, about the iPhone hed bought, to be 
misleading information.  
The location of Mr Es iPhone during and after the fireMr E sent a video to Accredited which showed his iPhone beside the hob. When asked 
about the placement of his iPhone, Mr E said he didnt believe this was where it was placed. 
Four days later he said, 
I think its disgusting that you keep questioning that I had another phone, the phone 
placementthats just where the phone was placed. I didnt leave the phone there, it 
was next to the toaster, thats just where it was when I came back the next 
morning.I need that phone replaced. 
Accredited commented the soot, ash and debris had been disturbed on the surface by the 
phone and that, after the phone had been moved, there was no void or lesser burnt section 
of work surface where it was allegedly throughout the fire. 
In response to the FRL, Mr E explained his iPhone was in the area of the hob, possibly 
placed on top of some things he had to the side of the hob. And he said his grandma may 
have moved it when she visited his home with him the day after the fire. He also said it 
couldve been moved by the fire brigade or the commotion of the fire. 
In response to the Investigators view, Mr E said hes now spoken to his grandma, and she 
moved it from the top drawer. And he didnt discuss this earlier as his grandparents have 
health issues, and he didnt want to bombard them with whats been going on.
Given the importance of Accrediteds decision in this matter on Mr Es home and finances, 
its surprising he didnt discuss this sooner with his grandma notwithstanding their health 
issues. I also find it difficult to accept Mr Es grandma:
- moved the phone when theres no reason for her to do this unless it was to hand it to 
Mr E - in which case hed have been aware of how it came to this location;
- did this without making any marks in the soot, ash and debris on the phone; and
- failed to mention it to him at the time or at any point since the fire.
In light of the above, I think it more likely Mr Es account of the location of his iPhone during 
and soon after the fire has been misleading.
summary
Ive looked at the information Mr E has provided and I consider his version of events has 
been inconsistent with both incorrect and misleading information being given to Accredited. 
Mr Es policy says it doesnt have to pay any claim if the policy holder makes any false or 
misleading statements in connection with that claim. Based on the evidence Ive seen, I 
think Accredited was fairly and reasonably concerned Mr E had made both false and 
misleading statements about his iPhone. This has the impact of Mr E making a claim which 
wouldnt usually be paid under his policy when the insured event was a fire and/or 
exaggerates the claim. 
Overall, I think Accredited acted fairly and reasonably and in-line with the policy terms and 
conditions by declining the claim based on a breach of the condition relating to fraud. So, Im 
satisfied Accredited acted fairly in voiding the policy and requiring Mr E to pay back the 
money it paid for the claim. I note its also seeking to recover its investigation fees and Ive 
seen no evidence to suggest these include anything other than its additional costs of 
investigating the fraudulent element of the claim. These are therefore something Mr E should 
also fairly pay.
I recognise Mr E feels strongly about this and will be disappointed with my decision. But my decision ends what we  in trying to resolve his dispute with Accredited  can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman