DRN-2693287
The complaint
Mr P complains that St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP), gave him misleading 
advice when recommending a term assurance policy.
What happened
In 2003 Mr P and his partner met with an SJP adviser (the adviser) who recommended they 
started a joint term assurance policy. The recommendation to take out a joint policy was 
amended in early 2004 due to Mr Ps partner not being accepted for critical illness cover. 
Instead, Mr P was recommended to take out a separate policy for life and critical illness 
cover at a cost of £139 each month. 
The policy was designed to cover Mr Ps mortgage in the event of his death or if he became 
critically ill. At that time Mr P and his partner were in the process of taking out a part 
investment/ part repayment mortgage. The policy recommended was to cover the repayment 
element of the mortgage totalling £225,000.
In 2020 Mr P complained to SJP. He said the adviser incorrectly told him the policy was a 
compulsory part of the mortgage. After reading about the payment protection insurance mis-
selling scandal in 2019, Mr P realised the policy wasnt compulsory. He cancelled his policy 
in early 2020 and complained to SJP saying hed been misled by its adviser. Mr P added 
that having the policy made life a struggle financially for him and he would not have 
purchased the policy if hed not been misled.
 
SJP rejected Mr Ps complaint. It said that based on Mr Ps circumstances at the time of the 
advice, the policy was suitable for his needs. And it couldnt find any evidence that its 
adviser had said the policy was a compulsory part of the mortgage. 
Our investigator didn't uphold the complaint. In brief, he thought the recommendation was 
suitable for Mr P. He also didnt think there was sufficient evidence to show the adviser 
misled Mr P about whether the policy was a condition of the mortgage. 
Mr P disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He maintained he was told he had 
to have the policy in order to secure his mortgage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has made numerous points in support of this complaint. We are an informal service and 
our rules allow me to focus on what I consider relevant. So if theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored anything  I havent. Ive just focused my decision on 
what I think impacts on the outcome of the case. I'll also mention at this stage that where 
there's a dispute about what happened, I've based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
I can see that Mr Ps main complaint is that he was misled by SJPs adviser into believing 
the policy was a compulsory part of the mortgage, when in fact it wasnt. Whilst Ive taken 
into account what Mr P has said, he his recalling facts from seventeen years ago. So I need 
to balance his testimony with the contemporaneous documents such as the fact find and 
other point of sale documents. 
The policy recommendation letter dated 31 October 2003 doesnt go into detail about the 
reasons for the recommendation, other than to note it met with Mr Ps needs and was 
affordable. However, Mr P and his partner were also receiving advice from SJP about their 
mortgage. And I can see its mortgage recommendation letter also sent to Mr P and his 
partner on 31 October 2003, noted the only insurance that needed to be arranged for the 
mortgage was buildings insurance. The mortgage offer document from the lender dated 
6 January 2004 also confirmed this was the case.
In light of these documents which Mr P would have received at or around the time of the 
advice, Im not persuaded he was misled about the policy being a mandatory part of his 
mortgage. Ill now consider suitability.
In terms of Mr Ps circumstances at the time, the fact find records that he had a partner and 
a young child who was dependent on his income. So if Mr P had become seriously ill or if 
hed died, this would have placed a significant financial burden on his family. The size of the 
borrowing was significant at £225,000. And the policy recommended to Mr P would have 
provided a lump sum payment that was sufficient to pay off the mortgage in full in the event 
of his death or if he became seriously illness. So based on Mr Ps circumstances, on 
balance, I think the recommendation was suitable. 
I also note that Mr P didnt have any other suitable cover at the time of the advice. He did 
have some death benefits as part of a joint endowment policy he had with his partner. But 
the death benefit that came with the endowment policy didnt provide sufficient cover for the 
mortgage debt. It also didnt include critical illness cover. The term assurance policy 
recommended to Mr P by the adviser, did include this benefit and would have been sufficient 
to cover any remaining mortgage in the event of his death or serious illness.
Mr P says the policy wasn't suitable because it was unaffordable. But from what I can see 
the fact find shows hed sufficient net income to be able to afford the monthly premiums. And 
this was confirmed in the recommendation letter sent to him on 31 October 2003. So based 
on the information from the time of advice, I think the recommendation in terms of its 
affordability, was reasonable.
For all these reasons, whilst I appreciate Mr P will be disappointed with this outcome, Im not 
upholding the complaint.
My final decision
Im not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman